woori bank Annual report 2015 Woori Bank WI BEE ll your lifetime partner! ta b l e o f co n t e n ts Woori Internet BEE Bank A mobile world of our dreams! Woori Bank marks the start of a new era of financial services with the Blue Bee, WiBee, providing more convenient and diverse banking services as sweet as honey anytime, anywhere via smartphones. 03 58 Woori Story Strong Partner Message from the CEO ___ 020 Consumer Banking ___ 060 Company Structure ___ 024 Wealth Management ___ 063 Financial Highlights ___ 025 Pension & Trust Business ___ 065 Board of Directors & Management ___ 026 Corporate Banking ___ 067 Corporate Governance ___ 028 SME Banking ___ 069 News Highlights ___ 030 Institutional Banking ___ 072 Woori Bank Awards 2015 ___ 032 Real Estate Finance ___ 074 34 76 Reliable Partner Sincere Partner Smart Banking ___ 036 Social Contribution Activities ___ 078 Risk Management ___ 038 Woori Smile Microcredit ___ 080 Employee Satisfaction ___ 041 Ethical Management ___ 082 Consumer Protection ___ 044 46 84 Financial Review Leading Partner Management’s Discussion and Analysis ___ 085 Global Business ___ 048 Independent Auditor Report ___ 096 Investment Banking ___ 051 Financial Statements ___ 98 Financial Market Business ___ 053 Organizational Chart ___ 192 International Trade Business ___ 056 Global Network ___ 194 woori story Woori Story RE L IA B I e p a r t n e r Woori Bank WIyourBEE ll lifetime partner! L ea d i n g Pa rt n e r st r o n g Pa rt n e r Over the past 117 years, Woori Bank has always been there for our customers at important moments in history. Being the oldest Korean bank, Woori Bank went through numerous difficulties and challenges at home and abroad in order to emerge from the past, stand strong in the present and look towards the brighter future, thereby always being there for our customers as a lifetime partner to help them at all times. Woori Bank has been a step ahead of our competitors as a leader of the fis i n c e r e pa rt n e r nancial market in 2015. We opened new possibilities by successfully launching the 1st mobile bank ‘WiBee Bank’ to open a new mid-level interest rate loan market, as well as leading the effort to cultivate innovative markets for FinTech as an internet bank. In order to provide the most convenient and safest financial services for our customers, we will strive to bring innovations in the FinTech sector and achieve further growth to ensure that happiness and satisfaction of our customers and shareholders comes 1st out of all priorities. In order to respond to the changes in the financial environment, Woori Bank Financial Review will stand firm as a strong bank that brings changes and innovations to the financial markets, while always being there for our customers and contributing to achieving further growth for our domestic and global customers. Woori Bank has always been there for our customers as a reliable partner protecting and supporting them in good times and bad. Reliable Partner Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! customer stories Hatvit Women's Hospital Hyeongshin Han, Doctor Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Like Hatvit Women's Hospital’s goal of touching people’s hearts and to be there for our children in the future, Woori Bank is a reliable partner for a brighter future. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 6 customer stories Woori Bank has been our partner in helping us to take care of people and female patients as well as leading responsible lives as female physicians. Hatvit Women’s Hospital aims to become a hospital that takes care of patients professionally, while also satisfying customer needs for medical care. The hospital needed to move to another location for its patients and Woori Bank helped by providing funds. 1 2 3 • ‘Hatvit’ symbolizes ‘women and babies’, ‘birth’, ‘beginnings’ and ‘warmth’. In this way, the hospital is filled with warm sunshine and natural LED lights are installed throughout the hospital for new babies. • Hatvit Women’s Hospital aims to heal by becoming a leading hospital with reputable physicians who take good care of female patients. 4 5 6 7 8 9 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 7 Woori Bank dreams of leading our customers to a better quality in life, and thereby, serves as a partner that enhances their financial, physical and spiritual well-being. Leading Partner Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! customer stories Hyehwadong Catholic Church Fr. Alfredo Africa, MSP Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank provides the best financial services that match the life patterns of foreign workers, and we strive to lead in offering more convenient financial services for our customers anytime, anywhere. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 10 customer stories Woori Bank makes customers feel at home by always greeting them with a friendly vibe and being there for customers anytime, anywhere. Woori Bank’s Hyehwadong Branch became more active after the Philippine Catholic Priest Fredo from the Hyehwadong Catholic Church gave a mass in Tagalog. In order to help customers from the Philippines who cannot come to the bank during weekdays because of their busy schedules, we offer convenient remittance services for living expenses to families in the Philippines on Sundays. 1 2 3 • Every Sunday, there are lots of customers at the branch with about one thousand people gathering at the market near the Hyehwadong area. Woori Bank pays attention to ensuring customer convenience by posting the exchange rates so that they are visible from a distance. • Woori Bank is Korea’s only bank to establish a close relationship with Metrobank in the Philippines and operate as a competitor and a client company. 4 5 6 7 8 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 11 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank acts as a strong partner in supporting Korean companies to achieve intense development domestically and abroad and thereby contributes to the continuous development of the Korean economy Strong Partner as a whole. customer stories BMT Inc. Jongchan Yoon, CEO Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank has developed together with the nation and our customers, and we will always be there for our customers in the future to provide help when needed. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 14 customer stories Woori Bank has continuously stood by Korean companies to help them during difficult times. Bank transactions are the same as transaction between people. Woori Bank greets customers warmly with the mindset of helping them as much as possible. Woori Bank has helped Korean companies to take a leap forward as they enter into new markets. Therefore, the relationship between the bank and our clients has been satisfactory and results in win-win cooperation. Korean companies will continue to take a leap forward in the future with the help of Woori Bank. 1 2 3 • Manufacturing companies make valves, industrial fittings and valves that are used as the connecting link in many components in the fields of Korea’s leading advanced industries today, including automobiles, aerospace and semiconductors. • Superlok i-fittings used as semiconductor fittings are high-precision products that received recognition by introducing innovative technology. The technology enhances competitiveness allowing companies to grow and evolve. 4 5 6 7 8 9 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 15 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank aims to become a sincere partner by fulfilling our social responsibilities warm heartedly so that we can become one in heart to dream for a better future. Sincere Partner customer stories Good Neighbors Ilha Yi, President Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! In order to ensure a better tomorrow, Woori Bank has been a partner in conducting meaningful projects. Woori Bank fulfills its social responsibilities with the world-famous NGO Good Neighbors to help develop the future together. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 18 customer stories Woori Bank has been a sincere partner for Good Neighbors. Good Neighbors was established in 1991 and it has built a trusting relationship with Woori Bank. Woori Bank jointly implemented a campaign for supporting those children who were raised in crisis family to ensure children are well taken care of, while also making efforts in promoting a culture of donation amongst customers. Moreover, Woori Bank has become a sincere partner for Good Neighbors by supporting remittances for international development cooperation projects taking place overseas in 37 countries. Good Neighbors hopes to maintain a good relationship with Woori Bank in the future. 1 2 3 • Good Neighbors was founded in Korea and has implemented social welfare projects and international development cooperation projects to create a better world and promote healthy changes for our children, families and local communities domestically and internationally. • Good Neighbors not only helps and respects people by allowing them to make a better living, but also strives to create a world where people carry out their role of helping others and sharing a better future with good neighbors around the world. 4 5 6 7 8 Support Good Neighbors by calling 1544-7944 / www.goodneighbors.kr Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 19 M e s s a g e f r o m t h e CEO Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Message from the CEO Woori Bank has led change and innovation in the Korean financial market by leading ‘half a step’ ahead of the competition in 2015. / Lee, Kwang Goo President and CEO of Woori Bank Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 20 Strength in Our Values / I would like to express my sincere appreciation to all of our shareholders and customers for their continued support and commitment to Woori Bank. In 2015, due to global market volatility and risks including the economic recession in China and emerging market countries, ultra-low oil prices and the US interest rate hike, as well as the prolonged period of low interest rates and low growth, Korea experienced an economic slump that made the market environment for all industries very difficult. Despite such circumstances, Woori Bank recorded notable achievements compared with previous years, by having all employees striving to achieve the goal of ‘enhancing Woori Bank’s corporate value’. We vastly improved the financial performance index for growth, profitability and financial soundness. In 2015, Woori Bank’s total assets continued to exhibit a high level of growth compared with other banks, totaling KRW 318 trillion with an increase of about KRW 26 trillion. Moreover, soundness indicators, such as NPL ratio, debt expense and coverage ratio improved significantly. As a result, we were able to achieve an asset soundness level similar to our competitors, which had been a sticking point in enhancing Woori Bank’s corporate value for several years. In terms of profitability, even though there was a major downside in the interest margins due to the benchmark interest rate being cut four times over a two-year period, we achieved better results than estimates for net interest income and non-interest income, by overcoming such obstacles with strong sales capacity in the field. As the FinTech (finance technology) sector is growing rapidly and a paradigm shift in Maintained long-term major creditor bank Woori Bank the financial world takes place through ICT convergence,relationships has with led change Korea’s leading large and innovation in the Korean financial market by leading corporates step’ ‘half a and supported of the ahead them in their trajectories toward global prominence. competition in 2015. In May 2015, Woori Bank successfully launched Korea’s first mobile bank ‘WiBee Bank’ to promote the mid-level interest rate loan market. In November 2015, we took the lead in innovating the FinTech market, including actively participating, establishing and receiving preliminary approval for a consortium to launch an internet bank. As for global competitiveness, Woori Bank expanded the number of its overseas networks to 205 and became Korea’s no. 1 bank as of the end of 2015, mainly due to successfully launching Woori Saudara Bank in Indonesia. Moreover we established micro finance institutions in Cambodia and Myanmar, thereby fostering future growth engines to join the ranks of ‘Asia’s Top 10, Global Top 50’ banks. The year 2015 was a significant year for Woori Bank because we gained a competitive edge in all areas despite fierce inter-bank competition, and established the foundation for continuous future growth by taking the lead in FinTech and global markets. Based on outstanding performance in 2015, Woori Bank will strive to make 2016 the first year of successful privatization. Woori Bank has decided on ‘Becoming a Strong Bank’ as our management goal, and hopes to achieve profitable growth through five management strategies. First, in order to maintain market dominance in all areas, we ranked No.1 in increasing performance in all categories. In particular, we will further enhance our non-interest income by focusing on the asset management and retirement markets, with Individual Savings Accounts (ISA) introduced for the first time this year. Second, we will become a Clean Bank that achieves high-quality asset growth and minimize the occurrence of NPLs by thoroughly implementing the process of ‘Locking the Back Door’ in 2016. In order to raise capital adequacy ratio (including Common Equity Tier 1 ratio) which exhibits a wider gap with other banks due to excessive bad debt expenses from the past, we will implement a mid-to-long-term improvement strategy by minimizing the growth of Risk Weighted Assets, Credit Costs and SG&A Expenses while maximizing revenue and maintaining an adequate dividend rate to sufficiently improve and minimize the gap with our competitors. My life, with Woori Bank Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Third, we added an online marketplace and community function to WiBee Bank and WiBee Talk platforms so that they can be expanded into a lifestyle products amongst banks, for customers and companies, thereby actively utilizing the new platform for marketing activities. In 2016, Woori Bank will take the lead in the innovative FinTech market and seek new business opportunities linked with the banking sector. Fourth, in order to overcome limitations in the saturated domestic market, we will focus on the Southeast Asian market to grow our presence to 300 global networks and launch both WiBee Bank and a card business with the know-how accumulated from experience in the domestic market, thereby diversifying the sources of income through retail sales in overseas markets. Fifth, in order to enhance organizational productivity, we will optimize branches and improve the operational efficiency of our workforce, ensuring that all employees can work to the utmost of their capabilities. By implementing these five management strategies, Woori Bank will strive to achieve further growth and become a bank that places customer and shareholder happiness and satisfaction as our top priority. Over the past 117 years of Woori Bank’s history, 2016 is, in particular, the year of utmost importance, as it will be the year of successful privatization of Woori Bank. Based on this, the year 2016 will be a historic year for taking another leap forward as a group providing comprehensive financial services. In 2016, Woori Bank’s employees will work toward becoming a strong bank with the mindset of a second startup. We ask for continued support and commitment from our customers and shareholders. I sincerely wish you and your family good health and happiness. Thank you. As for global competitiveness, Woori Bank increased the number of its overseas networks to 205 and became the no. 1 Korean bank as of the end of 2015, cultivating future growth engines to become one of 'Asia's Top 10, Global Top 50 Bank' by 2020. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 23 Com pa n y St r u ct u r e Company Structure Privatization of Woori Bank in progress On July 21, 2015, in order to maximize the recovery of public funds, achieve timely privatization and contribute to the development of the Korean financial industry, the Public Fund Oversight Committee passed the agenda on the implementation in setting the direction for the privatization of Woori Bank, including matters on the disposal of controlling interests and the disposal of shares owned by majority shareholders. The government plans to conduct the disposal as soon as possible. The specific disposal method and schedule will be discussed later on at a Public Fund Oversight Committee. Also, on October 2, 2015, the Financial Services Commission announced plans for taking steps to enhance the MOU on the normalization of bank management, aiming to improve corporate value through the expansion of Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank’s managerial autonomy. The Financial Services Commission and the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation will do their best to successfully complete the privatization of Woori Bank by promptly following up on enhancing the MOU by revising the Enforcement Decree of the Special Act on the Management of Public Funds for the future. Present Status of Woori Bank’s Subsidiaries Domestic Woori Woori Woori Woori Finance Woori Credit Woori Fund Woori Card Investment FIS Research Information Service PE Bank Institute (MERCHANT BANK) 100% 58.15% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% International Woori Woori Bank PT Bank Woori Woori Global Zao Woori Bank Woori Finance Woori Finance America Bank (China) Ltd Saudara Indonesia Market Asia Woori Bank Brasil Cambodia Plc Myanmar Plc 1906 Tbk Limited (RUSSIA) (BRAZIL) (HONG KONG) 100% 100% 74.0% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 24 financial highlights Financial Highlights LOANS IN WON Net income (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: KRW billion) Woori Bank consolidated basis (K-IFRS) Woori Bank consolidated basis (K-IFRS) Note 1) Total assets include trust account Net Income(Continuing Operations) attributable to controlling interests 1) Note 1) Profit / Loss related to spun-off or sold subsidiaries LOANS IN WON Total Assets +10.7% 185.2 317.9 +143.4% 1,059 2015 2015 167.3 291.9 435 2014 2014 779 1) Deposits ROA / ROE (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: %) Deposits Note 1) Excluding one-off factors related to the sale and the spin off of subsidiaries (including one off factors, roa 0.41, roe 7.06) Total Liabilities ROA ROE +10.9% 209.1 272.5 0.37 5.69 2015 2015 188.5 252.1 0.21 1) 3.551) 2014 2014 Asset Quality BIS Ratio (Unit: %) (Unit: %) NPL Ratio BIS Ratio Tier 1 Ratio common equity ratio NPL Coverage Ratio1) Basel III basis Note 1) EXCLUDING THE IMPACT ON RWA FROM THE NEW INCLUSION OF Note 1) (Loan loss reserve + Allowance for accrued revenue + 5 SUBSIDIARIES((Woori Card, Woori Investment Bank, Woori FIS, Regulatory reserve for credit loss) / Substandard and below loans Woori Finance Research Institute, Woori PE) CAUSED BY THE MERGER *4 Shipbuilders: Sungdong Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering, SPP Shipbuilding, WITH WOORI FINANCIAL HOLDINGS Daesun Shipbuilding & Engineering, STX Offshore & Shipbuilding 1.47 ( Excluding 4 Shipbuilders* 1.24) 122.3 8.5(9.4 ) 10.4(11.6 ) 13.7(15.2 ) 1) 1) 1) 2015 2015 2.10 ( Excluding 4 Shipbuilders* 1.62) 97.2 9.0(9.9 ) 10.7(11.8 ) 14.3(15.7 ) 1) 1) 1) 2014 2014 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 25 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank 26 Board of Directors & Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors Management Standing Directors: Lee, Kwang Goo & Chung, Soo Kyung & Lee, Dong Gun & Nam, Ki Myung Board of Directors standing directors Jung, Han Gi • Visiting Professor of Liberal Arts, Hoseo University Lee, Kwang Goo • Visiting Professor of Business Administration, Sogang University • CEO/President, Eugene Asset Management 49th President & Chief Executive Officer • Corporate Business Head (Managing Director), NH Investment & Securities • Executive Vice President, Consumer Banking Business Unit, Woori Bank • M.A. in Business Administration, Graduate School of Business, Sogang University • Executive Vice President, Finance & Management Planning Unit, Woori Bank • B.A. in Political Science, Sogang University • Head, Gwangjin-Seongdong Sales Center, Woori Bank • General Manager, Consumer Banking Strategy Dept., Woori Bank Lee, Ho Geun • Chief Executive, Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd.(Hong Kong) • (Current) Professor of Business Administration, Yonsei University • General Manager, Card Strategy Dept., Woori Bank • Assistant Professor of Management Information Systems, School of Business • General Manager, Consumer Banking Marketing Dept., Woori Bank Administration, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology • B.A. in Business Administration, Sogang University • Visiting Professor of Business Administration, Erasmus University Rotterdam • Ph.D. in Business Administration, University of Texas at Austin Chung, Soo Kyung • M.A. in Management Science, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology • B.A. in Industrial Engineering, Seoul National University Standing Audit Committee Member / Director • Local Government Dispute Mediation Committee Member, Ministry of the Interior Koh, Sung Soo • Financial Disputes Settlement Committee Member, Financial Supervisory Service • (Current) President and Professor of Konkuk University Graduate School of Real Estate • Financial Consumer Panel Committee Member, Financial Supervisory Service • Research Fellow, Korea Institute of Finance • Deputy Executive Director, Korean Bar Association • M.A./Ph.D. in Economics, Cornell Graduate School • Registered Lawyer / Attorney • M.A. in Business Administration, Columbia University • Registered Certified Public Tax Accountant and Patent Attorney • B.A. in Business Administration, Yonsei University • B.A. in English Language and Literature, Sungkyunkwan University Kim, Sung Yong Lee, Dong Gun • (Current) Professor at Sungkyunkwan University Law School Head of Group, Executive Vice President / Director • Representative Attorney at Law Firm Woo Hyun • (Current) Head, Business Support Group & Executive Vice President, Woori Bank • Attorney at Law Firm Lee & Ko • Deputy President / Director, Woori Bank • Passed the 29th Korean Bar Exam • Executive Vice President, Credit Support Unit, Woori Bank • M.A. in Law, University of Pennsylvania Law School • Executive Vice President, Operation & Support Unit, Woori Bank • B.A. in Law, Seoul National University • Managing Director (CIO), Channel Support Division, Woori Bank • Head, Gangnamjungang Corporate Banking Center, Woori Bank • General Manager, International Trade Business Division, Woori Bank NON-sTANDING Director • M.A. in Financial Economics, Graduate School of Economics, Yonsei University • B.A. in Business Administration, Yeungnam University Choi, Kwang Woo Nam, Ki Myung • (Current) Head, Office of Public Relations, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation • Head, Office of Fund Operation and Investment, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation Head of Group, Executive Vice President / Director • Head, Office of Customer Value Management Support, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation • (Current) Head, Domestic Business Group & Executive Vice President, • M.A. in Business Administration, Korea University Consumer Banking Business Unit, Woori Bank • B.A. in Business Administration, Korea University • Executive Vice President, Consumer Banking Business Unit, Woori Bank • Executive Vice President, Finance & Management Planning Unit, Woori Bank • Managing Director, International Trade Business Division, Woori Bank Executive Vice President • Head, Gangdong Seongnam Sales Center, Woori Bank • General Manager, Sales Support Dept., Woori Bank • Univ. of Michigan, Ann Arbor MBA Sohn, Tae Seung • B.A. in Business Administration, Seoul National University Head, Global Business Group & Executive Vice President, Global Business Unit Jeong, Won Jai Corporate Banking Business Unit Outside Directors Chae, Woo Seok Small & Medium Corporate Banking Business Unit Hong, Il Hwa Lee, Dong Bin Credit Support Unit • (Current) Standing Advisor, Women’s Newspaper Women & People • Outside Director, Korea Development Bank(KDB) Kim, Hong Hee • President, Korea-Romania Friendship Society Real Estate Finance Business Unit • M.A. in Public Policy, Kookmin University Graduate School of Public Administration • B.A. in Economics, Kookmin University Choi, Jung Hoon Risk Management Unit Cho, Jae Hyun Chun, He Suk Smart Banking Unit • (Current) Professor of Economics, Cheongju University Kim, Hong Koo • Vice President, Merrill Lynch, New York, Investment Advisory Company Investment Banking Business Unit • Acting General Manager, New York Branch, Kookmin Bank • M.A. in Business Administration / Ph.D. in Economics, George Washington Univ. Kim, Jai Won • B.A. in Biology, Yonsei University Institutional Banking Business Unit Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 27 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e Corporate Governance Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! At the end of March 2016, Woori Bank’s Board of Directors consisted of 11 executive directors: four standing directors, one non-standing director and six outside directors, who were appointed to increase the relevant expertise and independence of the Board. The six outside directors and one non-standing director were selected based on their experience in the fields of finance, management, law, accounting and public relations; many are also well-known public figures. They support, as well as monitor, Woori Bank’s strategic decision-making and overall business affairs on a regular basis. Review of 2015 ment records and they conducted regular inspections of the group’s management. The major agenda of the The Board held 18 meetings in 2015 to discuss a total discussions included: reports on the submission of plans of 41 pending issues and conduct 35 briefings for the for the implementation of the Memorandum of Underpurposes of decision-making and deliberation, and standing (MOU) signed with the Financial Supervisory the overall attendance rate of outside directors was Service (FSS); the results and details of the MOU imple97%. Directors from various fields collected informamentation with the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation tion through internal and external activities, and then (KDIC); plans to issue foreign currency-denominated offered real-world advice by utilizing their expertise to bonds; comprehensive briefings regarding major loans; contribute significantly to improving management. This briefings on NPLs; reviews of the orders implemented by photo shows that they promoted effective bank manthe Board of Directors, as well as discussions concerning agement and maximized shareholder value, by conthe outcome of reviews and a rundown of the activities ducting Board meetings founded on discussions with of various committees under the Board of Directors. At experts in various fields, including economics and law. the December meeting, the Board also held in-depth discussions about major issues facing Woori Bank, amid At the quarterly meeting in 2015, there was consensus continuing market changes, such as the confirmation of among the board in regards to the quarterly managethe Bank’s 2016 draft management plan. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 28 C o r p o r at e G o v e r n a n c e Committees under Board Compensation Committee The Board Compensation Committee monitors the dethe board of directors sign and operation of the Bank’s performance-based compensation systems and is in charge of independentIn order to ensure the efficient operation of the Board ly establishing compensation policies. of Directors, Woori Bank has established the Board of Governance Committee, the Board Audit Committee, Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee the Board Risk Management Committee, the Board The Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee Compensation Committee, the Officer Candidate Recrecommends candidates for the position of CEO. ommendation Committee, the Outside Director Candidate Recommendation Committee and the Audit ComOutside Director Candidate Recommendation mittee Member Recommendation Committee. Committee The Outside Director Candidate Recommendation ComBoard of Governance Committee mittee recommends candidates for outside directors. The Board of Governance Committee actively supports the activities of the Board of Directors by studying and reviewAudit Committee Member Recommendation ing the overall function and operation of the Board, as well Committee as establishing and reviewing the succession and training The Audit Committee Member Recommendation Complans of the management team including directors. mittee recommends candidates for the Audit Committee. Board Audit Committee The Board Audit Committee establishes and executes internal audit plans, makes outcome evaluations, implements follow-up measures and provides improvement Plans for 2016 plans to evaluate and enhance the appropriateness of the internal control system and management perforIn 2016, Woori Bank will make significant improvements mance measures. to its management by discussing major agenda items at the Board meetings. At the end of March 2016, the Board Risk Management Committee Board of Directors had already met four times. After The Board Risk Management Committee makes deMarch, the quarterly Board meetings will continue to cisions about risk-related policies and strategies in focus on agenda items such as the analysis of manageresponse to changes in the financial environment. The ment performances and the 2017 draft management Committee meets at least once every quarter, or on an plan, with ad hoc meetings also being held whenever ad hoc basis to deliberate on risk management stratneeded to deal with agenda items related to various egies and policies, risk tolerance levels and exposures, matters, such as management goals, organization and thereby discerning, measuring and monitoring overall financing. In 2016, Woori Bank will act as a reliable partrisks arising from the Bank’s management and a variety ner bank that excels and grows through transparent of transactions in a timely manner. and efficient management innovation. No. of Agenda No. of Type of Meeting Major Issues Issues Briefings Holding regular shareholder meetings, functioning of the Board of Directors/ Board of Shareholders’ Meeting, BOD and 14 6 Directors’ Management Committee, discussing corporate governance issues, establishing Corporate Governance, etc and implementing management plans and strategies (launching and realigning divisions) Approving and modifying the settlement of financial statements, reporting and planning Accounting / 5 6 financial records, briefing on results and actions for reviewing the MOU, planning for Financial Management bonds issues (including foreign currency bonds) and managing credit limits Portfolio & Risk Management / Comprehensive briefing on major loans, investments in private equity funds, selling off NPLs, briefing on the status of NPLs, appraising the commitments of investment comInvestment / Audit & Inspection / 2 13 panies to invest, handle audit and internal control issues as well as manage and support Gov. Regulation special contributions of guarantee institutions for SMEs Carrying out performance evaluations/compensation, appointing and dismissing employHR / Organizational Management 5 2 ees excluding the BOD and addressing issues related to labor-management relations Others 15 8 Total 41 35 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 29 news highlights Launch of the Korea’s Hansae Basketball Team Launch of the 1st Mobile Bank Wins the Championship ‘Woori ‘WiBee Bank’ Three Consecutive Years in the Women’s Korean Samsung Pay’ Basketball League Service On August 20, Woori Bank launched the ‘Woori Samsung Pay’ service in conjunction with Samsung Electronics. With it, customers can make payments at affiliated stores or withdraw money from ATMs just by using their bank accounts; there is no need for a separate credit or After Woori Bank’s President and CEO Lee Kwang Goo anOn March 27, Woori Bank’s Hansae Basketdebit card. This strengthened our nounced 2015 as the first year of the ‘Smart Digital Bank’ at ball Team accomplished the great achieveposition as the leader in the Finhis inauguration ceremony, Woori Bank launched the Koment of winning three consecutive regular Tech (finance technology) sector. rean financial korea’s 1st mobile bank ‘WiBee Bank’ in May. season and championship titles by defeating Any person with a Samsung Pay Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! ‘WiBee Bank’ is creating a new paradigm for the Korean KB Stars in the 4th game of the 2014-15 compatible phone and an Woori financial industry—in addition to being the banking sector’s Season WKBL Championship Final held at Bank account can use this service 1st mobile small loan finance product charging a mid-level Cheongju Gymnasium. Before the start of by registering up to 10 accounts interest rate for its ‘WiBee’ Mobile Loan’, it includes the the season, Hansae Basketball Team’s key through the Samsung Pay applicalaunch of financial services such as convenient remittance, players, head coach Wi Sung Woo, and sention, Woori Bank Internet Banking, travel insurance, and foreign currency exchange, a financial ior coach Jeon Ju Won had to participate in Smart Banking, or by visiting a bank industry first. The ‘WiBee Mobile Loan’ system allows custhe Asian Games and the FIBA World Chambranch. In particular, we reduced tomers who used high-interest rate loans through private pionship for Women; this left them with customer security concerns by aplenders or nonmonetary institutions in the past to take out little time for practice. However, the players plying the world’s 1st MST (Magnetic bank loans easily and at low cost without visiting a branch overcame this handicap with a strong will Secure Transmission) method and or filling out documents. It is highly praised for establishand unity to win sixteen consecutive games, using fingerprint authentication and ing the foundation for the ‘internet bank’ business model. the longest winning streak in WKBL history. tokenization (a one-time payment Based on these experiences, Woori Bank and KT become Of course, it was not all smooth sailing: key method for transactions). Among key players in the establishment of the K-Bank Consortium. guard Lee Seung A suffered an ankle injury convenient payment services, ‘Woori On November 27, we obtained preliminary approval for two times in December and February. Also, Samsung Pay’ has received praise Korea’s 1st internet bank to take a powerful step towards Lee Eun Hye (a solid fill-in for Lee Seung A as a great wallet alternative that becoming Korea’s No. 1 internet bank. In addition, WiBee during her injury) hurt her waist. As a result, allows cash withdrawals, the first Bank’s cute mascot ‘WiBee’ has become the face of Woori the physical burden increased for other key of its kind in Korea. Woori Bank Bank in the form of emoticons and dolls.’ The bank will players including Im Young Hee and Park will continue to develop innovative also take the lead in social contribution activities, such as Hye Jin. However, the players’ fighting spirit financial transaction technology as donating profits raised from selling ‘WiBee’ emoticons to prevailed and the Hansae Basketball Team well as offer additional services such the Youth Hope Fund. Furthermore, WiBee Bank provides won three consecutive regular and chamas remittances and online payments. other services like mobile games and free music, and has pionship titles with a record of 3 wins and Meanwhile, Woori Bank, which has plans to enter into overseas markets, starting with the 1 loss when Lee Seung A joined the team actively introduced financial services launch of‘WiBee Bank Cambodia’ this year and other Asian starting from the second game of the final that integrate ICT by being the 1st markets including Vietnam and China next year. As WiBee championship. Due to its three consecutive in the banking sector to establish a gains popularity, we look forward to a bright future for wins that started in the 2012-13 Season FinTech Business Dept., successfully Woori Bank and WiBee Bank as they spread throughout and its 7th championship title, the Hansae established ‘Woori Samsung Pay’ the world. Basketball Team recorded the most wins in service, following the success of Kothe history of the championship. Meanwhile, rea’s 1st mobile bank ‘WiBee Bank’ the Hansae Basketball Team is currently to take a leading position in the Findiligently maintaining 1st place in the 2015-16 Tech sector. Season, which began not long ago. We look forward to Hansae Basketball Team breaking records with a monumental achievement of four consecutive wins and an 8th title, with the tremendous support of the bank’s employees backing them. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 30 news highlights Global Network Opening of the The 100 th Anniversary of Awarded the Grand Prize in the 2015 Customer Satisfaction Management 200 Serving as the Treasury Bank for the Awards for Eight Consecutive Years Seoul Metropolitan Government in the Financial Sector th This year marks the 100th anniversary of Woori Branch Bank acting as the treasury bank for Seoul Metropolitan City. Since 1915, we have been designated as the treasury bank for Seoul Metropolitan City to support the safe and efficient management of Seoul Metropolitan City’s finances. The reason behind why we were chosen as the treasury bank Woori Bank received the Grand Prize in the for Seoul Metropolitan City over the past century 2015 Customer Satisfaction Management is because of our advanced IT infrastructure and Awards for eight consecutive years in the expertise in treasury bank matters. On March financial sector. The Customer Satisfaction 31, in order to celebrate a century of serving the Management Awards, hosted by the Korea In November 1968, Woori Bank took the 1st Seoul Metropolitan City, Woori Bank was the Economic Daily and organized by the Korea step towards becoming a leading global 1st private company to hold a celebration event Sustainability Management Evaluation Associbank by opening a branch in Tokyo, being at the Seoul Metropolitan City Hall under the ation, are given to companies in various sectors the 1st Korean commercial bank to set up slogan‘116 Years with Customers, 100 Years with that take the lead in advancing the economy a branch overseas. Following the merger the Seoul Metropolitan City’. Various events were by successfully implementing and enhancing with Bank Saudara in Indonesia at the end held for the Seoul Metropolitan Government and customer satisfaction management. Last year, of last year, we established ‘Woori Finance Seoul citizens, including an event marking 100th Woori Bank was the financial industry’s 1st to Myanmar’ in Yangon, Myanmar on NovemAnniversary of serving as the treasury bank for join the Hall of Fame by winning the Grand ber 26th of this year, 48 years since entering Seoul Metropolitan City, an exhibition of historical Prize in the financial sector for seven years in overseas markets. This event also marked records for the past one hundred years, a 100th a row. As a result of winning the award again the 1st time a Korean bank has opened a anniversary signboard unveiling ceremony for this year, Woori Bank will be the 1st firm in the 200th global network. Compared to the Seoul Metropolitan Financial Center, and a 100th financial sector to win the award consecutively remarkable achievements of the Korean anniversary special sale event for installment eight times in order to join the Hall of Fame. manufacturing sector over the past half savings accounts. The Mayor of Seoul, Park Won This year’s award a result of all employees strivcentury, the overseas expansion of finanSoon, who attended the events requested that ing to implement customer satisfaction mancial companies has proved disappointing. “Woori Bank continue to stand by Seoul Metroagement continuously under the management However, Woori Bank’s 200th overseas politan City and the Seoul citizens so that we can policy set forth by Woori Bank’s President and branch opening was highly praised becontinue to depend on the bank in the future.” CEO of ‘field-centered management to put cause it marked a new milestone for Woori Bank’s President and CEO, Lee Kwang customers first’. Last year, in order to reinforce promoting the globalization of the Korean Goo responded, “Based on the collaboration durthe ability of the customer service organization financial industry. Following the opening of ing the past one hundred years, we will faithfully and improve customer service, Woori Bank imWoori Finance Myanmar, we are taking a fulfill our role as Seoul Metropolitan City’s policy plemented the ‘Customer Service Leader Startleading role in expanding into to overseas partner for the next 100 year by making further Up’ program, an in-house training program for markets and making plans to merge with efforts to improve the Seoul Metropolitan City’s branch customer service leaders, improving the a local savings bank in the Philippines and tax administration, support small-loan finance, customer service mindsets of employees by set up a local subsidiary in Vietnam at the vitalize traditional markets and support job creaestablishing a customer service training roadmbeginning of next year. Based on these tion programs.” The event was a meaningful opap, and regularly holding training programs for aggressive strategies for overseas markets, portunity to further strengthen the 100 year old strengthening marketing capabilities. Also, we Woori Bank currently has the largest numpartnership between Seoul Metropolitan City and are boosting employee morale through various ber of overseas networks among Korean Woori Bank. Meanwhile, Woori Bank is currently programs including: the ‘Cheer Up! Project’ that commercial banks with over 205 overseas designated as the treasury bank for Seoul Metrosends supplies to help with activities for imnetworks in 23 countries as end of 2015. politan City, an account worth KRW 27.5 trillion, proving customer service at branches ranked We will increase this number to more than including the Seoul Metropolitan City’s budget of lowest in customer satisfaction evaluations; and 300 overseas networks by 2016 and to KRW 25.5 trillion and a contribution fund of KRW the ‘Gonggam Dosirak’ event where bank man500 overseas networks over the mid-to 2 trillion. agement makes a surprise visit to a branch. In long-term future, thereby linking the ‘Asia particular, ‘Gonggam Dosirak’, which promotes Belt’ that passes from China and Southeast communication and enhances understanding Asia to the Middle East as well as achieving between management and branches, has curthe midand long-term goal of becoming rently changed its name to ‘Customer Service one of Asia’s Top 10, and a Global Top 50 Morak Morak’ and is helping branch employees bank’. to provide better customer service. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 31 awa r ds Woori Bank Awards 2015 The Korea Economic Daily The Korea Economic Daily The Korea Economic Daily Grand Prize in the Financial The 2015 Korea Fund Awards Grand Prize in the PB Service Sector of the 2015 Customer (Best Seller Prize) Sector of the 2015 Korea Satisfaction Management Luxury Brand Award Awards (Six Consecutive Year) (Eighth Consecutive Year) Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! The Asian Banker The Asian Banker The Asian Banker Korea’s Best Cash Korea’s Best Custodian The Asian Banker Award Management Bank in 2015 Best Mortgage Product Bank in 2015 League of American The Korea Economic Daily The Korea Economic Daily Communications Special Prize Minister of Public Professionals in Carbon Management Administration and Security Platinum Prize in the (New Participation Category) Award 14th LACP Annual Report Korea Safety Award Competition The Bank of Korea Newspim Mail Business Newspaper Citation as Best Institution The 3rd Newspim Capital The 14th Korea Fund Awards Won-Yuan Market Market Awards (Best Seller Prize) Maker Category (The Best CIB Prize) Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 32 awa r ds Woori Story RELIABI e p a r t n e r L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r st r o n g Pa rt n e r s i n c e r e pa rt n e r Great Woori 大同躍進 Dae-dong-yak-jin refers to always taking a step ahead of others if you want to Financial Review succeed. Our efforts to become more innovative, change in advance, and be ready for competition a step ahead of others will act as a huge competitiveness in better serving our customers for another 100 years. 1 Reliable Partner Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Safeguarding a Sound Future for Customers Smart Banking ___ 036 Risk Management ___ 038 Employee Satisfaction ___ 041 Consumer Protection ___ 044 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 34 RE L IA B I e p a r t n e r L ea d i n g Pa rt n e r st r o n g Pa rt n e r s i n c e r e pa rt n e r Financial Review Woori Bank 35 Annual Report 2015 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r Smart Banking The Smart Banking Business Division is in charge of establishing Woori Bank’s strategy for smart banking, as well as the exploration of new markets. In order to deliver a timely product in a smart banking market that demonstrates exponential growth, while also achieving market dominance in the electronic payment/remittance market in alliance with ICT companies, the Smart Banking Business Department and the FinTech Business Department were formed within the division. As of the end of 2015, 14.78 million customers have subscribed to Internet Banking and Smart Banking services. Along with about 6,890 ATMs and through the utilization of state-of-the-art technologies through smart phones and the internet, we strive to become a bank that is always close to customers. No.1 M/S in smart banking subscription rate and utilization rate among bank-wide customers As of the end of 2015 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! 48% Subscription Rate 30% Utilization Rate Review of 2015 Sales for Launched the Financial Sector’s 1st Mobile Bank ‘WiBee Bank’ non-face-toIn 2015, the Smart Banking Unit launched the face products In today’s rapidly changing market conditions, financial industry’s 1st mobile bank ‘WiBee No.1 M/S Woori Bank was the 1st in the financial sector Bank’ to lead the smart banking market. It to launch an internet-only bank called ‘WiBee 14.8 also released the Woori Samsung Pay serBank’, providing branchless services. The vice, which is currently available only through WiBee Mobile Pay service was launched to Woori Bank in conjunction with Samsung allow wire transfers using SNS without havElectronics to provide advanced services in As of the end ing to know the bank account number of the the FinTech market, one step ahead of the of December 2015 beneficiary, as well as the launch of the bankcompetition. Also, we will improve customer (Unit: KRW trillion) ing sector’s 1st mid-level interest rate loan convenience by launching various market WiBee Mobile Loan to support small-loan leading products such as the banking secfinancing. The bank has also released varitor’s 1st mid-level interest rate loan product WiBee Mobile Loan; the financial industry’s 1st mobile loan targeting entrepreneurs WiBee SOHO Mobile Loan; and the financial sector’s only loan available 24 hours a day, 365 days per year without visiting a branch and without documentation WiBee Civil Servant & Office Worker Credit Loan. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 36 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r ous financial market leading products such as: WiBee In doing so, we achieved better results than the compeSOHO Mobile Loan that expanded the scope of mobile tition in selling non-face-to-face products and a net inloan products previously limited to consumer banking crease in the number of customers using smart banking. to include entrepreneurs by utilizing screen-scraping technology; and the WiBee Civil Servant & Office Worker Credit Loan available 24 hours a day, 365 days We released the Woori a year. Besides financial products, we also provided a Samsung Pay service, variety of integrated platform services, such as games which is currently available only through Woori and music and launched WiBee Talk, the financial inBank in conjunction with dustry’s 1st mobile messenger service. Samsung Electronics to provide advanced services Taking the Lead in the FinTech Market with the Launch in the FinTech market of Woori Samsung Pay (1st in the financial sector) when compared with other banks. Woori Bank is responding to rapidly changing market conditions such as the entry of FinTech companies into the financial market, by establishing alliances across boundaries with ICT companies to take the lead in the FinTech market. We offered various financial services to our customers that included releasing Woori Samsung Pay for the 1st time in the financial industry in conjunction with Samsung Electronics, and launching Woori WeChat Pay, a simple payment service for China’s Tencent platform. Also, we provided a variety of new financial services to our customers through partnerships and cooperation with FinTech companies, as well as improving customer convenience by releasing Plans for 2016 loan products using scraping technology. In 2016, the Smart Banking Unit plans to take the lead Providing On-demand Service in the FinTech market by strengthening the competiIn order to meet the diverse needs of customers, Woori tiveness of market leading services that were launched Bank provided on-demand services that integrate new in 2015 and providing financial services that reflect technologies. We enhanced the use of non-face-to-face new trends. We will support the use of non-face-tochannels by continuously launching various customer face channels that are convenient for customers that convenience services that included the Woori Partnerinclude: diversifying authentication methods by using ship Plaza that provides PR support for small business data sources including biometric data; introducing a owners (February), one-stop termination and renewal new loan counseling process that uses new technology on the maturity date that allows both transactions at with no need for documentation and without having to the same time (May), one-touch remote control service visit a branch; expanding O2O service; and providing that allows controlling electronic financial transactions on-demand financial services such as targeted corpofor the 1st time in the financial industry (April), the rate electronic financial services. Also, we will provide Woori Beacon Service that provides marketing inforservices not only for Koreans, but also for Chinese tourmation by utilizing beacons (May), the Woori Prepaid ists to promote the use of domestic financial services Charging Service that charges transportation cards usby Chinese customers. We will also increase inroads ing smart banking services (August), and the financial into overseas market including the Southeast Asian industry’s 1st Woori Watch Banking Service based on region with the WiBee model. In 2016, Woori Bank will the Tizen OS. strive to become a strong and smart digital bank by providing better smart financial services in the future. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 37 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r Risk Management Risk management has become essential to strengthen the competitiveness of financial institutions. Based on the knowhow accumulated through past crises, Woori Bank adopted the Risk Adjusted Performance Measurement (RAPM) for the first time in the Korean banking sector in 2002, to establish advanced risk management systems by successfully introducing the Basel II and III protocols. Believing that profit sources are a result of effective risk management, Woori Bank will solidify its presence as a leading bank by implementing top-tier risk management. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Review of 2015 ing high-yield assets. As the CEO’s weighted value were strengthened when measuring the SME or small business By taking into consideration the uncertain economic model, business opportunities targeting highly-rated ensituation at home and abroad, including the tapering of trepreneurs exhibited a corresponding increase. In addiquantitative easing (QE) in the U.S. and the increase in tion, we made efforts to prevent increased insolvency by household debt and SME credit risk, Woori Bank’s Risk screening potentially insolvent assets through a proactive Management Unit set the goal of ‘Good to Best! Moving theme review, while also setting up an anticipatory process Beyond Doing Our Best to Become the Best’. As a refor preventing the insolvency of large loans by establishing sult, we acquired the highest level of risk management a timely management system for probable insolvencies. capability through appropriate coordination between If large exposures of possibly insolvent companies are sales and risks, enabling us to implement risk managediscovered, the Credit Analysis & Approval Dept. is immement policies that aim to achieve stable and sustainable diately notified and tasked with their management. Also, development. First, the differentiation of credit status by we established a loan audit review history information borrower has been enhanced due to the improvement of database to stimulate interest from the Credit Analysis & credit evaluation models. As a result, it is possible to measApproval Dept., the Sales Dept. and enhance the efficienure the credit status of borrowers in more detail, which cy of follow-up management. Meanwhile, we reflected the has the effect of reducing low-yield assets and increasopinions collected from branches to rationalize regulations Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 38 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r High-net-worth-assets of BBB0* and above *Standard targets for calculation of BRR (Unit: KRW trillion) 57.3 2014 64.4 2015 and improve systems. Through these efforts, we High-netof improving Woori Bank’s overall financial promoted the sophistication of the risk manworth-assets soundness. In the case of entrepreneurs who agement system and increased its efficiency. of BBB0* fit within the SME/small company model, this By providing estimated credit scores for about and above resulted in a greatly increased contribution to 14,000 external financial audited corporations the increase of high-yield assets by boosting 69.9% that are customers of other banks, we provided business opportunities for outstanding entrebusiness opportunities to proactive outstanding preneurs in accordance with the expansion of borrowers. Lastly, we will strive to communicate the weighted value of a CEO. with branches through diverse channels, such as *Standard targets for providing training, making on-site visits, publishcalculation of BRR Concentrated Monitoring of Loans with Poing a non-performing loan casebook and periodtential Risks ic newsletters. After the global financial crisis and the advent of a new normal era, low growth became perImprovement of Credit Evaluation Model Giving an accurate credit rating is very im+5.6%p manent and the uncertainties of the Chinese and emerging nation economies expanded. portant when handling credit. The credit ratThis resulted in worsening company profitaing decided is utilized in determining credit bility and a continuous increase in the numhandling, calculating interest rates and esber of zombie companies. In response, Woori tablishing limits on loan approval authority, Bank conducted concentrated monitoring of as well as playing a key role in identifying the loans with potential risks through proactive soundness of assets. In order to give credit risk management. First, we selected loans ratings appropriately, there needs to be a with potential risks through a special review detailed credit evaluation model. To achieve of extended or recontracted loans made by this, Woori Bank has continuously improved branches and a special review of branches its credit evaluation model since 2014, and with an excessive number of BB ratings. As we improved the credit evaluation models part of efforts to provide an anticipatory profor SME/small companies and non-general cess for preventing the insolvency of large companies in 2015. Due to the improvement loans, we established a timely management of credit evaluation models, it was possible to system for possibly insolvent companies. We identify the credit level of borrowers in more also established a loan review history infordetail than before, resulting in an increase mation database to enhance the efficiency of of high-yield assets and the decrease of follow-up management and attract the attenlow-profit generating assets to have the effect tion of loan officers and branches. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 39 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r Supporting Branches through Improvements in the Risk Management System Plans for 2016 Through regulation rationalization and system imIn 2016, in order to take a leap forward in providing provement, we promoted the sophistication of the risk comprehensive financial services by being ahead in management system and increased efficiency. Firstly, risk management, we took into consideration changthe implementation of Basel III has made it possible to es in the financial environment such as the upcoming establish liquidity management strategies that take into privatization of Woori Bank, thereby establishing the consideration the response to regulations and profitfoundation to become a strong bank through improved ability by setting up a system for calculating Basel III financial soundness. First, we will improve asset quality liquidity coverage ratios. This system was recognized by strengthening the approval standard for high-risk once again for its excellence through a patent appliborrowers of household debts, enhancing the inspeccation as a business model. Also, a more detailed risk tion system for the analysis of corporate financial acmanagement model for derivatives became possible by counting and improving the limit management system improving the system for measuring market risk. As it by industry. We will reestablish an operational risk has become possible to differentiate amongst prospecmanagement system and respond to regulations on risk management by improving stress testing, as well Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! tive borrowers who have applied for individual credit rehabilitation by introducing a process for predicting as setting up an advanced risk management system by individual credit rehabilitation, it is expected that annual taking into consideration its utilization in management losses of KRW 17.6 billion can be prevented. Also, the inpractices. Also, in order to establish the foundation for dustry management system in operation was improved next-generation growth, we will strive to prevent the and its efficiency enhanced. We reduced the excessive spread of bankruptcy by establishing an information number of industries that were subject to management system for partner companies/customers utilizing big (427 industries 257 industries) and adopted the data and providing signals based on the early signs of strategic borrower system for industry management to bankruptcy, while also actively assist in enhancing the push out borrowers with potential risks, as well as prorisk management ability of local corporations so that vided marketing information including the estimated the overseas sales network that is being expanded for scoring and the factors that restrict ratings for about a diversified income streams can be stabilized. Further14,000 external financial audited corporations to enable more, we will establish a strong corporate culture by proactive sales on high-yield borrowers. operating a consultative group for risk-related issues to share information on the current status of risks bePromoting the Risk Management Culture tween units and departments and reinforce communiIn order to become a strong bank, the most important cation with branches by making continuous site visits thing is for all employees to take an interest in risk manand expanding risk training programs with practical agement and achieve a balance between sales and risk business case studies. management. We can say that a bank is only strong when such interests are established as part of the bank’s culture. Therefore, the Risk Management Dept. made various efforts to promote risk management culture through communication with branches including: regularly sending bulletins that covered major risk management issues closely linked to branches such as corporate credit evaluations and RAPM (Risk Adjusted Performance Measurements); holding training mainly on practical business cases through diverse channels such as video lectures and group training sessions; publishing a non-performing loan casebook; and listening to difficulties by visiting branches and providing advice. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 40 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r Employee Satisfaction Woori Bank believes that a work life where employees are happy and satisfied is the foundation for providing the best services to customers. As such, we launched the Employee Satisfaction Center in 2007 to develop and operate various programs to enhance employee satisfaction levels. As a result, we have continuously improved employee satisfaction levels at work, and have become a vibrant and happy bank with the mindset that we can make our customers happy based on owner awareness. Facilitating Programs for Enhancing Employee SatisOh! Happy Woori faction Levels Since July 2011, the ‘Oh! Happy Woori’ travel program, We operate dynamic and attention-grabbing programs the bank’s representative family care program, has been to improve employee satisfaction. By supporting not implemented under the concept of ‘employee satisfaconly a concert performance program for the Regional tion comes from being part of a harmonious family’. Banking Headquarters with participation from employOn the fourth Saturday of every month, seasonal naees, but also various pastime activities, we catered to ture-experience programs are held for employees and the cultural needs of our employees and endeavored to their children, aiming to promote familial harmony while assist them in the formation of networks. The ‘Oh! Haprecharging the body and soul. The programs started py Woori’ travel program was established to boost the off with ice fishing and strawberry picking programs in happiness of individuals and has been acclaimed by January 2015, followed by a job experience program in employees, while helping to improve family relations. December 2015. In the second half of the year especially, The program was created to help improve commuwe tried to promote employee satisfaction at all levels nication and increase excitement among employees. by offering the ‘Namdo Autumn Travel’ program and Efforts are being made to put into practice the Woori the ‘Donghae Winter Travel’ program for employees and Bank belief that happiness within families drives bank their spouses. These programs, which boast of a high competitiveness. level of participation from employees every month, beWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 41 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r wedding costs for staff, but also enhances their pride in the Bank. Present Status of Support in 2015 In order to increase concentration at work and facilitate a healthy corporate culture by resolving various issues involving our employees and their families and children, we help to make reservations and pay for expenses related to psychological and legal issues. Besides external consultation services, we also have a psychologist on staff at the Bank who carries out psychological tests, gives psychological consultations and holds small-scale lectures at branches. Also, we seek ways to lower our employee stress levels by providing daily meditation, temple stay and herbal healing experiWoori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! ences. Regional Banking Headquarter Concerts at Branches Until 2014, we refrained from workshops that included mountain climbing and dining together and concentrated on team spirit boosting programs held outdoors, which included zip lining, glamping, yacht experiences, came highly popular with employees, enabling them to ATV experiences and survival games. These programs focus on the importance of spending time with family, a have been running for three years since 2012, and a total need that is often neglected due to an disproportionate of about 9,000 participants have joined in the iconic focus on work. and enjoyable programs that have transformed the corporate culture in workshops at Woori Bank, thereby creFree Rental of the Wedding Hall at the Head Office ating synergy through cooperation between employees Auditorium and enhanced work efficiency. Woori Bank provides free rental of the wedding hall at the head office auditorium to our employees. We also In 2015, in order to strengthen communication between provide a high-spec waiting room for the bride and branch employees and Regional Banking Headquarters, a renovated pyebaek (a traditional ceremony to pay we held concerts at branches to provide a means of respect to the newly-wedded couple’s respective famcommunication between employees. The Woori Bank ilies) room, and also allow the CEO’s official company Employee Satisfaction Center provides various procar to be used as the wedding car. In 2015, we strived grams to boost employee satisfaction and reinforces to provide a more luxurious wedding venue through sales capacity through communication. the renovation of the auditorium. Based on this support, a total of 179 couples got married at the head ‘Art is Tasteful, Pleasing the Five Senses’ office wedding hall between 2012 and 2013, while the This cultural program enables employees and their famvenue’s popularity grew with 165 couples and 189 couilies to enjoy a richer, more leisurely life by giving them a ples getting married in 2014 and 2015, respectively. cultural appreciation of art, musicals and classical music and by satisfying their craving for a more cultured life. In 2016, we have already received reservations for over Between 2012 and 2014, we received a positive response 100 weddings, showing the popularity of the venue from our employees with collective viewing of the opera among our employees. The free rental of the wedding Little Prince and the musical Wicked. In 2015, we prohall at the head office auditorium not only reduces vided full support so that employees can enjoy a more Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 42 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r vibrant and exciting work life balance, thanks to various A Healthy and Vibrant Corporate Culture cultural programs that provide a convenient and satisWoori Bank promoted systematic and regular health fying cultured life, such as group viewing of the musical checks for our employees by conducting comprehen‘Dreamgirls’ sive health check-ups and blood checks once a year. We also support the use of hotel facilities across the nation, PC-Shutdown for Work Hour Normalization so that employees can enjoy their time off together with In order to improve working conditions that include their families. extensive evening overtime hours at the Bank, we introduced the Working Hour Normalization System in 2013, Woori Daycare Center and strove to implement the system in 2014. Woori Bank complies with the government’s policies for increasing birth rates, by actively supporting our emBy setting the time for computers to turn off to 7 p.m., ployees who are working moms by operating two dayemployees are able to have fun after work and spend care centers, Woori Daycare Center’s Happiness Branch more time at home. There has been an improvement in (located in Mapo-gu, Seoul) and Sarang Branch (located work efficiency and higher concentration at the workin Seongdong-gu, Seoul). place due to a lack of unnecessary evening overtime. According to the 2015 review conducted two years after In the future, we will not only create a corporate culture the system was introduced, we received a positive evalthat actively promotes childbirth by establishing addiuation indicating that the Working Hour Normalization tional daycare centers, but will also work towards reducSystem has been well received by bank employees. ing the burden of raising children for working moms. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 43 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r Consumer Protection Woori Bank has announced a “branch-centered management policy to put customers first”, and established customer happiness, pioneering for the future, honesty and trust as well as putting human resources first as core values. Among these, the most important value is “customer happiness”. Based on this management philosophy, we were the 1st Korean bank to newly establish a Consumer Protection Division, which is an organization formed and operated to focus solely on consumer protection. By carrying out consumer protection activities that meet customer needs, we strengthened our position as a leading bank in the field of consumer protection. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Review of 2015 Significant Decrease in Customer Complaints Compared to the Previous Year The Financial Consumer Protection Center establishes In February 2015, Woori Bank President and CEO and all a complaint prevention and implementation plan by rebank employees stated their commitment to reducing flecting customer opinions and the trend of consumer complaints by holding a resolution ceremony marking protection policies, while also promoting and advanc‘the campaign to create a complaint-free bank’. We ing consumer rights and interests through continuous will take the lead in substantially reducing customer improvement of systems and discovery of unreasonacomplaints compared to the previous year by mainly ble practices. focusing on supporting business organization activities through various complaint prevention programs, such as Also, we receive customer complaints and deal with certification systems for outstanding Regional Banking issues promptly and efficiently, as well as conducting Headquarters, Complaint-Free Branches and the Cleanseparate research on complaint handling and engaging Up 10 Program, as well as operating an early warning in a reflection process. In addition, we promote various system for complaints. consumer protection activities such as providing onestop support after consultations with relevant departImplementing Consumer Protection Programs that ments in relation to branch requests and complaints Meet Customer Needs received. When developing a new product or a new system, Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 44 R e l i a b l e Pa rt n e r we reflect customer opinions beforehand by Woori Bank’s these procedures with training programs held conducting prior research and consultations. Customer for branch employees. As a result, the number This also includes a pre-inspection for factors Information of new fake bank accounts compared to the infringing on consumer rights and interests Protection beginning of the year decreased significantly from the customer eye-level before releasing and branches are actively preventing criminals the products. In order to reflect a variety of For the purpose of from withdrawing large amounts of cash. strengthening customer opinions from customers, we continuously information protection in gather opinions from branches by holding 2015, Woori Bank upgraded the Customer Information a contest every quarter to receive branch employee ideas on ways to improve systems Security Division, to strengthen the security Plans for 2016 related to consumer protection, as well as exof management and technologies for In 2015, the Financial Consumer Protection ceeding the annual target of 116 tasks (a symconsumer information proCenter decided upon ‘先見知明 foresight’ as bolic number marking the number of years tection and to make the utmost effort to prevent the core value of consumer protection. First, since Woori Bank’s founding) as a result of the leakage of customer ‘先’ is the attitude of preventing complaints reflecting customer opinions on improvement information. by reflecting customer opinions first. Second, through various complaint channels. Further‘見’ is the attitude of putting ourselves in the more, we operate a compensation system for • Acquisition of the ISMS customer’s shoes by reflecting the managecustomer losses, enabling complaints to be (Information Security ment policy to put customers first. Third, ‘知’ resolved promptly and for appropriate comManagement System) certificate for is training provided utilizing various channels pensations to be given. We actively operated the Korea Internet for consumer protection. Fourth, ‘明’ symbolthe ‘Cham Forum’, which is a voluntary meetSecurity Agency’s informaizes the efforts made to brighten up financial ing of customer happiness managers who act tion protection management system under the Ministry blind spots. as the advance guard of consumer protection of Science, ICT and at branches, so that consumer protection Future Planning Starting from this year, the Financial Superactivities can be implemented actively and • Establishment of customer visory Service plans to conduct a consumer voluntarily. This year, complaint prevention information leakage protection evaluation that determines the training programs were held at 258 branches. prevention system overall consumer protection index of financial • Prevention of the use of institutions, improving the evaluation sysgeneral portable storage devices by introducing the tem from the previous complaint evaluation security USB device system system that simply evaluated complaints. As and establishment of a result, Woori Bank will take on the role of an approval system for documents exported from being a leading bank in the field of consumer the internal network financial protection by achieving high ratings • Implementation of the in all categories. real-name system with masking(*) so that personal (customer) information cannot be identified when printed out from the personal computer Preventing Financial Fraud by Becoming a • Establishment of a system Bank with Zero Fake Bank Accounts that prevents fraudulent transfers through internet In order to prevent fake bank accounts that banking services have become a hotbed of financial fraud and • Provision of information incidents such as voice phishing, pharming security training programs and mortgage fraud targeting the middle twice a year for class, we reinforced procedures for opening all employees bank accounts, and continuously promoted Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 45 2 Leading Partner my life, with woori bank Offering fast and Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! convenient Financial Services Around the Globe Global Business ___ 048 Investment Banking ___ 051 Financial Market Business ___ 053 International Trade Business ___ 056 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 46 L ea d i n g Pa rt n e r st r o n g Pa rt n e r s i n c e r e pa rt n e r Financial Review Woori Bank 47 Annual Report 2015 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Global Business After establishing Woori Finance in Myanmar at the end of 2015, Woori Bank had entered 23 countries with 205 overseas networks, including 19 branches (5 sub branches affiliated with larger branches), 8 subsidiaries (184 branches of subsidiaries) and 2 representative offices, and has sustained growth momentum for overseas expansion by establishing the largest global network of all Korean banks, by operating Korean desks (in South Africa, Turkey, etc.) and dispatching GRMs (to Mexico, etc.). We also continued to implement differentiated business strategies and localization for each overseas network. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Worldwide Branch Network 205 Networks in 23 Countries Overseas Branch (14) & Sub-Branch (5) Overseas Representative Office (2) Overseas Subsidiary (8) Subsidiary Branch/office/ Korean Desk/GRM 23 Countries 205 Overseas Networks * GRM: Global Relationship Manager ** As of December 31, 2015 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 48 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Review of 2015 Major expansion, we were the 1st Korean bank to open a 200th global network by establishing After establishing Woori Finance in Myanmar Highlights Woori Finance Myanmar in Yangon, Myanmar at the end of 2015, Woori Bank had entered of Global on November 26, 2015. Woori Bank was the Business 106.6 23 countries with 205 overseas networks, 1st to achieve the opening of 205 overseas including 19 branches (5 sub branches affiliatbranches, which set a new milestone in proed with larger branches), 8 subsidiaries (184 moting the globalization of the Korean finanbranches of subsidiaries) and 2 representative cial industry. Following the establishment of Net Income offices, and has sustained growth momentum (Unit: USD million) Woori Finance Myanmar, Woori Bank played a for overseas expansion by establishing the leading role in helping the Korean financial inlargest global network of all Korean banks, by dustry enter overseas markets and spread the 0.71 operating Korean desks (in South Africa, TurKorean financial wave across the world, such key, etc.) and dispatching GRMs (to Mexico, as by planning mergers with a local savings etc.). We also continued to implement differbank in the Philippines and the establishment entiated business strategies and localization NPL Ratio (Unit: %) of a local subsidiary in Vietnam in 2016. Based for each overseas network. on such aggressive strategies to penetrate overseas markets, we aim to become one of 0.73 Expansion of Overseas Networks (Channels) ‘Asia’s Top 10, Global Top 50 Banks’ by openIn November 1968, Woori Bank was Korea’s ing 300 overseas branches by 2016 and more 1st commercial bank to establish an overseas than 500 in the midto long-term future, branch in Tokyo, the first step towards beDelinquency Ratio thereby completing the Asia Belt that passes coming a leading global bank. In December (Unit: %) from China through Southeast Asia to the 2014, we merged with Saudara Bank in InMiddle East. donesia, and after only 48 years of overseas 115.92 Liquidity Ratio Development of Competitive Products and Services (Business) Woori Bank has developed competitive retail (Unit: %) products and services that are customized to local circumstances by benchmarking Korean domestic products. We will utilize the bank’s overseas operations and search for new profit sources by increasing non-face-to-face channels, including mortgage loans for retail customers, trade finance, credit loans for highyield customers, debit cards, and credit cards, while overcoming limits on the number of networks we can establish. We also provide one-stop financial services that enhance consultation channels between marketing and related divisions in order to facilitate overseas business. Enhanced Management of Overseas Financial Institutions (FI) The Global Business Unit signed business alliances with local financial institutions to Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 49 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r provide diverse financial services for Korean New Markets profit by diversifying profits from overseas companies stationed in regions where we for Woori markets. have not yet established networks. As a reBank’s Global sult, we took the lead in providing financial Business Also, in order to manage the risks of an insupport to Korean companies by cooperating creasing number of overseas networks, we • Establishment with overseas financial institutions, such as have strengthened monitoring of overseas of Woori Finance operating Korean desks in Turkey, Qatar and Myanmar to become branches by newly establishing the Global South Africa to offer loans for Korean compathe 1st Korean bank to Internal Control Team under the Global Busiopen a 200th ness Unit. nies stationed locally or in neighboring counglobal network tries. (November 2015) With customer-oriented products and servicAlso, we are striving to secure a new line of • Signing of an es, we will strive to achieve 1st place in market acquisition contract share position among Korean banks stationed credit, provide financing support through with a savings bank locally in the short run and become Asia’s overseas branches and create new business in the Philippines opportunities by establishing relationships (December 2015) leading bank in the long run, thereby becomwith world-famous financial institutions. ing a leading bank that competes directly Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! • Acquisition of a C/L with the world’s prominent banks. (Confirmation Letter) for the conversion of a branch into Plans for 2016 a local subsidiary in Vietnam The Global Business Unit’s plan for 2016 aims (January 2016) to continuously expand networks especially in high-profit regions, reinforcing growth along with internal stability and a focus on risk management. I n a d d i t i o n to i n c re a s i n g n e t wo r k s i n high-profit regions (Southeast Asia), we will strengthen the profitability of overseas business by enhancing our competitiveness through alliances with different types of businesses, as well as develop customized retail products and enhance package sales to strengthen growth alongside internal stability. We also plan to maximize synergy by reinforcing business links between domestic and overseas branches. In order to position ourselves to become a leading bank in the FinTech sector by 2016, we will increase overseas non-face-to-face channels through mobile banking by continuously expanding the successful business model of WiBee Bank in our overseas branches, while also establishing the basis for global growth by developing a card business in Southeast Asia and creating a new source of Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 50 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Investment Banking Woori Bank’s IB Headquarters is in charge of diverse investment finance affairs, including syndicated loans (M&A, corporate finance, etc.), project financing (infrastructure projects, power generation energy projects, etc.), securities investment (securities, mezzanine securities, investment funds, foreign currency bonds, etc.) and the granting of credit. With the Investment Banking Dept. and the Project Finance Dept. divided up under IB Headquarters, we actively implement business plans and solutions for IB. In particular, we provide a customized financial structure that can meet a project’s capital needs with support from companies through a strong network and through partnerships with our major corporate clients. We are also actively exploring not only the domestic market but also the overseas IB market, through the establishment and operation of Woori Global Market Asia Ltd. since October 2006, Korea’s 1st financial institution to specialize in overseas IB investment in Hong Kong. Total Assets of Investment Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 11.1 As of the end of 2014 11.1 As of the end of 2015 Review of 2015 ed: a fund exclusively for acquisition finance of about KRW 640 billion in the field of M&A; a new technology The year 2015 was a year where we made efforts to investment fund of about KRW 130 billion in the field of selectively implement business strategies by taking PI; and a power generation fund of about KRW 115 bilinto consideration stability and profitability, while also lion in the field of power generation energy. providing the foundation for acquiring new engines of future growth. First, we achieved outstanding performance in the fields of M&A acquisition finance and PI (Principal Investment), which we used to concentrate our business on key IB areas. We ranked 1st in the M&A syndication market. In particular, we jointly arranged the ‘Home Plus acquisition finance’ (a total of KRW 4.3 trillion), which was the largest M&A project in Korean history. We also achieved outstanding performance in the field of PI, such as generating huge dividends and sale profits from investment assets that had been invested before. Also, we established funds for a new future growth engine in the fields of M&A, PI and power generation that includWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 51 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Plans for 2016 Total Assets In 2016, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of of Investment an increasingly competitive IB market, Woori Bank’s Banking-end 2015 IB Headquarters will focus its capacity on key areas like M&A, PI and infrastructure financing. Also, we plan to carry out a variety of new businesses that have Off-balance Loan 39% 39% sheet assets contracts not been explored before and actively participate in overseas business in order to overcome the limits of the existing domestic market and establish a foundation of profits in the future. Above all, we will focus on strengthening financial soundness to reduce non-perSecurities 21% forming loans, while also doing our best to prevent the etc. occurrence of new non-performing loans. 1% Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Investment Banking Organization IB Business Team M&A & Foreign Investment Team Investment Banking Dept. Principle Investment Team Corporate & Shipping Finance Team Investment Banking Business Unit Structured Finance Team Project Infrastructure Finance Team Finance Dept. Power & Energy Team Woori Overseas Sales Team Global Markets Asia Ltd. Sales Team (Hong Kong) Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 52 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Financial Market Business The Financial Market Business Division consists of the Treasury Department that manages bank-wide liquidity, the Trading Department that handles F/X Dealing, marketable securities and financial derivatives and the Settlement Support Department that performs back office duties. In particular, we are the solid market leader among Korean banks in terms of trading derivative products, such as forwards, swaps and options based on a wide range of underlying assets, including interest rates, foreign currencies, equities and commodities. Review of 2015 Through these measures, the Bank’s liquidity coverage ratio (above 80%), liquidity ratio for foreign currency The Financial Market Business Division is the main body (above 85%) and the medium and long-term foreign that oversees funding and financial market activities currency funding ratio (above 100%) are well above regsuch as FX, securities, commodities, and derivatives ulatory guidelines, contributing to a 0.6 percent increase trades. The division efficiently balances assets and liain BIS ratio. We also strengthened our competitiveness bilities through these activities to continually improve in FX and derivatives trading through expanding currenprofitability while maintaining sound liquidity. In 2015, cy trading and provided various hedging services availthe division focused on improving NIM by maintaining able 24 hours a day to assist our customers with risk an optimal loan-deposit ratio, liquidity position and lowmanagement. cost funding. Bracing for the possible decrease of the BIS ratio due to Woori Financial Group’s privatization, Optimized Liquidity Management we enhanced the capital ratio by issuing contingent • Issuance of senior bonds and contingent capital capital securities in both domestic and foreign currensecurities in domestic and foreign currencies cies. The foreign currency contingent capital issue in the In 2015, the Financial Market Business Division estabfirst half of the year was the first of its kind for Korean lished proactive financing plans to issue KRW 2.1 trillion banks and paved the way for others to follow. in senior bonds, KRW 0.24 trillion in domestic currency contingent capital securities and USD 500 million in Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 53 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r foreign currency contingent capital securities at lower as the Mexican Peso, South African Rand, Polish Zloty interest rates compared to other banks. These domestic and Russian Ruble, diversifying its portfolio of trading and foreign currency contingent capital securities concurrencies. Also, we were selected as the market maktributed to Woori Bank’s stable BIS ratio. The foreign er for the won-yuan direct trading market (opened in currency contingent capital securities enhanced Woori December 2014) two years in a row for 2015 and 2016. Bank’s position in the international financial market sigWe are playing a leading role in the development of the nificantly by making it the first ever Korean bank to sucwon-yuan trading market and received a commendation cessfully issue them under the new Basel III standards from the Bank of Korea in 2015. (Tier 1) at low global interest rates. As a result of the issuance, we had the honor of being chosen as the best • Derivatives Korean bank for capital securities in 2015 at the Triple A In derivative markets, we strengthened the stability of Country Awards hosted by Asia’s prestigious financial derivative trading by increasing arbitrage transactions magazine, The Asset. and taking positions through forecasting market variables, such as domestic and international policies and • Improving the stability of financing by exploring a fluctuations in supply and demand. We also provided new market for raising foreign currencies and diversione-on-one customized solutions and risk management Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! fying funding currencies consulting services for FX and derivative trading by In the first half of 2015, we successfully issued a total having derivative specialists make on-site visits, so that of 700 million yuan in bonds for Taiwanese and Hong SMEs can receive support in areas in which they lack Kong markets, and in the second half of 2015, we isrisk management experience and know-how. sued 33 million in Euro bonds. According to market conditions, we diversified foreign currencies to reduce • Securities financing interest and improve the financing stability. In the securities market, we increased interest profits Also, despite the US interest rate rise and uncertainties and non-interest profits by efficiently operating bonds in emerging nation financial markets, we achieved stable and bond-type beneficiary certificates through analyzmanagement of foreign currency reserves by managing ing monetary policies and bond markets domestically liquidity buffers above the regulatory guidelines set by and internationally, as well as diversifying the source of the Financial Supervisory Service. non-interest profits through a variety of ways such as increased volumes of bond lending transactions traded • Compliance with regulatory guidelines as risk-free transactions receiving commission. We also As of the end of 2015, Woori Bank was well above the gained access to the CIBM (China Interbank Bond Marregulatory ratio set by domestic financial supervisory ket) and acquired an investment limit of 2 billion yuan, agencies by proactively managing surplus liquidity allowing us to invest in the Chinese bond market. to achieve a 95.09% liquidity coverage ratio, a 117.25% foreign currency liquidity ratio and a 248.55% medium and long-term foreign currency funding ratio Strengthened Competitiveness in FX and Derivative Trading In 2015, the Financial Market Business Division focused on strengthening our competitiveness in increasingly volatile financial markets, as well as entering into new markets. • F/X Trading In foreign currency trades, Woori Bank has strengthened trading activities in a variety of currencies such Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 54 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r Plans for 2016 In 2016, the Financial Market Business Division will maintain the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) at an optimum level by managing high-quality liquid assets and controlling net cash flows. In order to effectively manage liquidity, we will diversify funding maturities, and reduce financing costs by increasing CD issuance. In addition to liquidity, we will continue to diversity trading strategies in foreign exchange, derivative arbitrage, and hedging on currencies and interest rates to increase profitability in trading activities. Since it is forecasted that the demand for risk hedging will increase following increasing global volatility, we will continuously expand FX and derivative trading by providing customized products in a timely manner. Furthermore, we will increase non-interest profits and attract new high-yield customers by operating an exclusive team that specializes in selling to investors of financial and public institutions, including securities companies, insurance companies, and government agencies. Liquidity Ratios (Unit: %) 130 Liquidity Coverage Ratio(KRW) Liquidity Ratio (FC) 120.0 120.7 120 118.9 116.5 115.9 110 106.7 100 102.6 96.9 90 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 55 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r International Trade Business Woori Bank’s International Trade Business Division is in charge of foreign exchange related services for both consumer/corporate banking customers in Korea and overseas. The unit is engaged in establishing and supporting Woori Bank’s FX-related marketing strategies, while also operating the International Trade Service Center, which is a center specializing in BPR (Business Process Reengineering), as well as the Seoul Global Support Center, which is responsible for attracting foreign investment and capital transactions, ensuring that banking tasks are handled promptly and efficiently. Based on our know-how from dealing with the largest number of large enterprises and our outstanding FX specialists, we will provide the best consulting services related to the import and export of finances and overseas investments at home and abroad. Total Volume of Export & Import (Unit: USD billion) 313.2 2014 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! 311.4 2015 Review of 2015 In 2015, the International Trade Business Division scaled up its competitiveness in the export/import business and FX/remittance transfers by fostering FX specialists and strengthening services. This led to Woori Bank achieving the No. 1 position among Korea’s top eight banks for year-on-year growth in export performance and foreign currency exchange performance with transactions totaling USD 192.4 billion and USD 153.3 billion, respectively. In order to improve foreign worker access to financing in Korea, Woori Bank is not only operating specific sales channel exclusively for foreign workers, but also keeping branches open on Sundays and providing on-site visits to engage with customers face-to-face. Woori Bank reinforced its status as the leader in the FX Stronger Competitiveness in Export/Import Banking market by being designated as the treasury bank manand FX Money Exchange/Remittance aging foreign currency reserves for the National Pension Woori Bank took advantage of its strengths as Korea’s Fund, one of the top four pension funds in the world. largest bank for corporate financing to handle transactions Woori Bank also took the lead in establishing the yuan totaling USD 311.4 billion in the export and import business trade settlement scheme through the conclusion of an in 2015, which placed the bank no.1 in year-on-year growth agreement to promote won-yuan settlements with the and helped Woori Bank achieve a market share of 29.8% Bank of Communications in China. among Korea’s top eight banks. Also, we were chosen as Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 56 L e a d i n g Pa rt n e r a foreign currency money exchange operator by Gimpo panies, consulting firms, local governments and other instiInternational Airport in parts of the airport frequented by tutions related to foreign investment. Besides FDI related tourists from both Korea and abroad. As a result, we reoperations, we also provide services that cover escrow, Imcorded USD 3.8 billion in transshipment volume by actively migrant Investor Schemes for Public Business, initial public responding to growth in the FX market resulting from the offerings (IPO) of foreign companies, consultations and increasing number of foreign visitors coming to Korea. By reports on other capital transactions under the Foreign actively responding to the new market for foreigners, such Exchange Transactions Act, and other services related to as handling wage remittances for foreign workers and forbusiness operation and follow-up management eign investment in domestic capital, total remittance volume was USD 153.3 billion, placing Woori Bank in the No. 1 Dominance in the Yuan Trade Settlement Market spot in year-on-year growth. Woori Bank established the world’s 1st offshore settlement system in won to take the lead in the globalization of the Expansion of Channels and Specialized Services for currency, such as through the clearing of trade settlements Foreign Workers in won through a currency swap deal between Korea and In 2015, the International Trade Business Division inChina. Many world-famous financial institutions have joined creased the convenience of transactions through flexible Woori Bank’s fund clearing system Woori Clearing System operating service hours and bolstered customer contact (WCS). In 2015, clearing services were provided for a total points for FX transactions, catering to the customer of KRW 21 trillion in KRW trade settlements. Woori Bank is needs of foreign workers. Financial services are even responding promptly to the establishment of a direct won available on Sundays in the 9 branches selected in the exchange market within China. Moreover, Woori Bank is Seoul metropolitan area and Gyeongsang area with a taking a leading role as a settlement bank for yuan settlehigh population of foreign workers; In particular, the FX ments in Korea. As the 1st Korean bank to receive approval Remittance Center, which is located in Wongok-dong, for international yuan settlements, we handled many trade Ansan in Gyeonggi-do (the most densely populated settlements through China in yuan, as well as taking care area for foreigners), not only opens on Sundays but of the first and largest volume trade settlements through also strives to provide specialized services to foreign won-yuan currency swaps. workers, such as enhanced convenience in accessing financial services through on-site visits as well as events held for foreign workers in Korea. Woori Bank also strives to ensure prompt and secure wage remittances. Plans for 2016 In addition, we offer total financial services for foreign In 2016, the International Trade Business Division aims to workers during their stay in Korea from arrival to deparfoster specialists in international trade and improve the ture, including opening accounts for premium payment quality of support as well as provide distinctive customthrough business alliances with the Human Resources er-specific services in export/import banking services and and Development Service of Korea as well as Samsung foreign currency money exchange/remittances to expand Fire & Marine Insurance, and acting as service provider our market share. In order to meet increasing demands for the payment of departure guarantee insurance. from foreign customers for money exchange/remittances, services and channels will be further reinforced. Based Supporting Foreign Direct Investment on the knowledge accumulated as the treasury bank for Woori Bank provides consulting and support for foreign foreign currency reserves for the National Pension Fund, direct investment (FDI) offered at all branches through the we will reaffirm our status as the leading bank in FX by Seoul Global Support Center in charge of FX and capital attracting new high net worth customers. We will do our transactions. More specifically, we provide services that are best to create diverse business opportunities such as precise and segmented for FX trading. Our main clients attracting capital for FDIs and establish yuan trade settleinclude leading companies at home and abroad, law firms ment schemes that meet the increasing demands of cus(domestic and international), accounting firms, securities tomers for yuan trade settlements. companies, private equity firms, asset management comWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 57 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank 58 Annual Report 2015 3 Strong Partner Growing and Developing in tandem with the Korean Economy st r o n g Pa rt n e r Consumer Banking ___ 060 Wealth Management ___ 063 Pension & Trust Business ___ 065 Corporate Banking ___ 067 SME Banking ___ 069 Institutional Banking ___ 072 Real Estate Finance ___ 074 s i n c e r e pa rt n e r Financial Review Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 59 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Consumer Banking The Consumer Banking Business Unit is in charge of conducting overall business strategies for individual consumers, finding new markets, managing the retail organization, establishing business channel strategies and setting business strategies for universities and hospitals. We run a separate division within the Consumer Banking Business Unit for wealth management that requires more specialized services. We also work towards improving customer satisfaction with better products and services, by continuously searching for new markets and conducting CRM (Customer Relationship Management) activities. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Review of 2015 yield customers by launching the Major Customer Preference Package, which integrates deposit account, In 2015, Woori Bank recorded growth of more than 1 credit (check) card and credit loan. million new customers for four consecutive years, exceeding 21 million individuals, while also continuously In order to meet the increasing customer demands, we developing differentiated and innovative products. provide services that prioritize customer satisfaction, We provide first-rate financial products and services such as directly visiting where customers are staying for different stages of the customer life cycle through without being limited by time and space and operating our representative projects for attracting new retail a portable branch that provides convenient services. customers. These include the Baby Project, the School Project and the Company Project, contributing greatLaunching the ‘Woori Wellrich Main Bank’ Package ly towards retaining infants, students, office workers, Product for Attracting New Customers and Expandhousewives and senior citizens as customers. ing the Existing Customer Base In 2016, in order to proactively deal with the bank acIn 2015, we focused on expanding the existing cuscount switching and attract new customers, Woori tomer base by taking proactive measures regarding Bank launched the Woori Wellrich Main Bank package the bank account switching, which is expected to be product, which provides better services to customers implemented in 2016. For this, we attracted new highwith lots of transactions and differentiated bank acWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 60 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Total Loans of Consumer Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 82.3 +15.6% 2014 95.1 2015 Total Deposits of Consumer Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 77.5 +4.9% 2014 81.3 2015 count benefits according to trade performance. By alAs a result, we have made a noticeable achievement in lowing the existing customer base to concentrate their increasing high-yield customers by attracting 1,240,000 multiple banking relationships exclusively with Woori bank accounts and KRW 51.6 billion for Woori Wellrich Bank, we provide various benefits for deposit and loan Main Bank package. transactions. For new customers, we provide the main bank package product that allows them to conduct Establishing Branch in Branch (BIB) to Provide Commultiple financial transactions all at once, so that new prehensive Financial Services customers have the same transaction benefit as existIn order to provide comprehensive financial services ing customers for deposit and loan. that meet the changing needs of customers, Woori Bank signed business alliance with the No.1 securities company Samsung Securities in March 2015 to set up Branch in Branch (BIB) at Woori Bank’s head office and Samsung Securities’ office building. Instead of simply providing financial transactions, BIB acts as sales and services channel, which enhances Woori Bank’s status in providing advices and selling products. Following the successful establishment of BIB in 2015, we plan to continuously create synergies between the banking and securities businesses, as well as develop products linked with Samsung Securities and expand additional BIB. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 61 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Optimizing and Increasing Efficiency of Channel Networks Amid the evolving financial environment, branches have Plans for 2016 been selected in districts with new growth potentials, In 2016, in order to achieve the No.1 market share for its such as ‘Innovation Cities’ and industrial complexes, and customer base despite the prolonged low growth, low low-yield and low-presence branches have been transinterest rates and the fierce inter-bank competition, the ferred or relocated. The Bank operates 993 branches, as Consumer Banking Business Unit will focus on attracting of the end of 2015, including 15 new, 52 integrated and new customers as it did in 2015 by carrying out new retail 25 relocated branches, thereby establishing a basis for projects for singles and foreigners. creating profits through an efficient branch network. By proactively responding to the bank account switching In 2015, in order to improve the organizational competand the ISA that will be newly introduced in 2016, we plan itiveness through increasing the efficiency of channels, to concentrate on attracting new customers and implewe introduced the ‘Personalized Branch’ as a customment event-oriented marketing activities by establishing a ized retail channel to strengthen sales capacity in retail marketing system for different stages of the customer life services for individual clients, so that the financial center cycle. could focus on corporate clients and the personalized Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! branch can focus on retail customers. Furthermore, in We will also strive to attract external customers by esorder to reinforce the efficiency of manpower operation tablishing an operational data store (ODS) to provide and strengthen employees’ competence, we integrated exclusive manpower and develop exclusive products and the existing four channels into the General Products services for tablet branches to expand this sales channel. Sales and Service Team and the Total Banking Service & Advisory Team. As a result of integrating the teams, the optimized manpower is now used in the form of staff in charge of outbound marketing to strengthen customer management and attract external customers. Strategic Sales Team Regional Banking Headquarters Gangdong Gangwon 36 Regional Banking Headquarters in the Sihwa/Namdong/Juan Seoul Metropolitan/ Industrial Complex Gyeonggi Province Area Operating 13 Strategic Sales Team North Chungcheong DaeguGyeongbuk Daejeon dongbu Asan/Ochang Science Park and South Chungcheong DaeguGyeongbuk Daedeok Science Town seobu Seongseo Industrial Complex, Gumi Waegwan Industrial Complex Busan and East Gyeongnam Central Busan West Honam Busan Hanam Industrial Complex Gyeongnam Changwon Industrial Complex Sinpyeong/Jangrim/Myeongji Noksan Industrial Complex Onsan/Ulsan Mipo Industrial Complex Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 62 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Wealth Management The Wealth Management (WM) Division is in charge of overseeing Private Banking (PB) services that target High Net Worth (HNW) customers. The WM Division consists of the WM Strategy Department; it establishes and implements business strategies for PB services, and manages Woori Bank’s affiliated products (mutual funds, bancassurance products), develops asset management products and taking a leading role in the the retirement asset market. As of 2015, we provide customers with first-rate products in comprehensive asset management and consulting services to around 144,000 HNW customers through an independent PB brand. Total number of WM customers (Unit: thousand) 132 2014 144 2015 Review of 2015 In 2015, the Wealth Management Division hired and trained about 70 new specialists Total as part of its efforts to nurture PB specialists. number Therefore, we increased the number of of WM branches with specialists (PB/FA) by 40 customers for a total of 640 branches that provide professional asset management services. We also provide asset management training for 12 (Unit: thousand) all employees so that they can proactively deal with low interest rates and the growing asset management market. As a result, we Utilizing a Total Asset Management System achieved huge growth in the mutual fund Total to Vitalize B2B Sales Systematically and bancassurance product markets. More Deposits Woori Bank established a comprehensive specifically, we achieved No. 1 market share for Wealth a ss et m a n a g em en t system to p rov i d e for the first time since we began selling Management c u s to m i ze d i nve s t m e n t s t ra te g i e s by bancassurance products. Also, around 12,000 Banking 4.0 analyzing customer transaction records and new HNW customers opened accounts with individual investment trends; thereby, we are Woori Bank. In recognition of these results, able to easily and conveniently find optimal we have had the honor of winning the ‘Korea solutions for customers. In recognition of (KRW trillion) Premium Brand Award’ for six consecutive the high interest on retirement incomes, we years. also provide diagnostic tools and consulting Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 63 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Total Deposits for Wealth Management Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 37.0 2014 41.0 2015 to help customers prepare for retirement based on Bank operates PB Academy courses to suit different expected retirement income. customer needs. Moreover, more systematic training Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! is provided for around 640 specialists across the Providing Various Integrated Financial Services nation by holding PB seminars through interactive through a Business Alliance with Samsung Securities training sessions. We also provide training through Currently, Woori Bank has established Integrated UC video training programs on a daily basis, including Financial Services Centers in four locations through training related to affiliated products (mutual funds, a business alliance with Samsung Securities aimed bancassurance products), taxation and real estate, to at increasing the synergy between the bank and a establish a cafeteria-type training system where the securities firm. Securities customers are provided with employee can choose and take part in required training. deposit, loan and FX services, and bank customers are offered a variety of investment options through securities and bonds. Research on Retirement Planning to Prepare for an Plans for 2016 Aging Society Aiming to achieve its goal of becoming the ‘No. 1 bank In July 2012, Woori Bank established a ‘research team for Total Asset Management’, the Wealth Management for a centennial lifespan’ to prepare for the era of an Division is taking the lead in the asset management aging society and launched a new retirement brand market by achieving 1st place in product alliances and called ‘We’ll Rich 100’ in 2015. The retirement planning customer revenues. research staff is conducting R&D on related products Besides increasing its market share of product and services to prepare for the financial demands alliances, Woori Bank will strive to become a bank of an increasingly elderly population in the future. that is chosen by our customers based on high profit We released new products under the We’ll Rich 100 ratios through the introduction of a systematic revenue brand such as pension accounts, credit cards and loan management system. products in 2015 to offer customized products that meet the needs of our retired customers. We also held We also plan to expand our asset management regular seminars for corporate and individual clients to services customer base by providing an exclusive sales expand upon the need to prepare for retirement and channel targeting affluent clients, while also enhancing provide guidance in relation to effective retirement our asset management capabilities in the non-faceplanning. to-face channel targeting the general public by introducing robo-advisors and establishing an online Fostering Specialized Private Bankers asset management center. In order to foster competitive private bankers, Woori Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 64 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Pension & Trust Business As the retirement pension market expands, the Pension & Trust Business Division was launched in 2009 to support the efficient management of retirement resources for retail customers. From the initial stage of adopting a retirement pension system, we provided differentiated services through comprehensive retirement pension consulting. We lead the retirement pension market by providing total financial services, which offer customized products to suit customer investment needs through an advanced selection process with seasoned investment specialists available. Review of 2015 through an advanced selection process with seasoned investment specialists available. In order to guarantee a stable retirement for the workforce and prepare for changes in the labor market, Our retirement pension systems were upgraded to resuch as a rapidly aging population, Woori Bank has flect major amendments in the Employee Retirement been fostering customer-oriented businesses with a Income Security Act. We also offer a variety of serviclong-term perspective. es, including providing updates and notifications to subscribers through a ‘Welcome Letter’, conducting Fostering Customer-Oriented Businesses follow-up support through the Bank’s ‘Happy Call SysAs the retirement pension market expands, the Pension tem’ and providing educational support through the & Trust Business Division was launched in 2009 to sup‘Retirement Pension Training Management System’. port the efficient management of retirement resources for retail customers. From the initial stage of adopting In 2015, retirement pension assets stood at KRW a retirement pension system, we provided differentiat11,335.7 billion, up KRW 1,693 billion from the previous ed services through comprehensive retirement pension year. The number of companies subscribed to retireconsulting. We lead the retirement pension market ment pensions increased by 1,137 from the previous by providing total financial services, which offer cusyear to 29,148, showing an increase of 4.1% as of the tomized products to suit customer investment needs end of December 2015. The number of subscribed emWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 65 St r o n g Pa rt n e r ployees increased by 435,467, an increase of Retirement 35.5% year-on-year to 1,661,867. Pension Assets Plans for 2016 11,335.7 (Unit: KRW billion) While Korea is becoming a super-aged society, Woori Bank is actively carrying out marketing activities to secure a profit base and customers in the long run by highlighting retirement Companies pensions as a key growth industry. This is being subscribed to accomplished by taking into consideration the Retirement importance of the retirement market for the Pension 29,148 banking sector. In 2016, in order to strengthen our position as a leader in the pension busiWoori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! ness, the Retirement Pension Business Dept. (Unit: company) will secure a foundation for growth by implementing differentiated marketing strategies and improving customer revenues through enhanced product management capabilities, as well as upgrading business capability by Employees adopting the BPR process and successfully resubscribed to Retirement establishing the retirement pension system. We Pension will also continue to focus on improving the efficiency of our sales channels. In the future, we aim to lead the retirement pension market 1,661,867 based on our abundant and experienced staff, (Unit: person) our training support system, a large variety of products, specialized management capabilities and a differentiated retirement planning service platform. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 66 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Corporate Banking The Corporate Banking Business Unit is in charge of services for corporate customers, including Korea’s top large enterprises, such as Samsung, LG and POSCO, to cater to the diverse financial needs of corporate customers in a timely manner. As a result of providing exceptional services to the highest number of large enterprises in Korea, Woori Bank’s Corporate Banking Business Unit prides itself on having provided the best financial services to our corporate customers, which has enabled them to become global players over the past 117 years. We will strive to provide our expertise to a larger number of customers in the future. Total Credit of Main Debtor Groups in 2015 (excluding management/ financial improvement) (Unit: KRW trillion) 26.2 2014 28.3 2015 Review of 2015 In 2015, the Corporate Banking Business Unit achieved 1st place in market share in loans for major creditors, thereby widening the gap with the second-placed bank to reaffirm Woori Bank’s No.1 position in corporate finance. Woori Bank is currently exploring and preparing for various financial needs through the ‘Woori Diamond Club’, a meeting of the CEOs of large Korean enterprises, while also strengthening its relationships with large enterprise customers. to strengthen our relationships with our corporate cusAs of the end of 2015, the Corporate Banking Business tomers, as well as provide services to respond to changUnit (including Corporate Finance Center) posted total ases in the environment by identifying the financial needs sets of KRW 28.6 trillion, operating income of KRW 661.6 of our customers in a timely manner. billion and an export/import volume of USD 254 billion. Extending Support for Large Enterprises/ SMEs Continuously Strengthening Relationships At a time when CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) is As our corporate customers developed into global playbecoming more important, Woori Bank has signed coers, their financial needs have changed rapidly and have operation agreements with large enterprise customers, become more diverse. Woori Bank currently runs the and offers product packages to extend funds to SMEs ‘Woori Diamond Club’, a meeting of the CEOs of large with low interest rates. Korean enterprises that has met continuously since 2003. The club’s 13th anniversary coincides with a desire We launched the Partnership Loan for Large Enterprises Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 67 St r o n g Pa rt n e r in 2008, which extended funds worth KRW Total Assets tive evolution of corporate banking. We will 532.8 billion to 972 companies as of the end of Corporate achieve optimal growth based on profitability of 2015. The Woori Partnership Loan that was Banking – as of through internal innovations that significantly developed in 2013 received a systematic upthe end of 2015 reduce possibly insolvent assets and increase 28.6 grade in 2015, so that funds worth KRW 283.9 high-yield assets, instead of focusing on exbillion were extended to 2,190 companies as of ternal growth as we did previously. Based on the end of 2015. As a bank that has cultivated corporate banking, we will fulfill the role of a relationships with large enterprise customers, (Unit: KRW trillion) profit coordinator that strengthens synergies we operate a partnership system through a vathrough cooperative marketing activities withriety of customer networks aimed at reducing in the bank and maximizes all sources of profit financial costs to SMEs, thereby contributing through collaborative marketing activities. to the shared growth of both large enterprises Total Credit and SMEs. of Main Debtor Developing and Supporting Customized Groups in 2015 Woori Bank Financial Products (excluding is the major creditor Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! management/ financial In 2015, company demand for investment improvement) bank for 13 large enterprises 28.3 products that ensure stability increased due to a prolonged period of low interest rates. In line (Total number of large enterprises with such demand, we provided customized under main creditor bank products for companies with long-term opmanagement: 39 as of Apr. 2016) (Unit: KRW trillion) erating funds by selling an integrated deposit product with structured interest rates. We also developed an integrated limit for imports and exports that enables the limits of various FX products to be integrated and managed, Total Credit which enhanced convenience for companies Exposure of Main conducting FX trading. We developed and Debtor Groups supported various financial products in time -end 2015 34.6 to satisfy the needs of corporate customers, including the Power Brand Merchant Start-up Loan for supporting franchise merchants that have relationships with large enterprises and (Unit: KRW trillion) the Woori Buy-Back Loan that was released for sales agencies. Plans for 2016 In 2016, the Corporate Banking Business Unit will achieve a new paradigm shift that transcends the bank’s boundaries at home and abroad in terms of business activities that used to focus on large enterprises, by improving asset quality and existing profit models to achieve the our business goal of the creaWoori Bank Annual Report 2015 68 St r o n g Pa rt n e r SME Banking The SME Banking Business Unit is in charge of financial services for corporate customers, especially in SME sector. At the end of 2015 there were approximately 1,300,000 SOHO and SME customers, whose total loans under management amounted to KRW 76.1 trillion. Woori Bank provides competitive products and diverse financial and non-financial services to better satisfy SME customers. The SME RM (Relationship Manager) system, a channel of SME banking pool specialists, is made available to provide the best financial services in corporate banking. Review of 2015 Implementing Marketing Activities to Target Highyield SMEs In 2015, the SME Banking Unit achieved significant results. As in 2014, the SME Banking Business Unit provided The total number of SOHO and SME customers increased wide-ranging marketing data on high-yield SMEs and to around 93,000 and the total volume of loans through large enterprise partner companies to help attract highSME banking by KRW 5 trillion. net worth customers to branches in 2015. The SME Banking Unit led marketing strategies that foIn January 2015, we also remodeled the ‘High-yield Encused on attracting new high-net-worth SMEs and their terprise Master Loan’ to strengthen our competitiveness retention. As in 2014, key categories were targeted in 2015, and launched the ‘Woori Enterprise Power Loan’ and such as policy financing, guarantee-secured loans and the ‘Woori R&D Loan for Outstanding Technology Enloans for equipment. terprises’, which involved offering competitive interest rates and preferential credit ceilings for high-yield SMEs, For higher satisfaction and service levels for SME customto achieve an impressive sales record of KRW 16.8 trilers, various preferential programs were implemented with lion at the end of 2015. a greater focus on training and developing a specialized workforce for SME banking. As a result of the SME Banking Business Unit’s continuous efforts to increase high-yield assets, loans for Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 69 St r o n g Pa rt n e r high-yield enterprises of the level of BBB and above inincrease of KRW 550.9 billion year-on-year. creased by KRW 7.7 trillion from KRW 40.3 trillion at the end of 2014 to KRW 48 trillion at the end of 2015. In January 2015, we launched and sold the Woori V-Plus Loan in collaboration with a credit guarantee institution. Targeted Marketing for Industrial Complexes In August 2015, we also released and sold the Seoul In order to focus on attracting enterprise customers loEconomy Boom-up Loan in collaboration with Seoul cated in industrial areas, the SME Banking Business Unit Metropolitan City. expanded its target scope by remodeling ‘Woori Industrial Complex Loan’, a specialized product for enterprisProviding Diverse and Specialized Products es located in industrial complexes, while also providing In 2015, the SME Banking Business Unit launched a marketing data about these enterprises to branches. range of specialized products, including the ‘High-yield As a result of intensive marketing activities targeting Enterprise Power Loan’ and the ‘Woori Credit Card industrial complexes, the balance of ‘Woori Industrial Member Store Power Loan’, a preferential product for Complex Loan’ increased by KRW 773 billion from KRW high-yield SOHOs and SMEs to increase SOHO and SME 1,004.4 billion at the end of 2014 to KRW 1,777.4 billion banking loans. at the end of 2015. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! In order to strengthen the bank’s profitability in reaction Enhancing Policy Financing & Guaranteed Loans to reduced loan-deposit margins due to the new era of In 2015, the SME Banking Business Unit focused on pollow-interest rates, we launched the ‘Woori Export/Imicy financing and guaranteed loans, so that the balance port On Landing’ and the ‘Exporting Company Master for each product increased by KRW 549 billion and Loan’, which are specialized products targeting export/ KRW 645.2 billion, respectively. In order to increase poliimport companies that conduct numerous FX transaccy financing, the SME Banking Business Unit signed new tions. agreements with local governments and public instituIn line with the government’s policy on revitalizing techtions, and also conducted various training programs and nology firm financing, we strengthened our support for provided on-site support by bolstering competitiveness SMEs with outstanding technology, by launching the in interest rates for policy financing. In particular, the ‘Woori R&D Loan for Outstanding Technology Enterprises’. balance of indirect loans (on-lending loans) targeting high-yield SMEs as a percentage of policy financing products, showed an outstanding improvement with an Total Number of SME Customers 1,187,940 +8.5% 2014 1,288,698 2015 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 70 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Preventing Customer Turnover & Supporting Consulting Services Plans for 2016 In order to continuously increase assets, despite intense In 2016, the SME Banking Business Unit plans to contincompetition with other banks, the SME Banking Busiuously increase high-yield assets, by launching specialness Unit newly implemented the ‘Early Loan Extension’ ized new products to meet the needs of the main target program, preventing the loss of existing customers to groups in order to attract new customers and by proother banks. The program proactively identified the viding competitive interest rates for existing corporate needs and complaints of customers before existing customers to prevent customer turnover. loans matured, so that customers whose maturity dates were approaching did not go to other banks. Woori In particular, we will focus on cross-selling to attract Bank provided corporate consulting services earlier existing customers to products they have not yet purthan any other Korean bank. In 2015, we contributed to chased in 2016. the increase in sales and operating profits of corporate Lastly, in order to support small and micro businesses, customers by conducting 122 consulting projects. The we will contribute to revitalizing the economy in the Corporate Consulting Team within the SME Banking lives of ordinary people and increase support programs Business Unit provides various types of consulting serto FinTech companies develop by continuously offering vices for improving the corporate value including conspecialized products and support to small and micro sulting services for management, CFOs, family business businesses. succession issues and operations. Total Assets of SME Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 72.6 +4.8% 2014 76.1 2015 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 71 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Institutional Banking The Institutional Banking Business Unit is divided into the Institutional Banking Products & Marketing Dept, to cater to the central government, local governments and public institutions, and the Public Fund Sales Department, to manage the municipal and provincial treasuries of local governments and the courts. Moreover, we are the only bank to utilize specialists in institutional operations (institutional RM) to provide first rate financial services to institutional customers. As of 2015, our institutional customers include the Seoul Metropolitan Government and its 24 district offices, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, the National Health Insurance Corporation and the Korean Railroad Corporation. The presence of such customers reaffirms our position as Korea’s largest primary bank for public institutions Total Deposits of Institutional Banking (Unit: KRW trillion) 20.4 2014 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! 22.5 2015 Review of 2015 mental agencies to the provinces, to attract 44 out of 118 institutions that completed the selection of their transacBased on know-how gained from 100 years as Seoul Mettion bank in 2015, with plans to attract more institutions ropolitan Government’s treasury bank, Woori Bank has beas relocation continues in 2016. As of the end of 2015, the come a leading financial institution for local residents with Institutional Banking Business Unit held total deposits of the Institutional Banking Business Unit contributing to reKRW 22.5 trillion and total loans worth KRW 1.8 trillion, gional development and expanding the scope of transacwhile maintaining relationships with about 3,800 institutions with the central government, local governments and tional customers. major public institutions, including affiliated institutions of the Seoul Metropolitan Government. Towards Another Century of Success After Making History as the Seoul Metropolitan Government’s In line with government policies, Woori Bank provided Treasury Bank for the Past 100 years specialized services for the planned relocation of governSince the treasury agreement signed with Gyeongseongbu (Seoul) in 1915, Woori Bank has done a remarkable job of serving as the Seoul Metropolitan Government’s treasury bank for the past 100 years, by collecting tax revenue and by managing the payment of annual expenditures. In 1988, we launched the first comprehensive management system for revenues and expenditures, and established the OCR Center in 1991, accomplishments that arose from being the city’s longterm treasury bank. Moreover, we were able to develop world-class management capability as a treasury bank by establishing the ETAX system in 2001, the annual Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 72 St r o n g Pa rt n e r expenditure e-banking system in 2004, the revenue e-banking system and the comprehensive management Plans for 2016 system for treasury bank affairs in 2011. Based on an adIn 2016, the Institutional Banking Business Unit continvanced treasury management system and high-quality uously discovered businesses linked to finance by anaspecialists in relevant fields, Woori Bank has become a lyzing central and local government policies, so that “Partner of Seoul Hope” contributing to the Seoul Metwe could support national economic development and ropolitan Government’s tax planning and financial manthe growth of SMEs. As a result of being chosen again agement, convenient tax payments by citizens and the as the Seoul Metropolitan Government’s treasury bank, development of local communities. we will further strengthen cooperation with the Seoul Metropolitan Government and its affiliated organizaSupporting New Projects from the Government tions to provide customized financial services to enaIn order to support the R&D projects initiated by the ble more employees to foster relationships with Woori government, Woori Bank has set up an R&D Team within Bank and carry out various related projects. In line with the Institutional Banking Business Unit to conduct R&D the relocation of the public sector, we will support varprojects together with the Ministry of Trade, Industry ious financial services to ensure major institutions and and Energy (MOTIE) since 2013. As the bank exclusively their employees located in innovation cities nationwide responsible for international agreements made by the can settle down as soon as possible, as well as attract Defense Acquisition Program Administration, we providnew clients by providing customized services for a ed support for the payment settlement of goods purrange of customers from non-client institutions. chased from overseas. We also were the official sponsor bank tasked with providing financial services for the smooth running of the Mungyeong Korea 2015 6th CISM World Games, hosted by the Ministry of National DeMajor Institutional fense. After being chosen as the treasury bank for VAT Customers payments through simplified registrations by overseas entrepreneurs, we received VAT payments on behalf of • Local Government global companies such as Apple, Google and Alibaba that provide electronic services for goods purchased by Korean customers through overseas open markets. Maximizing Synergies through New Business Acquisitions The Institutional Banking Business Unit not only provides financial services directly to institutional customers, but also discovers and offers business linkage • Public Agencies opportunities to SMEs and related individuals. In 2015, we explored business linkage opportunities from companies being selected as smart plants through business agreements with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, while also pursuing additional business opportunities from companies that participated and received funding through the National Research Foundation of Korea’s research fund project. Furthermore, we discovered opportunities to provide our financial services to employees of various institutions that have become new institutional customers, including the Korea Ship Safety Technology Authority and the Korea Institute of Ceramic Engineering and Technology. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 73 St r o n g Pa rt n e r Real Estate Finance For systematic and professional management of real estate financing, the Housing Finance Division has been transformed into the Real Estate Finance Business Unit. The unit manages the National Housing and Urban Fund (NHUF) of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport as a general treasury bank. We strive to satisfy the diverse needs of our customers by providing products that utilize Woori Bank accounts, as well as National Housing Fund products that are available for those on low-incomes. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Review of 2015 construction expenses of subcontractors. By satisfying the needs of individuals for housing, SME subcontracIn 2015, the Real Estate Finance Business Unit ranked 1st in tors and large enterprise construction companies, the market share amongst national housing and urban funds. Standard PF Loan has become a representative product In recognition of superior performance over the past six in the PF real estate finance market. years, we have been providing a variety of real estate finance products to our customers as a general treasury Expanding Our Customer Base as the General Treasbank for the National Housing and Urban Fund. We also ury Bank for the National Housing and Urban Fund engaged in a preemptive response to the prolonged reThe National Housing and Urban Fund project plays an cession in the real estate market and led the market in important role in broadening the options for consumer generating demand for real estate financing by discoverproducts (including products for the socially vulnerable) ing new markets. of real estate financing. Woori Bank has taken the lead in seamlessly procuring and executing funds as the genStrengthened Base as the Lead Agency for Standard eral treasury bank for the National Housing and Urban PF Loans Fund. As of the end of 2015, Woori Bank had a market The Standard PF Loan is a product package consisting share of 44.7% in loans for subscribers and a market of ‘Intermediate-term Loans’ and ‘Baro Dream Loans’, a share of 28% in savings for housing trust subscriptions. non-recourse accounts receivable loan that supports the Throughout 2015, 1.27 million new customers took the Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 74 St r o n g Pa rt n e r NHUF's* Consumer Loan *(National Housing and Urban Fund) Housing Subscription Loans (1st in market share) (Unit: %) 45.8 2014 44.7 -1.1% 2015 Housing Subscription Savings (1st in market share) (Unit: %) 29.6 2014 28.0 -1.6% 2015 first step on the road to fulfilling their dream of owning a house by using savings for housing purchases. Woori Plans for 2016 Bank will strive to establish a system where more cusIn 2016, we will continue to dominate market share by tomers can get access to the National Housing and Urranking 1st in the National Housing and Urban Fund. ban Fund. We will strive to attract new loans for subscribers and savings for housing subscriptions, including rental deLeading the Domestic Real Estate Finance Market posit loans and first-buyer housing loans. Moreover, In 2015, the Real Estate Finance Business Unit led the we will actively support real estate welfare projects for market in developing products and reforming the citizens and make continuous efforts to facilitate nationsystem in order to prepare a preemptive response to al housing in an ethical way through our accumulated changes in the financial market. Woori Bank is actively experience in financing and operating funds. We will participating in supporting both property stability and also actively take part in the government’s real estate the ‘house poor’ segment by inducing a soft landing for finance measures, and actively support extending funds household debts by launching the following products: to those who want to purchase their own residence by the Youth 100 Year-Old Reverse Mortgage Housing securing optimal profitability and an asset structure Loan, a housing loan product that appropriates funds with the lowest risk. This will enable us to expand mortfor household costs incurred during a period without gage loans to KRW 3.2 trillion and play a leading role income, such as early retirement or a temporary leave in attracting consumer banking assets even in times of of absence, and the Beotimmok Rent Subsidy Loan that economic downturn. integrates the rents of workers and the working class with the rents of low-income families. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 75 Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Woori Bank 76 Annual Report 2015 4 Sincere Partner Creating a Better Future Social Contribution Activities ___ 078 Woori Smile Microcredit ___ 080 Ethical Management ___ 082 s i n c e r e pa rt n e r Financial Review Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 77 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r Social Contribution Activities Since the founding of Woori Bank in 1899, we have fulfilled our role as a national bank by embodying the spirit of sharing, despite repeated difficulties and economic crises over the past 117 years. At a time when social roles and responsibilities in the banking sector are highlighted, our three missions of humanity, happiness and hopefulness will be at the core of everything we do. Diverse social contribution activities unfold under these goals to realize the vision of ‘Sharing and caring together; A culture of financial sharing to foster dreams and hopes’ Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Social Contribution children’s centers at the skating rink installed by Woori Bank at Seoul City Hall Plaza. We also offer the Woori Activities of Woori Bank Goomnamu Scholarship twice a year to give scholar‘Woori Happy Society’ Program ships to children from community children’s centers. In To sponsor the underprivileged in local communities, 2015, we gave scholarships to about 200 children. BeWoori Bank sponsors the ‘Woori Happy Society’ prosides these initiatives, the head office operates various gram. It is a regular and continuous community-fosupport programs, such as providing regular support cused volunteering program that creates sisterly ties to over 200 social welfare centers and community chilwith social welfare centers in the community and comdren’s centers across the nation. munity childcare centers. Global Social Contribution Activities Besides directly participating in volunteering activiIn order to fulfill our role as a global financial company ties held at branches, Woori Bank also holds skating and create sustainable happiness for people and socontest and summer camps by inviting children from cieties around the world, Woori Bank is implementing community children’s centers who are usually at home a range of social contribution activities that transcend or at the center during summer and winter vacations. national boundaries in all corners of the world. In July, We held a skating contest for children from community Woori Bank sent about a global volunteer group of Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 78 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r thirty outstanding employees to Thai Nguyen, low-income families, in conjunction with the the northern part of Hanoi, Vietnam. This Korea Association of Social Welfare Centers. region suffers from many difficulties due to weak educational and transportation infraLove Blood Donation Event structure, such as children who must comSince 2006, Woori Bank has been holding mute to an elementary school located more the ‘Love Blood Donation Campaign’ to help than 3km away from their homes. However, as out in July and August when there is a lack of a result of our volunteering efforts, children blood donations, marking the 10th anniversawere able to receive education in a comfortary of the event in 2015. During the campaign ble and pleasant environment. We were able period, employees voluntarily hold blood to set up a branch school near the village with donation relays at all branches, including the four new classrooms and renovated existing head office, Woori Finance Sangam Center classrooms and associated facilities. Also, we and Woori W Tower. In particular, all of the successfully held a global volunteering proemployees who participated in the blood dogram, including programs to provide instrucnation drive donated their blood donation gift tion in art and science, subjects that Vietnamcertificates and medical expense payments to ese students often do not receive instruction the children of low-income households sufferin, and engaged in various cultural exchange ing from rare diseases such as leukemia and activities with local residents. childhood cancer. Woori Bank Sharing Hanmadang Event Accumulation of the ‘Woori Care Fund’ and In order to spend a warm holiday like Chuseok the ‘Woori Children’s Care Fund’ (Korean Thanksgiving) and Lunar New Year’s Woori Bank employees actively participate in Day with our neglected neighbors, Woori promoting the culture of donation. They volBank has continuously carried out Woori Bank untarily donate part of their monthly salaries Sharing Hanmadang activities. These social to the ‘Woori Cares Fund’ and the ‘Woori Chilcontribution activities show compassion to dren’s Care Fund’. By utilizing the ‘Woori Care our neighbors in need during the holidays Fund’, employees created the Together Woori and the kimchi-making season through our Cares Support System, which explores and employee volunteer work. During Chuseok, supports 60 outstanding social contribution we made songpyeon (half-moon-shaped rice programs annually. Our ‘Woori Children’s Care cakes) with about 100 people including GangFund’ is made possible through social contridong-gu local residents, multi-cultural families bution activities for children, such as helping and North Korean defectors at the Seongpoorly-fed youth. Starting from October 2010, nae Social Welfare Center in Gangdong-gu, we launched ‘Woori Cares e-Sharing’ where Seoul. Bank employees also delivered 5,000 VISION customers can make donations when they kg of rice and 500 sets of daily necessities ‘Sharing love and make transfers through internet banking, in to our neighbors in need. Also, we prepare sharing in finance order to take the lead in promoting the culture fosters dreams and of small donations. and deliver kimchi to neighbors in need every hopes’. December so that they can enjoy nutritious Woori Bank will fulfill its social responsibility meals over the winter months. In December, and role as a global financial company by enWoori Financial Group’s new employees and gaging directly in various long-term activities volunteers all participated in delivering about MISSION for sharing and ensuring they are not a one12,000 containers of kimjang (freshly preHumanity time event, thereby establishing a corporate pared) kimchi to Seoul KBS Sports World to Happiness culture of ‘Sharing and Volunteering’. be distributed to neighbors in need, includHopefulness ing senior citizens who live alone, as well as Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 79 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r Woori Smile Microcredit Woori Bank provides microcredit to spearhead efforts to practice socially responsible banking by supporting financially struggling, socially vulnerable and neglected customers. In 2009, Woori Bank led in the contribution of KRW 10 billion per year, totaling KRW 50 billion over five years, together with WFH and its affiliates, to establish and operate the Woori Microcredit Foundation. The foundation appointed famous people from the religious, academic and social welfare circles as outside directors, ensuring the fairness of the project and the support of citizens. There are nine branches across the nation with 28 employees. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! services, Woori Bank extended approximately KRW 95 Active Implementation billion of credit in 7,560 cases through 2015. In 2015, of Socially Responsible pursuing the business goal of ‘microcredit leading to Finance self-sufficiency’, we achieved a tremendous increase in microcredit extensions, by approaching customers and Major Performance Achievements of the Microcredit developing customized products. Woori Bank extendFoundation ed approximately KRW 20.6 billion of new credit in 1,959 By extending support to the financially vulnerable, the cases through 2015 (7,560 cases worth KRW 95 billion socially neglected and those who lack financial access, in total). we extended microcredit loans worth KRW 279 billion in 2015, leading the way in practicing socially responsiThis is not merely a voluntary activity: support has ble financing. been given so that recipients can become self-sufficient through consulting and microcredit events in the Microcredit services were developed with several prodform of on-site visits that lend a helping hand and conucts: ‘Woori New Hope Seed’ for low-credit low-insulting services. come customers; and ‘Transit Loan’, whereby citizens suffering from high-interest rate loans could make the Microcredit that Helps Achieve Self-Sufficiency transition to low-interest loans. Through microcredit By extending support to the financially vulnerable, the Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 80 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r Major Figures for Woori Smile Microcredit (Unit : Cases) 5,601 2014 7,560 2015 (Unit: KRW billion) 74.2 2014 95.0 2015 socially neglected and those who lack finanMicrocredit Microcredit that Helps Achieve Self-Sufficial access, we extended microcredit loans Foundation ciency worth KRW 279 billion in 2015, leading the Key Products By extending support to the financially vulWe way in practicing socially responsible financ• Business Start-up Loan: plan to expand support by exploring low-ining. Microcredit services were developed with A loan for small-scale come industries with high levels of vulneraseveral products: ‘Woori New Hope Seed’ registered entrepreneurs bility and sign agreements with traditional to start a new business for low-credit low-income customers; and market merchant councils and associations. ‘Transit Loan’, whereby citizens suffering from • Working Capital Loan: Meanwhile, we will secure exclusive channels high-interest rate loans could make the transiA loan for individual for better accessibility to microcredit. In adentrepreneurs (who have tion to low-interest loans. Through microcrealready been in business dition, we will take the lead in promoting and dit services, Woori Bank extended approxifor over six months) to sharing the real role and purpose of microcremately KRW 95 billion of credit in 7,560 cases purchase products, raw dit, together with society, and spread these materials, etc. through 2015. In 2015, pursuing the business roles and directions by exploring and facilitatgoal of ‘microcredit leading to self-sufficien• Loan for Facility ing best practices, to raise confidence among cy’, we achieved a tremendous increase in Improvement Funding: credit recipients. A loan for individual microcredit extensions, by approaching cusentrepreneurs (who have tomers and developing customized products. already been in business Woori Bank will establish a foundation for the for over six months) to self-sufficiency of low-credit low-income cusWoori Bank extended approximately KRW improve their business tomers through microcredit services, ensuring facilities. 20.6 billion of new credit in 1,959 cases the stabilization of livelihoods and improving through 2015 (7,560 cases worth KRW 95 bil• Sunshine Loans for their welfare. lion in total). University Students and Young People: A loan for emergency funding This is not merely a voluntary activity: support for young people and has been given so that recipients can become university students who self-sufficient through consulting and microare under 29 years old (under 31 years of age credit events in the form of on-site visits that for men who served in lend a helping hand and consulting services. the military). Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 81 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r Ethical Management In order to survive in an era of competition and achieve sustainable development, Woori Bank devised the ‘Woori Code of Ethics’ and the ‘Code of Conduct’ to provide standards for employee work performance, so that the importance of ethical management can be recognized together with corporate social responsibilities. Based on our trustworthy ethical finance principles implemented through the ‘Woori Code of Ethics’, we will contribute to social development by fulfilling our social responsibilities, taking into account all stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, as well as the nation and society at large. Woori Bank, WIll BEE your lifetime partner! Review of 2015 raise awareness of ethical compliance and boost morale through incentives. In 2015, Woori Bank strove to ensure that employees could recognize and practice the concept of ethical Strengthening Ethical Management Training management. Every quarter we hold an event titled ‘My Woori Bank strengthens ethical training by including Commitment to Compliance and Sound Business Pracethical and compliance training programs in major tices’ for all employees. Also, in order to bolster ethical training courses for employees (including new employand compliance awareness, we conduct self-monitorees, promoters, job training for existing employees, ing activities related to ethics and compliance every etc.), as well as regularly holding in-house training for month and upload training materials through the compliance officers annually at the head office and at bank’s internal network. Woori Bank continuously monbranches. In order to make sure employees voluntaritors violations of legal compliance standards by makily comply with laws and regulations, we hold ‘Ethical ing compliance with ethical management standard our and Compliance Self-monitoring’ and ‘Check & Clean core value and to reflect this in branch performance Day’ events every month to establish a consensus on evaluations. We aim to become an honest bank by ethical management. We also strive to improve ethical holding an award ceremony for outstanding employees awareness and raise integrity awareness, by distributin ethical management and compliance monitoring to ing training materials on ‘On-Site Ethical Management Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 82 S i n c e r e Pa rt n e r Compliance’ to all branches and publishing ‘Learning Ethical Management Compliance with Case Studies’ Plans for 2016 every quarter. In 2016, we will translate our new Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct into local languages, so that they can Supporting Branches be provided to overseas branches and foreign corpoFirst, in order to provide legal advice that might be rations to enhance local employee understanding of needed urgently at branches, we have a system of proethical compliance. In order to strengthen the mindset viding prompt legal services. Also, we upload standard of bank employees towards ethical management, we legal advice (standard contracts) daily through our will conduct online and offline training programs, while legal portal system to help save time at branches. Secalso producing videos on basic legal knowledge based ond, we have strengthened the prior review of terms on examples from branches. We will strive to become and conditions as well as new products with the aim a leading bank in compliance by preventing financial of protecting the rights of financial consumers, while fraud and incidents with proactive internal control by continuously conducting training for all employees by establishing a regular monitoring system and reinforcreviewing processes and compliance procedures in ading branch audits. dition to boosting product transparency. Diverse Ethical Management Programs In order to become a clean bank, Woori Bank is implementing diverse ethical management programs that include: prohibiting stakeholders from benefiting from conflicts of interest; establishing a system that reports on benefits and gifts provided for business promotion; facilitating a whistle-blowing system that allows you to report on unfair actions by employees and irregularities; promoting a clean contract system that encourages transparent contracts with companies taking part in contracts and purchases; and establishing a system for reporting on marketable securities accounts and transactional information to ensure legal compliance with marketable securities trading laws, including prohibitions on insider trading. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 83 Financial review 5 Financial Review Management’s Discussion and Analysis ___ 085 Independent Auditor Report ___ 096 Financial Statements ___ 098 Organizational Chart ___ 192 Global Network ___ 194 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 84 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Summary of Management Performance Despite the rapidly changing financial environment, 2015 was a busy year for Woori Bank with stronger inter-bank competition and continued progression towards the goal of privatization. In the first half of the year, we successfully launched the 1st mobile bank ‘WiBee Bank’ in Korea in accordance with the growing market of FinTech, resulting in a new sensation in the mid-level interest rate loan market. In November, Woori Bank took the lead in innovating the FinTech sector by establishing the Woori Bank-led consortium for Internet-primary banks and gaining preliminary approval. Furthermore, the values of Woori Bank were enhanced and the foundations for privatization were laid internally and externally. The Public Funds Oversight Committee announced the direction for implementation of Woori Bank’s privatization on 21 July 2015. Woori Bank’s total assets (consolidated basis) in 2015 including affiliates reached KRW 318 trillion, an increase of approximately KRW 26 trillion compared with the previous year. Due to the decrease in credit loss as a result of continuous efforts made to maintain asset quality, Woori Bank’s net income increased to KRW 1.059 trillion as its operating profits increased (attributable to controlling interests). This was a noticeable achievement when compared to the net income from continuing operations of 2014 at KRW 435.2 billion (excluding KRW 778.7 billion of net income from discontinued operations due to privatization), showing net interest income and non-interest income both exceeding expectations with strong sales even though there was a huge minus factor in interest income due to the benchmark interest rate being lowered four times over the previous 2 years. Moreover, the ROA and ROE increased to 0.37% and 5.69%, respectively, and the delinquency ratio and the NPL ratio greatly improved compared with the previous year, recording 0.82% and 1.47% (NPL 1.24% excludes the top four shipbuilders), respectively. As a result, Woori Bank can maintain the same level of asset quality with competitors, which has been a sticking point in enhancing corporate value for several years. Woori Bank hopes to improve yet further on this result and will continue to make efforts to improve asset quality in 2016. Woori Bank’s total assets (separate basis) reached KRW 276.5 trillion, an increase of approximately KRW 20 trillion, recording a noticeable achievement, while the number of new customers increased by more than 1 million, the largest increase amongst all Korean commercial banks. Furthermore, outstanding achievements made domestically and internationally reaffirmed a positive future for Woori Bank, including its having served as the treasury bank for the Seoul Metropolitan Government for more than 100 years, the huge popularity of WiBee Talk, and receiving preliminary approval for K-Bank. In global business, Woori Bank was the first Korean bank to acquire a local bank in Indonesia, Saudara Bank, and successfully launch ‘Woori Saudara Bank’. As of the end of 2015, Woori Bank’s 205 overseas networks in 23 countries (including global desks and RMs) stood as the largest overseas network among Korean commercial banks. This will continue to strengthen Woori Bank’s global presence and contribute towards achieving its ultimate goal in becoming one of ‘Asia’s Top 10, Global Top 50 Bank’ by 2020. Woori Bank plans to secure 300 global networks by the end of 2016 to create diverse sources of income and become a leading global bank. Woori Bank’s operating profits (separate basis) reached KRW 1.09 trillion, an increase of approximately KRW 220 billion compared with the previous year. Moreover, the net income reached KRW 934.6 billion due to the huge decrease in credit loss as a result of continuous efforts made to improve asset quality. However, a prolonged low interest rate environment and low growth in the global economy inevitably caused the Net Interest Margin (NIM) to decline continuously. This resulted in insufficient maximization of earnings compared to our quantitative growth. Financial Review Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 85 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 The financial forecast for 2016 is not bright. It is expected that the benchmark interest rate will continue to fall due to the prolonged low interest rate environment, and preparations should be made for uncertainties arising from the government’s major economic and financial policies on exchange rates and oil prices. Other problems include the government’s continuous efforts to restructure conglomerates, delayed normalization of ailing companies due to the global economic recession, and the burden on financial soundness because of increasing household debts. Moreover, due to the emergence of FinTech referring to the convergence of finance and technology, it has become necessary to prepare for a paradigm shift in the FinTech sector. In order to make 2016 the first year of successful privatization, Woori Bank has decided on ‘Becoming a Strong Bank’ as its management goal, and will work towards strengthening internal growth to increase profits through five management strategies. Firstly, Woori Bank will achieve No.1 status with increased results to acquire market dominance in all areas. In particular, Woori Bank will further increase non-interest income by focusing more on the asset management and retirement markets, with the ISA being introduced for the first time. Secondly, Woori Bank will become a ‘Clean Bank’ that achieves qualitative asset growth without bad loans in 2016. A medium to long-term action plan will be implemented to improve capital adequacy which had widened the gap with other banks due to excessive credit losses in the past. Thirdly, Woori Bank will add online marketplace and community functions to WiBee Bank and WiBee Talk platforms so that they can be expanded into a lifestyle product amongst customers and companies and be actively used in marketing activities. In 2016, Woori Bank will take the lead in innovating markets for FinTech and seek new business opportunities linked with the banking sector. Fourthly, in order to overcome the limitations resulting from saturated domestic markets, Woori Bank will expand to 300 overseas networks mainly in Southeast Asia, as well as introduce WiBee Bank and card businesses based on the accumulated knowledge from the domestic market, thereby diversifying sources of income through retail sales in overseas markets. Fifthly, in order to enhance the organization’s productivity, Woori Bank will optimize branches and improve the operational efficiency of its workforce, ensuring that all employees can work to the utmost of their abilities. By implementing these five management strategies, Woori Bank will strive to achieve further growth and become a bank that places customer and shareholder happiness and satisfaction as our top priority. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 86 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Financial Position (Consolidated Financial Statements) Woori Bank and subsidiary companies  (Unit: KRW 1 million, %) Classification 2015 2014 Change Change (182nd term) (181st term) rate ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 6,644,055 5,962,861 681,194 11.42 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 5,132,657 4,554,180 578,477 12.70 Available-for-sale financial assets 17,170,592 18,810,845 (1,640,253) (8.72) Held-to-maturity financial assets 13,621,640 13,044,448 577,192 4.42 Loans and receivables 244,842,062 223,370,135 21,471,927 9.61 Investments in joint ventures and associates 643,861 648,436 (4,575) (0.71) Investment properties 351,496 357,550 (6,054) (1.69) Premises and equipment 2,471,206 2,501,102 (29,896) (1.20) Intangible assets and goodwill 419,806 295,728 124,078 41.96 Assets held for sale 17,904 8,013 9,891 123.44 Current tax assets 6,782 4,845 1,937 39.98 Deferred tax assets 210,597 257,858 (47,261) (18.33) Derivative assets 183,128 196,061 (12,933) (6.60) Other assets 143,286 145,157 (1,871) (1.29) Total assets 291,859,072 270,157,219 21,701,853 8.03 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 3,460,561 2,675,354 785,207 29.35 Deposits due to customers 209,141,826 188,516,465 20,625,361 10.94 Borrowings 20,033,917 17,707,595 2,326,322 13.14 Debentures 21,898,859 24,795,904 (2,897,045) (11.68) Provisions 516,601 692,009 (175,408) (25.35) Net defined benefit liability 99,691 75,591 24,100 31.88 Current tax liabilities 108,943 298,762 (189,819) (63.54) Deferred tax liabilities 19,379 21,757 (2,378) (10.93) Other financial liabilities 16,964,206 16,889,687 74,519 0.44 Other liabilities 305,174 390,670 (85,496) (21.88) Total liabilities 272,549,157 252,063,794 20,485,363 8.13 EQUITY Owners’ equity 19,188,472 17,983,501 1,204,971 6.70 Capital stock 3,381,392 3,381,392 0 0 Hybrid securities 3,334,002 2,538,823 795,179 31.32 Capital surplus 294,259 291,066 3,193 1.10 Other equity (1,547,303) (2,393,138) 845,835 (35.34) Retained earnings 13,726,122 14,165,358 (439,236) (3.10) Non-controlling interests 121,443 109,924 11,519 10.48 Total equity 19,309,915 18,093,425 1,216,490 6.72 Total liabilities and equity 291,859,072 270,157,219 21,701,853 8.03 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 87 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 As of the end of 2015, Woori Bank’s total assets and total liabilities (consolidated financial statements) including subsidiary companies increased to KRW 292 trillion and KRW 272 trillion, respectively, each up showing an increase of KRW 21.7 trillion and KRW 20.5 trillion when compared with the previous year. This was mainly due to the sound loan growth and the increase of deposit liabilities. As of the end of 2015, Woori Bank’s total assets (separate financial statements) increased from KRW 256 trillion to KRW 276.5 trillion, up KRW 20 trillion from the previous year. This was mainly due to the increase of loans in Won, with a huge growth of approximately KRW 13 trillion (16.2%) in household loans due to lowered interest rates and the government’s deregulation efforts. Total loans recorded KRW 257.7 trillion, an increase of KRW 19 trillion year on year. As a result of actively attracting deposits, the deposit liabilities increased by KRW 19 trillion, while other financial liabilities, including issued debentures, have all slightly decreased. Total equity increased by approximately KRW 1 trillion year on year due to factors like the increase of net income and the issuance of hybrid securities. As of December 2015, the loan-to-deposits ratio (LTD ratio) was 98.8% according to the revised formula for the banking sector, and thus maintaining the LTD ratio of less than 100% and complying with the LTD ratio regulation. Income Statement (Consolidated Financial Statements) Woori Bank and subsidiary companies  (Unit: KRW 1 million, %) Classification 2015 2014 Change Change (182nd term) (181st term) rate Operating income 1,351,586 897,708 453,878 50.56 Net interest income 4,761,900 4,493,018 268,882 5.98 Net fees and commissions income 976,796 917,015 59,781 6.52 Dividend income 102,923 96,812 6,111 6.31 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 240,342 189,912 50,430 26.55 Net loss on available-for-sale financial assets (3,281) (68,924) 65,643 95.24 Impairment losses on credit loss (966,646) (1,096,940) 130,294 (11.88) General and administrative expenses (3,150,387) (2,958,919) 191,468 6.47 Net other operating expenses (610,061) (674,266) 64,205 9.52 Non-operating income (loss) 100,360 (63,313) 163,673 Turn into profit Net income before income tax expense 1,451,946 834,395 617,551 74.01 Income tax expense 376,554 288,195 88,359 30.66 Net income from continuing operations 1,075,392 546,200 529,192 96.89 Net income from discontinued operations 661,769 (Continued) Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 88 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Woori Bank and subsidiary companies  (Unit: KRW 1 million, %) Classification 2015 2014 Change Change (182nd term) (181st term) rate Net income 1,075,392 1,207,969 (132,577) (10.98) Net income attributable to owners 1,059,157 1,213,980 (154,823) (12.75) Income from continuing operations 1,059,157 435,289 623,868 143.32 Income from discontinued operations 778,691 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 16,235 (6,011) 22,246 Turn into profit Income from continuing operations 16,235 110,911 (94,676) (85.36) Income from discontinued operations (116,922) Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 31,162 (107,597) 138,759 Turn into profit Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (78,267) (51,650) (26,617) (51.53) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 109,429 (55,947) 165,376 Turn into profit Total comprehensive income 1,106,554 1,100,372 6,182 0.56 Comprehensive income attributable to owners 1,094,870 1,192,191 (97,321) (8.16) Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 11,684 (91,819) 103,503 Turn into profit Earnings per share Continuing and discontinued operations Basic and diluted earnings per share (In Korean Won) 1,301 1,621 (320) (19.74) Continuing operations Basic and diluted earnings per share (In Korean Won) 1,301 536 765 142.72 In 2015, Woori Bank’s net income (based on the net income from continuing operations attributable to owners) including subsidiary companies reached KRW 1.059 trillion, an increase of 143.3% from the previous year. This was a noticeable achievement when compared to the net income from continuing operations of 2014 at KRW 435.2 billion (excluding KRW 778.7 billion of net income from discontinued operations due to privatization), showing net interest income and non-interest income both exceeding expectations with strong sales even though interest income inevitably decreased due to the benchmark interest rate being lowered four times in the previous 2 years. The net income and the non-interest income (fees and commission income, dividend income, gain on disposition of marketable securities and other operating profits) increased by KRW 268.9 billion and KRW 246 billion, respectively, from the previous year. Furthermore, the credit loss (impairment loss on credit loss) decreased by KRW 130.3 billion (11.8%) from the previous year due to continuous risk management efforts and implementing policies to improve asset quality. According to each subsidiary, Woori Bank recorded KRW 934.6 billion in net income for separate financial statements (an increase of approximately KRW 290 billion from the previous year), while Woori Card and Woori Investment Bank recorded KRW 116.9 billion and KRW 10.8 billion, respectively. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 89 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Profitability Woori Bank and subsidiary companies  (Unit: %) Classification 2015 2014 2013 (182nd term) (181st term) (180th term) Return on Assets (ROA) 0.37 0.211) 0.141) Return on Equity (ROE) 5.69 3.55 1) 2.561) Deposit-loan interest spread in Won 1.73 1.96 2.24 Net Interest Margin (NIM) 1.41 1.56 1.82 1) Excluding one-off factors related to sale and the spin-off of subsidiaries (ROA and ROE recorded 0.41% and 7.06%, respectively, including one-off factors related to sale and the spin-off of subsidiaries for the 181st term). 2) Deposit-loan interest spread in Won and the NIM are based on K-IFRS financial statements. 3) Deposit-loan interest spread in Won is the amount calculated by the revised formula. 4) The ROA and the ROE for the 180th term has been drawn up corresponding to the consolidated financial statement (reflecting the accounting effects resulting from the merger between Woori Bank and Woori Finance Holdings that occurred in the 181st term). The nominal net interest margin recorded a quarter-on-quarter decrease of 1.41% due to the effects of lowering interest rates twice. Nevertheless, the ROA and the ROE continuously improved due to Woori Card’s expansion of market share and Woori Bank’s continuous efforts to improve profitability and soundness. In 2016, Woori Bank will minimize the decrease of NIM by reducing funding cost originated by increasing low cost deposits, and improve operational structure by seeking appropriate margins with all-in margin strategies, thereby will achieve further growth and actively manage profitability. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 90 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Liquidity Ratio  (Unit: %) Classification 2015 2014 2013 (182nd term) (181st term) (180th term) Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)1) 106.67 123. 1 0 120.75 Before applying liquidity weight 130.30 130.29 133.55 Liquidity Ratio in foreign currency After applying liquidity weight 120.7 1 1 2 1.29 125.86 1) In 182nd term , Liquidity Coverage Ratio(LCR) was implemented due to the revision and In 181st term and In 180th term, liquidity ratio in Won was implemented. * LCR (consolidated financial statements, including foreign currency) = Highly liquid assets / Net cash outflows (More than 80% of supervision requirements, an increase of 5% every year, more than 100% will be implemented by 2019) ** Liquidity ratio in Won (separate financial statements) = (maturity of one month or less) assets/ liabilities (more than 100% of supervision requirements) Asset Quality  (Unit: KRW 1 million, %) 2015(182nd term) 2014(181st term) 2013(180th term) Classification Indicators change Indicators change Indicators change Non-Performing Loan 31,009 -9,207 40,216 -13,376 53,592 24,947 Non-Performing Loan Ratio2) 1.47 -0.63 2.10 -0.89 2.99 1.33 Coverage ratio3) 121.53 24.37 97.16 14.89 82.27 -64.65 Delinquency Ratio4) 0.82 -0.06 0.88 -0.26 1.14 -0.06 1) The details of percentage change indicate amount or ratio increased/decreased. 2) The NPL ratio excluding the top four shipbuilders in 2015, 2014 and 2013 are 1.24%, 1.62% and 2.31%, respectively. 3) Coverage ratio = (Total allowance and additional capital reserve for loan losses based on the calculation of non-performing loan / Non-Performing Loan (NPL) X 100 4) Delinquency ratio before seasonal adjustment As a result of implementing management strategies that placed the priority on improving asset quality during the past year, Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio recorded 1.24%, a year-on-year decrease of 0.38% as of the end of 2015 when excluding the NPL of the top four shipbuilders. The delinquency ratio recorded 0.82%, showing an improvement of 0.06% from the previous year. The coverage ratio also greatly increased from 97.16% to 121.53% from the previous year as a result of accumulating loan loss provision for economically sensitive sectors and prepare for economic uncertainties in the future, including shipbuilding, shipping etc. In 2016, Woori Bank will continuously improve asset quality through various efforts, including the prevention of NPL, the decrease of substandard or below loans through preemptive management and the management of appropriate loan loss provisioning. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 91 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Capital Adequacy  (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) 2015 2014 2013 (182nd term) (181st term) (180th term) BIS equity capital 210,514 208,577 261,388 Risk weighted assets (RWA) 1,540,709 1,463,230 2,009,778 BIS ratio 13.66 14.25 13.01 1) Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) consolidated financial statements. 2) Calculated based on BASEL III starting with the 180th term report. 3) The amounts for the 180th term were drawn up corresponding to the auditing of consolidated financial statements (reflecting the accounting effects resulting from the merger between Woori Bank and Woori Finance Holdings that occurred in the 181st term). The amounts publicly announced for the 180th term (based on consolidate financial statements before reflecting accounting effects resulting from the merger between Woori Bank and Woori Finance Holdings) including KRW 20,382,942 million for the BIS equity capital, KRW 131,313,279 million for the risk weighted assets, and 15.52% for the BIS ratio. In 2015, the BIS capital adequacy increased slightly from the previous year as a result of Woori Bank issuing Basel III compliant KRW 240 billion and US$ 500 million of contingent capital securities, and the increase of net income. However, the BIS ratio dropped slightly with an increase of 5.3% of risk-weighted assets. Overall, in 2015 we have sufficiently exceeded the minimum requirement level(8%) of Basel III, and we will implement mid to long term plans to reduce the risk weighted assets through systematic management, implement adequate asset growth and increase the ratio of high-quality assets. Also, Woori Bank will effectively manage capital adequacy by issuing hybrid securities and maintain stable net income & dividend payout ratio, while complying sufficiently with the BIS ratio. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 92 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Sources of Fund  Bank account (Base date: December 31, 2015, Unit: KRW 1 million, %) Classification 2015(182nd term) 2014(181st term) 2013(180th term) Average Interest Portion Average Interest Portion Average Interest Portion balance rate balance rate balance rate Funds in Deposits in Won 169,919,620 1.70 64.76 157,994,039 2.22 66.89 146,162,283 2.51 65.13 Won Certificate of Deposit 1,879,832 1.92 0.72 1,983,619 2.71 0.84 2,316,413 2.80 1.03 Borrowings in Won 6,689,135 1.77 2.55 5,675,238 2.31 2.40 4,696,737 2.28 2.09 Call Money in Won 1,370,253 1.62 0.52 984,378 2.28 0.42 1,207,035 2.56 0.54 Others 18,944,493 2.95 7.22 15,925,666 3.69 6.74 15,394,073 4.20 6.86 Subtotal 198,803,334 1.82 75.77 182,562,940 2.36 77.29 169,776,541 2.66 75.65 Funds in Deposits in foreign 11,568,322 0.44 4.41 7,973,812 0.44 3.38 7,280,806 0.49 3.24 foreign currency currency Foreign currency 9,245,073 0.53 3.52 6,357,072 0.50 2.69 7,477,963 0.66 3.33 borrowings Foreign call money 1,199,484 0.53 0.46 1,242,371 0.54 0.53 449,726 0.77 0.20 Finance debentures 4,851,289 2.72 1.85 5,559,305 3.51 2.35 5,252,757 4.01 2.34 issued in foreign currency Others 650,409 0.66 0.25 918,010 1.03 0.39 1,231,130 1.47 0.55 Subtotal 27,514,577 0.88 10.49 22,050,569 1.26 9.34 21,692,382 1.46 9.67 Others Total equity 18,501,137 7.05 18,225,902 7.72 18,391,558 8.20 Allowance for 640,666 0.24 594,945 0.25 654,036 0.29 Doubtful Accounts Others 16,907,843 6.44 12,779,094 5.41 13,908,781 6.20 Subtotal 36,049,647 13.74 31,599,941 13.38 32,954,375 14.68 Total 262,367,557 1.47 100.00 236,213,449 1.94 100.00 224,423,298 2.15 100.00 1) Deposits in Won = Deposits in Won – Deposit checks & bills in process of collection – Reserve deposits with BOK – Inter-bank adjustment funds (Call loans) * Deposit checks & bills in process of collection = Total checks and bills in process of collection – Checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts – Inter-bank adjustment funds (Call money) * Interests for calculating interest rates are the sum of interests on deposits and installment deposits and deposit insurance premiums. 2) Deposits in foreign currency = Deposits in foreign currency + Off-shore deposits in foreign currency 3) Foreign currency borrowings = Foreign currency borrowings + Due to BOK in foreign currency + Off-shore borrowings in foreign currency 4) Finance debentures issued in foreign currency = Finance debentures issued in foreign currency + Off-shore finance debentures issued in foreign currency 5) Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) financial statements. 6) Excluding merchant banking accounts. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 93 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Overall, the funds in Won increased by KRW 16.3 trillion, and the deposits in Won, which is the major funding category of funds in Won, increased by KRW 12 trillion. The borrowings in Won and the call money in Won also increased slightly from the previous year. Overall, the funds in foreign currency increased by KRW 5.5 trillion, contributing to the increase of approximately KRW 2.9 trillion and KRW 3.6 trillion, for borrowings in foreign currency and deposits in foreign currency respectively, from the previous year due to the increase of exchange rates. Funding rates continued to fall due to the stability of financial market and the decrease of the benchmark interest rate by BOK. Profitability therefore will be achieved by acquiring low cost deposits and repaying or refunding borrowings and debentures with high funding costs. Applications of Fund  Bank account (Base date: December 31, 2015, Unit: KRW 1 million, %) Classification 2015(182nd term) 2014(181st term) 2013(180th term) Average Interest Portion Average Interest Portion Average Interest Portion balance rate balance rate balance rate Funds in Deposits in Won 2,580,842 1.72 0.98 2,670,185 2.37 1.13 2,913,038 2.59 1.30 Won Marketable securities in Won 32,994,958 2.79 12.58 31,496,840 3.40 13.33 30,285,861 3.17 13.50 Loans in Won 176,631,188 3.42 67.32 161,296,709 4.18 68.28 149,019,789 4.62 66.40 Advance Payments on Acceptances and 64,533 1.89 0.02 69,099 4.27 0.03 140,958 3.06 0.06 Guarantees Call Loans in Won 2,083,053 1.64 0.79 2,186,891 2.32 0.93 2,037,985 2.62 0.91 Privately Placed Bonds 280,702 5.98 0.11 470,988 4.12 0.20 595,478 8 0.26 Credit Card Receivables 0.00 6 0.00 1,024,468 21.67 0.46 Credit Card Receivables 4,313,781 2.61 1.64 3,967,556 3.50 1.68 3,992,330 3.86 1.78 Allowance for Doubtful -2,482,955 -0.95 -3,073,009 -1.30 -3,202,673 -1.43 Accounts in Won Subtotal 216,466,103 3.31 82.50 199,085,264 4.06 84.28 186,807,234 4.5 83.24 Funds in Deposits in foreign currency 2,872,735 0.28 1.09 2,044,084 0.47 0.87 1,452,047 0.33 0.65 foreign Interest on securities in currency 1,375,146 1.51 0.52 1,073,932 0.85 0.45 972,378 2.85 0.43 foreign currency Loans in foreign currency 14,206,736 1.65 5.41 12,364,024 1.71 5.23 12,393,208 2.13 5.52 Call Loans in foreign currency 2,040,819 0.59 0.78 1,347,232 0.94 0.57 1,688,820 0.76 0.75 Bills Bought in Foreign 6,899,811 1.38 2.63 5,425,038 1.40 2.30 5,054,080 1.66 2.25 Currency Others 17,047 6.96 0.01 19,509 6.36 0.01 39,732 7.55 0.02 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts in Foreign -191,224 -0.07 -239,896 -0.10 -300,758 -0.13 Currency Subtotal 27,221,069 1.37 10.38 22,033,923 1.46 9.33 21,299,507 1.86 9.49 Others Cash 1,116,715 0.43 1,076,521 0.46 993,256 0.44 Property, plant and 2,328,130 0.89 2,358,135 1.00 2,367,010 1.06 equipment for business Others 15,235,540 5.81 11,659,606 4.94 12,956,291 5.77 Subtotal 18,680,385 7.12 15,094,262 6.39 16,316,557 7.27 Total 262,367,557 2.87 100.00 236,213,449 3.56 100.00 224,423,298 3.92 100.00 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 94 Financial review Management’s Discussion and Analysis For the Years Ended DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 1) Deposits in Won = Deposits in Won – Reserve deposits with BOK 2) Marketable securities in Won = Marketable securities in Won + Loaned securities in Won * Interests for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Excluding the portion of gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities 3) Loans in Won = Loans in Won + Checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts * Interests for calculating interest rates = Interest on loans in Won – Contribution to the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund 4) Deposits in foreign currency = Deposits in foreign currency + off-shore deposits in foreign currency 5) Interest on securities in foreign currency = Interest on securities in foreign currency + Loaned securities in foreign currency * Interests for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Excluding the portion of gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities 6) Loans in foreign currency = Loans in foreign currency + Off-shore loans in foreign currency + Inter-bank loans in foreign currency + Loans from foreign borrowings + Domestic import usance bill 7) Cash = Cash – Total checks & bills in process of collection 8) Property, plant and equipment for business = Property, plant and equipment for business – Accumulated depreciation 9) Based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) financial statements. 10) Excluding merchant banking accounts. Woori Bank’s loans in Won increased by approximately KRW 15.3 trillion from the previous year, which resulted from the sudden increase of the fixed-rate household loans for housing and the expansion of new loans targeting high-performing SMEs encouraged by the government’s deregulation and the decrease of interest rates. Overall, the funds in foreign currency increased by approximately KRW 5.2 trillion (loans in foreign currency KRW 1.9 trillion, the bills bought in foreign currency KRW 1.4 trillion, and the deposits in foreign currency KRW 800 billion). The interest rates of loans in Won that account for the largest portion of management items decreased by 0.44%p from the previous year, and the interest rates of overall operating funds decreased by 0.36%p from the previous year. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 95 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07326, Korea Financial review Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 Fax: +82 (2) 6674 2114 www.deloitteanjin.co.kr Independent Auditor Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT (큰제목) English Translation of Independent Auditors‘ Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 4, 2016 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Woori Bank: Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the ―Group‖), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in shareholders‘ equity and consolidated statements of cash flows, for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (―K-IFRS‖) and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (―KSAs‖). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditors‘ judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity‘s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity‘s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee (“DTTL”), its network of member firms, and their related entities. DTTL and each of its member firms are legally separate and independent entities. DTTL (also referred to as “Deloitte Global”) does not provide services to clients. Please see www.deloitte.com/kr/about for a more detailed description of DTTL and its member firms. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 96 Financial review Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with K-IFRS. Opinion March In 4, 2016 the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the our opinion, financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with K-IFRS. March 4, 2016 Notice to Readers This report is effective as of March 4, 2016, the auditors‘ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors‘ report date and the time the auditors‘ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors‘ report. Notice to Readers This report is effective as of March 4, 2016, the auditors‘ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors‘ report date and the time the auditors‘ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors‘ report. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 97 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements WOORI BANKof AND Financial SUBSIDIARIES Position CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 31, 2015 AND AND 2014 2014 December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 (Korean Won in millions) ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 6,644,055 5,962,861 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (Notes 4,7,11,12,18 and 26) 5,132,657 4,554,180 Available-for-sale financial assets (Notes 4,8,11,12 and 18) 17,170,592 18,810,845 Held-to-maturity financial assets (Notes 4,9,11,12 and 18) 13,621,640 13,044,448 Loans and receivables (Notes 4,10,11, 12,18 and 45) 244,842,062 223,370,135 Investments in joint ventures and associates (Note 13) 643,861 648,436 Investment properties (Note 14) 351,496 357,550 Premises and equipment (Notes 15 and 18) 2,471,206 2,501,102 Intangible assets and goodwill (Note 16) 419,806 295,728 Assets held for sale (Note 17) 17,904 8,013 Current tax assets (Note 42) 6,782 4,845 Deferred tax assets (Note 42) 210,597 257,858 Derivative assets (Notes 11,12 and 26) 183,128 196,061 Other assets (Notes 19 and 45) 143,286 145,157 Total assets 291,859,072 270,157,219 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (Notes 4,11,12,20 and 26) 3,460,561 2,675,354 Deposits due to customers (Notes 4,11,21 and 45) 209,141,826 188,516,465 Borrowings (Notes 4,11,12 and 22) 20,033,917 17,707,595 Debentures (Notes 4,11 and 22) 21,898,859 24,795,904 Provisions (Notes 23, 44 and 45) 516,601 692,009 Net defined benefit liability (Note 24) 99,691 75,591 Current tax liabilities (Note 42) 108,943 298,762 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 42) 19,379 21,757 Other financial liabilities (Notes 4,11,12, 25 and 45) 16,964,206 16,889,687 Other liabilities (Notes 25 and 45) 305,174 390,670 Total liabilities 272,549,157 252,063,794 (Continued) Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 98 Financial review WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 (CONTINUED) December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 (Korean Won in millions) EQUITY Owners‘ equity: 19,188,472 17,983,501 Capital stock (Note 28) 3,381,392 3,381,392 Hybrid securities (Note 29) 3,334,002 2,538,823 Capital surplus (Note 28) 294,259 291,066 Other equity (Note 30) (1,547,303) (2,393,138) Retained earnings (Notes 31and 32) (Regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is 1,756,142 million Won and 1,800,387 million Won, respectively) (Regulatory reserve for credit loss to be reserved (reversed) as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is 499,110 million Won and (-)44,245 million Won, respectively) (Planned provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is 499,110 million Won and (-) 44,245 million Won, respectively) 13,726,122 14,165,358 Non-controlling interests 121,443 109,924 Total equity 19,309,915 18,093,425 Total liabilities and equity 291,859,072 270,157,219 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 99 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES of Comprehensive Income CONSOLIDATED FOR THE STATEMENTS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 2015 2014 (Korean Won in millions, except for per share data) Interest income 8,698,235 9,211,240 Interest expense (3,936,335) (4,718,222) Net interest income (Notes 34 and 45) 4,761,900 4,493,018 Fees and commissions income 1,757,340 1,598,015 Fees and commissions expense (780,544) (681,000) Net fees and commissions income (Notes 35 and 45) 976,796 917,015 Dividend income (Note 36) 102,923 96,812 Net gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (Note 37) 240,342 189,912 Net loss on available-for-sale financial assets (Note 38) (3,281) (68,924) Impairment losses on credit loss (Notes 39 and 45) (966,646) (1,096,940) General and administrative expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (3,150,387) (2,958,919) Net other operating expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (610,061) (674,266) Operating income 1,351,586 897,708 Share of losses of joint ventures and associates (Note 13) (70,124) (67,980) Net other non-operating income 170,484 4,667 Non-operating income (loss) (Note 41) 100,360 (63,313) Net income before income tax expense 1,451,946 834,395 Income tax expense (Note 42) (376,554) (288,195) Net income from continuing operations 1,075,392 546,200 Net income from discontinued operations (Notes 47 and 48) 661,769 Net income (Net income after the provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 are 576,282 million Won and 1,252,214 million Won, respectively) (Note 32) 1,075,392 1,207,969 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (78,267) (51,650) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (78,267) (51,650) Gain (loss) on available-for-sale financial assets 72,297 (75,586) Share of other comprehensive gain (loss) of joint ventures and associates 3,295 (1,604) Gain on foreign currency translation of foreign operations 33,837 48,393 Loss on valuation of cash flow hedge (27,150) Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 109,429 (55,947) Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 31,162 (107,597) Total comprehensive income 1,106,554 1,100,372 Net income attributable to: Net income attributable to owners 1,059,157 1,213,980 Income from continuing operations 1,059,157 435,289 Income from discontinued operations 778,691 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 16,235 (6,011) Income from continuing operations 16,235 110,911 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (116,922) Total comprehensive income attributable to: Comprehensive income attributable to owners 1,094,870 1,192,191 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests 11,684 (91,819) Basic and diluted earnings from continuing and discontinued operations per share (In Korean Won) (Note 43) 1,301 1,621 Basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations per share (In Korean Won) (Note 43) 1,301 536 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 100 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 NonCapital Hybrid Capital Other Retained Controlling controlling Total stock securities surplus equity earnings interests interests equity (Korean Won in millions) January 1, 2014 4,030,077 498,407 176,502 29,957 13,112,690 17,847,633 5,029,136 22,876,769 Net income (loss) 1,213,980 1,213,980 (6,011) 1,207,969 Dividends (8,042) (8,042) Changes due to distribution to owners (648,685) (68,106) (2,238,228) (110,405) (3,065,424) (286,564) (3,351,988) Merger between Woori Bank and Woori Finance Holdings 1,880,798 178,058 (178,060) 1,880,796 (1,880,798) (2) Merger between Indonesia Woori Bank and Saudara Bank 21,724 21,724 49,134 70,858 Changes in capital surplus of consolidated subsidiaries (23) (23) 572 549 Increase in capital stock of consolidated subsidiaries (17,110) (17,110) 17,391 281 Acquisition of treasury stock (37,580) (37,580) (37,580) Disposal of consolidated subsidiaries (1,900,347) (1,900,347) Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 86,537 86,537 (97,181) (10,644) Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates (2,974) (2,974) 1,370 (1,604) Gain on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations 28,856 28,856 19,537 48,393 Cash flow hedge (18,220) (18,220) (8,851) (27,071) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (63,426) (764) (64,190) (683) (64,873) Issuance of hybrid securities 159,618 159,618 159,618 Dividends to hybrid securities (50,129) (50,129) (116,721) (166,850) Redemption of hybrid securities in consolidated subsidiaries (1) (1) (702,994) (702,995) Others 21 (13) 8 976 984 December 31, 2014 3,381,392 2,538,823 291,066 (2,393,138) 14,165,358 17,983,501 109,924 18,093,425 January 1, 2015 3,381,392 2,538,823 291,066 (2,393,138) 14,165,358 17,983,501 109,924 18,093,425 Net income 1,059,157 1,059,157 16,235 1,075,392 Dividends (504,952) (504,952) (824) (505,776) Change in ownership interest of investments in consolidated subsidiaries and others 3,193 3,193 660 3,853 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 73,691 73,691 (1,394) 72,297 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 3,295 3,295 3,295 Gain (loss) on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations 36,932 36,932 (3,095) 33,837 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (78,204) (78,204) (63) (78,267) Dividends to hybrid securities (183,320) (183,320) (183,320) Issuance of hybrid securities 795,179 795,179 795,179 Retirement of treasury stock 3,481 (3,481) Appropriation of merger losses 806,640 (806,640) December 31, 2015 3,381,392 3,334,002 294,259 (1,547,303) 13,726,122 19,188,472 121,443 19,309,915 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 101 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES of Cash Flows FOR THE YEARS CONSOLIDATED ENDED DECEMBER STATEMENTS 31, 2015 OF CASH AND 2014 FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 2015 2014 (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from operating activities: Net income 1,075,392 1,207,969 Adjustments: Income tax expense (benefit) 376,554 (145,981) Interest income (8,698,235) (10,285,933) Interest expense 3,936,335 5,207,289 Dividend income (102,923) (135,127) (4,488,269) (5,359,752) Additions of expenses not involving cash outflows: Impairment losses on credit loss 966,646 1,202,152 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets 3,281 93,639 Loss on valuation of investments in subsidiaries and associates 111,487 123,038 Loss on foreign exchange translation 82,077 Loss on transaction / valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 20,982 22,253 Loss on hedged items (fair value hedge) 56,532 87,476 Provisions 72,062 81,073 Retirement benefits 132,131 132,768 Depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment, intangible assets and investment properties 240,764 247,216 Loss on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 10 1,788 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 2,707 2,788 Impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 2,990 2,320 Impairment loss on assets held for sale 2,420 Impairment loss on disposal group held-for-sale and disposal group held for distribution to owners 7,728 Loss on disposal of disposal group held for sale 46,782 1,609,592 2,135,518 Deduction of revenues not involving cash inflows: Gain on valuation of financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss 55,773 34,830 Gain on valuation of investments in subsidiaries and associates 41,363 55,674 Gain on foreign exchange translation 39,485 Gain on transaction / valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 59,003 85,975 Gain on hedged items (fair value hedge) 25,235 23,317 Reversal of provisions 854 744 Gain on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 61,653 31,899 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 6,814 1,134 Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 539 533 Gain on disposal of group held for sale 159,794 Gain on disposal of assets held for sale 1,039 Reversal of impairment loss on assets held for sale 337 Reversal of impairment loss on disposal group held for sale and disposal group held for distribution to owners 259 251,234 435,020 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (495,507) 1,547,502 Loans and receivables (23,150,910) (15,439,044) Other assets 1,922 (92,867) Deposits due to customers 20,620,287 14,052,504 Provision (66,399) (106,780) Net defined benefit liability (255,585) (276,638) Other financial liabilities 1,205,411 (1,933,627) Other liabilities (91,116) (16,183) (2,231,897) (2,265,133) Cash received from (paid for) operating activities: Interest income received 8,692,851 10,171,063 Interest expense paid (4,355,880) (5,210,976) Dividends received 100,368 155,164 Income tax paid (534,829) (117,589) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (383,906) 281,244 (Continued) Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 102 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES of Cash Flows CONSOLIDATED FOR THE YEARS ENDED STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, OF2015 ANDFLOWS CASH 2014 (CONTINUED) FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 (CONTINUED) 2015 2014 (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from investing activities: Cash in-flows from investing activities: Net cash provided by disposal of assets held-for-sale (Note 47) 1,193,584 Net cash provided by the merger of Saudara Bank (Note 51) 81,100 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 18,426,846 26,865,684 Redemption of held-to-maturity financial assets 6,404,711 4,823,630 Disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 75,599 235,778 Disposal of premises and equipment 18,600 36,364 Disposal of intangible assets 1,782 88,197 Disposal of assets held-for-sale 3,711 29,857 Cash in-flow related to derivatives for risk hedge 56,956 24,988,205 33,354,194 Cash out-flows from investing activities: Acquisition of Saudara Bank 38,535 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets 16,305,767 28,527,400 Acquisition of held-to-maturity financial assets 7,138,013 5,658,655 Acquisition of investments in joint ventures and associates 1,098 67,431 Acquisition of investment properties 18 Acquisition of premises and equipment 129,454 140,639 Acquisition of intangible assets 97,891 86,910 Cash out-flow related to derivatives for risk hedge 3,273 14,153 23,714,061 34,495,206 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,274,144 (1,141,012) Cash flows from financing activities: Cash in-flows from financing activities: Increase in borrowings 12,674,649 17,084,134 Issuance of debentures 13,502,777 18,229,052 Issuance of hybrid securities 795,179 159,618 Paid in capital stock of subsidiaries 1,121 Change in ownership interest of subsidiaries 3,787 26,976,392 35,473,925 Cash out-flows from financing activities: Changes due to distribution to owners 792,949 Decrease in borrowings 10,346,919 18,011,845 Repayment of debentures 16,425,353 15,448,663 Payment of dividends 504,952 Acquisition of treasury stock 37,580 Expenses on stock issued 3 Dividends paid on hybrid securities 179,758 60,780 Dividends paid on non-controlling interests 824 8,042 Dividends paid on hybrid securities of subsidiaries 98,522 Redemption of non-controlling hybrid securities 702,995 Other decrease in non-controlling interests, net 1,119 27,457,806 35,162,498 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (481,414) 311,427 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 408,824 (548,341) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period (Note 6) 5,962,861 6,472,459 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 272,370 38,743 Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period (Note 6) 6,644,055 5,962,861 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 103 Financial review Woori Bank and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 Statements FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2015 AND 2014 1. GENERAL (1) Summary of the parent company Woori Bank (hereinafter referred to the ―Bank‖), which is a controlling entity in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (―K-IFRS‖) 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements, was established in 1899 and is engaged in the commercial banking business under the Banking Law, trust business under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act, and foreign currencies exchange business with approval from the Bank of Korea (―BOK‖) and the Ministry of Finance and Economy (―MOFE‖). Previously, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd., the former holding company of Woori Financial Group, established on March 27, 2001 held a 100% ownership of the Bank. Effective November 1, 2014, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. completed its merger with and into Woori Bank, its wholly-owned subsidiary, as contemplated by the merger agreement dated July 28, 2014, by and between Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. and Woori Bank. Accordingly, the shares of the Bank, 597 million shares, prior to the merger, were reduced to nil in accordance with capital reduction procedure, and then, in accordance with the merger ratio, the Bank newly issued 676 million shares. As a result, as of December 31, 2015, the common stock of the Bank amounts, expressed in Korean Won (the ―KRW‖ or ―Won‖), to 3,381,392 million Won. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (―KDIC‖), as the largest shareholder, held 345 million shares (51.06% ownership) and 345 million shares (51.04% ownership), respectively, of the Bank‘s shares issued. On June 24, 2002, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. listed its common shares on the Korea Exchange through public offering. In addition, on September 29, 2003, the holding company registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States of America and, on the same day, listed its American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. As a result of such merger, the Bank incorporated Woori Card Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd., Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Co., Ltd., and Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. as its subsidiaries. The head office of the Bank is located in 51 Sogong-ro, Jung Gu, Seoul, Korea. The Bank has 956 branches and offices in Korea, and 21 branches and offices overseas as of December 31, 2015. (2) The consolidated financial statements for Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the ―Group‖) include the following subsidiaries: Percentage of ownership (%) Financial December December statements Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2015 31, 2014 Location as of Woori Bank: Woori FIS Co., Ltd. System software development & maintenance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Private Equity Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. Other service business 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Card Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. (*6) Other credit finance business 58.2 59.5 Korea December, 31 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. Credit information 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 104 Financial review Percentage of ownership (%) December December Financial Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2015 31, 2014 Location statements as of Woori America Bank Finance 100.0 100.0 U.S.A December, 31 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Hong Kong December, 31 Woori Bank (China) Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 China December, 31 ZAO Woori Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Russia December, 31 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 〃 74.0 74.0 Indonesia December, 31 Woori Brazil Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Brazil December, 31 Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 〃 99.9 99.9 Korea December, 31 Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 〃 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Finance Cambodia 〃 100.0 100.0 Cambodia December, 31 Woori Finance Myanmar (*7) 〃 100.0 Myanmar December, 31 Kumho Trust First Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Asiana Saigon Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 An-Dong Raja First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Consus Eighth Co., LLC (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 KAMCO Value Recreation First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 15.0 15.0 Korea December, 31 Woori IB Global Bond Co., Ltd. (*3) 〃 0.0 Korea Hermes STX Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 BWL First Co., LLC (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Poongsan Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Pyeongtaek Ocean Sand Inc. (*3) 〃 0.0 Korea Deogi Dream Fourth Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Jeonju Iwon Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Wonju I one Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Newyear Eighth Co., Ltd. (*3) 〃 0.0 Korea Jilrian First Co., Ltd. (*3) 〃 0.0 Korea Heitz Third Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woorihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December, 31 Electric Cable First Co., Ltd (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori International First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December, 31 Uri HJ First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December, 31 Haeoreum Short-term Bond 15th and 34 beneficiary certificates for the rest Securities investment and (*4) others December, 31 Principle Guaranteed Trust (*2) Trust 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Principle and Interest Guaranteed Trust (*2) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Co., Ltd.: Woori Private Equity Fund (*5) Other financial business 31.9 31.9 Korea December, 31 Woori Private Equity Fund: Woori EL Co., Ltd. Other financial business 100.0 100.0 Korea December, 31 Woori Investment Bank: Dongwoo First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 5.0 Korea December, 31 My Asset Manhattan Private REIT First (*3) Securities investment 76.6 Korea (*1) The entity is a structured entity for the purpose of asset securitization and included in the consolidation scope. Though the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*2) The entity is a money trust under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and included in the consolidation scope. Though the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*3) The entity is deconsolidated as the liquidation or disposal procedure was completed for the year ended December 31, 2015. (*4) The entity is a structured entity for the purpose of investment in securities and included in the consolidation scope, considering the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*5) The entity is included in the consolidation scope, for the Group, as a general partner, has controlling power. -2Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 105 Financial review (*6) The ownership interest as of December 31, 2015 decreased as Woori Private Equity Fund sold its ownership of Woori Investment Bank for the year ended December 31, 2015. (*7) For the year ended December 31, 2015, as the Group invested majority of the capital stock of the company, the entity was included in the subsidiary. (3) As of December 31, 2015, and 2014, despite having more than a 50% ownership interest, the Group has not consolidated the following companies as the Group does not have the ability to control following subsidiaries: As of December 31, 2015 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Heungkuk High Class Private Equity Securities Investment Trust 377th (*) Korea Securities Investment 51.3 Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 As of December 31, 2014 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Heungkuk High Class Private Equity Securities Investment Trust 377th (*) Korea Securities Investment 51.3 (*) The Group owns the majority ownership interest in these structured entities, but has no power on the investees‘ relevant activities. As results, it is deemed that the Group has no power or control on the structured entities. (4) The summarized financial information before the elimination of intercompany transactions of the subsidiaries whose financial information were prepared under K-IFRS for the Group‘s consolidated financial statements is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS 161,778 127,701 260,657 1,421 (833) Woori Private Equity 89,365 45,491 3,669 1,224 1,024 Woori Finance Research Institute 3,605 328 4,149 86 62 Woori Card 6,604,059 5,295,225 1,379,873 116,858 119,976 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 1,206,156 1,057,992 129,404 10,435 7,830 Woori Credit Information 33,957 6,691 31,271 1,806 1,830 Woori America Bank 1,701,191 1,509,304 67,932 12,893 24,356 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 245,246 126,401 6,851 1,763 8,958 Woori Bank (China) Limited 4,016,968 3,511,268 408,566 1,056 32,855 ZAO Woori Bank 261,026 225,194 17,301 7,232 (762) PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 1,770,900 1,417,952 375,747 24,023 10,691 Woori Brazil Bank 106,239 80,653 19,850 2,330 (7,377) Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 739,502 279 34,042 30,307 30,307 Woori Fund Service 9,818 815 6,247 358 358 Woori Finance Cambodia 22,767 16,607 2,705 579 946 Woori Finance Myanmar 2,252 29 9 (117) (166) Money trust under the Trust Business Act 1,477,657 1,449,024 56,397 125 125 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 545,534 961,065 22,728 (13,685) (6,662) Security investments structured entity 3,071,375 562,477 126,904 26,906 41,080 -3Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 106 Financial review As of and for the year ended December 31, 2014 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS 246,580 211,671 289,485 (1,285) (4,564) Woori Private Equity 80,292 37,442 4,387 2,087 2,144 Woori Finance Research Institute 3,682 467 6,619 91 94 Woori Card 5,732,039 4,543,180 1,203,131 89,107 105,438 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 1,001,542 861,209 84,282 4,536 8,642 Woori Credit Information 33,500 6,049 32,412 2,198 2,082 Woori America Bank 1,338,415 1,170,884 49,945 5,587 12,641 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 274,132 164,246 6,319 759 5,345 Woori Bank (China) Limited 3,844,399 3,397,735 205,273 8,887 26,980 ZAO Woori Bank 254,716 218,122 12,982 4,418 (18,193) PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 1,735,356 1,390,103 85,851 14,563 17,589 Woori Brazil Bank 164,282 131,319 18,468 1,647 (1,090) Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 669,818 262 35,136 31,750 31,750 Woori Fund Service 9,070 426 4,895 (415) (415) Woori Finance Cambodia 11,930 6,716 1,790 266 615 Money trust under the Trust Business Act 1,452,201 1,423,694 64,736 603 603 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 434,845 882,984 34,734 (22,798) (100,951) Security investments structured entity 3,789,630 800,013 69,543 22,465 45,040 (5) The financial support that the Group provides to consolidated structured entities is as follows: Structured entity for securitization of financial assets The structured entity is established for the purpose of securitization of project financing loans, corporate bonds, and other financial assets. The Group is involved with the structured entity through providing with credit facility over asset-backed commercial papers issued by the entity, originating loans directly to the structured entity, or purchasing 100% of the subordinated debts issued by the structured entity. Structured entity for investment in securities The structured entity is established for the purpose of investments in securities. The Group acquires beneficiary certificates through its contribution of fund to the structured entity, and it is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to recover its fund depending on the result of investment performance of asset managers of the structured entity. Money Trust under the Trust Business Act The Group provides with financial guarantee of principal and interest or principal only to some of its trust products. Due to the financial guarantees, the Group may be obliged to supplement when the principal and interest or principal of the trust product sold is short of the guaranteed amount depending on the result of investment performance of the trust product. -4Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 107 Financial review (6) The details of the limitations with regard to the transfer of assets or the redemption of liabilities within the Group are provided below. Some subsidiaries are regulated by the rules of certain jurisdictions, in which they were incorporated, with regard to funding or management of deposits. Also, there is the limitation that they must have pre-approval from their regulators in case of remittance of earnings to the Group. (7) The Group has entered into various agreements with structured entities such as asset securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment funds, and monetary funds. Where it is determined in accordance with KIFRS 1110 that the Group has no controlling power over such structured entities, the entities are not consolidated. The nature of interests, which the Group retains, and the risks, to which the Group is exposed, of the unconsolidated structured entities are as follows: The interests to unconsolidated structured entities, which the Group retains, are classified to asset securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment fund, based on the nature and the purpose of the structured entities. Asset securitization vehicle issues asset-backed securities and redeems the principal and interest or distributes dividends on asset-backed securities with profits from collecting cash flows or sale of securitized assets. The Group, as a secondary guarantor, provides purchase commitments for its assetbacked securities or guarantees to such asset securitization vehicle and recognizes commission income or interest incomes related to the commitment or guarantees. Therefore, the Group would be exposed to risks to purchases or pays back asset-backed securities issued by the vehicles when a primary guarantor fails to provide the financing asset securitization vehicles. Structured finance includes investments in project financing on real estates, social overhead capital (―SOC‖), infrastructure and shipping finance. They are formed as special purpose entity by funding through equity investments and loans from various investors. Investment decisions are made by such investors including the Group based on business outlook of such projects. In relation to such investments, the Group recognizes interest incomes on loans, gains or losses on valuation of equity investments or dividend income. The structured finance is secured by additional funding agreement, guarantee or credit facilities. However, the structured financing project would fail to return the capital of equity investments or principal of loans to the Group if it is discontinued or did not achieve business outcome. Investment funds include trusts and private equity funds. A trust is formed by contributions from various investors, operated by a manager engaged to the trust and distributed proceeds from sales of investments to the investors. A private equity fund is established in order to acquire ownership interests in a portfolio company with exit strategy after implementing financial and operational restructuring of the company. The Group recognizes unrealized gains or losses on change in value of investments in proposition of ownership interests in investments. The Group would be exposed to risks of loss when the value of portfolio investment is decreased. -5Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 108 Financial review Total assets of the unconsolidated structured entities, the carrying value of the related items recorded, the maximum exposure to risks, and the loss recognized in conjunction with the unconsolidated structured entities as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 10,138,371 48,198,653 7,611,232 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 4,219,809 2,879,310 963,747 Loans and receivables 148,811 2,439,207 26,976 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 274,175 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,649,949 133,455 654,705 Held-to-maturity financial assets 2,420,870 Investments in joint ventures and associates 282,066 Derivative assets 179 32,473 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,688 728 Derivative liabilities 126 Other liabilities (including provisions) 3,562 728 The maximum exposure to risks 5,250,850 3,877,161 963,747 Investments 4,219,809 2,879,310 963,747 Purchase agreements 74,000 48,000 Credit facilities 957,041 949,851 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 2,205 47,942 December 31, 2014 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance Funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 8,701,441 39,770,040 7,174,629 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 613,105 2,484,397 926,993 Loans and receivables 185,946 2,293,115 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 190,303 Available-for-sale financial assets 153,606 586,035 Held-to-maturity financial assets 236,807 Investments in joint ventures and associates 340,958 Derivative assets 49 37,676 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 70,638 564 Other liabilities (including provisions) 70,638 564 The maximum exposure to risks 2,295,445 3,016,797 926,993 Investments 613,105 2,484,395 926,993 Purchase agreements 340,560 Credit facilities 1,341,780 470,590 Other agreements 61,812 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 6,661 36,961 -6Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 109 Financial review (8) Subsidiaries of which non-controlling interests are significant to the Group‘s consolidated financial statements are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Accumulated non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Woori Investment Bank 64,013 60,121 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 58,880 56,828 . 2) Net income attributable to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Woori Investment & Securities (*) (125,724) Woori Investment Bank 4,353 2,215 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 6,241 702 (*) The entity was deconsolidated due to the Group‘s disposal of the subsidiary during the year ended December 31, 2014. 3) Dividends to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Woori Investment & Securities (*) 8,029 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 778 (*) The entity was deconsolidated due to the Group‘s disposal of the subsidiary during the year ended December 31, 2014. 4) Change of non-controlling interest due to merger Indonesia Woori Bank, which was a subsidiary of the Group, merged with Saudara Bank for the year ended December 31, 2014, and then changed its name into PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk. Due to the merger, the Group‘s ownership interest of the company decreased from 95.2% to 74.0%. At the same time, the non-controlling interests increased by 49,134 million Won, and the increase resulted in as the decrease of equity attributable to the owner of the Group (Note 51). 2. SIGNIFICANT BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of presentation The Group‘s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with K-IFRS. The significant accounting policies that have been applied for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements for the year ended on December 31, 2015 are described below, and the significant accounting policies are the same as the accounting policies applied for the preparation of the previous year‘s consolidated financial statements, except the impacts from the adoptions of accounting standards or interpretations which are explained below. The Group‘s consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on the historical cost method except for specific non-current assets and certain financial assets or liabilities reported at fair value. The historical cost is generally measured by fair value of acquired assets. The consolidated financial statements of the Group were approved by the board of directors on March 4, 2016. -7Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 110 Financial review 1) The Group has newly adopted the following amendment to K-IFRS that affected the Group‘s accounting policies. Amendments to K-IFRS 1019 – Employee Benefits If the amount of the contributions is independent from the numbers of years of service, the Group is permitted to recognize such contributions as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the related service is rendered. The adoption of the amendments has no significant impact on the consolidated financial statements. Other than the amendment stated above, there are several annual improvements in the current period, but the application of the amendments has had no material effect on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. 2) The Group has not applied the following K-IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: Amendments to K-IFRS 1001 – Presentation of Financial Statements The amendments to K-IFRS 1001 clarify the concept of applying materiality in practice and restrict an entity reducing the understandability of its financial statements by obscuring material information with immaterial information or by aggregating material items that have different natures or functions. The amendments to KIFRS 1001 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016. Amendments to K-IFRS 1016 – Property, Plant and Equipment The amendments to K-IFRS 1016 prohibit the Group from using a revenue-based depreciation method for items of property, plant and equipment. The amendments are effective for the annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016. Amendments to K-IFRS 1038 – Intangible Assets The amendments to K-IFRS 1038 rebuts presumption that revenue is not an appropriate basis for the amortization of an intangible assets, which the presumption can only be rebutted when the intangible asset expressed as a measure of revenue or when it can be demonstrated that revenue and consumption of the economic benefits of the intangible asset are highly correlated. The amendments are effective for the annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016. Amendments to K-IFRS 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements & K-IFRS 1112 – Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities & K-IFRS 1028 – Investment in associates The amendments clarify that in applying the equity method of accounting to an associate or a joint venture that is an investment entity, an investor may retain the fair value measurements that the associate or joint venture used for its subsidiaries. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 Amendments to K-IFRS 1111 – Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations The amendments to K-IFRS 1111 provides guidance on how to account for the acquisition of joint operation that constitutes a business as defined in K-IFRS 1103– Business Combinations. A joint operator is also required to disclose the relevant information required by K-IFRS 1103 and other standards for business combinations. The amendments are effective for the annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016. Enactment to K-IFRS 1109 – Financial Instruments The amendments to K-IFRS 1109 contain the requirements for the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities based on a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets and based on the contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows, impairment methodology based on the expected credit losses, and broadened types of instruments that qualify as hedging instruments and the types of risk components of non-financial -8Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 111 Financial review items that are eligible for hedge accounting and the change of the hedge effectiveness test. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Enactment to K-IFRS 1115 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers The core principle under K-IFRS 1115 is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The amendments introduces a 5-step approach to revenue recognition and measurement: 1) Identify the contract with a customer, 2) Identify the performance obligations in the contract, 3) Determine the transaction price, 4) Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, 5) Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. This standard will supersede K-IFRS 1011 Construction Contracts, K-IFRS 1018 Revenue, K-IFRS 2113 Customer Loyalty Programmers, K-IFRS 2115 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate, K-IFRS 2118 Transfers of Assets from Customers, and K-IFRS 2031 Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services. The amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The Group is reviewing the impact from the amendments and the enactments listed above on the Group‘s consolidated financial statements. (2) Basis of consolidated financial statement presentation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Bank and the entities (including structured entities) controlled by the Bank (and its subsidiaries, that is the Group). Control is achieved where the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. When the Group has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Bank's voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: • The relative size of the Group's holding of voting rights and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders; • Potential voting rights held by the Group, other vote holders or other parties; • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; • Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Group has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings. Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group‘s accounting policies. All intra-group transactions and, related assets and liabilities, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Changes in the Group‘s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group‘s interests and the noncontrolling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any -9Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 112 Financial review difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owner of the Group. When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncontrolling interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is recognized as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture. (3) Business Combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisitiondate fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities assumed by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisitionrelated costs are generally recognized in net income as incurred. At the acquisition date, the acquiree‘s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition under K-IFRS 1103 are recognized at their fair value, except that: • deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012 Income Taxes and K-IFRS 1019 Employee Benefits, respectively; • liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or sharebased payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1102 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; and • non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amounts and fair value less costs to sell. Any excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group‘s previously held equity interest (if any) in the acquiree over the net of identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of the acquiree at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill which is included in intangible assets. If, after reassessment, the Group‘s interest in the fair value of the acquiree‘s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer‘s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in net income as a bargain purchase gain. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests' proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another K-IFRS. When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from 10 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 113 Financial review additional information obtained during the ‗measurement period‘ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or K-IFRS 1037 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net income. Amounts arising from changes in value of interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to net income where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. In case where i) a common entity ultimately controls over all participating entities, or businesses, in business combination transaction, prior to and after the transaction continuously, and ii) the control is not temporary, the transaction meets the definition of ―business combination under common control‖ and it is deemed that the transaction only results in the changes in legal substance, not economic substance, from the perspective of the ultimate controlling party. Thus, in such transactions, the acquirer recognizes the assets and liabilities of the acquiree on its financial statements at the book values as recognized in the ultimate controlling party‘s consolidated financial statements, and the difference between the book value of consideration transferred to and the book value of net assets transferred in is recognized as equity. (4) Investments in joint ventures and associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in making decision on the financial and operating policy of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to net assets relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The net income of current period and the financial results of the joint ventures and associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under the equity method, an investment in the joint ventures and associates is initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group's share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates and any impairment. When the Group's share of losses of the joint ventures and associates exceeds the Group's interest in the associate, the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures and associates. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint ventures and associates recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group‘s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognized immediately in net income. Upon a loss of significant influence over the joint ventures and associates, the Group discontinues the use of the equity method and measures at fair value of any investment that the Group retains in the former joint ventures and associates from the date when the Group loses significant influence. The fair value of the investment is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments; Recognition and Measurement. The Group recognized differences between the carrying amount and 11 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 114 Financial review fair value in net income and it is included in determination of the gain or loss on disposal of joint ventures and associates. The Group accounts for all amounts recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that joint ventures and associates on the same basis as would be required if the joint ventures and associates had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by an associate would be reclassified to net income on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to net income as a reclassification adjustment. When the Group‘s ownership of interest in an associate or a joint venture decreases but the Group continues to maintain significant influence over an associate or a joint venture, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that decrease in ownership interest if the gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. Meanwhile, if interest on associate or joint venture meets the definition of noncurrent asset held for sale, it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105. The requirements of K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to determine whether there has been a loss event are applied to identify whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group‘s investment in the joint ventures and associates. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized is not allocated to any asset (including goodwill), which forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate. There is no remeasurement to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. When a subsidiary transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group's consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. (5) Investment in joint operation A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. When the Group operates as a joint operator, it recognizes in relation to its interest in a joint operation: (a) its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly; (b) its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly; (c) its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; (d) its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and (e) its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly. The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a sale or contribution of assets, it is conducting the transaction with the other parties to the joint operation and, as such, the Group recognizes gains and losses resulting from such a transaction only to the extent of the other parties‘ interests in the joint operation. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a purchase of assets, it does not recognize its share of the gains and losses until it resells those assets to a third party. 12 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 115 Financial review (6) Revenue recognition 1) Interest income Interest income is recognized when earned. Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity is determined using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset (or group of financial assets) and of allocating the interest income over the expected life of the asset. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial carrying amount. Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that is an integral part of the instrument's yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs. All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows. 2) Loan origination fees and costs The commission fees earned on loans, which is part of the effective interest rate of loans, is accounted for deferred origination fees. Incremental cost related to the acquisition or disposal is accounted for deferred origination costs, and it is amortized on the effective interest method and included in interest revenues on loans. 3) Fees and commissions income Commitment and utilization fees are determined as a percentage of the outstanding facility. If it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement will be entered into, such fees are taken to net income over the life of the facility otherwise they are deferred and included in the effective interest rate on the advance. Fees in respect of services are recognized as the right to consideration accrues through the provision of the service to the customer. The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as the service is rendered. The price is usually fixed and determinable. Credit card fees include commission received from merchants for processing credit card transaction and annual fees received from credit card holders. Revenue from the commission is accrued to net income when the service performed and annual fee is deferred and recognized as income over the period of the service provided. 4) Trust fees and compensation related to trust accounts The Group receives fees for its management of unconsolidated trust assets, which are recognized on an accrual basis when the management services are provided and earned. The Group also is entitled to receive performance-based fees for certain trust accounts. These performance-based fees are recognized at the end of the performance period. In addition, a certain trust account which the Group guarantees to repay the principals and minimum interests of the trust account to its beneficiaries shall be included in the consolidated financial statements. The Group recognizes incomes when earned and expenses when interests to be paid to beneficiaries are accrued. (7) Accounting for foreign currencies The Group‘s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean Won, which is the functional currency of the Group. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at its prevailing exchange rates at the date. Foreign exchange differences on monetary items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge or that form part of net investment in foreign operations are recognized in equity. A monetary available-for-sale (―AFS‖) financial asset is treated as if it were carried at amortized cost in the foreign currency. Accordingly, for such financial assets, exchange differences resulting from retranslating amortized cost are recognized in net income. 13 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 116 Financial review Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the dates the values were determined. Translation differences arising on nonmonetary items measured at fair value are recognized in net income except for differences arising on nonmonetary AFS financial assets, for example equity shares, which are included in the AFS reserve in equity unless the asset is the hedged item in a fair value hedge. The Group identifies the most appropriate functional currency for each foreign operation based on the foreign operation‘s activities. If Korean Won is not the foreign operation‘s functional currency, its assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the end of each reporting date while the revenues and expenses are translated into Korean Won at average exchange rates for the period unless these do not approximate to the foreign exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are recognized directly in equity and included in net income on its disposal. (8) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, interest-earning deposits with original maturities of up to 3 months of acquisition date and highly liquid investment assets that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. (9) Financial assets and financial liabilities 1) Financial assets A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term requires delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned. On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (―FVTPL‖), AFS financial assets, held-to-maturity (―HTM‖) and loans and receivables. a) Financial assets at FVTPL A financial asset is classified as held for trading if:  it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or  on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or  it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading or contingent consideration that may be paid by an acquirer as part of a business combination may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or  the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial assets designated by the Group on initial recognition as at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial assets that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. 14 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 117 Financial review b) AFS financial assets: Financial assets that are not classified as HTM; financial assets at FVTPL; or loans and receivables, are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair value. Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as AFS financial assets. Impairment losses in monetary and non-monetary AFS financial assets and dividends on non-monetary financial assets are recognized in net income. Interest revenue on monetary financial assets is calculated using the effective interest method. Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets and any related tax are reported in a separate component of shareholders' equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in net income. c) HTM investments: A financial asset may be classified as a HTM investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a fixed maturity, and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the financial asset to maturity. HTM investments are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. d) Loans and receivables: Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as AFS or as held-for-trading, or designated as at FVTPL. Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method, except for the short-term receivables to which the present value discount is not meaningful. 2) Financial liabilities On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified financial liabilities at FVTPL (held for trading, and financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative (not in a qualifying hedge relationship). Held-fortrading financial liabilities are recognized at fair value with transaction costs being recognized in net income. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value. Gains and losses are recognized in net income as they arise. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if:  such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or  the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or  it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs being recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. All other financial liabilities, such as deposits due to customers, borrowings, and debentures, are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 15 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 118 Financial review 3) Reclassifications Held-for-trading and AFS financial assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables (non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market) may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity. The Group typically regards the foreseeable future as twelve months from the date of reclassification. Reclassifications are made at fair value. This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or amortized cost as appropriate. Gains and losses recognized up to the date of reclassification are not reversed. 4) Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual right to the cash flows from the asset is expired, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another company. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset‘s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulated gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognized in profit or loss. On derecognition of a financial assets other than in its entirety (e.g. when the Group retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred asset, or it retains a residual interest and such an retained interest indicates that the transferor has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and has retained control of the transferred asset), the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial asset between the part it continues to recognize under continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognizes on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts on the date of the transfer. The difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognized and the sum of the consideration received for the part that is no longer recognized and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to be recognized and the part that is no longer recognized on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts. The Group derecognizes the financial liability, when Group's obligations are discharged, canceled or expired. The difference between paid cost and the carrying amount of financial liabilities is recorded in profit or loss. 5) Fair value of financial assets and liabilities Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial assets classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in and orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these are available. The Group characterizes active markets as those in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Where a financial instrument is not in active market characterized by low transaction volumes, price quotations which vary substantially among market participants, or in which minimal information is released publicly, fair values are established using valuation techniques rely on alternative market data or internally developed models using significant inputs that are generally readily observable from objective sources. Market data includes prices of financial instruments with similar maturities and characteristics, duration, interest rate yield curves, and measures of volatility. The amount determined to be fair value may 16 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 119 Financial review incorporate the management of the Group‘s own assumptions (including assumptions that the Group believes market participants would use in valuing the financial instruments and assumptions relating to appropriate risk adjustments for nonperformance and lack of marketability). The valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of the financial instruments include market approach and income approach, each of which involves a significant degree of judgment. Under the market approach, fair value is determined by reference to a recent transaction involving the financial instruments or by reference to observable valuation measures for comparable companies or assets. Under the income approach, fair value is determined by converting future amounts (e.g., cash flows or earnings) to a single present amount (discounted) using current market expectations about the future amounts. In determining value under this approach, the Group makes assumptions regarding, among other things, revenues, operating income, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures, income taxes, working capital needs, and terminal value of the financial investments. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument‘s complexity and the availability of market-based data. The following are descriptions of valuation methodologies used by the Group to measure various financial instruments at fair value. a) Financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets: The fair value of the securities included in financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets are recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position based on quoted market prices, where available. For debt securities traded in the OTC market, the Group generally determines fair value based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Specifically, with respect to independent pricing services, the Group obtains three prices per instrument from reputable independent pricing services in Korea, and generally uses the lowest of the prices obtained from such services without further adjustment. For non-marketable equity securities, the Group obtains prices from the independent pricing services. The Group validates prices received from such independent pricing services using a variety of means, including verification of the qualification of the independent pricing services, corroboration of the pricing by comparing the prices among the independent pricing services and by reference to other available market data, and review of the pricing model and assumptions used by the independent pricing services by the Group‘s personnel who are familiar with market-related conditions. b) Derivative assets and liabilities: Quoted market prices are used for the Group‘s exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate futures and option contracts. All of the Group‘s derivatives are traded in OTC markets where quoted market prices are not readily available are valued using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which the derivative‘s value is based. If the model inputs for certain derivatives are not observable in a liquid market, significant judgments on the level of inputs used for valuation techniques are required. c) Valuation Adjustments: By using derivatives, the Group is exposed to credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If counterparty fails to perform, counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of financial position. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position. Few of the Group‘s derivatives are listed on an exchange. The majority of derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their basis observable market inputs. Therefore, an adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit quality of each counterparty to arrive at fair value. Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to derivative assets, such as OTC derivative instruments, when the market inputs used in valuation models may not be indicative of the creditworthiness of the counterparty. Adjustments are also made when valuing financial liabilities to reflect the Group‘s own credit standing. 17 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 120 Financial review The adjustment is based on probability of default of a counterparty and loss given default. The adjustment also takes into account contractual factors designed to reduce the Group‘s credit exposure to each counterparty. To the extent derivative assets (liabilities) are subject to master netting arrangements, the exposure used to calculate the credit risk adjustment is net of derivatives in a loss (gain) position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received (paid). 6) Impairment of the financial assets The Group assesses at the end of each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition asset and that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. a) Financial assets carried at amortized cost: If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM investments or as loans and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition. For collateralized loans and receivables, estimated future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral. Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and assessed either individually or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. In making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics. Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience. Impairment losses are recognized in net income and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by establishing a provision for impairment losses. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized loss is reversed by adjusting the provision. Once an impairment loss has been recognized on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognized on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment. It is not the Group‘s usual practice to write-off the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognized. Impaired loans and receivables are written off (i.e. the impairment provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value in full) when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or the entire loan. Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are reflected to the provision for the period in which they are received. b) Financial assets carried at fair value: When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as AFS has been recognized directly in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognized in net income. The loss is measured as the difference between the amortized cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed through net income, but those on AFS debt instruments are reversed, if there is a decrease in the cumulative impairment loss that is objectively related to a subsequent event. 18 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 121 Financial review (10) Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are presented in net in the consolidated statements of financial position when the Group has an enforceable legal right to set off and an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize an asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (11) Investment properties The Group classifies a property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation as an investment property. Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, less subsequent depreciation and impairment. Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the asset or recognized as a separate asset if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, all other investment properties are depreciated based on the respective assets‘ estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. An investment property is derecognized from the consolidated financial statements on disposal or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected even from its disposal. The gain or loss on derecognition of an investment property is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in profit or loss in the period of the derecognition. (12) Premises and equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an item of premises and equipment is directly attributable to their purchase or construction, which includes any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. It also includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Subsequent costs to replace part of the premises and equipment are recognized in carrying amount of an asset or as an asset if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, for all other premises and equipment, depreciation is charged to net income on a straight-line basis on the estimated economic useful lives as follows: Useful life Buildings used for business purpose 35 to 57 years Structures in leased office 4 to 5 years Properties for business purpose 4 to 5 years Leased assets Useful lives of the same kind or similar other premises and equipment The Group reassesses the depreciation method, the estimated useful lives and residual values of premises and equipment at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. When the carrying amount of a fixed asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the carrying amount of such asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. 19 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 122 Financial review (13) Intangible assets and goodwill Intangible assets are stated at the manufacturing cost or acquisition cost plus additional incidental expenses less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. The Group‘s software and industrial property right (trademark) are amortized over five years using the straight-line method. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. Useful life Patents 10 years Development costs 5 years Software and others 4 to 5 years In addition, when an indicator that intangible assets are impaired is noted, and the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount immediately. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment annually to the extent of reporting unit and when there is any indication of impairment. Goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the Group‘s cash-generating units (―CGU‖) expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the CGU may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in net income in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. (14) Impairment of non-monetary assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, such as goodwill and membership, or intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, regardless of whether or not there is any indication of impairment. All other assets are tested for impairment when there is an objective indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, and if the indication exists. The Group estimates the recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and net fair value less costs to sell. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and such impairment loss is recognized immediately in net income. 20 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 123 Financial review (15) Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 1) As a lessor Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognized as receivables at the amount of the Group‘s net investment in the leases being the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value discount interest rate implicit in the lease. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group‘s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease assets are included within others in other assets and depreciated over their useful lives. 2) As a lessee Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated statements of financial position as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rentals arising under finance leases are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. (16) Derivative instruments Derivative instruments are classified as forward, futures, option, and swap, depending on the types of transactions and are classified as either trading or hedging depending on the purpose. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in net income immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument. A derivative embedded in a contract is accounted for as a stand-alone derivative if its economic characteristics are not closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract; unless the entire contract is measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The Group designates certain hedging instruments to (a) hedge of the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge); (b) hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge); and (c) hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. 21 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 124 Financial review 1) Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as fair value hedges are recognized in net income immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship or when the hedging instrument is no longer qualified for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item is amortized to net income from that date to maturity using the effective interest method. 2) Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to net income when the hedged item is recognized in net income. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument is expired or sold, or it is no longer qualified for hedge accounting, and any cumulative gain or loss in other comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in net income. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in net income. 3) Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument is recognized in equity while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. The cumulated gain and loss in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss on the disposal or partial disposal of the foreign operations. (17) Provisions The Group recognizes provision if it has a present or contractual obligations as a result of the past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation is reliably estimated. Provision is not recognized for the future operating losses. The Group recognizes provision related to the unused portion of point rewards earned by credit card customers, payment guarantees, loan commitment and litigations. Where the Group is required to restore a leased property that is used as a branch, to an agreed condition after the contractual term expires, the present value of expected amounts to be used to dispose, decommission or repair the facilities is recognized as an asset retirement obligation. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the obligations as a whole. Although the likelihood of outflow for any one item may be small, if it is probable that some outflow of resources will be needed to settle the obligations as a whole, a provision is recognized. (18) Capital and compound financial instruments The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. An instrument is classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities on potentially unfavorable terms. An instrument is classified as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after the deduction of liabilities. The components of a compound financial instrument issued by the Group are classified and accounted for separately as financial liabilities or equity as appropriate. The Group recognizes common stock as equity and redeemable preferred stocks as a liability. Direct expenses related to the issuance of new shares or options are recognized as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. 22 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 125 Financial review If the Group reacquires its own equity instruments, those instruments (―treasury shares‖) are presented as a deduction from total equity. The gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue, or cancellation of treasury shares is not recognized in net income but recognized directly in equity. (19) Financial guarantee contracts Under a financial guarantee contract, the Group, in return for a fee, undertakes to meet a customer‘s obligations under the terms of a debt instrument if the customer fails to do so. A financial guarantee is recognized as a liability; initially at fair value and will be amortized, if not designated as at FVTPL, subsequently at the higher of its initial value less cumulative amortization and any provision under the contract measured in accordance with provision policy. Amortization is calculated so as to recognize fees in net income over the period of the guarantee. (20) Employee benefits and pensions The Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expecting payment in exchange for the services, when employee renders services. Also, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities in the case of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences. Though the Group may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus, considering some cases, the Group has a practice of paying bonuses. In such cases, the Group has a constructive obligation, and thus recognizes expenses and liabilities when the employees render service. The Group is operating defined contribution retirement pension plans and defined benefit retirement pension plans. Contributions to defined contribution retirement pension plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. For defined benefit retirement pension plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are composed of service cost (including current service cost, past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements), net interest expense (income), and remeasurement. The Group presents the service cost and net interest expense (income) components in profit or loss, and the remeasurement component in other comprehensive income. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Group‘s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. Liabilities for termination benefits are recognized at the earlier of either 1) when the Group has become not able to cancel its proposal for termination benefits, or 2) when the Group has recognized the cost of restructuring that accompanies the payment of termination benefits. 23 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 126 Financial review (21) Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. Current income tax expense approximates taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period and deferred income tax expense is provided on an asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, including operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, and deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences. Temporary differences are the differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred income tax benefit or expense is then recognized for the change in deferred tax assets or liabilities between periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates on the date of enactment or substantive enactment that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized. Deferred tax assets, including the carry forwards of unused tax losses, are recognized to the extent it is probable that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. Deferred liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. (22) Earnings per share (―EPS‖) Basic EPS is calculated by earnings subtracting the dividends paid to holders of preferred stock and hybrid securities from the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders from the statements of comprehensive income and dividing by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares. 24 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 127 Financial review 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS PLEASE REFER TO THE FULL VERSION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 4. RISK MANAGEMENT PLEASE REFER TO THE FULL VERSION OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS In evaluating the results of the Group and allocating resources, the Group‘s Chief Operation Decision Maker (the ―CODM‖) utilizes the information per types of customers. This financial information of the segments is regularly reviewed by the CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and evaluate its performance. (1) Segment by types of customers The Group‘s reporting segments comprise the following customers: consumer banking, corporate banking, investment banking, capital market, credit card and headquarters and others. The reportable segments are classified based on the target customers for whom the service is being provided. Meanwhile, the Group recognized its credit card operation as a separate operating segment during the year ended December 31, 2015. Therefore, the corresponding information for the year ended December 2014 was restated accordingly. • Consumer banking: Loans/deposits and financial services for consumer, etc. • Corporate banking: Loans/deposits and export/import, financial services for corporations, etc. • Investment banking: Domestic/foreign investment, structured finance, M&A, Equity & fund investment related business, venture advisory related tasks, real estate SOC development practices etc. • Capital market: Fund management, investment securities and derivatives business, etc. • Credit Card: Credit card, cash service and card loan, etc. ; and • Headquarter and others: Segments that are not belong to above operating segments 1) The details of assets and liabilities by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter Inter-segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Assets 95,612,964 107,313,193 6,646,754 7,903,460 6,604,059 73,713,629 297,794,059 (5,934,987) 291,859,072 Liabilities 46,049,309 170,127,944 41,772 6,410,552 5,295,225 42,578,200 270,503,002 2,046,155 272,549,157 December 31, 2014 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarter Inter-segment banking banking banking market Credit Card and Others Sub-total transaction Total Assets 83,582,893 96,644,808 6,411,016 6,076,739 5,732,039 76,683,360 275,130,855 (4,973,636) 270,157,219 Liabilities 47,625,472 145,999,344 136,603 4,957,708 4,542,735 46,740,752 250,002,614 2,061,180 252,063,794 2) The details of operating income by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Headquarte InterConsumer Corporate Investment Capital r and segment banking banking banking market Credit Card Others Sub-total transaction Total Net Interest income 1,289,088 1,699,913 5,601 40,913 378,019 743,092 4,156,626 605,274 4,761,900 Interest income 2,850,985 3,255,796 154,460 19,394 500,449 1,585,636 8,366,720 331,515 8,698,235 Interest expense (1,227,921) (1,880,195) (18) (81) (122,430) (979,449) (4,210,094) 273,759 (3,936,335) Inter-segment (333,976) 324,312 (148,841) 21,600 136,905 Net non-interest income 554,957 513,686 115,111 18,015 98,034 279,437 1,579,240 (947,937) 631,303 Non-interest income 886,057 503,321 489,659 5,760,567 871,486 3,245,543 11,756,633 (366,953) 11,389,680 Non-interest expense (353,032) (25,993) (374,548) (5,742,552) (773,452) (2,907,816) (10,177,393) (580,984) (10,758,377) Inter-segment 21,932 36,358 (58,290) Other expense (1,790,292) (1,795,561) 53,089 (44,187) (321,265) (470,592) (4,368,808) 327,191 (4,041,617) Administrative expense (1,782,234) (925,566) (14,933) (16,945) (124,362) (553,539) (3,417,579) 267,190 (3,150,389) Impairment losses on credit loss and others (8,058) (869,995) 68,022 (27,242) (196,903) 82,947 (951,229) 60,001 (891,228) Operating income 53,753 418,038 173,801 14,741 154,788 551,937 1,367,058 (15,472) 1,351,586 Non-operating income (19,113) (2,189) 43,728 197 (5,150) 136,954 154,427 (54,067) 100,360 Net income before income tax expense 34,640 415,849 217,529 14,938 149,638 688,891 1,521,485 (69,539) 1,451,946 Income tax expense (8,383) (98,886) (52,642) (3,615) (32,780) (136,891) (333,197) (43,357) (376,554) Net income from continuing operations 26,257 316,963 164,887 11,323 116,858 552,000 1,188,288 (112,896) 1,075,392 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 40 128 Financial review For the year ended December 31, 2014 Headquarte InterConsumer Corporate Investment Capital r and segment banking banking banking market Credit Card Others Sub-total transaction Total Net Interest income 1,392,354 1,741,700 1,178 28,884 287,350 548,238 3,999,704 493,314 4,493,018 Interest income 3,032,488 3,636,838 199,629 26,076 400,569 1,587,332 8,882,932 328,308 9,211,240 Interest expense (1,591,087) (2,191,770) (23) (100) (113,219) (987,029) (4,883,228) 165,006 (4,718,222) Inter-segment (49,047) 296,632 (198,428) 2,908 (52,065) Net non-interest income 493,762 453,799 65,919 (8,059) 93,042 255,453 1,353,916 (941,404) 412,512 Non-interest income 724,288 438,879 348,363 3,969,660 769,235 2,182,334 8,432,759 (284,209) 8,148,550 Non-interest expense (250,450) (14,483) (282,444) (3,977,719) (676,193) (1,877,554) (7,078,843) (657,195) (7,736,038) Inter-segment 19,924 29,403 (49,327) Other expense (1,759,431) (1,522,783) (175,002) (10,273) (246,943) (553,185) (4,267,617) 259,795 (4,007,822) Administrative expense (1,700,025) (835,051) (14,385) (16,437) (108,616) (518,258) (3,192,772) 233,853 (2,958,919) Impairment losses on credit loss and others (59,406) (687,732) (160,617) 6,164 (138,327) (34,927) (1,074,845) 25,942 (1,048,903) Operating income 126,685 672,716 (107,905) 10,552 133,449 250,506 1,086,003 (188,295) 897,708 Non-operating income (15,444) (3,309) 39,967 (20,562) (2,443) 1,588,360 1,586,569 (1,649,882) (63,313) Net income before income tax expense 111,241 669,407 (67,938) (10,010) 131,006 1,838,866 2,672,572 (1,838,177) 834,395 Income tax expense (26,920) (153,867) 16,441 2,422 (28,135) (98,136) (288,195) (288,195) Net income from continuing operations 84,321 515,540 (51,497) (7,588) 102,871 1,740,730 2,384,377 (1,838,177) 546,200 (2) Information on products and services The products of the Group are classified as interest-bearing products such as loans, deposits and debt securities and non-interest bearing products such as loan commitment, credit commitment, equity securities, and credit card service. This classification of products has been reflected in the segment information presenting interest income and non-interest income. (3) Information on geographical areas Among the Group‘s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from services, revenue from the domestic customers for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 amounted to 18,974,359 million Won and 16,800,282 million Won, respectively, and revenue from the foreign customers amounted to 1,113,556 million Won and 559,508 million Won, respectively. Among the Group‘s non-current assets (investments in joint ventures and associates, investment properties, premises and equipment and intangible assets), non-current assets attributed to domestic subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 are 3,666,276 million Won and 3,591,351 million Won, respectively, and foreign subsidiaries are 220,093 million Won and 211,465 million Won, respectively. 41 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 129 Financial review 6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (1) Details of cash and cash equivalents are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Cash and checks 2,091,064 2,597,984 Foreign currencies 656,183 585,728 Demand deposits 3,286,747 2,017,798 Fixed deposits 610,061 761,351 Total 6,644,055 5,962,861 (2) Material transactions not involving cash inflows and outflows are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2015 2014 Changes in other comprehensive income due to valuation of AFS financial assets 72,297 86,537 Changes in other comprehensive income (loss) of investment in associates 3,295 (2,974) Changes in other comprehensive income of foreign operations translation 33,837 28,856 Changes in other comprehensive loss due to remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (78,267) (63,426) Changes in investments in associates due to equity swap and others 83,002 176,661 Changes in unpaid dividends of hybrid equity securities 3,562 7,547 Changes in payables due to intangible assets 125,446 42 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 130 Financial review 7. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL . (1) Financial assets at FVTPL consist of as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Financial assets held for trading 5,120,062 4,536,918 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 12,595 17,262 Total 5,132,657 4,554,180 (2) Financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deposits: Gold banking assets 24,884 13,816 Securities: Debt securities Korean treasury and government agencies 798,397 668,886 Financial institutions 1,175,303 927,121 Corporates 643,706 620,312 Equity securities 62,945 99,988 Beneficiary certificates 14,017 48,291 CMA securities 32,300 Others 10,313 14,737 Sub-total 2,704,681 2,411,635 Derivatives assets 2,390,497 2,111,467 Total 5,120,062 4,536,918 (3) Financial assets designated at FVTPL as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Equity-linked securities 6,066 Debt securities 986 Equity securities 11,609 11,196 Total 12,595 17,262 43 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 131 Financial review 8. AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Unrealized Unrealized Book value gains losses Fair value Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 3,529,997 28,880 (88) 3,558,789 Financial institutions 5,598,416 27,473 (64) 5,625,825 Corporates 3,809,370 79,303 (692) 3,887,981 Asset-backed securities 260,198 (1,541) 258,657 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 649,983 790 (12,853) 637,920 Sub-total 13,847,964 136,446 (15,238) 13,969,172 Equity securities 967,911 376,079 (6,283) 1,337,707 Beneficiary certificates 1,119,497 23,148 (24,617) 1,118,028 Securities loaned 717,525 2,488 (3) 720,010 Others 16,988 8,687 25,675 Total 16,669,885 546,848 (46,141) 17,170,592 December 31, 2014 Unrealized Unrealized Book value gains losses Fair value Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 3,138,741 32,963 (124) 3,171,580 Financial institutions 6,697,347 34,471 (357) 6,731,461 Corporates 2,762,728 64,522 2,827,250 Asset-backed securities 171,313 (13,572) 157,741 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 365,661 (66,761) 298,900 Sub-total 13,135,790 131,956 (80,814) 13,186,932 Equity securities 1,115,728 432,068 (126,422) 1,421,374 Beneficiary certificates 3,431,922 20,689 3,452,611 Securities loaned 684,126 1,982 (12) 686,096 Others 46,524 17,308 63,832 Total 18,414,090 604,003 (207,248) 18,810,845 44 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 132 Financial review 9. HELD TO MATURITY FINANCIAL ASSETS HTM financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Unrealized Unrealized Book value gains losses Fair value Korean treasury and government agencies 3,366,942 63,895 (131) 3,430,706 Financial institutions 4,138,250 26,417 (153) 4,164,514 Corporates 6,020,607 106,541 (4,460) 6,122,688 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 95,841 95,841 Total 13,621,640 196,853 (4,744) 13,813,749 December 31, 2014 Unrealized Unrealized Book value gains losses Fair value Korean treasury and government agencies 4,128,344 82,979 (37) 4,211,286 Financial institutions 4,389,592 37,400 (175) 4,426,817 Corporates 4,470,297 106,092 (2,946) 4,573,443 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 56,215 56,215 Total 13,044,448 226,471 (3,158) 13,267,761 10. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES (1) Loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Due from banks 11,174,806 11,100,572 Loans 225,547,768 204,818,820 Other loan and receivables 8,119,488 7,450,743 Total 244,842,062 223,370,135 (2) Due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Due from banks in local currency: Due from the Bank of Korea (―BOK‖) 6,885,516 9,120,180 Due from depository banks 300,500 1,000 Due from non-depository 12,197 277,337 Due from the Korea Exchange 1,868 1,580 Others 34,525 182,750 Allowance for credit losses (2,063) (2,305) Sub-total 7,232,543 9,580,542 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand 1,945,918 312,022 Time deposits 1,178,081 712,972 Others 822,888 497,454 Allowance for credit losses (4,624) (2,418) Sub-total 3,942,263 1,520,030 Total 11,174,806 11,100,572 45 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 133 Financial review (3) Details of restricted due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, Financial institution Counterparty 2015 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 6,885,516 Reserve deposits under The BOK Act Others Samsung Securities Co., Ltd. Reserve deposits of the futures and others 34,525 and options and others 6,920,041 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand Reserve deposits under The The Bank of Korea and others 1,944,976 BOK Act and others Others The Central Bank of China and others 811,168 Reserve deposits and others 2,756,144 9,676,185 December 31, Financial institution Counterparty 2014 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 9,120,180 Reverse deposits on The BOK Act Others NH Investment & Securities Treasury stock trust contracts Co., Ltd. and others 182,750 and others 9,302,930 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand The Bank of Korea and others 296,447 Reserve deposits on The BOK Act and others Others The Central Bank of China and others 469,974 Reserve deposits and others 766,421 10,069,351 (4) Loans are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Loans in local currency 185,154,851 167,261,592 Loans in foreign currencies 13,104,820 11,281,016 Domestic banker‘s letter of credit 4,805,433 5,712,049 Credit card accounts 6,099,219 5,113,684 Bills bought in foreign currencies 6,647,918 5,552,421 Bills bought in local currency 134,645 258,707 Factoring receivables 149,688 92,205 Advances for customers on guarantees 44,242 52,619 Privately placed bonds 330,889 346,284 Loans to be converted to equity securities 498 Securitized loans 309,990 295,506 Call loans 2,758,156 4,174,735 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 7,583,743 6,891,629 Loan origination costs and fees 435,005 367,898 Others 45,622 44,378 Present value discount (4,985) (16,913) Allowance for credit losses (2,051,468) (2,609,488) Total 225,547,768 204,818,820 46 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 134 Financial review (5) Other loan and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 CMA accounts 213,000 186,000 Receivables 5,648,159 4,662,557 Accrued income 971,179 885,141 Telex and telephone subscription rights and refundable deposits 1,056,309 1,075,068 Other receivables 650,743 981,672 Allowance for credit losses (419,902) (339,695) Total 8,119,488 7,450,743 (6) Changes in allowance for credit losses on loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Beginning balance (326,435) (2,128,090) (129,117) (370,264) (2,953,906) Net provision (103,166) (744,416) (180,563) (83,994) (1,112,139) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (29,219) (198,089) (34,207) (261,515) Charge-off 240,541 1,139,102 198,077 592 1,578,312 Sales of loans and receivables 2,518 138,055 866 141,439 Unwinding effect 12,514 99,854 112,368 Others (186) 7,390 10,180 17,384 Ending balance (203,433) (1,686,194) (145,810) (442,620) (2,478,057) For the year ended December 31, 2014 Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Beginning balance (295,904) (2,792,558) (105,613) (453,557) (3,647,632) Net provision (150,292) (791,339) (158,603) (15,937) (1,116,171) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (7,976) (66,627) (27,920) (102,523) Charge-off 115,339 1,173,434 162,691 627 1,452,091 Sales of loans and receivables 5,833 140,174 5,676 151,683 Unwinding effect 16,666 137,951 336 223 155,176 Others (10,101) 70,875 (8) 92,704 153,470 Ending balance (326,435) (2,128,090) (129,117) (370,264) (2,953,906) 47 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 135 Financial review 11. THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (1) The fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is determined by the levels of judgment involved in estimating fair values of financial assets and liabilities. The specific financial instruments characteristics and market condition such as volume of transactions and transparency are reflected to the market observable inputs. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value of its financial assets and financial liabilities. Fair value is measured based on the perspective of a market participant. As such, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Group‘s own assumptions reflect those that market participants would use for measuring the assets or liabilities at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is described in the one of the following three levels used to classify fair value measurements: • Level 1—fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 1 are publicly traded equity securities and derivatives, and debt securities issued by governmental bodies. . • Level 2— fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 2 are debt securities not traded in active markets and derivatives traded in over-the-count (―OTC‖) but not required significant judgment. • Level 3— fair value measurements are those derived from valuation technique that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 3 are non-public securities and derivatives and debt securities of which valuation techniques require significant judgments and subjectivity. The inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Group‘s assessment of the significance of a particular input to a fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and consideration of factors specific to the asset or liability. 48 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 136 Financial review (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Deposits 24,884 24,884 Debt securities 689,600 1,927,806 2,617,406 Equity securities 62,945 62,945 Beneficiary certificates 14,017 14,017 Securities loaned 10,313 10,313 Derivative assets 419 2,311,402 78,676 2,390,497 Sub-total 788,161 4,253,225 78,676 5,120,062 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Debt securities 986 986 Equity securities 11,609 11,609 Sub-total 12,595 12,595 AFS financial assets Debt securities 2,235,229 11,733,943 13,969,172 Equity securities 344,339 993,368 1,337,707 Beneficiary certificates 740,958 377,070 1,118,028 Securities loaned 615,570 104,440 720,010 Others 20,367 5,308 25,675 Sub-total 3,195,138 12,599,708 1,375,746 17,170,592 Derivative assets 177,155 5,973 183,128 Total 3,983,299 17,030,088 1,472,990 22,486,377 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits 24,872 24,872 Derivative liabilities 136,845 2,365,375 78,607 2,580,827 Sub-total 161,717 2,365,375 78,607 2,605,699 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 10,660 747,351 758,011 Debentures 96,851 96,851 Sub-total 107,511 747,351 854,862 Total 161,717 2,472,886 825,958 3,460,561 49 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 137 Financial review December 31, 2014 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Deposits 13,816 13,816 Debt securities 587,593 1,628,726 2,216,319 Equity securities 99,988 99,988 Beneficiary certificates 48,291 48,291 CMA securities 32,300 32,300 Securities loaned 14,737 14,737 Derivative assets 56 2,062,137 49,274 2,111,467 Sub-total 716,190 3,771,454 49,274 4,536,918 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 6,066 6,066 Equity securities 629 10,567 11,196 Sub-total 629 16,633 17,262 AFS financial assets Debt securities 2,731,782 10,455,150 13,186,932 Equity securities 389,456 1,031,918 1,421,374 Beneficiary certificates 3,096,917 355,694 3,452,611 Securities loaned 475,748 210,348 686,096 Others 49,591 14,241 63,832 Sub-total 3,596,986 13,812,006 1,401,853 18,810,845 Derivative assets 184,115 11,946 196,061 Total 4,313,805 17,767,575 1,479,706 23,561,086 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits 13,927 13,927 Derivative liabilities 5,819 2,092,325 41,711 2,139,855 Sub-total 19,746 2,092,325 41,711 2,153,782 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 315 361,993 362,308 Debentures 159,264 159,264 Sub-total 159,579 361,993 521,572 Total 19,746 2,251,904 403,704 2,675,354 (*1) There was no transferred between level 1 and level 2 of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The Group recognizes transfers between the levels at the end of reporting period within which events or conditions change. (*2) Certain AFS unquoted equity securities were measured at cost as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, that are amounting to 42,451 million Won and 41,002 million Won, respectively. These unquoted equity instruments mostly represent minority investments in special purpose entity vehicles such as asset securitization structures. They are measured at cost because (a) observable inputs of financial information to measure fair value was not available to obtain, or (b) there is a significant variance in likely estimated cash flows or (c) the probabilities for the various estimated cash flows could not be measured reliably. In addition, there were no indicators of impairments in these investments and the Group has no intention to dispose these investments in the foreseeable future. Certain financial assets are carried at cost, even though under K-IFRS it is required to be remeasured at their fair value, since they do not have quoted market prices in an active market and cannot be measured reliably at fair value. Carrying amount and gain from the disposal of the financial assets which have been carried at cost amounts to 414 million Won and 146 million Won, respectively. 50 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 138 Financial review Financial instruments are measured at fair value using a quoted market price in active markets. If there is no active market for a financial instrument, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions and developing fair value measurement methods. Alternative assumptions and fair value measurement methods for each type of financial instruments are as follows: Fair value measurement methods Alternative assumptions Debt securities The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate, credit spread flows of debt securities by applying the market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the issuers of the securities Equity securities Among DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) Model, FCFE (Free Cash Risk-free market rate, market risk Flow to Equity) Model, Comparable Company Analysis, premium, beta Dividend Discount Model, Risk-adjusted Rate of Return Method, and Net Asset Value Method, more than one method is used given the characteristic of the subject of fair value measurement. Derivatives The in-house developed model which is based on the models Risk-free market rate, forward rate, that are used by market participants in the valuation of general volatility, foreign exchange rate, OTC derivative products, such as options, interest rate swaps, stock prices, etc. and currency swap that are based on inputs observable in the market. However, for some complicated financial instruments of which valuation should be based on some assumptions since some significant or all inputs to be used in the model are not observable in the market, the in-house derived model which is developed from the general valuation models, such as Finite Difference Method (―FDM‖) or Monte Carlo Simulation. Financial Instruments The fair value of security linked to stock prices or derivatives is Values of underlying assets, risklinked to stock measured by the models such as DCF model, FDM, or Monte free market rate, market rate, prices or Carlo Simulation given the natures of the securities or dividend and convenience yield, derivatives underlying assets. correlation, volatility, credit spread, and foreign exchange rate Debenture The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate, forward rate flows of a debenture by applying the market discount rate that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. Valuation methods of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value and classified into Level 3 and significant but unobservable inputs are as follows: Fair value measurement Impact of changes in significant unobservable technique Input variable Range inputs on fair value measurement Derivative Option valuation Correlation Volatility of fair value increases as correlation assets model and others 0.315~0.938 increases Historical Volatility of fair value increases as historical variability 19.10%~45.96% variability increase Credit risk Fair value decreases as credit risk adjustment adjustment ratio 99.23% ratio increases Derivative Option valuation Correlation Volatility of fair value increases as correlation liabilities model and others 0.315~0.938 increase Historical Volatility of fair value increase due to variability 19.10%~45.96% historical variability increase Equity-linked Monte Carlo Correlation Compound financial instrument‘s fair value securities Simulation and increases as both of historical variability and others correlation increase when correlation 0.036~0.739 decreases, however, despite of increase of Historical 13.70%~51.01% historical variability, the fair value of variability compound financial instrument may decrease Equity External appraisal Expected growth Fair value increases as expected growth rate securities value and others rate 0%~1% increases Fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 is measured by the Group using its own valuation techniques or using external specialists. Unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements are 51 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 139 Financial review produced by the internal system of the Group and the appropriateness of inputs is reviewed regularly. (3) Changes in financial assets and liabilities classified into level 3 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Net Other Transfer to or January 1, Income comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ from level 3 December 2015 (loss) (*1) income (loss) Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2015 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivative assets (*3) 49,274 71,703 (8,166) (33,156) (979) 78,676 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 6,066 (6,066) Debt securities (14) 1,000 986 Equity securities 10,567 1,042 11,609 Sub-total 16,633 1,028 1,000 (6,066) 12,595 AFS financial assets: Equity securities (*4) 1,031,918 (57,373) 105,290 105,930 (100,018) (92,379) 993,368 Beneficiary certificates 355,694 3,905 (24,846) 121,613 (79,296) 377,070 Others 14,241 (7,064) 1,370 (3,239) 5,308 Sub-total 1,401,853 (60,532) 81,814 227,543 (182,553) (92,379) 1,375,746 Derivative assets 11,946 7,375 (13,348) 5,973 Total 1,479,706 19,574 81,814 220,377 (235,123) (93,358) 1,472,990 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities (*3) 41,711 58,565 4,008 (24,475) (1,202) 78,607 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities(*5) 361,993 (73,533) 764,005 (304,917) (197) 747,351 Total 403,704 (14,968) 768,013 (329,392) (1,399) 825,958 (*1) The loss amounting to 2,854 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2015, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds at the end of periods, was recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*3) As the variables used for the valuation of equity related derivatives and interest rate related derivatives were observable in the market, such derivatives were transferred into level 2 from level 3. (*4) AFS financial assets were transferred out of level 1 to level 3 upon the change of the fair value measurement method of the assets by using market the external valuation specialists from previously using quoted prices in the active market, in the opposite case, they were transferred out of level 3 to level 1. (*5) Since the observable market data for equity-linked securities became available, such securities were transferred out of level 3 to level 2. 52 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 140 Financial review For the year ended December 31, 2014 Net Other Transfer to or Decrease due January 1, Income comprehensive Purchases/ Disposals/ from level 3 to the spin-off December 2014 (loss) (*1) income (loss) Issuances Settlements (*2) or disposals 31, 2014 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivatives instruments assets 307,782 41,776 1,244 (108,345) (193,183) 49,274 Others 6,185 (724) (4,433) (1,028) Sub-total 313,967 41,052 1,244 (112,778) (194,211) 49,274 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 408,120 (337) 324,205 (82,468) (643,454) 6,066 Debt securities 2,676 26 (2,702) Equity securities 10,579 (12) 10,567 Sub-total 421,375 (323) 324,205 (85,170) (643,454) 16,633 AFS financial assets Debt securities(*3) 9,050 (6,048) 1,825 (4,827) Equity securities (*4) 1,843,889 (137,631) 6,063 106,654 (114,450) (551) (672,056) 1,031,918 Beneficiary certificates (*3) 562,941 16,033 3,164 41,214 (66,126) (1,935) (199,597) 355,694 Others (*3) 102,914 (2,439) (1,134) 12,898 (70,000) (27,998) 14,241 Sub-total 2,518,794 (130,085) 8,093 160,766 (180,576) (70,661) (904,478) 1,401,853 Derivative assets 14,608 3,497 (6,159) 11,946 Total 3,268,744 (85,859) 8,093 486,215 (384,683) (70,661) (1,742,143) 1,479,706 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities 253,419 6,783 4,050 4,596 (43,250) (183,887) 41,711 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities (*5) 5,587,261 19,031 2,205,033 (815,356) (88,044) (6,545,932) 361,993 Total 5,840,680 25,814 4,050 2,209,629 (858,606) (88,044) (6,729,819) 403,704 (*1) The loss amounting to 172,484 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2014, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds at the end of periods, was recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*3) AFS financial assets were transferred from level 2 into level 3 or vice versa upon the changes in the degree of subjectivity and uncertainty used to measure fair values, such as using quoted price in inactive market or values from external valuation specialists, for the AFS financial assets. (*4) AFS financial assets were transferred out of level 1 to level 3 upon the change of the fair value measurement method of the assets by using market the external valuation specialists from previously using quoted prices in the active market, in the opposite case, they were transferred out of level 3 to level 1. (*5) Since the observable market data for equity-linked securities became available, such securities were transferred out of level 3 to level 2. 53 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 141 Financial review (4) Sensitivity analysis through reasonable changes of the unobservable inputs used to measure Level 3 financial instruments are as follows: The sensitivity analysis of the financial instruments has been performed by classifying with favorable and unfavorable changes based on how changes in unobservable assumptions would have effects on the fluctuations of financial instruments‘ value. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the below table reflects the most favorable or the most unfavorable changes which resulted from varying the assumptions individually. The sensitivity analysis was performed for two types of level 3 financial instruments: (1) interest rate related derivatives, currency related derivatives, equity related derivatives, and equity-linked securities of which fair value changes are recognized as net income; (2) equity securities and beneficiary certificates of which fair value changes are recognized as other comprehensive income. Equity securities classified as level 3 but measured at costs are excluded from sensitivity analysis. The following table shows the sensitivity analysis to disclose the effect of reasonably possible alternative assumptions on the fair value of a level 3 financial instruments for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Net income Other comprehensive Net income Other comprehensive (loss) income (loss) (loss) income (loss) Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivatives instruments assets (*1)(*2) 10,674 (9,729) 14,093 (6,471) Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity securities(*6) 793 (739) AFS Financial Assets Equity securities (*3)(*4) 37,648 (20,869) 80,085 (39,055) Beneficiary certificates (*4) 4,102 (3,875) 3,430 (3,243) Others (*5) 80 (80) 6,823 (2,858) Total 11,467 (10,468) 41,830 (24,824) 14,093 (6,471) 90,338 (45,156) Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities (*1)(*2) 13,469 (12,281) 7,939 (7,222) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities (*1) 2,289 (2,247) 1,497 (1,483) Total 15,758 (14,528) 9,436 (9,205) (*1) Fair value changes of equity related derivatives assets and liabilities and equity-linked securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical fluctuation rate of stock price and correlation, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. In the case of interest rate and currency related derivative assets and liabilities, fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing volatility of interest rate and credit risk adjustment ratio, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. (*2) Both derivative assets and liabilities for held for trading and hedging are included. (*3) Fair value changes of equity securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0~1%) and discount rate or liquidation value (-1~1%) and discount rate. The growth rate, discount rate, and liquidation value are major unobservable variables. (*4) Among the equity securities, even if the sensitivity analysis of the capital contributions and beneficiary certificates is not possible in practice, fair value changes of beneficiary certificates and other securities whose major unobservable variables are composed of the real estate are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. (*5) Fair value changes of other securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of trust property or real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. The prices of trust property and real estates and discount rate are major unobservable variables. (*6) Changes of fair value are measured by increasing or decreasing the discount rate by 10%, which is major unobservable variable, respectively. 54 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 142 Financial review (5) Fair value and carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortized cost are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of December 31, 2015 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: HTM financial assets 1,045,022 12,768,727 13,813,749 13,621,640 Loans and receivables 248,253,422 248,253,422 244,842,062 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 208,133,241 208,133,241 209,141,826 Borrowings 20,084,789 20,084,789 20,033,917 Debentures 22,288,472 22,288,472 21,898,859 Other financial liabilities 16,961,987 16,961,987 16,964,206 As of December 31, 2014 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: HTM financial assets 1,902,558 11,365,202 13,267,760 13,044,448 Loans and receivables 225,284,372 225,284,372 223,370,135 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 188,673,796 188,673,796 188,516,465 Borrowings 17,772,085 17,772,085 17,707,595 Debentures 24,976,056 24,976,056 24,795,904 Other financial liabilities 16,889,129 16,889,129 16,889,687 The fair values of financial instruments are measured using quoted market price in active markets. In case there is no active market for financial instruments, the Group determines the fair value using alternative assumptions through developing fair value measurement methods. Alternative assumptions and fair value measurement methods for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at amortized costs are given as follows: Fair value measurement methods Alternative assumptions Debt securities The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and discounting the projected cash flows credit spread of debt securities by applying the market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the issuers of the securities Loans and receivables The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate, discounting the projected cash flows credit spread and of loan products by applying the prepayment-rate market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the debtor. Deposit due to customers, The fair value is measured by Risk-free market rate and Borrowings, and discounting the projected cash flows forward rate Debentures of debt products by applying the market discount rate that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. 55 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 143 Financial review b) Loaned securities When the Group loans its securities to outside parties, the legal ownerships of the securities are transferred, however, they should be returned at the end of lending period and therefore the Group does not derecognize them from the consolidated financial statements as it owns majority of risks and benefits from the securities continuously regardless of the transfer of legal ownership. The carrying amounts of securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Loaned to Financial assets at Samsung Securities Co., FVTPL Equity securities-listed stock 10,313 14,737 Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities assets government agencies bonds 720,010 686,096 Depository Total 730,323 700,833 The details of the transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety, such as disposal of securities under repurchase agreement or loaned securities, are explained in Note 18. (2) The offset with financial assets and liabilities The Group possesses both the uncollected domestic exchange receivables and unpaid domestic exchange payable, which satisfy offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. Therefore, the total number of uncollected domestic exchange receivables or unpaid domestic exchange payable has been countervailed with part of unpaid domestic exchange payable or uncollected domestic exchange receivables, respectively, and has been disclosed in loans and receivables or other financial liabilities of the Group‘s statements of financial position and loans and receivables, respectively. The Group possesses the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and payable spot exchange which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but provide the Group the right of, under the circumstances of the trading party‘s defaults, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the offsetting. Item such as cash collateral cannot satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but in accordance with the collateral arrangements and under the circumstances of the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and the net amount of payable spot exchange can be offset. The Group has entered into a sale and repurchase agreements and accounted it as collateralized borrowing. Also, the Group has entered into a purchase and resale agreement and accounted it as secured loans. The repurchase and resale agreement can have the offsetting right only under the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, the Group recorded the collateralized borrowings in borrowings and the secured loans in loans and receivables. The Group under the repurchase agreements has offsetting right only upon the counter-party‘s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, thus the repurchase agreements are applied by the TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement of which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group disclosed bonds sold (purchased) under repurchase agreements as borrowings (loans and receivables). 57 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 144 Financial review b) Loaned securities When the Group loans its securities to outside parties, the legal ownerships of the securities are transferred, however, they should be returned at the end of lending period and therefore the Group does not derecognize them from the consolidated financial statements as it owns majority of risks and benefits from the securities continuously regardless of the transfer of legal ownership. The carrying amounts of securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Loaned to Financial assets at Samsung Securities Co., FVTPL Equity securities-listed stock 10,313 14,737 Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities assets government agencies bonds 720,010 686,096 Depository Total 730,323 700,833 The details of the transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety, such as disposal of securities under repurchase agreement or loaned securities, are explained in Note 18. (2) The offset with financial assets and liabilities The Group possesses both the uncollected domestic exchange receivables and unpaid domestic exchange payable, which satisfy offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. Therefore, the total number of uncollected domestic exchange receivables or unpaid domestic exchange payable has been countervailed with part of unpaid domestic exchange payable or uncollected domestic exchange receivables, respectively, and has been disclosed in loans and receivables or other financial liabilities of the Group‘s statements of financial position and loans and receivables, respectively. The Group possesses the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and payable spot exchange which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but provide the Group the right of, under the circumstances of the trading party‘s defaults, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the offsetting. Item such as cash collateral cannot satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but in accordance with the collateral arrangements and under the circumstances of the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy, the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange, and the net amount of payable spot exchange can be offset. The Group has entered into a sale and repurchase agreements and accounted it as collateralized borrowing. Also, the Group has entered into a purchase and resale agreement and accounted it as secured loans. The repurchase and resale agreement can have the offsetting right only under the trading party‘s default, insolvency, or bankruptcy which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, the Group recorded the collateralized borrowings in borrowings and the secured loans in loans and receivables. The Group under the repurchase agreements has offsetting right only upon the counter-party‘s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, thus the repurchase agreements are applied by the TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement of which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group disclosed bonds sold (purchased) under repurchase agreements as borrowings (loans and receivables). 57 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 145 Financial review As at the end of reporting periods, the financial instruments to be set off and may be covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements are given as below: December 31, 2015 Related amounts not set off Gross Gross Net in the statement of financial amounts of amounts of amounts of position recognized recognized financial Cash financial financial assets Financial collateral Net assets assets set off presented instruments received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,573,107 8,857 2,564,250 5,615,376 53,162 1,239,821 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 4,344,109 4,344,109 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 7,583,743 7,583,743 7,583,743 Domestic exchanges receivable (*2)(*5) 29,980,302 29,467,000 513,302 513,302 Total 44,481,261 29,475,857 15,005,404 13,199,119 53,162 1,753,123 December 31, 2015 Gross Related amounts not set off Gross amounts of Net in the statement of financial amounts of recognized amounts of position recognized financial financial Cash financial liabilities set liabilities Financial collateral Net liabilities off presented instruments pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 3,144,595 8,857 3,135,738 6,205,345 173,268 1,100,044 Payable spot exchange (*3) 4,342,919 4,342,919 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*4) 671,629 671,629 671,629 Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 31,493,204 29,467,000 2,026,204 2,020,717 5,487 Total 39,652,347 29,475,857 10,176,490 8,897,691 173,268 1,105,531 December 31, 2014 Related amounts not set off Gross Gross Net in the statement of financial amounts of amounts of amounts of position recognized recognized financial Cash financial financial assets Financial collateral Net assets assets set off presented instruments received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets and others (*1) 2,316,295 16,228 2,300,067 5,413,119 37,142 469,574 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 3,619,768 3,619,768 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 6,891,629 6,891,629 6,891,629 Domestic exchanges receivable (*2)(*5) 28,094,142 27,310,235 783,907 783,907 Total 40,921,834 27,326,463 13,595,371 12,304,748 37,142 1,253,481 December 31, 2014 Gross Related amounts not set off Gross amounts of Net in the statement of financial amounts of recognized amounts of position recognized financial financial Cash financial liabilities set liabilities Financial collateral Net liabilities off presented instruments pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities and others (*1) 2,478,924 16,228 2,462,696 5,396,870 41,229 640,766 Payable spot exchange (*3) 3,616,169 3,616,169 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*4) 1,196,237 1,196,237 1,196,237 Domestic exchanges payable (*3)(*5) 30,636,705 27,310,235 3,326,470 3,147,053 179,417 Total 37,928,035 27,326,463 10,601,572 9,740,160 41,229 820,183 58 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 146 Financial review (*1) The items include derivatives held for trading, derivatives for hedging and equity linked securities. (*2) The items are included in loans and receivables. (*3) The items are included in other financial liabilities. (*4) The items are included in borrowings. (*5) Certain financial assets and liabilities are presented as net amounts. 13. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (1) Investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Percentage of ownership (%) December 31, December 31, Financial Subsidiaries Main business 2015 2014 statements as of Woori Bank and Woori Private Equity Company Ltd.: Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund I Finance 26.4 26.4 December 31 Woori Bank: Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1)(*2) Manufacturing 14.2 14.2 December 31 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. (*4) Freight & staffing services 4.9 4.9 November 30(*3) Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. (*5)(*7) Credit information 9.9 7.2 December 31 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. (*4) (*14) Security service 15.0 15.3 November 30(*3) United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability (*5) Finance 17.7 17.7 December 31 Chin Hung International Inc. (*2) (*6) Construction 28.4 26.8 November 30(*3) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 〃 30.7 30.7 September 30(*3) Ansang Tech Co., Ltd. (*8) Manufacturing 23.0 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2)(*9) 〃 29.2 15.0 September 30(*3) Samho International Co., Ltd. (*1)(*2) Construction 7.8 7.8 December 31 Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*10) Freight & staffing services 34.4 34.4 Hana Construction Co., Ltd. (*10) Construction 22.4 22.4 STX Corporation (*1) (*2) Wholesale of nonSpecialized Goods 15.0 15.0 September 30(*3) Osung LST Co., Ltd. (*1) (*2) Manufacturing 11.1 11.1 September 30(*3) Saman Corporation (*5)(*15) General Construction Technology Service 9.2 December 31 Dongwoo C & C Co.,Ltd. (*10) (*16) Construction 23.2 SJCO Co.,Ltd. (*10) (*16) Aggregate transportation and Wholesale 26.5 Ilyang construction Co.,Ltd. (*10) (*16) Construction 40.0 G2 Collection Co.,Ltd. (*10) (*16) Wholesale and retail sales 28.9 Woori Private Equity Fund: Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd.(*13) Semiconductor equipment 44.8 Woori Renaissance Holdings (*11) Other financial business 51.6 51.6 December 31 Woori Private Equity Company Ltd.: Woori Columbus First PEF (*12) Other financial business 1.9 1.9 December 31 59 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 147 Financial review (*1) The Group has significant influence on these entities through its position in the creditors' council which is the decision making body regarding to financial and operational policies of associates. (*2) The investments in associates that have quoted market prices are Kumho Tire Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW 6,730, previous year: KRW 9,670), Chin Hung International Inc. (current period: KRW 2,300, previous year: KRW 1,665), STX Engine Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW 6,800), Samho International Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW 15,550, previous year: KRW 13,150), STX Corporation. (current period: KRW 3,435), and Osung LST Co., Ltd. (current period: KRW 795, previous year: KRW 1,215). (*3) The significant transactions and events between the end of reporting dates of the investees and the investors have been properly adjusted. (*4) The significant business of Woori Service Network Co., Ltd. and Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. is transacted mostly with the Group. (*5) The Group can participate in decision-making body and exercise significant influence over Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. and the United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability through business partnerships. (*6) Due to debt-equity swap occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015 the ownership interest of Chin Hung International Inc. has increased. (*7) As the Group acquired the shares of Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. additionally for the year ended December 31, 2015, the ownership interest of it has increased. (*8) As the Group sold shares of Ansang Tech Co., Ltd. during the year ended December 31, 2015, it was excluded from the associates. (*9) Due to debt-equity swap and conversion of convertible bonds occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015 the ownership interest of STX Engine Co., Ltd. increased. (*10) The carrying value of investments in Force TEC Co., Ltd. and Hana Construction Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C & C Co.,Ltd., SJCO Co., Ltd., Ilyang Construction Co., Ltd. and G2 collection Co., Ltd. is nil as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (*11) The Group owns over 50% ownership of Woori Renaissance Holdings. However, the investment in this entity was accounted for using equity method as the ownership and related contracts meet the definition of joint arrangement under K-IFRS 1111 Joint Arrangements. (*12) As a general partner of Woori Columbus First PEF, the Group has significant influence over the entity‘s operational and financial policy making process, including participating in dividend or other distribution. As such, the investment in this entity was accounted for using equity method (*13) As the Group sold shares of Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd during the year ended December 31, 2015, it was excluded from the associates. (*14) As the Group sold some shares of Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. during the year ended December 31, 2015, the ownership interest of the Group has fallen. (*15) Due to debt-equity swap occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015, it is included in the associates. (*16) Even though the Group‘s ownership ratio of the entity is more than 20%, it does not have significant influence over the entity due to the fact that the entity is going through workout process under receivership, thus it was excluded from the investment in associates. However, as the workout was over during the year ended December 31, 2015, it has been included in the investment in associates.. 60 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 148 Financial review (2) Changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Share of Acquisition January 1, profits AcquisiDisposal Change in Other December 31, cost 2015 (losses) tion(*) and others Dividends Capital Impairment changes 2015 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity First 81,608 100,436 9,266 (37,367) (16,291) 56,044 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 224,829 (11,979) 1,201 214,050 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 130 21 (12) 139 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 2,215 3,378 335 1,098 480 5,291 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,337 4,272 (425) (81) (55) 3,711 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 191,617 203,418 3,350 (19,176) 187,592 Chin Hung International Inc. 60,275 28,491 (14,489) 29,451 482 43,936 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 10,643 (1) (22,473) 17,144 5,313 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 47,008 2,293 (3,901) 45,030 1,823 6,031 51,276 Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 11,257 3,012 56 14,325 STX Corporation 42,215 14,347 (10,673) 559 18 4,251 Osung LST Co., Ltd. 15,405 18,482 (4,322) 4 (33,839) 30,660 10,985 Saman Corporation 8,521 8,521 8,521 Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 1,334 1,610 (1,610) Woori Renaissance Holdings 63,000 36,019 3,518 (2,416) 37,121 Woori Columbus First PEF 1,200 1,084 222 1,306 Total 714,903 648,436 (13,812) 84,100 (58,234) (18,774) 4,604 (56,312) 53,853 643,861 (*) Investments in associates increased by 83,002 million won through transfers between accounts, such as loan-equity swap occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014 Share of Acquisition January 1, profits AcquisiDisposal Change in Other December 31, cost 2014 (losses) tion(*1) and others Dividends Capital Impairment changes 2014 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity First 83,011 93,714 11,969 (1,727) (3,520) 100,436 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 93,003 140,101 21,219 113,935 (50,007) 497 (916) 224,829 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 136 6 (12) 130 Korea Credit Bureau 2,215 3,347 31 3,378 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,337 4,311 16 (55) 4,272 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 191,617 203,730 (312) 203,418 Chin Hung International Inc. 60,275 45,900 (17,158) (251) 28,491 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd.(*2) 13,917 3,079 (3,079) STX Engine Co., Ltd. 47,008 47,008 (44,422) (294) 2,292 SamHo Co., Ltd. 7,492 7,492 2,284 5 1,476 11,257 Force TEC Co., Ltd. 34 34 (34) STX Corporation 918 47,323 (4,642) (881) (28,370) 14,348 Osung LST Co., Ltd. (3,806) 15,405 (4) 6,887 18,482 Saudara Bank (*3) 160 67,431 (66,992) (640) 41 DKT 50,000 20,170 (595) (19,575) KAMCO Fifth Asset Securitization Specialty 8,736 3,827 521 (4,348) Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 1,872 3,688 (3,008) 921 (1,013) (588) Woori Renaissance Holdings 63,000 39,806 2,654 (6,441) 36,019 Woori Columbus First PEF 1,200 1,227 21 (84) (80) 1,084 Total 626,825 617,570 (32,581) 244,094 (146,454) (4,307) (1,900) (35,399) 7,413 648,436 61 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 149 Financial review (*1) Investments in associates increased by 176,661 million won through transfers between accounts, such as loan-equity swap occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014. (*2) The application of equity method was suspended and the book value was nil due to accumulation of loss deficit of the investee. The unrecognized loss on valuation of investments under equity method due to the suspension of equity method on Poonglim Co., Ltd. amounted to 10,128 million Won of the shares of loss of joint ventures and associates and 511 million Won of the accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2015. (*3) Indonesia Woori Bank, which was a consolidated subsidiary of the Group, merged with Saudara Bank in accordance for the year ended December 31, 2014, and the bank changed its name into PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk. According to this merger, PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk became to be classified as subsidiary, so it was exclude from investment in associates. (3) Summary financial information relating to investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund I 212,171 414 49,264 35,099 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,197,002 3,926,952 3,039,519 (27,893) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,577 1,772 14,661 824 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 63,960 13,076 53,184 2,005 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 30,195 5,457 50,932 1,890 United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability 1,088,325 30,390 117,579 18,911 Chin Hung International Inc. 516,305 446,412 624,110 (39,936) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 352,683 331,801 206,904 13,185 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 958,468 834,499 417,125 36,615 Samho Co., Ltd. 709,109 526,379 892,871 39,664 STX Corporation 1,232,014 1,181,593 1,236,168 (44,404) Osung LST Co., Ltd. 125,859 42,981 38,767 (30,108) Saman Corporation 80,970 49,334 114,592 (116,019) Woori Renaissance Holdings Inc. 95,421 28,218 12,013 6,813 Woori Columbus First PEF 68,466 562 12,158 11,570 December 31, 2014 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity First 380,622 873 48,887 45,351 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 4,590,346 3,323,743 3,414,009 130,010 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,250 1,625 14,394 770 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 54,716 7,805 46,111 114 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 30,990 3,108 47,398 5,527 United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability 1,187,406 40,240 105,369 (1,962) Chin Hung International Inc. 522,749 495,523 552,668 (11,481) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 447,617 417,688 157,123 (16,530) STX Engine Co., Ltd. 1,088,209 1,083,907 386,058 (27,878) SamHo Co., Ltd. 654,477 510,878 860,851 30,025 STX Corporation 1,158,788 1,040,746 1,184,480 407,231 Osung LST Co., Ltd. 172,100 101,265 86,351 (44,951) Woori Renaissance Holdings Inc. 88,605 23,536 6,876 (7,334) Woori Columbus First PEF 56,936 602 1,540 (178) Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 27,400 26,187 9,650 (4,901) 62 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 150 Financial review (4) The entities that the Group has not applied equity method of accounting although the Group‘s ownership ratio is more than 20% as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, are as follows: As of December 31, 2015 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*) 465,050 shares 23.0 Jinsaeng K Co., Ltd. (*) 2,107,432 shares 20.2 The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd. (*) 68,470 shares 48.4 Saenuel Co., Ltd. (*) 3,531shares 37.4 Heungjiwon Co., Ltd. (*) 32,849 shares 27.8 E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. (*) 7,696 shares 41.0 Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. (*) 81,610 shares 27.3 NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*) 697,033 shares 23.1 The season Co., Ltd. (*) 18,187 shares 30.1 Deokwon Food Co., Ltd. (*) 14,300 shares 27.3 Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. (*) 8,642 shares 24.0 Kyesan Engineering Co.,Ltd. (*) 60,581 shares 23.2 Good Software Lab Co.,Ltd. (*) 17,121shares 28.9 DOWOO (*) 13,477 shares 41.9 Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*) 7,398 shares 35.4 Orient Star Logistics Co., Ltd. (*) 17,293 shares 22.3 Wongwang Co., Ltd. (*) 2,590 shares 29.0 (*) Even though the Group‘s ownership ratio of the entity is more than 20% as a limited partner, it is determined that the Group does not have significant influence over the entity since the Group cannot exercise significant influence in the decision making bodies, such as investment committee, thus it has been excluded from the investment in associates. As of December 31, 2014 Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Vogo II-2 Investment Holdings Co., Ltd. (*2) 24,794,201,938 shares 36.4 LIG engineering & construction Co., Ltd. (*1) 755,946 shares 22.8 Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. (*1) 465,050 shares 23.0 Jinsaeng K Co., Ltd. (*1) 2,107,432 shares 20.2 PICITY Co., Ltd. (*1) 871,631 shares 21.1 Gdsys Co., Ltd. (*1) 300,805 shares 21.2 G2 Collection Co., Ltd. (*1) 12,574 shares 28.9 Alkenz Co., Ltd. (*1) 80,402 shares 37.5 SJ Development Co., Ltd. (*1) 70,529 shares 26.5 Ilyang Construction Co., Ltd. (*1) 105,936 shares 40.0 Ssangyong Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (*1) 2,957,728 shares 20.3 (*1) Even though the Group‘s ownership ratio of the entity is more than 20%, it does not have significant influence over the entity due to the fact that the entity is going through workout process under receivership, thus it has been excluded from the investment in associates. (*2) Even though the Group‘s ownership ratio of the entity is more than 20% as a limited partner, it is determined that the Group does not have significant influence over the entity since the Group cannot exercise significant influence in the decision making bodies, such as investment committee, thus it has been excluded from the investment in associates. 63 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 151 Financial review (5) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the reconciliations from the net assets of associates based on the ownership ratio of the Group to its corresponding book value of investment in joint ventures and associates are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for ownership): As of December 31, 2015 Net assets of associates cost-book Intercompany Total net Ownership (or joint value transaction Book asset (%) ventures) differential Impairment and others value Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity First 211,757 26.4 55,900 144 56,044 Korea Credit Bureau 50,884 9.9 5,043 248 5,291 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 24,738 15.0 3,711 3,711 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 2,805 4.9 139 139 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1) 1,152,161 14.2 163,042 48,459 2,549 214,050 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 1,057,935 17.7 187,538 54 187,592 Chin Hung International Inc. (*1) 68,132 28.4 19,374 24,566 (4) 43,936 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*1) (58,065) 30.7 (17,837) 45,622 (22,472) 5,313 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*1) 123,969 29.2 36,230 14,927 119 51,276 SamHo Co., Ltd. 182,730 7.8 14,325 14,325 Osung LST Co., Ltd. (*1) 82,878 11.1 9,238 35,597 (33,839) (11) 10,985 Saman Corporation 31,636 9.2 2,911 5,610 8,521 STX Corporation (*1) 50,421 15.0 7,552 24,610 (28,370) 459 4,251 Woori Renaissance Holdings 67,203 51.6 34,677 (6,441) 8,885 37,121 Woori Columbus First PEF 67,904 1.9 1,304 6 (4) 1,306 As of December 31, 2014 Net assets of associates cost-book Intercompany Total net Ownership (or joint value transaction Book asset (%) ventures) differential Impairment and others value Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity First 379,749 26.4 100,248 188 100,436 Korea Credit Bureau 46,911 7.2 3,378 3,378 Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 1,213 44.8 543 45 (588) Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 27,882 15.3 4,272 4,272 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 2,625 4.9 130 130 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1) 1,228,329 14.2 173,820 48,459 2,550 224,829 United PF 1st Corporate financial stability 1,147,166 17.7 203,418 203,418 Chin Hung International Inc. (*1) 26,650 26.8 7,132 21,359 28,491 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*1) (159,358) 30.7 (48,994) 38,356 10,638 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*1) (93,532) 15.0 (14,029) 14,927 1,394 2,292 SamHo Co., Ltd. 143,599 7.8 11,257 11,257 Osung LST Co., Ltd. (*1) (295,129) 11.1 (32,897) 51,379 18,482 STX Corporation (*1) 117,709 15.0 17,639 24,610 (28,370) 469 14,348 Woori Renaissance Holdings 65,069 51.6 33,576 (6,441) 8,884 36,019 Woori Columbus First PEF 56,334 1.9 1,082 6 (4) 1,084 (*1) The net asset amount is after considering preferred stocks. 64 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 152 Financial review 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (1) Investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Acquisition cost 376,192 381,668 Accumulated depreciation (24,696) (24,118) Net carrying value 351,496 357,550 (2) Changes in investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 357,550 340,620 Depreciation (3,806) (3,859) Transfer (2,297) 21,760 Foreign currencies translation adjustments 49 31 Others (1,002) Ending balance 351,496 357,550 (3) Fair value of investment properties is amounting to 371,890 million Won and 394,159 million Won as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The fair value of investment property, based on the assessment that was independently performed by external appraisal agencies, is classified as level 3 on the fair value hierarchy as of December 31, 2015 and 2014. (4) Rental fee earned from investment properties is amounting to million Won and 5,629 million Won and 5,311 million Won as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 65 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 153 Financial review 15. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (1) Premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,493,628 843,343 965,820 405,801 522 20 3,709,134 Accumulated depreciation (139,326) (772,529) (326,057) (16) (1,237,928) Net carrying value 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 December 31, 2014 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,514,698 817,559 920,222 374,436 102 20 3,627,037 Accumulated depreciation (111,035) (710,634) (304,251) (15) (1,125,935) Net carrying value 1,514,698 706,524 209,588 70,185 102 5 2,501,102 (2) Changes in premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,514,698 706,524 209,588 70,185 102 5 2,501,102 Acquisition 2,628 21,127 69,230 35,304 757 129,046 Disposal (10,780) (648) (847) (2,000) (313) (14,588) Depreciation (24,846) (85,279) (36,740) (1) (146,866) Classified to assets held for sale (5,109) (8,348) (13,457) Foreign currencies translation adjustment (328) (333) 265 515 (19) 100 Transfer (7,481) 9,778 2,297 Others 763 334 12,480 (5) 13,572 Ending balance 1,493,628 704,017 193,291 79,744 522 4 2,471,206 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Properties for Structures in Construction Land Building business use leased office in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,516,364 703,930 255,682 60,429 31 5 2,536,441 Acquisition 1,206 24,950 70,622 30,183 818 127,779 Disposal (4) (31,245) (1,195) (314) (32,758) Depreciation (23,390) (88,873) (26,423) (138,686) Classified to assets held for sale (2,019) (4,819) (66) (6,904) Foreign currencies translation adjustment 46 39 197 410 (439) 253 Acquisition through business combination 10,719 9,880 3,081 196 6 23,882 Transfer (11,614) (10,146) (21,760) Others 6,080 190 6,585 12,855 Ending balance 1,514,698 706,524 209,588 70,185 102 5 2,501,102 66 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 154 Financial review 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL (1) Intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Industrial Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Acquisition cost 103,525 170,709 651 193,020 605,821 30,024 1,103,750 Accumulated amortization (132,538) (307) (141,663) (400,714) (675,222) Accumulated impairment losses (3,338) (5,384) (8,722) Net carrying value 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 December 31, 2014 Industrial Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Acquisition cost 107,541 163,675 554 180,983 409,972 27,366 890,091 Accumulated amortization (115,854) (226) (125,646) (346,402) (588,128) Accumulated impairment losses (2,763) (3,472) (6,235) Net carrying value 107,541 47,821 328 55,337 60,807 23,894 295,728 (2) Changes in intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Industrial Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Beginning balance 107,541 47,821 328 55,337 60,807 23,894 295,728 Acquisition 7,347 96 16,751 196,139 2,510 222,843 Disposal (189) (1,500) (12) (1,701) Amortization (16,809) (81) (19,233) (53,969) (90,092) Impairment loss (9) (1,911) (1,920) Foreign currencies translation adjustment (4,016) 1 1 2 (476) 147 (4,341) Others (711) (711) Ending balance 103,525 38,171 344 51,357 201,769 24,640 419,806 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Industrial Development Membership Goodwill Software rights cost Others deposit Total Beginning balance 55,298 287 90,429 101,600 21,312 268,926 Acquisition 1,418 20,418 101 29,990 17,809 1,925 71,661 Disposal (10,839) (36,092) (38,564) (114) (85,609) Amortization (16,923) (72) (21,167) (47,051) (85,213) Impairment loss 127 (1,900) (1,773) Foreign currencies translation adjustment 63 1 9 80 153 Classified into disposal group held for sale (133) (976) (1,109) Acquisition through business combination 106,060 25,719 131,779 Others 12 (6,848) 1,158 2,591 (3,087) Ending balance 107,541 47,821 328 55,337 60,807 23,894 295,728 17. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Assets held for sale recognized are 17,904 million Won and 8,013 million Won as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 67 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 155 Financial review 18. ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN AND ASSETS ACQUIRED THROUGH FORECLOSURES (1) Assets subjected to lien are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Due from banks Korea Securities Investment and Margin deposit for future or others 483,298 option and others Financial assets at Financial institutions debt FVTPL Yuanta Securities Co., securities and others AFS financial assets Ltd. and others 220,897 Substitute securities Korean treasury and government agencies Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Related to bonds sold under bonds Argentaria 603,274 repurchase agreements (*) Financial institutions debt securities and others The BOK and others 3,595,581 Settlement risk and others HTM financial assets Korean treasury and government agencies Nomura Securities Co., Related to bonds sold under bonds Ltd. and others 139,340 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and government agencies bonds and others The BOK and others 4,657,667 Settlement risk and others Land and building Credit Counselling & Recovery Service 6,468 Leasehold rights and others Total 9,706,525 December 31, 2014 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Due from banks Korea Investment Margin deposit for future or Securities Co., Ltd. option and others and others 105,521 Financial assets at Industrial and financial Kiwoom Asset FVTPL debt securities and Management Co., Related to bonds sold under others Ltd. and others 9,851 repurchase agreements (*) KDB Daewoo Financial institutions debt Securities Co., Ltd. securities and others and others 309,213 Collaterals for customer RP AFS financial assets Korean treasury and government agencies Banco Bilbao Vizcaya 926,796 Related to bonds sold under bonds Argenaria repurchase agreements (*) Financial institutions debt The Bank of Korea and securities and others others 2,064,586 Settlement risk and others HTM financial assets Korean treasury and government agencies Nomura Securities Co., Related to bonds sold under bonds Ltd. and others 660,212 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and government agencies The Bank of Korea and bonds and others others 3,054,173 Settlement risk and others Land and building Credit Counselling & Recovery Service 8,928 Leasehold rights and others Total 7,139,280 (*) The Group enters into the repurchase agreements at predetermined price or original sale price added with certain rate of return after the disposal of securities. In this regards, the securities are provided as collaterals, and the purchasers are eligible to dispose or provide them as collateral. Therefore, as such securities have been transferred but have not been derecognized, the Group recognizes the relevant amount as liability (bond sold under repurchase agreements). 68 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 156 Financial review (2) The carrying amounts of buildings acquired through foreclosure are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Land 28 189 Building 596 (3) Loaned securities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Loaned to Financial assets Samsung Securities Co., at FVTPL Equity securities-listed stock 10,313 14,737 Ltd. and others AFS financial Korean treasury and Korea Securities assets government agencies bonds 720,010 686,096 Depository Total 730,323 700,833 Securities loaned are lending of specific securities to borrowers who agree to return the same quantity of the same security at the end of lending period. As the Group does not derecognize these securities, there are no liabilities recognized through such transactions relates to securities loaned. (4) Collaterals held that can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties Fair values of collaterals held can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Fair values of collaterals were Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 7,661,656 December 31, 2014 Fair values of collaterals were Fair values of collaterals disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 6,790,215 69 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 157 Financial review 19. OTHER ASSETS Details of other assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Prepaid expenses 124,080 131,267 Advance payments 1,008 1,097 Non-operative assets 624 189 Others 17,574 12,604 Total 143,286 145,157 20. FINANCIAL LIABILITY AT FVTPL Financial liability at FVTPL is composed of financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated at FVTPL. (1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL consist of as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Financial liabilities held for trading 2,605,699 2,153,782 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL 854,862 521,572 Total 3,460,561 2,675,354 (2) Financial liabilities held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deposits due to Customers: Gold banking liabilities 24,872 13,927 Derivative liabilities 2,580,827 2,139,855 Total 2,605,699 2,153,782 (3) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Equity linked securities index: Equity-linked securities in short position 758,011 362,308 Debentures: Debentures in local currency 96,851 97,590 Debentures in foreign currencies 61,674 Sub-total 96,851 159,264 Total 854,862 521,572 70 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 158 Financial review (4) Credit risk adjustment to financial liabilities designated at FVTPL is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL subject to credit risk adjustments 854,862 521,572 Credit risk adjustments (542) (2,612) Accumulated changes in credit risk adjustments (15,016) (45,561) Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the Group‘s own credit risk when measuring derivative liabilities at fair value. The methodology to determine the adjustment incorporates the Group‘s credit spread as observed through credit ratings. (5) The differences between financial liabilities at FVTPL‘s carrying amount and nominal amount at maturity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Carrying amount 854,862 521,572 Nominal amount at maturity 1,086,365 623,461 Difference (231,503) (101,889) 21. DEPOSITS DUE TO CUSTOMERS Details of deposits due to customers are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deposits in local currency Demand deposits 9,728,839 10,090,772 Time deposits 175,598,522 161,697,250 Mutual funds 40,888 46,072 Deposits on notes payables 687,579 486,356 Deposits on CMA 235,089 276,484 Certificate of deposits 2,435,087 740,090 Other deposits 1,304,348 1,281,595 Sub-total 190,030,352 174,618,619 Deposits in foreign currencies 19,129,214 13,902,989 Present value discount (17,740) (5,143) Total 209,141,826 188,516,465 71 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 159 Financial review 22. BORROWINGS AND DEBENTURES (1) Details of borrowings as are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The BOK The Bank of Korea 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,475,991 Borrowings from government funds Small and Medium Business Corporation and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,535,953 Others The Korea Development Bank and others 0.0 ~ 4.9 4,508,662 Sub-total 7,520,606 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import Bank of Korea 0.0 ~ 4.6 9,733,694 Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Zuercher Kantonalbank 0.3 ~ 0.9 32,947 Sub-total 9,766,641 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 2.6 37,501 Call money Banks 0.0 ~ 5.2 2,039,051 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions 0.8 ~ 4.5 671,629 Present value discount (1,511) Total 20,033,917 December 31, 2014 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The Bank of Korea The Bank of Korea 0.5 ~ 1.0 803,317 Borrowings from government funds Small and Medium Business Corporation and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,680,175 Others The Korea Development Bank and others 0.0 ~ 3.8 4,229,396 Sub-total 6,712,888 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign currencies The Export-Import Bank of Korea 0.0 ~ 3.7 7,921,772 Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Barclays Bank PLC 0.5 17,375 Sub-total 7,939,147 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 2.6 87,692 Call money Banks 0.0 ~ 3.9 1,771,733 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Other financial institutions 1.3 ~ 4.5 1,196,237 Present value discount (102) Total 17,707,595 (2) Debentures are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Interest rate Interest rate (%) Amount (%) Amount Face value of bond Ordinary bonds 0.2 ~ 12.0 16,868,054 0.8 ~ 10.5 18,564,367 Subordinated bonds 3.4 ~ 13.0 5,055,311 3.4 ~ 10.3 6,248,349 Other bonds 17.0 4,006 17.0 51,601 Sub-total 21,927,371 24,864,317 Discounts on bond (28,512) (68,413) Total 21,898,859 24,795,904 (*) the debentures of 3,148,703 million Won and 3,421,176 million Won as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, which are fair value hedged items are included. 72 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 160 Financial review 23. PROVISIONS (1) Details of provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Asset retirement obligation 39,121 29,733 Provision for guarantee (*1) 364,141 509,320 Provision for loan commitments 85,313 90,449 Provision for credit card points 5,445 5,548 Other provisions (*2) 22,581 56,959 Total 516,601 692,009 (*1) Provision for guarantee includes provision for financial guarantee of 139,002 million Won and 159,149 million Won as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (*2) Other provisions consist of provision for litigation, provision for loss recovery, and others. (2) Changes in provisions except for asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Provision for Provision for Provision for loan credit card Other guarantees commitments points provisions Total Beginning balance 509,320 90,449 5,548 56,959 662,276 Provisions provided 19,714 9,801 16,301 51,997 97,813 Provisions used and others (25,262) 41 (16,404) (86,308) (127,933) Reversal of unused amount (160,032) (14,976) (43) (175,051) Others 20,401 (2) (24) 20,375 Ending balance 364,141 85,313 5,445 22,581 477,480 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Provision for Provision for Provision for loan credit card Other guarantees commitments points provisions Total Beginning balance 501,948 123,930 6,441 28,967 661,286 Provisions provided 46,191 2,613 12,507 41,963 103,274 Provisions used and others (38,402) 30 (13,400) (26,208) (77,980) Reversal of unused amount (31,877) (36,158) (68,035) Others 31,460 34 12,237 43,731 Ending balance 509,320 90,449 5,548 56,959 662,276 (3) Changes in asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 29,733 23,513 Provisions provided 1,742 932 Provisions used (1,316) (746) Depreciation 394 519 Reversal of unused amount (179) (143) Increase in restoration costs and others 8,747 5,658 Ending balance 39,121 29,733 73 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 161 Financial review 24. NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY The characteristics of the Group‘s defined benefit plans characteristics are as follows: Employees and directors with one or more years of service are entitled to receive a payment upon termination of their employment, based on their length of service and rate of pay at the time of termination. The assets of the plans are measured at their fair value at the end of reporting date. The plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the plan liabilities. The Group is exposed to various risks through Defined Benefit Retirement Pension Plan, and the most significant risks are as follows: Volatility of asset The defined benefit obligation was estimated with an interest rate calculated based on the yield of high quality corporate bonds. A deficit may occur if the rate of return of plan assets falls short of the interest rate. Decrease in profitability of high A decrease in profitability of high quality corporate bonds will be quality corporate bonds offset by some increase in the value of debt securities that the employee benefit plan owns but will bring an increase in the defined benefit liabilities. Risk of inflation Defined benefit obligations are related to inflation rate; the higher the inflation rate is, the higher the level of liabilities. Therefore, deficit occurs in the system if an inflation rate increases. (1) Details of net defined benefit liability are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Defined benefit obligation 901,219 683,961 Fair value of plan assets (801,528) (608,370) Net defined benefit liability 99,691 75,591 (2) Changes in the carrying value of defined benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 683,961 509,849 Current service cost 132,710 118,651 Interest cost 21,377 20,016 Remeasurements 97,730 72,990 Foreign currencies translation adjustments (8) (133) Retirement benefit paid (26,516) (32,422) Curtailment or settlement (8,231) (5,570) Others 196 580 Ending balance 901,219 683,961 74 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 162 Financial review (3) Changes in the plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 608,370 438,247 Interest income 21,965 20,804 Remeasurements (5,444) (5,504) Employer‘s contributions 229,069 184,141 Retirement benefit paid (22,860) (22,849) Curtailment or settlement (8,240) (5,525) Others (21,332) (944) Ending balance 801,528 608,370 (4) Plan assets wholly consist of time deposits as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Among plan assets, realized returns on plan assets amount to 16,521 million Won and 15,300 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (5) Current service cost, net interest expense, past service cost, loss on the curtailment or settlement and remeasurements recognized in the consolidated statements of net income and total comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Current service cost 132,710 118,651 Net interest expense (income) (588) (788) Loss on the curtailment or settlement 9 (45) Cost recognized in net income 132,131 117,818 Remeasurements 103,174 78,494 Cost recognized in total comprehensive income 235,305 196,312 Retirement benefit service costs related to defined contribution plans are recognized 3,623 million Won and 3,543 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. (6) Key actuarial assumptions used in defined benefit liability assessment are as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Discount rate 2.83% 3.29% Future wage growth rate 6.35% 5.74% Mortality rate Issued by Korea Insurance Issued by Korea Insurance Development Institute Development Institute Retirement rate Experience rate for each Experience rate for each employment classification employment classification (7) The sensitivity to actuarial assumptions used in the assessment of defined benefit obligation is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Defined benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Discount rate Increase by 1% point (101,026) (66,278) Decrease by 1% point 118,879 76,296 Future wage growth rate Increase by 1% point 117,975 76,040 Decrease by 1% point (101,900) (67,267) 75 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 163 Financial review 25. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities and other liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Other financial liabilities: Accounts payable 5,586,031 4,532,101 Accrued expenses 1,901,204 2,343,332 Borrowings from trust accounts 4,476,396 3,475,353 Agency business revenue 415,776 433,594 Foreign exchange payables 708,267 375,059 Domestic exchange payables 2,082,472 3,386,529 Other miscellaneous financial liabilities 1,795,256 2,345,433 Present value discount (1,196) (1,714) Sub-total 16,964,206 16,889,687 Other liabilities: Unearned income 171,649 164,431 Other miscellaneous liabilities 133,525 226,239 Sub-total 305,174 390,670 Total 17,269,380 17,280,357 26. DERIVATIVES (1) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 Assets Liabilities Nominal Fair value amount hedge For trading For trading Interest rate: Interest rate swap 111,633,234 180,378 923,712 959,347 Long interest rate options 881,679 13,961 Short interest rate options 1,086,679 15,164 Currency: Currency futures 423,877 Currency forwards 56,298,910 759,838 475,646 Currency swaps 27,070,835 617,777 949,921 Long currency option 1,657,911 63,498 Short currency option 1,366,459 13,530 Stock: Stock futures 169,785 Stock swaps 10,000 6 Long index option 682,358 2,750 444 Short index option 2,410,815 155,386 Others: Other futures 1,100 Other forward 125 39 Other swaps 78,882 5,363 4,781 Long option 41,097 5,904 Short option 142,259 7,007 Total 203,956,005 183,128 2,390,497 2,580,827 76 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 164 Financial review December 31, 2014 Assets Liabilities Nominal Fair value amount hedge For trading For trading Interest rate: Interest rate futures 21,640 Interest rate swap 106,014,214 182,990 1,097,849 1,140,917 Long interest rate options 1,658,180 11,985 Short interest rate options 1,788,180 10,638 Currency: Currency futures 382,577 Currency forwards 40,078,267 415,209 342,778 Currency swaps 20,902,464 504,858 572,985 Long currency option 1,433,050 45,617 Short currency option 1,614,028 18,176 Stock: Stock futures 46,400 Stock swaps 10,000 522 Long index option 352,943 13,071 1,070 Short index option 767,978 19,916 Others: Other futures 592 Other swaps 53,035 4,481 4,468 Long option 249,081 29,876 Short option 261,883 29,977 Total 175,634,512 196,061 2,111,467 2,139,855 Derivatives held for trading purpose are classified into financial assets or liabilities at FVTPL (see Notes 7 and 20) and derivatives for hedging are stated as a separate line item in the consolidated statements of financial position. (2) Gains or losses from valuation of financial instruments under hedge accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Losses from hedged items (31,297) (64,158) Gains from hedging instruments 38,021 63,442 27. DEFERRED DAY 1 PROFIT OR LOSS Changes in details of deferred day 1 profits or losses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 13,499 6,256 Acquisitions 26,762 13,367 Amounts recognized in profits or losses (12,253) (6,124) Ending balance 28,008 13,499 In case some variables to measure fair values of financial instruments were not observable or available in the market, valuation techniques were utilized to evaluate such financial instruments. Those financial instruments were recorded at the fair value produced by the valuation techniques as at the time of acquisition, even though there were difference noted between the transaction price and the fair value. The table above presents the difference yet to be realized as profit or losses. 77 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 165 Financial review 28. CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL SURPLUS (1) The number of authorized shares and others are as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Authorized shares of common stock 5,000,000,000 Shares 5,000,000,000 Shares Par value 5,000 Won 5,000 Won Issued shares of common stock 676,000,000 Shares 676,278,371 Shares Capital stock 3,381,392 million 3,381,392 million Won Won (2) Changes in numbers of issued shares of common stock are as follows (Unit: Shares): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Beginning balance 676,278,371 806,015,340 Changes due to the Merger (129,736,969) Retirement of treasury stock (278,371) Ending balance 676,000,000 676,278,371 (3) Details of capital surplus are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Capital in excess of par value 269,533 269,533 Other capital surplus 24,726 21,533 Total 294,259 291,066 29. HYBRID SECURITIES The bond-type hybrid securities classified as owner‘s equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Annual interest December December Issuance date Maturity rate (%) 31, 2015 31, 2014 Local currency June 20, 2008 June 20, 2038 7.7 255,000 255,000 November 22, 2011 November 22, 2041 5.9 310,000 310,000 March 8, 2012 March 8, 2042 5.8 190,000 190,000 April 25, 2013 April 25, 2043 4.4 500,000 500,000 November13, 2013 November 13, 2043 5.7 200,000 200,000 December 12, 2014 December 12, 2044 5.2 160,000 160,000 June 3, 2015 June 3, 2045 4.4 240,000 Foreign currency May 2, 2007 May 2, 2037 6.2 930,900 930,900 June 10, 2015 June 10, 2045 5.0 559,650 Issuance cost (11,548) (7,077) Total 3,334,002 2,538,823 With respect to the hybrid securities issued, the contractual agreements allow the Group to indefinitely extend the maturity date and defer the payment of interest. If the Group makes a resolution not to pay dividends on common stock, and then, the Group is exonerated from interest payment on the hybrid securities. 78 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 166 Financial review 30. OTHER EQUITY (1) Details of other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets 374,685 300,994 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates 6,074 2,779 Loss on foreign currencies translation of foreign operations (70,789) (107,721) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (197,579) (119,375) Cash flow hedges (10,371) (10,371) Sub-total 102,020 66,306 Treasury shares(*) (34,113) (37,594) Other capital adjustments (1,615,210) (2,421,850) Total (1,547,303) (2,393,138) (*) The Group succeeded to the rights of treasury shares the former Woori Finance Holdings Co.,Ltd held as the merger with Woori Finance Holdings Co.,Ltd for the year ended December 31, 2014, and 3,481 million Won was retired for the year ended December 31, 2015. (2) Changes in the accumulated other comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Increase ReBeginning (decrease) on classification Income tax Ending balance valuation(*) adjustments(*) effect balance Gain (loss) on available-forsale financial assets 300,994 190,842 (101,439) (15,712) 374,685 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures and associates 2,779 4,409 (1,114) 6,074 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (107,721) 49,421 (12,489) (70,789) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (119,375) (102,467) 24,263 (197,579) Cash flow hedges (10,371) (10,371) Total 66,306 142,205 (101,439) (5,052) 102,020 (*) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, increase or decrease represents change due to the valuation during the period, and ―reclassification adjustments‖ explains disposal or recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. 79 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 167 Financial review For the year ended December 31, 2014 Beginning Increase Changes balance (decrease) on Reclassification Income tax due to the Ending (*1) valuation(*2) adjustments(*2) effect Spin-off balance Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 279,398 354,856 (241,216) (27,102) (64,942) 300,994 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures and associates 5,753 (3,464) (244) 734 2,779 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (136,576) 2,186 37,094 (10,425) (107,721) Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (68,408) (81,476) (900) 18,950 12,459 (119,375) Cash flow hedges 7,928 (6,844) (13,671) 2,296 (80) (10,371) Total 88,095 265,258 (218,937) (15,547) (52,563) 66,306 (*1) The accumulated other comprehensive income as of January 1, 2014 included the amounts classified as the disposal group held for sale and the disposal group held for distribution to owners as of December 31, 2013. (*2) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, increase or decrease represents change due to the valuation during the period, and ―reclassification adjustments‖ explains disposal or recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. 31. RETAINED EARNINGS (1) Details of retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Legal reserve Legal reserve 1,528,754 1,463,754 Other legal reserve 43,132 41,472 Sub-total 1,571,886 1,505,226 Voluntary Business rationalization reserve 8,000 8,000 reserve Reserve for financial structure improvement 235,400 235,400 Additional reserve 7,249,104 8,134,544 Regulatory reserve for credit loss 1,756,142 1,800,387 Revaluation reserve 760,366 760,455 Other voluntary reserve 11,700 11,700 Sub-total 10,020,712 10,950,486 Retained earnings before appropriation 2,133,524 1,709,646 Total 13,726,122 14,165,358 i. Legal reserve In accordance with the Banking Act, legal reserve are appropriated at least one tenth of the earnings after tax on every dividend declaration, not exceeding the paid in capital. This reserve may not be used other than for offsetting a deficit or transferring to capital. ii. Other legal reserve Other legal reserves were appropriated in the branches located in Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh according to the banking laws of Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh, and may be used to offset any deficit incurred in those branches. 80 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 168 Financial review iii. Business rationalization reserve Pursuant to the Restriction of Special Taxation Act, the Group was previously required to appropriate, as a reserve for business rationalization, amounts equal to tax reductions arising from tax exemptions and tax credits up to December 31, 2001. The requirement was no longer effective from 2002. iv. Reserve for financial structure improvement From 2002 to 2014, the Finance Supervisory Services recommended banks in Korea to appropriate at least ten percent of net income after accumulated deficit for financial structure improvement, until tangible common equity ratio equals 5.5 percent. But this reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce a deficit or be transferred to capital. The reserve and appropriation is an Autonomous judgment matter of the Group since 2015. v. Additional reserve and other voluntary reserve Additional reserve and other voluntary reserve were appropriated for capital adequacy and other management purpose. vi. Regulatory reserve for credit loss In accordance with Article 29 of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business (―RSBB‖), if provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than provisions under RSBB, the Group discloses such shortfall amount as regulatory reserve for credit loss. vii. Revaluation reserve Revaluation reserve is the amount of limited dividends set by the board of directors to be the recognized as complementary capital when the gain or loss occurred in the property revaluation by adopting K-IFRS. (2) Changes in retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Beginning balance 14,165,358 13,112,690 Net income attributable to owners 1,059,157 1,213,980 Changes due to distribution to owners (110,405) Dividends on common stock (504,952) Dividends on hybrid securities (183,320) (50,129) Appreciation of merger losses (806,640) Retirement of treasury stock (3,481) Others (778) Ending balance 13,726,122 14,165,358 81 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 169 Financial review 32. REGULATORY RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSS In accordance with Paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 29 of the Regulation on the Supervision of Banking Business (―RSBB‖), if the estimated provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than those in accordance with the provisions under the RSBB, the Group shall disclose the difference as the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss. (1) Balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Beginning balance 1,756,142 1,800,387 Planned provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss 499,110 (44,245) Ending balance 2,255,252 1,756,142 (2) Planned reserves provided, adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided and adjusted earnings per share after the planned reserves provided are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for earnings per share amount): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 (*) Net income 1,075,392 1,207,969 Provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss 499,110 (44,245) Adjusted net income after the provision of regulatory reserve 576,282 1,252,214 Adjusted EPS after the provision of regulatory reserve 584 1,512 (*) These are calculated by the beginning balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss of the former Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd.. In the case of using the beginning balance of the Group‘s, the provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss is 505,805 million won, adjusted income after provision of regulatory reserve is 702,164 million won, and adjusted EPS after the provision of regulatory reserve is 746 won. 33. DIVIDENDS The Group is to pay out 168,317 million Won (250 Won per share) as dividend for the year ended December 31, 2015, and it will be reviewed and approved at the shareholders‘ meeting on March 25, 2016. As such, the separate statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 do not incorporate such unpaid dividend. In addition, on July 29, 2015, the board of directors resolved the interim dividend of 250 Won per a common share, which amounted to 168,318 million Won for the shares issued and it was paid during the year ended December 31, 2015. 82 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 170 Financial review 34. NET INTEREST INCOME (1) Interest income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Financial assets at FVTPL 63,143 70,653 AFS financial assets 389,443 359,986 HTM financial assets 418,065 441,626 Loans and receivables: Interest on due from banks 81,117 104,633 Interest on loans 7,700,475 8,183,844 Interest of other receivables 45,992 50,498 Sub-total 7,827,584 8,338,975 Total 8,698,235 9,211,240 (2) Interest expense recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Interest on deposits due to customers 2,888,529 3,450,786 Interest on borrowings 216,743 251,804 Interest on debentures 707,772 885,365 Other interest expense 123,291 130,267 Total 3,936,335 4,718,222 35. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME (1) Fees and commissions income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Fees and commissions received (*) 676,114 641,332 Fees and commissions received for provision of guarantee 78,922 75,997 Fees and commissions received on project financing 15,521 12,717 Fees and commissions received on credit card 852,250 746,811 Fees and commissions received on securities 67,692 61,472 Other fees and commissions received 66,841 59,686 Total 1,757,340 1,598,015 (*) Fees and commissions received include agency commissions, fee income from electronic finance, fee income related to loan, fees for import letter of credit dealing, commission received on foreign exchange and others. (2) Fees and commissions expense incurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Fees paid 133,909 115,480 Credit card commissions 643,524 555,496 Brokerage commissions 615 168 Others 2,496 9,856 Total 780,544 681,000 36. DIVIDEND INCOME 83 Dividend income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank AnnualFor the2015 Report years ended December 31 Dividend from financial assets at FVTPL 171 2015 1,217 2014 3,178 Dividend from AFS financial assets 101,706 93,634 Total 102,923 96,812 For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Fees paid 133,909 115,480 Credit card commissions F i n a n c i a l r643,524 eview 555,496 Brokerage commissions 615 168 Others 2,496 9,856 Total 780,544 681,000 36. DIVIDEND INCOME Dividend income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Dividend from financial assets at FVTPL 1,217 3,178 Dividend from AFS financial assets 101,706 93,634 Total 102,923 96,812 37. GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL (1) Details of gains or losses related to financial assets at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Gains (losses) on financial assets held for trading 171,137 161,851 Gains (losses) of financial assets designated at FVTPL 69,205 28,061 Total 240,342 189,912 (2) Gains (losses) on financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Financial Assets Securities Gain on valuation 7,735 27,122 at FVTPL Gain on disposals 84 32,780 37,158 Loss on valuation (13,663) (19,441) Loss on disposals (22,771) (45,201) Sub-total 4,081 (362) Other financial Gain on valuation 10,195 3,878 assets Gain on disposals 442 763 Loss on valuation (10,189) (4,315) Loss on disposals (208) (509) Sub-total 240 (183) Total of financial assets at FVTPL 4,321 (545) Derivatives Interest rates Gain on transactions (for trading) derivatives and valuation 1,240,353 1,220,496 Loss on transactions and valuation (1,251,673) (1,261,289) Sub-total (11,320) (40,793) Currencies Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 4,241,317 2,681,812 Loss on transactions and valuation (3,987,856) (2,499,395) Sub-total 253,461 182,417 Equity Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 92,400 61,840 Loss on transactions and valuation (166,528) (40,342) Sub-total (74,128) 21,498 Other Gain on transactions derivatives and valuation 54,322 50,883 Loss on transactions and valuation (55,519) (51,609) Sub-total (1,197) (726) Total of derivatives(for trading) 166,816 162,396 Total 171,137 161,851 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 172 Financial review (3) Details of gains or losses on financial assets designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Gain (loss) on equity-linked securities Gain (loss) on disposals of equity-linked securities (22,363) 7,575 Gain on valuation of equity-linked securities 89,863 9,709 Sub-total 67,500 17,284 Gain (loss) on other securities: Loss on disposals of other securities (62) (123) Gain on valuation of other securities 1,027 43 Sub-total 965 (80) Gain(loss) on other financial instruments: Gain on valuation of other financial instruments 740 10,857 Sub-total 740 10,857 Total 69,205 28,061 38. GAINS (LOSSES) ON AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Gains (losses) on AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Gains on redemption of securities 1,089 90 Gains on transaction of securities 130,457 171,747 Impairment losses on securities (134,827) (240,761) Total (3,281) (68,924) 39. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES DUE TO CREDIT LOSS Impairment losses on loans and receivables, guarantees and loan commitment recognized for credit loss are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Impairment losses due to credit loss (1,112,139) (1,116,171) Reversal of provision on (provision provided for) guarantee 140,318 (14,314) Reversal of provision on loan commitment 5,175 33,545 Total (966,646) (1,096,940) 86 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 173 Financial review 40. OTHER NET OPERATING INCOMES (EXPENSES) (1) Administrative expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Employee benefits Short term Salaries 1,262,786 1,196,332 employee benefits Employee benefits 381,283 360,158 Retirement benefit service costs 135,754 121,361 Termination 73,119 70,459 Sub-total 1,852,942 1,748,310 Depreciation and amortization 236,958 223,899 Other general Rent 295,871 266,369 and administrative Taxes and dues 103,580 101,753 expenses Service charges 233,860 215,448 Computer and IT related 100,026 106,386 Telephone and communication 60,880 58,102 Operating promotion 46,638 44,382 Advertising 58,914 51,944 Printing 10,249 10,712 Traveling 9,601 7,702 Supplies 6,822 6,908 Insurance premium 7,236 5,899 Reimbursement 23,779 18,937 Maintenance 14,565 14,050 Water, light and heating 15,205 15,163 Vehicle maintenance 10,400 10,860 Others 62,861 52,095 Sub-total 1,060,487 986,710 Total 3,150,387 2,958,919 (2) Other operating incomes recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Gains on transaction of foreign exchange 3,352,318 1,883,808 Gains on disposal of loans and receivables 186,939 132,846 Gains on transactions of derivatives 59,003 84,533 Gains on fair value hedged items 25,235 23,318 Others (*) 158,806 132,666 Total 3,782,301 2,257,171 (*) Other income includes such incomes amounting to 137,187 million Won and 102,541 million Won for the year ended December, 2015 and 2014, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to receive from other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. (3) Other operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Losses on transaction of foreign exchange 3,429,638 1,902,316 KDIC deposit insurance fees 266,031 259,140 Contribution to miscellaneous funds 343,703 338,386 Losses on disposal of loans and receivables 43,266 30,480 Losses related to derivatives 20,982 21,091 Losses on fair value hedged items 56,532 87,476 Others (*) 232,210 292,548 Total 4,392,362 2,931,437 (*) Other expense includes such expenses amounting to 154,897 million Won and 218,072 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to carry out a payment to other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. 87 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 174 Financial review 41. OTHER NON-OPERATING INCOMES (EXPENSES) (1) Details of gain or loss on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Gain on valuation 41,363 37,427 Loss on valuation (55,176) (70,008) Impairment loss (56,311) (35,399) Total (70,124) (67,980) (2) Other non-operating incomes and expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Other non-operating incomes 272,610 134,355 Other non-operating expenses (102,126) (129,688) Total 170,484 4,667 (3) Other non-operating incomes recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Rental fee income 8,225 8,058 Gains on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 61,653 31,414 Gains on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 6,814 1,398 Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment and other assets 539 533 Others(*) 195,379 92,952 Total 272,610 134,355 (*) Other income includes such incomes amounting to 132,784 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2015 that the Group received in accordance with the final irrevocable verdict for the payment of commitment (Note 44). (4) Other non-operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Depreciation on investment properties 3,806 4,016 Interest expenses of rent leasehold deposits 688 1,026 Losses on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 10 1,765 Losses on disposal of premises and equipment and other assets 2,707 1,709 Impairment losses on premises and equipment and other assets 2,990 2,226 Donation 46,266 52,770 Others 45,659 66,176 Total 102,126 129,688 88 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 175 Financial review 42. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (1) Income tax expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Current tax expense Current tax expense in respect of the current year 362,552 514,819 Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods (27,038) (3,750) Sub-total 335,514 511,069 Deferred tax expense Deferred tax expense (benefit) relating to the origination and reversal of temporary differences 44,884 (665,974) Deferred tax charged directly to equity (3,844) 8,923 Sub-total 41,040 (657,051) Income tax expense (benefit) 376,554 (145,980) Income tax expense for continuing operations 376,554 288,195 Income tax expense (benefit) for discontinued operations (434,175) (2) Income tax expense can be reconciled to net income before income tax expense as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Net income before income tax expense 1,451,946 1,061,988 Income from continuing operations before income tax 1,451,946 834,395 Income from discontinued operations before income tax 227,593 Tax calculated at statutory tax rate (*1) 350,909 256,540 Adjustments Effect of income that is exempt from taxation (56,247) (45,528) Effect of expense not deductible in determining taxable profit 50,152 342,057 Temporary differences due to investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures (*2) (606,908) Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods (27,038) (3,750) Others 58,778 (88,391) Sub-total 25,645 (402,520) Income tax expense (benefit) 376,554 (145,980) Income tax expense for continuing operations 376,554 288,195 Income tax expense (benefit) for discontinued operations (434,175) Effective tax rate Effective tax rate for continuing operations 25.93% 34.54% Effective tax rate for discontinued operations (*3) (*1) The applicable income tax rate; 1) 11% for below 200 million Won, 2) 22% for from 200 million Won to 20 billion Won, 3) 24.2% for above 20 billion Won. (*2) Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. was exempted from payment of sales tax in relation with the spin-off of Kyongnam Bank Co., Ltd. and Kwangju Bank Co., Ltd. in accordance with the Restriction of Special Taxation Act as amended on March 14, 2014. Thus, deferred tax liabilities recognized in 2013 reversed. (*3) The effective tax rate was not calculated since the income tax expense was negative. 89 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 176 Financial review (3) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2015 Recognized as other Beginning Recognized as comprehensive Ending balance income (loss) income (loss) balance Gain on financial assets at FVTPL 422,910 22,819 445,729 Gain (loss) on AFS financial assets (105,556) 94 (16,074) (121,536) Gain (loss) on valuation using the equity method of accounting 21,156 (14,936) (1,114) 5,106 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (48,438) 8,664 (39,774) Accrued income (75,094) (7,054) (82,148) Provision for loan losses (59,428) 8,924 (50,504) Loan and receivables written off 6,921 47,304 54,225 Loan origination costs and fees (88,476) (15,436) (103,912) Defined benefit liability 151,666 26,912 24,845 203,423 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (135,474) (51,570) (187,044) Provision for guarantee 84,530 (15,305) 69,225 Other provision 37,029 (9,131) 27,898 Others 24,355 (42,324) (11,501) (29,470) Net deferred tax assets 236,101 (41,039) (3,844) 191,218 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Recognized as Beginning other balance Merge and Recognized as comprehensive Ending (*) Spin-off income (loss) income (loss) balance Gain on financial assets at FVTPL 232,727 190,183 422,910 Loss on AFS financial assets (76,852) (6,293) (22,411) (105,556) Gain (loss) on valuation using the equity method of accounting 121,906 (101,725) 975 21,156 Loss on valuation of derivatives (37,264) (11,174) (48,438) Accrued income (65,697) (9,397) (75,094) Provision for loan losses (69,615) 10,187 (59,428) Loan and receivables written off 10,195 (3,274) 6,921 Loan origination costs and fees (71,812) (16,664) (88,476) Defined benefit liability 107,498 24,898 19,270 151,666 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (99,906) (35,573) 5 (135,474) Provision for guarantee 91,404 (6,874) 84,530 Other provision 38,795 (1,766) 37,029 Investments in joint ventures and associates Others (75,228) (3,757) 115,766 (12,426) 24,355 Assets as held for sale / Disposal group held for distribution to owners (542,643) 10,376 508,757 23,510 Net deferred tax assets (436,492) 6,619 657,051 8,923 236,101 (*) The beginning balance incorporates the deferred tax assets (liabilities) from subsidiaries that were reclassified into disposal group held for sale and disposal groups held for distribution to owners as of December 31, 2013. (4) Unrealizable temporary differences are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deductible temporary differences 224,452 174,200 Unused tax losses 233,687 283,523 Taxable temporary differences (740,860) (736,048) Total (282,721) (278,325) 90 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 177 Financial review (5) Deferred tax charged direct to equity is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets (112,495) (96,421) Share of other comprehensive loss of jointly controlled entities and associates (387) 782 Gain on foreign operations translation 22,923 34,424 Remeasurements 62,575 37,674 Total (27,384) (23,541) (6) Current tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Current tax assets 6,782 4,845 Current tax liabilities 108,943 298,762 (7) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Deferred tax assets 210,597 257,858 Deferred tax liabilities 19,379 21,757 Net deferred tax assets 191,218 236,101 43. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”) Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by weighted average number of common shares outstanding (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for EPS and number of shares): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Net income attributable to common shareholders 1,059,157 1,213,980 Dividends to hybrid securities (183,320) (50,129) Net income attributable to common shareholders 875,837 1,163,851 Net income from continuing operations 875,837 385,160 Net income from discontinued operations 778,691 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 673 million shares 718 million shares Basic Earnings Per Share 1,301 1,621 Basic Earnings Per Share for continuing operations 1,301 536 Basic Earnings Per Share for discontinued operations 1,085 Diluted EPS is equal to basic EPS because there is no dilution effect for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. 91 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 178 Financial review 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (1) Details of guarantees are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Confirmed guarantees Guarantee for loans 108,176 109,213 Acceptances 618,365 710,443 Letters of guarantees 100,084 126,279 Other confirmed guarantees 8,242,622 8,328,515 Total 9,069,247 9,274,450 Unconfirmed guarantees Local letter of credit 422,812 575,919 Letter of credit 4,258,672 4,373,378 Other unconfirmed guarantees 1,949,571 1,590,332 Total 6,631,055 6,539,629 CP purchase commitments and others 1,615,141 2,213,840 (2) Details of loan commitments and others are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Loan commitments 88,211,580 89,637,659 Other commitments 5,371,320 4,061,230 (3) Litigation case 1) The Group had filed and faced lawsuits as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for number of cases): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 As plaintiff As defendant As plaintiff As defendant Number of cases 130 cases 269 cases 516 cases 298 cases Amount of litigation 350,899 190,219 827,222 293,527 Allowance for litigations 4,872 16,343 2) Prior to December 31, 2015, the Group (Woori Bank), along with other 13 financial institutions including the Seoul Guarantee Insurance, filed a lawsuit against Samsung Group and its associates as a defendant in respect to the return of the fund that was guaranteed for the filing of court administration of Samsung Motors. With respect to the lawsuit, on January 29, 2015, the Supreme Court of Korea made the final judgment that the plaintiff should pay the guaranteed funds to the Group and other financial institutions. The Group recognized 132,784 million Won, as gain for the year ended December 31, 2015, in accordance with K-IFRS 1037 – Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets. (4) Other The Group operates Korean Won currency settlement service as for commercial trade settlements between Korea and Iran. In accordance with the submission request of information from U.S. prosecutors (U.S. Federal Prosecutors and Prosecutors of the New York State), the Group is currently performing its own internal investigation to confirm if the Group is meeting the requirements on sanction of U.S. Government in respect of its service operation. As at the end of December 31, 2015, the Group believes that it cannot make reasonable estimation due to possible results from such investigation. 92 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 179 Financial review 45. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related parties of the Group and assets and liabilities recognized and major transactions with related parties during the current and prior periods are as follows: (1) Related parties Related parties Controlling party KDIC (Government related entity) Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Holdings Associates Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund 1st, Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd., Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd., Kumho Tires Co., Inc., United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability, Chin Hung International Inc., Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., Hana Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd., STX Engine Co., Ltd., Samho International Co., Ltd., Force TEC Co., Ltd., Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund, STX Corporation, Osung LST Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd., Sjco Co., Ltd., Ilyang Construction Co., Ltd., G2 Collection Co., Ltd. and Saman Corporation (2) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, Related party A title of account 2015 2014 Controlling party KDIC Loans 30 314 (Government related Allowance for credit loss (108) entity) Other assets 510,193 691,101 Deposits 930,231 1,157,232 Other liabilities 9,812 12,252 Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Other assets Holdings 2,416 Associates Kumho Tires Co., Ltd. Loans 280,333 334,948 Allowance for credit loss (553) (2,968) Deposits 67,815 80,978 Other liabilities 116 87 Korea Credit Bureau Loans 7 2 Co., Ltd. Deposits 9,038 3,215 Other liabilities 54 19 Korea Finance Security Loans 51 46 Co., Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (1) Deposits 1,468 2,738 Other liabilities 7 12 Woori Service Networks Loans 27 26 Co., Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (1) Deposits 3,821 3,169 Other liabilities 381 115 United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability Deposits 20 30 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund 1st Other assets 175 626 Other liabilities 934 93 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 180 Financial review 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (1) Details of guarantees are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Confirmed guarantees Guarantee for loans 108,176 109,213 Acceptances 618,365 710,443 Letters of guarantees 100,084 126,279 Other confirmed guarantees 8,242,622 8,328,515 Total 9,069,247 9,274,450 Unconfirmed guarantees Local letter of credit 422,812 575,919 Letter of credit 4,258,672 4,373,378 Other unconfirmed guarantees 1,949,571 1,590,332 Total 6,631,055 6,539,629 CP purchase commitments and others 1,615,141 2,213,840 (2) Details of loan commitments and others are as follow (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Loan commitments 88,211,580 89,637,659 Other commitments 5,371,320 4,061,230 (3) Litigation case 1) The Group had filed and faced lawsuits as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for number of cases): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 As plaintiff As defendant As plaintiff As defendant Number of cases 130 cases 269 cases 516 cases 298 cases Amount of litigation 350,899 190,219 827,222 293,527 Allowance for litigations 4,872 16,343 2) Prior to December 31, 2015, the Group (Woori Bank), along with other 13 financial institutions including the Seoul Guarantee Insurance, filed a lawsuit against Samsung Group and its associates as a defendant in respect to the return of the fund that was guaranteed for the filing of court administration of Samsung Motors. With respect to the lawsuit, on January 29, 2015, the Supreme Court of Korea made the final judgment that the plaintiff should pay the guaranteed funds to the Group and other financial institutions. The Group recognized 132,784 million Won, as gain for the year ended December 31, 2015, in accordance with K-IFRS 1037 – Provisions, Contingent liabilities and Contingent assets. (4) Other The Group operates Korean Won currency settlement service as for commercial trade settlements between Korea and Iran. In accordance with the submission request of information from U.S. prosecutors (U.S. Federal Prosecutors and Prosecutors of the New York State), the Group is currently performing its own internal investigation to confirm if the Group is meeting the requirements on sanction of U.S. Government in respect of its service operation. As at the end of December 31, 2015, the Group believes that it cannot make reasonable estimation due to possible results from such investigation. 92 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 181 Financial review 45. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related parties of the Group and assets and liabilities recognized and major transactions with related parties during the current and prior periods are as follows: (1) Related parties Related parties Controlling party KDIC (Government related entity) Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Holdings Associates Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund 1st, Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd., Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd., Kumho Tires Co., Inc., United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability, Chin Hung International Inc., Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd., Hana Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd., STX Engine Co., Ltd., Samho International Co., Ltd., Force TEC Co., Ltd., Woori Columbus 1st Private Equity Fund, STX Corporation, Osung LST Co., Ltd., Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd., Sjco Co., Ltd., Ilyang Construction Co., Ltd., G2 Collection Co., Ltd. and Saman Corporation (2) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, Related party A title of account 2015 2014 Controlling party KDIC Loans 30 314 (Government related Allowance for credit loss (108) entity) Other assets 510,193 691,101 Deposits 930,231 1,157,232 Other liabilities 9,812 12,252 Joint ventures Woori Renaissance Other assets Holdings 2,416 Associates Kumho Tires Co., Ltd. Loans 280,333 334,948 Allowance for credit loss (553) (2,968) Deposits 67,815 80,978 Other liabilities 116 87 Korea Credit Bureau Loans 7 2 Co., Ltd. Deposits 9,038 3,215 Other liabilities 54 19 Korea Finance Security Loans 51 46 Co., Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (1) Deposits 1,468 2,738 Other liabilities 7 12 Woori Service Networks Loans 27 26 Co., Ltd. Allowance for credit loss (1) Deposits 3,821 3,169 Other liabilities 381 115 United PF 1st Corporate Financial Stability Deposits 20 30 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund 1st Other assets 175 626 Other liabilities 934 93 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 182 Financial review For the years ended December 31 Related party A title of account 2015 2014 Associates Force TEC C Co., Ltd. Interest income 249 1,157 Interest expenses 3 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of impairment losses due to credit loss) 5,900 (25,532) Hana Engineering & Reversal of impairment Construction Co., Ltd. losses due to credit loss (98) STX Engine Co., Ltd. Interest income 1,358 2,982 Fees income 67 81 Interest expenses 46 48 Impairment losses due to credit loss 20,524 13,787 STX Corporation Interest income 1,729 2,056 Fees income 89 Interest expenses 6 6 Reversal of impairment losses due to credit loss (4,060) (146,680) Osung LST Co. ,Ltd. Interest income 226 527 Interest expenses 16 31 Reversal of impairment losses due to credit loss (223) (4,819) Ilyang Construction Impairment losses due to Co., Ltd. credit loss 215 (*1) As the subsidiary sold shares of Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. during the year ended December 31, 2015, it is excluded from the related party. (*2) As the Group sold shares of Ansang Tech Co., Ltd. during the year ended December 31, 2015 it is excluded from the related parties. 96 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 183 Financial review (4) Guarantees provided to the related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 KDIC 1,500,470 1,500,386 Loan commitment Kumho Tires Co., Inc. 11,623 18,110 Letter of credit 143,756 88,638 Loan commitment Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 209 214 Loan commitment Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 28 33 Loan commitment Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 173 179 Loan commitment Chin Hung International Inc. 40,847 40,630 Loan commitment Phoenix Digital Tech Co., Ltd. 261 Loan commitment STX Engine Co., Ltd. 74,135 81,431 Letter of credit 13,019 4,600 Loan commitment SamHo Co., Ltd. 2,360 Letter of credit 28,976 27,299 Loan commitment Force TEC Co., Ltd. 5,954 6,325 Loan commitment STX corporation 23,235 30,062 Letter of credit and others 9,131 13,009 Loan commitment (*) For the guarantee provided to the related parties, the Group recognized provisions for guarantees amounting to 10,122 million Won and 2,170 million Won, respectively, as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. (5) Compensation for key management is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Short term benefits 6,421 11,542 Severance payments 312 464 Total 6,733 12,006 Key management includes registered executives and non-registered executives. Outstanding assets and liabilities from transactions with key management amount to 747 million Won and 2,712 million Won, respectively, as of December 31, 2015. With respect to the assets, the Group has not recognized any allowance, nor provision. 97 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 184 Financial review 46. TRUST ACCOUNTS (1) Trust accounts of the Group are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Total assets Operating income December 31, December 31, For the year ended For the year ended 2015 2014 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Trust accounts 34,135,580 31,225,968 784,155 751,425 (2) Receivables and payables from the transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Receivables Trust fees receivables 18,704 17,956 Payables Borrowings from trust accounts 3,794,847 2,949,097 (3) Significant transactions between the Group and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2015 2014 Revenue Trust fees 51,322 41,829 Expense Interest expenses on borrowings from trust accounts 60,329 78,114 (4) Principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts. 1) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the carrying value of principal guaranteed trusts and principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Principal guaranteed trusts Old-age pension trusts 5,235 5,619 Personal pension trusts 523,544 528,680 Pension trusts 681,868 640,275 Retirement trusts 64,921 75,847 New personal pension trusts 8,540 8,897 New old-age pension trusts 3,376 3,859 Sub-total 1,287,484 1,263,177 Principal and fixed rate of return guaranteed trusts Development trusts 19 19 Unspecified money trusts 782 857 Sub-total 801 876 Total 1,288,285 1,264,053 98 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 185 Financial review 2) As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the amounts that the Group has to pay by the capital guaranteed contract or the operating results of the principal and return guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Liabilities for the bank account (subsidy for trust account adjustment) 26 15 47. DISPOSAL GROUP HELD FOR SALE AND NET LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (1) Summary In accordance with Public Funds Oversight Committee‘s plan of the privatization of Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. on June 26, 2013, the Group reclassified the related assets and liabilities of Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd, Woori Financial Co., Ltd., Woori F&I Co., Ltd., the Woori Asset Management Co., Ltd., Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and Woori Savings Bank into a disposal group held at the sale and presented the related gains or losses as net income (loss) from discontinued operations as of the end of 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Group completed the disposals of aforementioned subsidiaries (see note 49). (2) Details of discontinued operations are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2014 I. Operating income 17,616 Net interest income 237,229 Interest income 391,617 Interest expenses (154,388) Net fees and commissions income 117,373 Fees and commissions income 152,184 Fees and commissions expenses (34,811) Dividend income 24,721 Net loss on financial instruments at FVTPL (32,104) Net loss on AFS financial assets (19,146) Impairment losses on credit loss (23,753) Other net operating expenses (286,704) II. Non-operating loss (3,120) Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 616 Other non-operating expenses (3,736) III. Net income before income tax expense 14,496 IV. Income tax expense (117,879) V. Sub-total (103,383) VI. Impairment of assets held-for-sale (7,469) VII. Income tax benefits for impairment 2,020 VIII. Gain on disposal of assets held-for-sale 113,012 IX. Income tax expense for gain on disposal (26,667) X. Loss from discontinued operations (22,487) (3) Details of cash flows in discontinued operations are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2014 Cash flows from operating activities: 326,023 Cash flows from investing activities: (258,244) Cash flows from financing activities: 143,289 99 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 186 Financial review (4) For the year ended December 31, 2014, the Group disposed of Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd., Woori Financial Co., Ltd., Woori F&I Co., Ltd., Woori Asset Management Co., Ltd., Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and Woori Savings Bank. The book values of net assets disposed are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of December 31, 2014 Assets: Cash and cash equivalents 560,034 Financial assets at FVTPL 21,838,589 AFS financial assets 1,588,066 HTM financial assets 3,032 Loans and receivables 14,244,435 Investments in joint ventures and associates 127,606 Other assets 774,759 Total 39,136,521 Liabilities: Financial liabilities at FVTPL 12,767,119 Deposits due to customers 2,011,292 Borrowings 13,346,342 Debentures 4,031,716 Other financial liabilities 3,169,551 Other liabilities 182,109 Total 35,508,129 Net-asset 3,628,392 Non-controlling interests 1,987,786 Gain on disposal of disposal group held-for-sale 113,012 Total amount of cash consideration 1,753,618 Cash and cash equivalents of the subsidiaries disposed (560,034) Net cash flow due to the disposal of the subsidiaries 1,193,584 100 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 187 Financial review 48. DISPOSAL GROUP HELD FOR DISTRIBUTION TO OWNERS AND NET INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (1) Summary In accordance with the Public Funds Oversight Committee‘s plan of the privatization of Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. on June 26, 2013, the Board of Directors of the Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. approved the plan of demerger of Kyongnam Bank Co., Ltd. and Kwangju Bank Co., Ltd. on August 27, 2013. The demerger was to take place through distributing of the shares of newly established holding companies, which were receiving the shares in Kyongnam Bank Co., Ltd. and Kwangju Bank Co., Ltd., to the shareholders of the Woori Finance Holdings. Therefore, the Group classified the related assets and liabilities of Kyongnam Bank Co., Ltd. and Kwangju Bank Co., Ltd. into a disposal group held for distribution to owners presented the related gains or losses as net income (loss) from discontinued operations as of the end of 2013. On May 1, 2014, Kyongnam Bank and Kwangju Bank were demerged in accordance with the plan (See Note 49). Details of discontinued operations are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2014 I. Operating income 108,896 Net interest income 348,396 Interest income 683,075 Interest expenses (334,679) Net fees and commissions income 53,182 Fees and commissions income 77,030 Fees and commissions expenses (23,848) Dividend income 13,595 Net gain on financial instruments at FVTPL 22,119 Net loss on AFS financial assets (5,569) Impairment losses on credit loss (81,459) Other net operating expenses (241,368) II. Non-operating loss (1,342) Share of profits of joint ventures and associates Other non-operating expenses (1,342) III. Net income before income tax expense 107,554 IV. Income tax benefit 576,701 V. Income from discontinued operations 684,255 (2) Details of cash flows in discontinued operations are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2014 Cash flows from operating activities: 457,097 Cash flows from investing activities: 300,385 Cash flows from financing activities: (754,823) 101 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 188 Financial review 49. PROMOTING PRIVATIZATION PLAN Pursuant to the privatization plan of Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd., which was decided at the Public Fund Oversight Committee (the ―PFOC‖) on June 26, 2013, the Group has disposed its subsidiaries. Kwangju Bank and Kyongnam Bank were demerged as of May 1, 2014, and from March 2014 to June 2014, Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd., Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co., Ltd., Woori Savings Bank, Woori Asset Management, Woori Financial and Woori F&I were disposed in due order. With respect to the privatization of Woori Bank, on June 23, 2014, the Public Fund Oversight Committee (―PFOC‖) announced the plan that comprised the merger between Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd (―Holding Company‖) and Woori Bank and the disposal of controlling interests (30% of ownership) and non-controlling interests (26.97% of ownership), respectively, of Woori Bank after newly listing its shares on the stock exchange. Pursuant to the plan, the Bank merged with the Holding Company as of November 1, 2014, and completed its listing on Korea Stock Exchange on November 19, 2014. On November 28, 2014, KDIC commenced the bidding procedure for the disposal of controlling interests and non-controlling interests of the Bank. Since only the bidding for the non-controlling interests was successful, KDIC‘s ownership of the Bank decreased from 56.97% to 51.04%. By the way, as the retirement of treasury stocks on October 2015, KDIC‘s ownership of the Bank changed to 51.06% as of December 31, 2015. On July 21, 2015, the PFOC, a deliberative body in charge of privatizing Woori Bank, held a meeting to discuss means to promote the privatization plan, and announced a plan to take a two-track approach to sell the stake. To maximize the retrieval of public fund initially invested, promotion of privatization schedule and development of financial industry, the PFOC is considering a new approach of selling parts out of the government‘s stake to multiple buyers in smaller portions, as well as its previous plan of selling the controlling stake to a single buyer. The government has a strong commitment in carrying forward the sale of Woori Bank and will continue to make utmost effort to privatize Woori Bank as early as possible. The specifics of the plan will be discussed with PFOC in the future. In addition, on October 2, 2015, Financial Services Commission (―FSC‖) announced the amendment on normalization of business MOU, which aimed to promote improvement of corporate value through enhancing managerial autonomy of the Group. FSC and KDIC intend to take every possible measure to privatize Woori Bank by taking immediate implementation actions to follow amendment of the MOU, which includes revision of the Enforcement Decree of the Special Act on the Management of Public Funds. 50. AGREEMENT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF A MANAGEMENT PLAN (1) Since December 30, 2000, the Bank and the KDIC have entered into an agreement to implement management plans. Under the agreements, the Group is obligated to improve its respective financial ratios, such as Bank of International Settlements (―BIS‖) capital ratio, general and administrative ratio, nonperforming loan rate. If the Group fails to make improvements, the KDIC can enforce the Group to increase or decrease its capital, pursue mergers, transfer of loans and deposits, or close or sell parts of its business operations. (2) In addition, Since July 2, 2001, in order to establish efficient integrated structure of the Group, the Group and the KDIC have entered into an agreement to implement management plans, which incorporate establishment of corporate governance and business management system, improvement of short-term operational performance, strengthening the Group‘s competitiveness and pursuance of privatization plan, meeting the financial ratio objectives, and penalties in case the Group does not meet such management plans. 102 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 189 Financial review 51. BUSINESS COMBINATION The major business combinations have occurred during the year ended at December 31, 2014, are as follows: (1) Merger between Woori Finance Holdings and the Bank On November 1, 2014, the Bank (acquirer) merged with Woori Finance Holdings (acquiree) based on the resolution of the board of directors on July 28, 2014, and the Bank became the existing entity and Woori Finance Holdings was dissolved. The merger ratio was 1:1.0000000, and the shareholders of Woori Finance Holdings received one common share of the Bank per one common share of the company as compensation. Accordingly, the shares of the Bank, 597 million shares, prior to the merger, was reduced to nil in accordance with capital reduction procedure, and then, in accordance with the merger ratio, the Bank newly issued 676 million shares. Since this merger qualifies as a business combination under common control, the Bank recognized the transferred assets and liabilities of Woori Finance Holdings at the book values as previously recognized on the consolidated financial statements, thus no goodwill was newly recognized. As such, there was no change from the perspective of the consolidated entity. Details of the merger are described as follows: Type Merger Type of merger Statutory merger Companies involved in merger Woori Bank (existing entity) Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. (non-existing entity) New shares acquired due to merger 676,278,371 shares of common stock Schedule Date of merger: November 1, 2014 Date of registration of merger: November 3, 2014 Date for distribution of stocks : November 18, 2014 Date for listing of stocks : November 19, 2014 (2) Acquisition of Saudara Bank On December 30, 2014, Indonesia Woori Bank, which was a consolidated subsidiary of the Bank, merged with Saudara Bank in accordance with the resolution of the shareholders‘ meeting on November 7, 2014, and the bank changed its name into PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk. 1) Summary of the acquiree The Group acquired 33% ownership of Saudara Bank, which was a listed company in Indonesia, on January 28, 2014. Through the merger between Indonesia Woori Bank and Saudara Bank on December 30, 2014, the Group consolidated the bank and the ownership ratio after the merger became 74%. From the legal perspective, Saudara Bank was deemed as the existing entity; however, the transaction was accounted using the acquisition method under K-IFRS 1103 Business Combination as it was deemed that Indonesia Woori Bank was the acquirer from the accounting perspective. The Group promoted such transaction for enhancing its retail operation in Indonesia. 103 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 190 Financial review 2) Merger ratio and distribution of stocks Acquirer Acquiree Entity Indonesia Woori Bank Saudara Bank Merger ratio 1 1,702,921.2 3) Acquisition method (Unit: Korean Won in millions) Amount I. Consideration Fair value of the ownership interest held prior to the acquisition (*1) 65,667 Fair value of additional consideration given (*2) 38,551 Fair value of non-controlling interest of Woori Indonesia Bank 52,609 Total amount of consideration 156,827 II. Identifiable assets and liabilities Cash and Cash equivalents 81,100 AFS financial assets 22,074 HTM financial assets 15,473 Loan and receivables 639,222 Property and equipment 23,882 Intangible assets 25,719 Other assets 34,238 Sub-total 841,708 Deposits 714,989 Borrowings 12,082 Debentures 29,425 Deferred tax liabilities 3,757 Other liabilities 12,872 Sub-total 773,125 Fair value of identifiable net asset 68,583 III. Non-controlling interest of Saudara Bank 17,816 IV. Goodwill(*3) 106,060 (*1) 33% ownership interest in Saudara Bank, which was held by the Bank and Indonesia Woori Bank before the business combination, was remeasured at its fair value as of December 30, 2014. As a result, the Group recognized loss on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates, amounted to 1,237 million Won. (*2) The Bank acquired additional shares of Saudara Bank, 373,954,147 shares, due to the claims for stock repurchase from the shareholders of the bank who was opposing to the merger. (*3) Goodwill was recognized on the rationale that the competitiveness of the Group would be reinforced through the acquisition of local operation network in Indonesia. 4) Expenses related to business combination The Group recognized the expenses amounting to 1,446 million Won, such as legal fee, which occurred in conjunction with the business combination as fees and commissions expense on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. 104 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 191 Organizational Chart 3 Groups 10 units 11 Divisions 58 Departments Customer Regional Banking Headquarters Branch Domestic Business Group Global Business Group Small & Consumer Corporate Medium Institutional Real Estate Investment Global Banking Banking Corporate Banking Finance Banking Business Business Business Banking Business Business Business Unit Unit Unit Business Unit Unit Unit Unit Financial Int’l Wealth Market Trade Management Business Business Division Division Division Consumer Corporate Small & Medium Wealth Institutional Banking Banking Corporate Real Estate Synergy Investment Int’l Trade Management Banking Products Card Business International Treasury Products & Products & Banking Products Finance Promotion Banking Business Strategy & Marketing Dept. Banking Dept. Dept. Marketing Marketing & Marketing Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Wealth Channel Int’l Trade Management Public Fund Housing Fund Project Trading Support Service Advisory Sales Dept. Dept. Finance Dept. Dept. Department Center Center Customer Settlement Center Support Dept. Secretary Dept. President & Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 192 Corporate Banking Headquarters Business Support Group Smart Risk Credit Banking Management Support Business Unit Unit Division Pension Next GeneraCustomer Corporate Finance & Human Operation External & Trust tion ICT SysInformation RestructurManagement Resources & Support Relations Business tem Building Security ing Planning Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Next Generation Smart Banking Risk Human Customer Consumer Corporate Strategy & Public ICT System General Loan Policy Trust Dept. Business Management Resources Information Protection Restoration Control Tower Relations Planning Affairs Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Security Dept. Center Dept. Dept. Dept. Department Retirement Next Generation Human Retail Credit FinTech Corporate Pension ICT System Loan Review Resources Loan Service Analysis & Finance & Investor Business Restructuring Business Marketing Dept. Development Center Approval Planning Dept. Relations Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Department Dept. Dept. Next Generation SME Credit Custody Employee ICT Support ICT System Deposit Analysis & Accounting Agent Satisfaction Center Analysis Service Center Approval Dept. Dept. Center Department Dept. Large Corporate Management Security Credit Analysis & Support Control Dept. Approval Department Dept. Credit Management & Collection Dept. Technology Finance Center Compliance Officer Standing Audit Committee Compliance Dept. Member/Director Audit Dept. Board Audit Committee Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 193 Global Network Head Office •Woori Bank Mirpur Sub-Branch Woori America Bank,Palisades Park Br. Padma Bhaban(First Floor), 1/9 Mirpur Road Pallabi, 225 Broad Avenue Palisades Park, NJ 07650, USA Mirpur-12, Dhaka-1216, Bangladesh ·Phone: 1-201-346-0055 51, Sogong-ro (203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), ·Phone: 880-2902-1061~2 ·Fax: 1-201-346-0075 Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-792, Korea ·Fax: 880-2902-1064 Phone: +82-2-2002-3000 Woori America Bank, Closter Br. Swift: HVBKKRSE •Woori Bank, Narayanganj Sub-Branch 234 Closter Dock Road Closter, NJ 07624, USA Adamjee Export Processing zone, Shiddhirganj, ·Phone: 1-201-784-7012 Narayanganj-1431 Bangladesh ·Fax: 1-201-784-7013 ·Phone: 880-2769-2031~34 Overseas Branch ·Fax: 880-2769-2035 Woori America Bank, Elkins Park Br. 7300 Old York Rd Elkins Park, PA 19027 New York Agency Gaeseong Br. ·Phone: 1-215-782-1100 245, Park Ave. 43rd Floor, New York, NY 10167, USA Gaesong Industrial District Phase 1, 25-1 Business ·Fax: 1-215-782-1500 ·Phone: 1-212-949-1900 Support Center, 1st Floor 103 1st Floor, Bongdong-Ri, ·Fax: 1-212-490-7146 Gaeseong, Hwanghae-Do, North Korea Woori America Bank, Annandale Br. ·Swift: HVBKUS33 ·Phone: 001-8585-2300~2 Seoul Plaza 4231 Markeham St, Annandale, ·Fax: 001-8585-2303 VA 22003, USA LA Br. ·Phone: 1-703-256-7633 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite 300, LA, CA90019, USA Hochiminh City Br. ·Fax: 1-703-256-7511 ·Phone: 1-213-620-0747~8 2 Floor, Kumho Asiana Plaza Saigon, 39 Le Duan St., ·Fax: 1-213-627-5438 Dist 1, HCMC, Vietnam Woori America Bank, Bayside Br. ·Swift: HVBKUS6L ·Phone: 84-8-3821-9839 215-10 Northern Blvd. Bayside, NY 11361, USA ·Fax: 84-8-3821-9838 ·Phone: 1-718-224-3800 London Br. ·Fax: 1-718-224-3828 9th Floor, 71 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M 4BR,UK Chennai Br. ·Phone: 44-207-680-0680 6th Floor, EA Chambers, No. 49 & 50L, Whites Road, Woori America Bank, Ellicott City Br. ·Fax: 44-207-481-8044 Royapettah, Chennai 600 014, India 100352 Baltimore National Pike Ellicott City, MD 21042, ·Swift: HVBKGB2L ·Phone: 91-44-3346-6900 USA ·Fax: 91-44-3346-6995 ·Phone: 1-443-973-3690 Tokyo Br. ·Fax: 1-410-461-1002 Shiodome City Center 10th Floor 5-2, Higashi-Shimbashi Sydney Br. 1-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-7110, Japan Suite 25.03, Level 25, 363 George Street Sydney NSW Woori America Bank, Wilshire Br. ·Phone: 81-3-6891-5600 2000 Australia 3540 Wilshire Blvd. Unit 104, Los Angeles, CA 90010, ·Fax: 81-3-6891-2457 ·Phone: 61-2-8222-2200 USA ·Fax: 61-2-8222-2299 ·Phone: 1-213-382-8700 Hong Kong Br. ·Fax: 1-213-382-8787 Suite 1401, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, Hongkong Woori Bank Dubai Br. ·Phone: 85-2-2521-8016 1102A, Level 11, The Gate Building, East Wing, P.O. Box Woori America Bank, Olympic Br. ·Fax: 85-2-2526-7458 506760, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite #300, LA, CA90019, USA ·Phone: 971-4-325-8365 ·Phone: 1-213-738-1100 Singapore Br. ·Fax: 971-4-325-8366 ·Fax: 1-213-738-1101 10 Marina Boulevard #13-05 MBFC Tower 2, Singapore ·Swift: HVBKAEADXXX 018983 Singapore Woori America Bank, Fullerton Br. ·Phone: 65-6422-2000 5731 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90621, USA ·Fax: 65-6422-2001 ·Phone: 1-714-521-3100 Subsidiary ·Fax: 1-714-521-3101 Bahrain Br. P.O. Box 1151, 4th Floor, Entrance 1, Manama Centre Woori America Bank, Garden Grove Br. Building, Manama, Bahrain U.S.A 10120 Garden Grove Blvd.,Suite 151Garden Grove, CA ·Phone: 973-17-223503 Woori America Bank 92844, USA ·Fax: 973-17-224429 330 5th Avenue, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, USA ·Phone: 1-714-534-6300 ·Phone: 1-212-244-3000 ·Fax: 1-714-534-6301 Hanoi Br. ·Fax: 1-212-736-5929 24F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Road, Tu Woori America Bank, Centreville Br. Liem District. Hanoi, Vietnam Woori America Bank, Manhattan Br. 13830 Braddock Road. Centreville, VA 20121, USA ·Phone: 84-4-3831-5281 330 5th Avenue, 1st Floor, New York, NY 10001 ·Phone: 1-703-988-9555 ·Fax: 84-4-3831-5271 ·Phone: 1-212-244-1500 ·Fax: 1-703-988-9554 ·Fax: 1-212-695-5593 Dhaka Br. Woori America Bank, Irvine Br. Suvastu Imam Square (1st & 4th Fl.) 65 Gulshan Avenue, Woori America Bank, Flushing Br. 14252 Culver Dr. #G, Irvine, CA 92604 Dhaka, Bangladesh 136-88 39th Avenue Flushing New York, NY 11354, USA ·Phone: 1-949-885-3760 ·Phone: 880-2-881-3270~3 ·Phone: 1-718-886-1988 ·Fax: 1-949-653-0943 ·Fax: 880-2-881-3274/3241 ·Fax: 1-718-762-6898 Woori America Bank, Torrance Br. •DEPZ Customer Service Center Woori America Bank, Fort Lee Br. 2390 Crenshaw Boulevard, Units C, Torrance CA 90501 Dhaka Export Processing Zone(Old Area), Ganakbari, 2053 Lemoine Avenue Fort Lee, NJ 07024, USA USA Ssvar, Dhaka-1349, Bangladesh ·Phone: 1-201-363-9300 ·Phone: 1-310-974-1880 ·Phone: 880-2778-8030 ·Fax: 1-201-302-0452 ·Fax: 1-310-782-7004 ·Fax: 880-2881-3274/3241 Woori America Bank, Woodside Br. Woori America Bank, Georgia LPO •Woori Bank Chittangong Sub-Branch 43-22 50th St. Woodside, NY 11377, USA 2472 Pleasant Hill Rd. Duluth, GA30096, USA World Trade Center Chittagon(2nd Floor) Plopt No. ·Phone: 1-718-429-1900 ·Phone: 1-404-904-9880 102-103, Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong, ·Fax: 1-718-429-2084 Bangladesh ·Phone: 880-931-728221~4 Woori America Bank, Ridgefield Br. China ·Fax: 880-931-728225 321 Broad Avenue #104 Ridgefield, NJ 07657, USA Woori Bank (China) Ltd. ·Phone: 1-201-941-9999 •Woori Bank Uttara Sub-Branch Floor11-12 Block A Building 13 District 4 Wangjing East ·Fax: 1-201-941-4419 Paradise Tower(Ground Floor) Plot 11, Sector 3, Uttara Park Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 ·Phone: 86-10-8412-3000 Model Town,Uttara, Dhaka 1230, Bangladesh ·Phone: 880-2896-2125~6 ·Fax: 86-10-8441-7071 ·Fax: 880-2896-2129 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 194 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Head office business Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Chengdu Br. Tasikmalaya Branch department 1F-3F, Ping'an Fortune Center, No.1 Renmin South Road, Ruko Plaza Asia Blok A5-A6, Jl. HZ. Mustofa No.326 Floor1 Block B Building 13 District 4 Wangjing East Park Chengdu, Sichuan, 610044 China Tasikmalaya/46126 Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 ·Phone: 86-28-6557-2366 ·Phone: 62-265-2351906 ·Phone: 86-10-8441-7771 ·Fax: 86-28-6357-2369 ·Fax: 62-265-2352206 ·Fax: 86-10-8446-4631 ·Swift: HVBKCNBJ Yogyakarta Branch Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Br. Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Weihai Br. Jl. Mangkubumi No.45 Yogyakarta/55232 1F, West Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai No.106-1~3, Attached Qingdao Mid-Road, Weihai, ·Phone: 62-274-549280 Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100022, China Shandong Province, China, 264200 ·Fax: 62-274-549285 ·Phone: 86-10-8453-8880 ·Phone: 86-631-599-6000 ·Fax: 86-10-8453-8881 ·Fax: 86-31-597-0030 Denpasar Branch 0361-223099 Ruko Griya Alamanda blok 3-4, Jl. Cok Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Br. Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Tianjin Dongmalu Sub-Br. Agung Tresna Renon-Denpasar/80235 Drum Building 1-2F, LJZ -Plaza,1600 Century Avenue, 1-2F, Tower C, Yuding Plaza(Qixiang Street), Dongma ·Phone: 62-361-263755 Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300090, China ·Fax: 62-361-223099 ·Phone: 86-21-5081-0707 ·Phone: 86-22-8776-9000 ·Fax: 86-21-5081-2484 ·Fax: 86-22-8776-9901~2 The Gedung Energy Branch Gd The Energy Lot 11 A SCBD, Jl. Jendral Sudirman Kav Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shenzhen Br. Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Chongqing Br. 52 53, Jakarta/12190 B0105, B0210 Rongchao Landmark, 4028 Jintian Road, Unitl, Floor L2-1, Ping An Fortune Center, No.25-2, West ·Phone: 62-21-29951906 Futian District, Shenzhen, 518035 China Main Street, Jiangbei District, Chongqing 400023, China ·Fax: 62-21-29951904 ·Phone: 86-755-3338-1234 ·Phone: 86-23-6152-2222 ·Fax: 86-755-3338-7227 ·Fax: 86-23-6152-2220 Ampera Branch Jl. Ampera Raya No.20 Gd.Medco III/12560 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Suzhou Br. Wooribank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Lianyang Sub-Br. ·Phone: 62-21-7821756 101B, Sovereign Building, #8 Suhua Road Suzhou No.52, Zendai Thumb Plaza lane 199, FangDian Road, ·Fax: 62-21-7821642 Industrial Park, Jiangsu, 215021 China Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135 China ·Phone: 86-512-6295-0777 ·Phone: 86-21-6882-0608 Purwokerto Branch ·Fax: 86-512-6295-2141 ·Fax: 86-21-6882-8821 Jl. Jenderal gatot Subroto No.78 Purwokerto Jawa Tengah/53116 Woori Bank (China) Ltd.TianJin Br. Wooribank (China) Ltd. Beijing Sanyuanqiao Sub-Br. ·Phone: 62-281-622212 No.1 Building, Aocheng Commercial Square, Binshui West 1F-05, 2F-09, Tower A, Tianyuangang Center, C2, North ·Fax: 62-281-631616 Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300381, China Road, East Third Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing ·Phone: 86-22-2338-8008 100027. China Malang Branch ·Fax: 86-22-2392-5905 ·Phone: 86-10-8440-7177 Jl. Letjen Sutoyo No.27 MalangJawa Timur/56141 ·Fax: 86-10-8441-7761/7790 ·Phone: 62-341-421906/7601906 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Puxi Sub-Br. ·Fax: 62-341-408188 S115-S119, 1F Maxdo center No.8 Xingyi Rd. Changning District Shanghai, 200336, China INDONESIA (Saudara) Solo Branch ·Phone: 86-21-5208-1000 Jl. Ronggo Warsito No. 53 Kota, Solo Jawa ·Fax: 86-21-6235-1036 BankWoorisaudara Head Office Tengah/57131 Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40115 ·Phone: 62-271-633600 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Wangjing Sub-Br. ·Phone: 62-22-87831900/87831906 ·Fax: 62-271-633433 1F, No.10, Furong Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing, ·Fax: 62-22-87831918 100102, China Tangerang Branch ·Phone: 86-10-8471-8866 Coperate Branch Tangerang City Business Park Blok F/50 Jl. Jend. ·Fax: 86-10-8471-5245 Gd. BEJ Tower 1 Lt. 16 Jl. Jend.Sudirman Kav. 52-53 Sudirman No.1 Tangerang/15118 Jakarta/12190 ·Phone: 62-21-29529226 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Wuzhonglu Sub-Br. ·Phone: 62-21-5151919 ·Fax: 62-21-29529227 1C, Liaoshen Building, 1068 Wuzhong Rd Minhang District, ·Fax: 62-21-5151477 Shanghai, 201103 China Pelembang Branch ·Phone: 86-21-6446-7887 Wastukancana Branch Jl. Basuki Rahmat No.886 A Palembang/30127 ·Fax: 86-21-6446-1200 Jl. Wastukancana No.79 Bandung/40116 ·Phone: 62-711-315828 ·Phone: 62-22-4209940 ·Fax: 62-711-315510 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shenzhen Futian Sub-Br. ·Fax: 62-22-4209941 Room 107, 201, Daqing Building, NO.6027, Shen Nan Sukabumi Branch Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, 518040 China Cirebon Branch Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.31-Sukabumi/43111 ·Phone: 86-755-8826-9000 Jl. DR. Wahidin No.51 Cirebon/45122 ·Phone: 62-266-6251906 ·Fax: 86-755-8826-9038 ·Phone: 62-231-242006 ·Fax: 62-266-6249717 ·Fax: 62-231-242066 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Jinxiujiangnan Pekalongan Branch Sub-Br. Bogor Branch Jl. KH. Mansyur No.64, Perkalongan 1F, 188 South Jinhui Road, Minhang District, Shanghai, Jl. Pangkalan Raya No.8, Warung Jambu Bogor/16151 ·Phone: 62-285-4460505 200237, China ·Phone: 62-251-8377887 ·Fax: 62-285-4460506 ·Phone: 86-21-3432-1116 ·Fax: 62-251-8377209 ·Fax: 86-21-3432-1112 Madiun Branch Surapati Core Branch Jl. Diponegoro No.110, Madiun Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Shunyi Sub-Br. Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.39, Surapati Core Blok ·Phone: 62-351-4773000 1F,Tower A, AMB Building, 2, Cangshang St, Shunyi F1 Bandung/40192 ·Fax: 62-351-4773003 District, Beijing 101300, China ·Phone: 62-22-87241326 ·Phone: 86-10-8945-2220 ·Fax: 62-22-87241327 Buah Batu Sub-Branch ·Fax: 86-10-8949-3560 Jl. Buah Batu No.58 Bandung/40265 Surabaya Branch ·Phone: 62-22-7322150 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. DaLian Br. Kompleks Ruko 21, Jl. Raya, Gubeng No.68 ·Fax: 62-22-7319626 2F-218 YOMA IFC, No.128 Jinma Road, Dalian E Surabaya/60281 Development Area, Dalian, 116600, China ·Phone: 62-31-5041906 Kopo Mas Sub-Branch ·Phone: 86-411-8765-8000 ·Fax: 62-31-5047727 Komp Ruko Mas J-9 Jl. Kopo Cirangrang/40225 ·Fax: 86-411-8765-8515 ·Phone: 62-22-5436802 Semarang Branch ·Fax: 62-22-5436803 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Zhangjiagang Sub-Br. Imam Bonjol Square Kav 4,Jl. Imam Bonjol B104/B205 Huachang Oriental Plaza, 11 Renmin East No.176 Tasikmalaya/50132 Cimahi Sub-Branch Road, Zhangjiagang, Jiangsu 215600, China ·Phone: 62-24-3521906 Jl. Raya Cibabat No.310 Cimahi/40213 ·Phone: 86-512-5636-6696 ·Fax: 62-24-3521900 ·Phone: 62-22-6634656 ·Fax: 86-512-5636-6697 ·Fax: 62-22-6634657 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 195 Sukajadi Sub-Branch Cibubur Sub-Branch Magelang Sub-Branch Jl. Sukajadi No.248/40153 Cibubur Times Square Blok B1/1 Jl. Alternatif Cibubur KM Ruko Metro Square Blok F No.25/56172 ·Phone: 62-22-2042248 3 Kel. Jatiraya, Kec. Jastisampurna Bekasi/17435 ·Phone: 62-293-326498-99 ·Fax: 62-22-2041213 ·Phone: 62-21-84305050 ·Fax: 62-293-326356 ·Fax: 62-21-84305353 Soekarno Hatta Sub-Branch Padalarang Sub-Branch Jl. Soekarno Hatta No.618 F/40286 Purwakarta Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Padalarang No.463 H/40553 ·Phone: 62-22-7509905 Jl. Basuki Rahmat No.94, Purwakarta/41114 ·Phone: 62-22-6803940/41 ·Fax: 62-22-7509902 ·Phone: 62-264-8227474 ·Fax: 62-22-6803935 ·Fax: 62-264-8227475 Pemuda Sub-Branch Patrol Sub-Branch Ruko Graha Mas Blok AA No.3 Taman Berdikari Sentosa Cikampek Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Patrol Anjatan Blok Bunder No.52/45256 Jl.Pemuda/13220 Jl. Terusan Sudirman No.6B(Sudirman Center)/41373 ·Phone: 62-234-5613627 ·Phone: 62-21-47862070 ·Phone: 62-264-8385171,72 ·Fax: 62-234-611919 ·Fax: 62-21-4711298 ·Fax: 62-264-8385088 Gianyar Sub-Branch Subang Sub-Branch Depok Sub-Branch Jl. By.Pass Dharma Giri No.99/80511 JL. Ahmad Yani No.36/41211 Jl. Margonda Raya No.1 Rt 001/011 Kelurahan Depok ·Phone: 62-361-8958295 ·Phone: 62-260-421014 Kecamatan Pancoran Mas/16431 ·Fax: 62-361-8958194 ·Fax: 62-260-421015 ·Phone: 62-21-7522091 ·Fax: 62-21-7522092 Gresik Sub-Branch Sumedang Sub-Branch Ruko KIG Jl. Tri Dharma Kav. A-14/61117 Jl. Prabu Geusan Ulun No.76/45311 Salatiga Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-31-3981758 ·Phone: 62-261-206527 Ruko Wijaya Square B5 Jl.Diponegoro No.110 ·Fax: 62-31-3981720 ·Fax: 62-261-206528 Salatiga/50711 ·Phone: 62-298-311828 Karawang Sub-Branch Tangerang Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-298-312808 Jl. Tuparev No.499 (Johar) Kab. Karawang Ruko Pinangsia Blok H No.1 Lippo Karawaci Kel. Cibodas ·Phone: 62-267-8454873-74 Tangerang/15139 Sidoarjo Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-267-8454875 ·Phone: 62-21-55772345 Jl. KH. Mukmin No.11 Blok B-7 Sidoarjo/60281 ·Fax: 62-21-5577636 ·Phone: 62-31-8922842 Cibinong Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-31-8922841 Jl. Raya Mayor Oking No.158 V/16918 Serang Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-21-87904397 Jl. KH. Abdul fatah Hasan No.53 Kel. Cipare Serang/42124 Mojokerto Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-21-87904443 ·Phone: 62-254-224142 Jl. Gajah Mada No.85B/60319 ·Fax: 62-254-224243 ·Phone: 62-321-383444 Singaparna Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-321-383465 Jl. Raya Timur No.45 Singaparna/46416 Cikarang Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-265-543111-3 Cikarang Commercial Centre Blok A1-2, Jl. Cibarusah KM. Cianjur Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-265-545074 40 No.2 Kampung pasir sari kec. Cikarang Selatan/17550 Jl. Abdulah Bin Nuh No.15/43253 ·Phone: 62-21-89835720 ·Phone: 62-263-260941, 260943, 260945 Ciamis Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-21-89835721 ·Fax: 62-263-280712 Jl. Letjen. Samuji Ruko No.35/46211 ·Phone: 62-265-772221 Atrium Sub-Branch Pamulang Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-265-777860 Jl. KH. Hasyim ashari No.49 Cideng/10410 Jl. Dr. Setiabudi No.71 Kav. 6 Pamulang Timur/15417 ·Phone: 62-21-3451964 ·Phone: 62-21-7403205, 7443335 Sleman Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-21-3451954 ·Fax: 62-21-7402330 Jl. Magelang KM 12.8 No.200/55514 ·Phone: 62-274-865922 Kebon Jeruk Sub-Branch Sumber Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-274-866168 Jl. Kelapa Dua Raya(RayaPanjang) No.2, Rt 008, Rw 002 Jl. Dewi Sartika No.57 Sumber/45611 Kel. Kelapa Dua Kec. Kebon Jeruk/12130 ·Phone: 62-231-8330618 Losari Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-21-53660160 ·Fax: 62-231-8330619 Jl. Soekarno Hatta NO.77 Losari/45192 ·Fax: 62-21-53660164 ·Phone: 62-231-8832738-39 Bantul Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-231-8832736 Diponegoro Sub-Branch Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No.130 Kabupaten Bantul/55713 Jl. Diponegoro No.28 Bandung/40251 ·Phone: 62-274-367514 Bekasi Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-22-87831928/87831909 ·Fax: 62-274-368787 Jl. Raya Narogong KM 12.5 No.23A/17151 ·Fax: 62-22-87831919 ·Phone: 62-21-82611045-46 Balaraja Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-21-82605356 Lembang Sub-Branch Komplek Ruko Balaraja Center Blok A No.2 Jl. Raya Jl. Grand Hotel Lembang No.25 Bandung/40391 Serang Km. 24 Talaga Sari Balaraja-tangerang/15610 Kudus Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-22-2784797 ·Phone: 62-21-29015618 Jl. Sunan Kudus No.5 a/509000 ·Fax: 62-22-2784975 ·Fax: 62-21-29015474 ·Phone: 62-291-4249241 ·Fax: 62-291-4246497 Cikarang Sub-Branch Ciledug Sub-Branch Ruko Metro Boulevard Kav. A Jl. Niaga Raya No.10 Ruko Dian Plaza Jl. Raden Fatah No.8A Kelurahan Pamanukan Sub-Branch Kawasan Industri Jabeka/17835 Sudirman Selatan,Ciledug/15225 Jl. Eyang Tirtapraja No.54 Kab. Subang/41254 ·Phone: 62-21-89836020/021-89837020 ·Phone: 62-21-7330545 ·Phone: 62-260-551773 ·Fax: 62-21-89835953 ·Fax: 62-21-7330706 ·Fax: 62-260-551774 Majalengka Sub-Branch Gunung Sabeulah Sub-Branch Majalaya Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Abdul Halim No.447 Majalengka/45411 JL. Gunung Sabeulah Kel.Tawangsari Kec. Tawang kota Jl. Alun-alun utara/Jl. Tengah komp ruko permata majalaya ·Phone: 62-233-8285460 Tasikmalaya/46112 Blok C6/40382 ·Fax: 62-233-8285459 ·Phone: 62-265-326147 ·Phone: 62-22-85963799 ·Fax: 62-265-331135 ·Fax: 62-22-5959826 Kuningan Sub-Branch Jl. Dewi Sartika No.4/45512 Garut Sub-Branch Pangalengan Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-232-8880938 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.33/44117 Jl. Raya Pintu Pangalengan KM-1/40378 ·Fax: 62-232-8880939 ·Phone: 62-262-544672 ·Phone: 62-22-5979222 ·Fax: 62-262-544670 ·Fax: 62-22-5978690 Indramayu Sub-Branch Jl. DI. Panjaitan No.103/45212 ·Phone: 62-234-276236 ·Fax: 62-234-276237 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 196 Cilegon Sub-Branch Boyolali Sub-Branch Kawali Sub-Branch Jl. Jend. A. yani Komp Cilegon green megablok Blok D3 Jl. Pandanaran No.179 B Kab.Boyolali/57313 Jl. Siliwangi No.262, Desa Kawali mukti No.17 Cibeber cilegon/42433 ·Phone: 62-276-323655 ·Phone: 62-265-791560 ·Phone: 62-254-8484772 ·Fax: 62-276-323650 ·Fax: 62-265-791580 ·Fax: 62-254-8484773 Martadinata Sub-Branch Kepanjen Sub-Branch Rangkasbitung Sub-Branch Jl. RE Martadinata Pav 123 Bandung/40114 Jl. Kawi Ruko B 7, Kepanjen Jl. Raden Hardiwinangun Blok A No.9/42314 ·Phone: 62-22-71070901 ·Phone: 62-34-1379840 ·Phone: 62-252-203612 ·Fax: 62-22-7107091 ·Fax: 62-34-1379839 ·Fax: 62-252-203613 Melawai/Radio dalam Sub-Branch Pamekasan Sub-Branch Tabanan Sub-Branch JL. Radio dalam raya No.4 Kel. Gandaria Utara Kec. Jl. Kabupaten No.114 Jl. Ngurah Rai No.73 Kediri/82121 Kebayoran baru Jakarta selatan/12160 ·Phone: 62-324-333905, 333906 ·Phone: 62-361-814160 ·Phone: 62-21-7211005 ·Fax: 62-324-333604 ·Fax: 62-361-814281 ·Fax: 62-21-7210970 Kebumen Sub-Branch Surabaya Barat Sub-Branch Singaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Ahmad Yani No.20, Kubumen Surya inti permata II Blok C-6 Jl. HR Muhammad No.175 Jl. Ngurah Rai No.16 Singaraja Kelurahan Kendran ·Phone: 62-281-6222212 Surabaya/60266 Kecamatan Buleleng/81112 ·Fax: 62-281-631616 ·Phone: 62-31-7381606 ·Phone: 62-362-25098 ·Fax: 62-31-7387007 ·Fax: 62-362-26605 Mangga Dua Sub-Branch Ruko Harco Mangga Dua Blok L. No.5 Soreang Raya Sub-Branch Manonjaya Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-21-6120176 Jl. Raya Soreang No.412/40900 Jl. RTA. Prawira Adiningrat No.214 A Desa Manonjaya ·Fax: 62-21-6120179 ·Phone: 62-22-5896880 kec. Manonjaya-Tasikmalaya ·Fax: 62-22-5897444 ·Phone: 62-265-380510 Kelapa Gading Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-265-380356 Jl. Boulevard Barat Ruko MOI Blok I No.15 Ujung Berung Sub-Branch ·Phone: 62-21-29364053 Komp Ruko Bandung Timur Plaza No. RA Jl. A.H. Surabaya Utara Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-21-29364054 Nasution Kav. 46A Ujung Berung/40612 Jl. Kertajaya Indah No.9/F-105 Surabaya/60161 ·Phone: 62-22-7834128 ·Phone: 62-31-3572064 Dalem Kaum Cash-Office ·Fax: 62-22-7834153 ·Fax: 62-31-3537005 Jl. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung/40251 ·Phone: 62-22-4211906 Jemur Sari/Surabaya selatan Sub-Branch Batu Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-22-4206837 Jl. Raya Jemursari No.15C Surabaya/60237 Jl. Brantas No.49 Batu-Malang/65314 ·Phone: 62-31-8480454 ·Phone: 62-341-513709 Batujajar Cash-Office ·Fax: 62-31-8480483 ·Fax: 62-341-513712 Jl. Batujajar No.324 Bandung ·Phone: 62-22-86861018/17/15 Luragung Sub-Branch Palimanan Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-22-86861016 Jl. Siliwangi No.18 Kec Luragung, Kab Kuningan/45581 Jl. Otto Iskandardinata No.503 Palimanan ·Phone: 62-232-870016 ·Phone: 62-231-343950 Cimahi Cash-Office ·Fax: 62-232-870020 ·Fax: 62-231-343955 Cijerah II blok V No.3 Cimahi ·Phone: 62-22-86065156 Pangandaran Sub-Branch Pelabuhan Ratu Sub-Branch ·Fax: 62-22-6075579 Jl. Parapat, Desa Pangandaran, kec pangandaran kab Jl. Surya Kencana No.198 Cibadak Kabupaten ciamis/46396 Sukabumi/43364 Suci Cash-Office ·Phone: 62-265-630400, 630010 ·Phone: 62-266-6441906 Jl. PHH. Mustofa No.35/40124 ·Fax: 62-265-630800 ·Fax: 62-266-435511 ·Phone: 62-22-7279740 ·Fax: 62-22-7276361 Purwodadi Sub-Branch Bekasi Sub-Branch Jl. Letjend. S. Parman No.13 Kel. Purwodadi Kec. Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco Jatinangor Cash-Office Purwodadi Jawa Tengah/58111 Cilegon/42435 Jl. Raya Jatinangor KM 20.5 KKBI IKOPIN/45363 ·Phone: 62-292-423399 ·Phone: 62-21-82404282 ·Phone: 62-22-7781587 ·Fax: 62-292-423799 ·Fax: 62-21-82401878 ·Fax: 62-22-7781563 Leuwi Liang Sub-Branch Wates Sub-Branch Darmaraja Cash-Office Jl. Raya Jasinga 11A Kel. Cibeber, Kec. Leuwiliang Kab Jl. Kolonel Sugiyono No.3-Wates Jl. Raya Darmaraja No.253 desa Darmaraja, Kec Bogor/16640 ·Phone: 62-274-6657325 Darmaraja Kab.Sumedang/45372 ·Phone: 62-251-8640297 ·Fax: 62-274-774338 ·Phone: 62-262-429000, 429069, 428478 ·Fax: 62-251-8640299 ·Fax: 62-262-429070 Tanjung Priok Sub-Branch Ciawi Sub-Branch Jl. Enggano No.58 CTanjung Priok jakarta Utara/14310 Daan Mogot Cash-Office Jl. Perjuangan No.80 Kp.Karanganyar Rt. 04 Rw. 05 Desa ·Phone: 62-21-4361667 Jl. Tampak Sirling No.12 Daan Mogot/11460 Pakemitan Kec Ciawi Kab. Tasikmalaya/46156 ·Fax: 62-21-4361668 ·Phone: 62-21-56944307 ·Phone: 62-265-455163, 455167 ·Fax: 62-21-56944307 ·Fax: 62-265-455162 Karangnunggal Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Karangnunggal KP. Karangmekar RT/RW 03/09 Fatmawati Cash-Office Cilacap Sub-Branch Desa Hegarwangi Kec. Bantarkalong Kab. Jl. Kesehatan Raya No.18B Rt 003 Rw 006 Kel Bintaro Jl. Jend. A Yani No.46 Cilacap/53212 ·Phone: 62-265-258471~2 Kec. Sanggrahan Jakarta selatan/12430 ·Phone: 62-282-537929 ·Fax: 62-265-2584570 ·Phone: 62-21-7374693 ·Fax: 62-282-535522 ·Fax: 62-21-7374408 Cibatu Sub-Branch Jombang Sub-Branch Jalan Raya Cibatu Limbangan Ruko Perum Bunar Cililitan Asabri Cash-Office Jl. KH. Wahid Hasyim No.71 Kota Jombang-Jawa Indah Blok C-29 No.15-17 Rt 06 Rw 04 Desa Cibunar Jl. Mayjen Sutoyo No.11 Gedung PT Asabri (persero) Jl. Timur/61411 Kecamatan Cibatu Kabupaten Garut Cililitan jakarta Timur/13630 ·Phone: 62-321-878906, 872906 ·Phone: 62-262-467708 ·Phone: 62-21-80876494 ·Fax: 62-321-860904 ·Fax: 62-262-467707 ·Fax: 62-21-80876381 Banjar Sub-Branch Wonogiri Sub-Branch Bekasi Cash-Office Jl. Letjen Soewarto No.92/46321 Jalan Ahmad Yani No.66, Wonogiri Jl. Ir. H. Juanda No.111 Bekasi ·Phone: 62-265-740557 ·Phone: 62-271-633600 ·Phone: 62-21-88353901 ·Fax: 62-265-740558 ·Fax: 62-271-633433 ·Fax: 62-21-88345693 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 197 Jatibarang Cash-Office Hong kong Myanmar Jl. Letnan Joni No.178 Kec. Jatibarang Kab Indramayu/45273 Woori Global Market Asia Limited Woori Finance Myanmar Plc. ·Phone: 62-234-352911 Rooms 1905-1908, 19/F, Gloucester Tower, The 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), ·Fax: 62-234-352910 Landmark, 15 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar ·Phone: 852-3763-0888 ·Phone: 95-01-643798 Taman Topi Cash-Office ·Fax: 852-3763-0808 Jl. Gedong Sawah I No.1 A Pabaton Bogor/16121 ·Phone: 62-251-8335714 ·Fax: 62-251-8335721 Russia Overseas Office Zao Woori Bank Juanda/ KK Tajur Cash-Office 8th floor, Lotte Plaza, 8, Novinsky Boulevard, Moscow, Jl. Raya Tajur Ruko Galaxy No.59 H Bogo 121099, Russia malaysia ·Phone: 62-251-7559203, 8384254 ·Phone: 7-495-783-9787 Woori Bank Kuala Lumpur Representative Office ·Fax: 62-251-7559205 ·Fax: 7-495-783-9788 Unit 4129/4130, 41/F, Vista Tower, The Intermark 182 Kendal Cash-Office Jalan Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur 50400, Malaysia •Zao Woori Bank Saint-Petersburg Br. ·Phone: 60-3-2163-8288 Jl. Raya Utama No.9 weleri kenda 1st Floor, Atlantic City, 126 Savushkina Street, ·Fax: 60-3-2163-9288 ·Phone: 62-294-644704 Saint-Petersburg, 197374, Russia ·Fax: 62-294-644708 ·Phone: 7-812-327-9787 Ungaran Cash-Office ·Fax: 7-812-327-9789 Myanmar Ruko permata hijau No.1 Jl. MT Haryono No.16 Kel Woori Bank Yangon, Myanmar Office •Zao Woori Bank vladivostok Representative Office Ungaran Kec Ungaran Barat Kab. Semarang/50511 No.115(A) First Floor), Pyay Road, 10 Miles, Insein Vladivostok Business-Center<Hyundai> Office No.614, ·Phone: 62-24-76911017 Township, Yangon, Myanmar 29, Semenovskaya Str. Vladivostok, 690091, Russia ·Fax: 62-24-76911001 ·Phone: 95-01-646951 ·Phone: 7-423-240-7014 ·Fax: 7-423-240-7015 Serang Cash-Office Jl. Raya Serangpandeglang KM 11 Lingkungan waru Lor, Desa/kel. Kamanisa Kec Curug Kota serang/42117 ·Phone: 62-254-222133 BraZil(BRASIL) ·Fax: 62-254-8494615 Woori Bank Brasil Avenida Nacoes Unidas, 14,171, Crystal Tower, Conj.803, Cilegon Cash-Office Vila Gertrudes, 04794-000, Sao Paulo-SP, Brasil Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco ·Phone: 55-11-2309-4740 Cilegon/42435 ·Fax: 55-11-3511-3300 ·Phone: 62-254-369755 ·Fax: 62-254-369759 Cambodia Ruko Union Cash-Office Ruko Union Square Blok A No.6 Lippo Cikarang, Cikarang Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. Selatan Building No.119B, Street271, Sangkat Phsar Doem Thkov ·Phone: 62-21-89909797 Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh. ·Fax: 62-21-89903007 ·Phone: 855-23-999-661 ·Fax: 855-23-999-663 Sadang Cash-Office Sadang Terminal Square No.07, 08, 25 Jl. Raya Sadang •Russey Keo Branch Purwakarta/41181 House No.1A, National Road 5, Sangkat Kilomet Lek6 ·Phone: 62-264-8220180 Khan Russey Keo, Phnom Penh. ·Fax: 62-264-8220181 ·Phone: 855-23-999-664 Cilimus Cash-Office •Pursenchey Branch Jalan Raya Cilimus RT 017/04, Desa Cilimus Kecamatan House No.6A, Russian Blvd, Tangoun Village, Sangkat Cilimus, Kabupaten Kuningan Kakb, Khan Pursenchey, Phnom Penh. ·Phone: 62-232-615411 ·Phone: 855-23-999-803 ·Fax: 62-232-615412 •Kean svay Branch Purbalingga Functional Office House No.330, National Road 1, Toul Tuaut village, Jl. Ahmad Yani No.42 Purbalingga Korkey Communce, kean Svay district, Kandal province ·Phone: 62-81-89553 ·Phone: 855-23-720-632 ·Fax: 62-81-892034 •Takhmao Branch Sragen Functional Office Building No.31, Street2, Takhmao village, Takhmao Jl. Sukowati No.156 Sragen Commune, Takhmao District, Kandal Province, ·Phone: 62-71-895015 Cambodia ·Fax: 62-71-895013 ·Phone: 855-24-998-333 Cikajang Functional Office •PrekPhnov Branch Jl. Raya Cikajang No.80 Garut National highway 5, Kandal Village, Prek Phnov ·Phone: 62-62-576094 commune, Phnom Penh, Cambodia ·Fax: 62-62-576089 ·Phone: 855-23-900-945 Wonosari Functional Office •Ang Snoul Branch Jl. KH. Agus Salim No.71A Wonosari Kab Gunungkidul #109, National road No.4, Village Bek Chan, ·Phone: 62-74-3950673 CommuneBek Chan, District Ang Snuol, Cambodia ·Fax: 62-74-3950673 ·Phone: 855-023-999-355 Dalem Kaum Functional Office •Phsar Depo Branch JL. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung #138D, St 215, Sangkat Veal Vong, Khan Prumpei ·Phone: 62-33-4233810 Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia ·Fax: 62-22-4206837 ·Phone: 855-23-900-455 Woori Bank Annual Report 2015 198 Contact Information Directed by Kim, Eun Kyung(Christine) Woori Bank Investor Relations Dept. Tel: 82-2-2002-3186 ekk@wooribank.com Created by Lee, Eun Hwoa Lucre Inc. Tel: 82-2-542-6725 www.lucrebeyond.com Photo by Han, Ze Hun ROUND TABLE Tel: 82-2-3288-6005 www.roundtableic.com 51, Sogong-ro(203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Jung-gu, Seoul, 04632, Korea Tel. +82-2-2002-3000 www.wooribank.com
