SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Space for Visions Reporting Year 2015 CONTENTS burgbad AG at a glance Introduction 2 A holistic understanding of quality Statement by the executive board 4 Jörg Loew, CEO burgbad AG We accept the challenge Our sustainability strategy 5 Our sustainability management structure 7 Visions and principles Our brand book: we have a vision 8 Our principles 9 We share responsibility Our raw materials 10 Our suppliers 12 Our production 14 Our goal: eco-efficiency 16 We create values that last Our innovation and product management 22 Our employees 24 Our customers 28 burgbad is committed to sustainable bathroom furniture (photo: burgbad). Looking ahead Our goals 29 Our social commitment 32 BURGBAD AG AT A GLANCE burgbad AG from Schmallenberg-Bad Fredeburg (South Westphalia) is a leading manufacturer of premium furniture and furnishing concepts for the bathroom. The company was founded in 1946 – at the time, its activities focused on the production of wooden construction kits and shelves. burgbad quickly specialised in manufacturing bathroom furniture and was soon targeting the expansion of its portfolio and expertise in this direction. Since 2010, the internationally operating company has been a wholly owned subsidiary of the Turkish Group. burgbad has production facilities in Bad Fredeburg, Greding, Lauterbach-Allmenrod (Germany) and Nogent le Roi (France) and a workforce of approx. 700 employees. 2 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 3 STATEMENT BY THE EXECUTIVE BOARD WE ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE A HOLISTIC UNDERSTANDING OF QUALITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Dear Reader, As a woodworking company for bathroom 3. Demographic change furniture solutions, burgbad is very much An aging society poses new challenges. We For more than 50 years, burgbad AG has stood for superb bathroom furniture solutions that set aware of its responsibility for the environment. want to retain the valuable experience and international standards with their exceptional quality and innovative design. We use our ideas to Sustainability plays a key role – not only in expertise of our older employees – while create space for visions. We are proud of what we have achieved – and very much aware that, relation to raw materials, but in connection simultaneously attracting the best youngsters as a woodworking enterprise and responsible employer, this commercial success is closely linked with production, treatment of the workforce and to our company. Where our customers are with the need for sustainability. product development as well. In a series of concerned, we want to create solutions that A survey of our stakeholders in 2015 revealed that two-thirds of respondents have no conception workshops, we defined the key challenges permit and facilitate independent living in of burgbad’s sustainability activities. That makes it all the more important for us to present our facing our company with regard to sustainability, old age. endeavours in this sustainability report. factoring current global challenges into our Action area: embed the promotion of young We would also like to outline the actions we are taking to help turn the climate change agreements considerations as well. These key challenges talent in corporate culture – encourage/ reached in Paris into reality – and how we are actively helping to advance the ambitious goal of were then used as a basis for identifying key enable age-appropriate work – develop reducing greenhouse gas emissions. action areas; the results of the stakeholder age-appropriate products survey in relation to key aspects were likewise But that’s not all: last year, in keeping with the endeavours of our parent company – the Turkish taken into account. 4. Health Holding – we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We are explicitly As an industrial company, work-related committed to implementing the UNGC’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the 1. Environmental pollution accidents and illness never cease to be an environment and anti-corruption and promoting them to the best of our ability in future. We take Climate change is a global challenge – and issue of the utmost importance for us – as is these principles into account both in our day-to-day business and in the strategic considerations one that burgbad wants to counter with active our employees’ need to balance family and of our company. measures. As early as 2011, Holding working life. With regard to our customers, We want to communicate our key issues and activities transparently – to our customers, our signed the 2 °C Challenge Communiqué, thus we want to sell products that not only pose suppliers, our employees and society in general. The annual publication of our progress (COP) helps demonstrating its clear commitment to reducing no risk to health but, ideally, deliver us achieve this aim as well. CO2 emissions. health-promoting benefits as well. The Sustainability Code is another important tool for burgbad when it comes to reporting and working Action area: achieve climate-neutral production on relevant sustainability issues. In 2015, we satisfied the requirements and published a Declaration Action area: guarantee product safety – (as per Scope 1 and 2) by reducing and of Conformity with the Sustainability Code for the first time. The themes it covers provide the basis for promote employee health offsetting emissions our first sustainability report. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees, partners and customers for their 5. Economic globalisation 2. Resource conservation contribution towards ensuring a sustainable future for our company. We will continue to extend and Economic globalisation poses two challenges: We want to be economical in our use of develop these activities in the years to come – and I would be delighted if you join us on our journey. the impact on the supply chain due to the resources necessary to our business – increasingly interconnected buying markets – particularly those available in finite quantities. and, at the same time, the need to strengthen Wherever possible, we want to avoid or Yours sincerely, our sales markets in the face of growing reduce our use of critical input materials and global competition. energies, or replace them with meaningful alternatives. Action area: strive for sustainable supply chains – guarantee sustainable quality, Action area: increase eco-efficiency with service and innovation Jörg Loew the goal of increasing productivity while Status as of 31.12.2015 CEO burgbad AG simultaneously reducing costs and ecological impacts 4 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 5 Key Challenges WE ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE OUR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Environmental Resource Demographic Economic Health pollution conservation change globalisation burgbad AG is a subsidiary of the Turkish used as a basis for defining objectives, projects Key action areas Holding and is embedded in the and actions but also permits an input-output Building Products Division. The analysis of the company. It was established Climate-neutral Eco-efficiency Promotion of Product safety Sustainable production young talent supply chain executive board of burgbad AG reports to the parallel to other controlling systems as part – Increased Promote employee productivity Age-appropriate health Sustainable division’s Executive Vice President, whereby of the blue life strategy of the parent company’s work quality, service the long-term objectives and business strategy – Cost reduction Building Products Division. The blue life strategy Age-appropriate and innovation – Reduction of for the group are developed in the holding. allows our company to accurately measure, products ecological impact The group’s Innovation and Sustainability report and improve its sustainability performance. Coordinator, who reports directly to the CEO In order to advance the major goal of of the holding, is responsible for the group’s eco-efficiency in the long term, sustainability A champion for our customers: we aim to achieve customer satisfaction through excellence. sustainability management. The sustainability management monitors the internal figures Summary of the key challenges and action areas strategy team is supported in the pursuit of reported by the eco-controlling system. In regular its strategic goals by seven sustainability meetings, the sustainability team analyses the working groups, each of which focuses on progress made towards the objectives and At burgbad, we attach great importance “interested parties” – a group consisting of a different area. develops potential new goals and actions, which to engaging in active dialogue with our architects, potential employees and customers stakeholders. It is the only way to ensure and the general public. are then approved in management meetings In early 2014, the new local position Head with the executive board. The divisional heads of the successful development of our premium, of Sustainability Management/Innovation buying, production, finance, sales, HR, R&D and individual products, identify new trends and The results of the stakeholder surveys on key Management was created for burgbad in order marketing are responsible for the implementation stay informed about the current business aspects conducted in 2015 also yielded some to support the executive board with the ongoing of the approved actions at operational level. situation. interesting insights. development of burgbad’s sustainability strategy. This position reports directly to the executive In order to identify which stakeholders are The following points emerged as highly important board on a regular basis, consolidates, proposes relevant for burgbad, the sustainability team to our stakeholders: service, compliance with projects and suggests appropriate actions. conducted a stakeholder relevance analysis. standards in the delivery chain and resource As the interface with the parent company, it To begin with, 28 internal and external conservation/eco-efficiency. represents burgbad in the above-mentioned stakeholders were identified and their working groups as well. It also serves as the significance for, influence on and interest in interface with the internal, operational level the company evaluated – and vice versa. In of the company. the next step, the analysis focused on the stakeholder groups customers, parent company, In addition, a sustainability team suppliers and employees, as well as on was established in 2015, consisting of 12 representatives from the various departments. All areas of the company are thus involved, ensuring close cooperation with the respective departments across all locations. burgbad has a comprehensive eco-controlling system that is not only 6 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 7 VISIONS AND PRINCIPLES VISIONS AND PRINCIPLES OUR BRAND BOOK: WE HAVE A VISION OUR PRINCIPLES Our management has developed an expressive In order to make our action areas even more Careful: brand book to illustrate the philosophy and tangible, our sustainability team has developed We do our work vigilantly, taking all the relevant vision of our company: six sustainability principles that tie in with our issues into account. vision: Durable: A champion for our customers: Everything we do focuses on durability and We aim to achieve customer satisfaction through quality. excellence. We are special because we question what’s Aware: behind our success. And know we can always Fair: We are aware of our responsibility for all aspects be even better. We want to sense our customers’ We are fair to each other, our customers and our of sustainability. needs even before they can put them into words. partners. Efficient: We work efficiently and save energy. Showing our appreciation of our employees, customers and partners is our greatest pleasure. We take a clever approach to The way we treat one another ideas and quality so as to create makes a difference – and makes meaning; we have the courage to us different too. think new thoughts. Creating good and beautiful things is our passion. That makes us fascinating. Inside and out. We follow this passion up with the discipline necessary to achieve excellence – by always giving +1. We are a triple-A company. 8 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 9 WE SHARE RESPONSIBILITY OUR RAW MATERIALS As a manufacturer of premium bathroom Wood Breakdown of raw materials by weight furnishings, we process large amounts of wood All the wood we use is sourced from sustainably products and natural products like sands, which managed forests. Our facilities are certified in we use as a filler for our washbasins. As a result, line with the PEFC standard. We thus ensure that 1. Wood-based 2. Fillers 3. Mirrors/glass we believe we have a special responsibility and 85 % of the wood-based products (in m³) currently materials Natural sands from Germany. 95 % of mirrors from Europe. Wood sourced from sustainably 50 % of glass from Asia. strive to live up to it in our day-to-day work. purchased for use at our German factories are managed forests. PEFC-certified (80 % at our French factory). About half of our raw and other materials are 4. Ceramic 5. Miscellaneous wood-based, followed by fillers, mirrors and Fillers washbasins Incl. technical fittings, drawers, Over 90 % produced by resins and sundries. glass and, finally, ceramic washbasins. We buy large amounts of natural sands for the parent company in Turkey. production of our washbasins. All the suppliers and quarry areas are located in Germany and do not represent any acute risk with regard to sustainability aspects. Mirrors and glass In 2015, we sourced over 95 % of our mirrors 49 % 15 % 9% from within Europe. We do not currently see any risk here as regards non-compliance with standards. We buy almost 50 % of the glass we use (by volume) via an import service provider from Asia. This company is responsible for complying with the burgbad Code of Conduct, which it has signed. 6% 21% Ceramic washbasins In 2015, over 90 % of our ceramic washbasins were produced by our parent company in Turkey, thus allowing us to be certain that Note: % by weight sustainability requirements have been observed in accordance with our group-wide rules. Miscellaneous Technical fittings, drawers, resins and sundries. 10 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 11 WE SHARE RESPONSIBILITY OUR SUPPLIERS We have collaborated with most of the suppliers Code of Conduct. Our goal is for all new we source our materials from on an equal suppliers to sign both the Code of Conduct and footing for many years. Many suppliers are also our supply agreement, compliance with which important development partners with whom we is a prerequisite for any relationship between us are constantly exploring possibilities for using and a supplier. new, sustainable materials. In the second half of 2015, we conducted a survey with selected In 2016 we will develop a policy questionnaire suppliers in order to identify the key sustainability specifically aimed at potential suppliers, which issues we have in common. will also cover key sustainability aspects. 83.2% of the suppliers who deliver to all four of One of our medium-term goals regarding a our production sites come from Germany, while sustainable supply chain is to ensure that European suppliers account for an overall share suppliers are complying with our guidelines by of 98.8%. We do not currently have any direct conducting random visits in the field. Another suppliers in high-risk countries. Without exception, objective is to systematically address sustainability all import service providers who source from issues in our annual meetings with suppliers. such countries have signed our Code of Conduct and ensure compliance with the agreed guidelines by visiting their suppliers in the field. The Code of Conduct for our suppliers was developed in 2014. It defines the criteria that are important to us in relation to respecting human rights, humane working conditions and environmental protection and covers issues such as equal opportunity and equal treatment of all employees, the prohibition of child and forced labour, and the prohibition of corruption and bribery. burgbad is explicitly committed to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The suppliers are requested to place any sub-suppliers they may collaborate with under an obligation to comply with this 12 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 13 WE SHARE RESPONSIBILITY OUR PRODUCTION Our three sites in Bad Fredeburg, Greding and frequency-controlled compressors and installed Nogent le Roi (France) produce bathroom modern exhaust ventilation systems with lower furniture, while the Lauterbach facility makes energy consumption. In addition, our Lauterbach mineral cast washbasins. The just-in-time site is ISO 9001-2008 certified. The mineral assembly of these elements for delivery to cast washbasins are made of sand and customers takes place on pallets at the respective polyester resins using a casting process. Because bathroom furniture factories. A complex, the material cures quickly at room temperature, internally developed planning tool calculates it does not require a high energy input. The the upstream production processes on the resulting emissions are immediately neutralised basis of the completion deadline. in an exhaust air treatment unit. And we already switched to a biodegradable solvent for burgbad produces to order. Due to the extremely cleaning the machinery years ago. wide range of product variants, this calls for a high degree of personal responsibility and But our efforts to ensure a responsible use of flexibility on the part of our workforce. On the materials are not restricted to wood and other hand, our make-to-order manufacturing paper products; we take the same approach process means we can dispense with a finished to paints as well. The painting systems used components warehouse. at our production site in France, for instance, were switched entirely to water-based materials Our bathroom furniture production process uses back in 2014. Since then, solvent emissions fully automatic cutting technology, which reduces during processing at our site have been avoided the likelihood of errors at this stage virtually completely. In 2016, we are investing in an to zero. Using laser edging technology for our exhaust air treatment unit for our Bad Fredeburg melamine fronts is just as much part of our factory in order to neutralise the emissions quality standard as producing our curved fronts, arising from the paint shop. painted products and thermoformed fronts ourselves. We did away with the shrink tunnels at our German factories years ago, replacing them with much less energy-intensive packaging machinery. The cardboard packaging is cut to fit the corresponding furniture part perfectly. This saves having to keep various box sizes in stock and avoids hollow spaces when the furniture is packed ready for delivery. In 2015, this packaging concept was also installed at our French factory. We have also switched to 14 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 15 WE SHARE RESPONSIBILITY OUR GOAL: ECO-EFFICIENCY Our fundamental aim is to be aware and We report these KPIs to our parent company Utilisation of natural resources efficient in our handling of resources. At the on a quarterly basis. In future we would same time, we try to keep energy utilisation like to make even more intensive use of the as low as possible in order to prevent eco-controlling system as an evaluation tool so 1. Biomass 2. Diesel 3. Natural gas 4. Heating oil (scrap wood) (forklifts, tractors, generators) environmental damage in general. as to further improve our performance with the help of the resulting data. The group-wide value In our eco-controlling system, all data improvement programme DIP also plays a part relating to material and energy consumption, in helping our departments develop and 5. LPG/LNG 6. Electricity 7. Electricity (from non-renewable sources) (from renewable sources) waste volumes etc. is monitored and optimised implement efficiency-enhancing projects. Data continuously. The reference value for our on the progress made is collected and reported performance indicator system is defined as to the parent company at regular intervals. In the weight of the packaged, produced units addition, our ISO 9001:2008 and PEFC or, in the case of employee performance certifications outline further specifications for 0,03% 31% indicators, the employees (head-count). The complying with the relevant standards. 7% reference values per site are entered in the eco-controlling database on a quarterly basis, as are material input, energy consumption, waste streams and occupational health and Energy is a crucial natural resource for our business operations. In 2014 and 2015, the following energy sources were used at our four 2014 28% 29% 5% safety data. The most important KPIs for production sites, including administration: 0,5% us are: • Biomass • Energy consumption (kWh)/weights • Diesel 0% produced (t) – per type of energy Natural gas 30% 29% 28% • 7% • Total energy consumption (kWh)/t. This • Heating oil permits calculation of kg CO2/t of production. • LPG/LNG 2015 • Total amount of waste (kg)/weights produced (t) • Electricity 5% • Share of recyclable waste (%) 1% • Material input (t)/weights produced (t), The high share (34.8%) of renewable energies whereby in this case material relates to the already achieved in 2014 mainly results from total amount of main raw materials and the use of accumulated wood waste. This packaging materials biomass is used as an energy source for our • Ratio of recycled materials used (%) factories in Bad Fredeburg and Grafenberg – • Occupational health and safety: LTIR (= sum of enabling us to save fossil fuels and prevent CO2 work-related accidents*200,000/hours worked) emissions. In 2015, we were able to increase and the number of commuting accidents the share of biomass by 2 percentage points. In 2015, total fuel consumption amounted to 44,568,342 MJ from non-renewable sources and 26,198,172 MJ from renewable sources. 16 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 17 Thanks to systematic analysis of the eco-controlling In 2015, absolute energy consumption Our goal for all sites is to reduce waste and, Waste data and cross-site meetings of the relevant increased slightly due to order volumes. as a result, material input/tonne of production – 2014 departments, we are able to ensure that we take Our performance indicator “energy consumption/ as well as to reclaim or recycle any waste that 2015 105 all actions necessary to increase our eco-efficiency. weight produced” dropped slightly, decreasing does occur wherever possible. This also ensures that potential synergies are by 0.4 %. There was also a slight 100 taken advantage of. One of our goals for 2016 production-related increase in overall CO2 As a result, the share of recyclable waste was is to convert virtually our entire electricity emissions. Specific CO2 emissions dropped increased by 7.4 percentage points in 2015 95 procurement for Germany to renewable energies. by 1.8 %. as compared to 2014. In 2015, the share of So as to be able to identify energy saving recyclable waste was already over 50 %, 90 potentials, we will be installing an energy burgbad also monitors the input of main subdivided into paper/cardboard, plastic, wood, monitoring system in all our factories by the end raw materials and packaging materials via glass and metal, with pallets accounting for Total amount of Recyclable of 2016. It will be analysed centrally by our the eco-controlling system. In 2015, total the majority of the wood waste. Thanks to our waste (kg)/output (t) waste (kg)/output (t) 2014 = 100% 2014 = 100% energy management team. Wherever possible, consumption amounted to 12,350 tonnes of cooperation with the recycling programme the resulting values will be used to derive main raw materials and 2,288 tonnes of operated by the Interseroh company, we are efficiency-enhancing measures for the factories. packaging materials. Mainly due to the use of also able to ensure that any product packaging recycled packaging components, recycled that is brought into circulation re-enters the By implementing these actions and increasing materials purchased from third parties recycling loop. the share of renewable energies, we aim to accounted for a share of 12.7 % in 2015. Composition of waste (in tonnes) reduce CO2 emissions for all four sites by 15% 2014 as compared to 2014 levels by the end of 2017. 2015 1200 1000 Energy consumption and CO² emissions 800 2014 2015 600 100 99 400 98 200 97 96 te s as as te on as te ou 95 w w vi si w la ne id n er d el ol ct io up cle isc ls tru ls cy M pa ns ia Re Total energy kg CO2 ic i co spec consumption/output (t) emissions/output (t) un & M g al iri n 2014 = 100% 2014 = 100% tri qu us re In d te Was 18 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 19 In 2015, total water consumption was just burgbad’s Greding site participated in the Breakdown of recyclable materials 2015 6,830 m³. Due to this small volume, we do not “LCA data for wood-based furniture” project see any key action areas for our company organised by the VDM (Association of the in this respect. German Furniture Industry) in cooperation with 1. Glass 2. Wood-based 3. Cardboard the Thünen Institute of Wood Research. The materials packaging Our just-in-time production strategy, which involves aim was to help the furniture industry identify a conducting separate processes at different sound approach for establishing a product’s 4. Plastic 5. Metal sites without intermediate storage, calls for cradle-to-gate carbon footprint. The project more complex logistics between the company’s results equip furniture manufacturers with a various locations, for which we use external procedure for dealing with this increasingly service providers. We also deliver our products important issue on the basis of a uniform to our customers via independent haulage concept. contractors. In 2015, our French site switched to cross-docking for deliveries to one major customer. This reduces both the number of As a further step towards its goals, burgbad is planning to participate in the climate pact of the 1% 66 % 26 % process steps and warehousing costs. DGM (German Quality Assurance Association for Furniture) in 2016. The DGM founded In 2015, we also determined the fuel consumption the Climate Pact for the Furniture Industry in of our fleet. On the basis of this analysis, we response to the results of the 21st UN Climate are endeavouring to reduce the carbon footprint Change Conference in Paris. The pact is based of our fleet by making more intensive use of on a company’s carbon footprint: every year, video conferences. In the second phase (to be participating furniture manufacturers calculate conducted in 2016), we aim to determine the their footprint on the basis of the applicable 6% 1% carbon footprint of our air travel so as to assess standards. its relevance and take any action that may be necessary. Note: % by weight Shipping is another area in which we are contributing to climate protection: since early 2016, burgbad has been using the climate-friendly GoGreen service provided by Deutsche Post and DHL, which calculates the transport-related CO2 emissions and offsets them through verified climate protection projects. 20 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 21 WE CREATE VALUES THAT LAST OUR INNOVATION AND PRODUCT MANAGEMENT Our passion and aspiration is to develop It is also important for the company’s more than just a product. We want to convey development not only to conduct R&D projects a modern outlook on life to users – our in its own laboratory, but to cooperate with customers – that enables them to feel healthy, external research facilities and the parent hygienic and safe. Innovation and sustainability company’s innovation centre when necessary. are two areas that are closely linked with Our goal is to maintain our position as design this aim. and innovation leaders. burgbad holds three patents, five registered designs and five utility We know that sustainability objectives cannot models to protect the products it has developed. be achieved without innovations – just as sustainability aspects are playing an increasingly New ideas are welcome and find a friendly important role in the development of successful ear – as demonstrated by our consistent innovations. Our goal: to create added innovation management. Ideas are values – not just for our customers, but for the generated on a regular basis by both internal environment too. That is why we have created workshops and communication with other a position in our company that combines stakeholders, culminating in a systematic the responsibilities of “head of sustainability decision-making process conducted by a management” and “head of innovation multidisciplinary team. Here too, right from the management” in one and the same person. very first idea evaluation process, avoiding potential environmental risks is a top priority. In order to stay in tune with the times, the burgbad management regularly works with future scenarios that focus on developments in materials, production technology and architecture – and correlates them with changes in global society. Our product development strategy responds to the challenge of demographic change by endeavouring to develop innovations with added health benefits. 22 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 23 WE CREATE VALUES THAT LAST OUR EMPLOYEES Around 700 employees currently work at our In addition, our Greding site holds yoga classes four sites (as of 2015). And we are very proud for interested members of staff. that 22 % of our 2015 workforce has been with our company for more than 25 years. However, Equal opportunity is important to us. With we have also identified demographic change disabled employees accounting for 7 % of its as one of the key challenges facing our company. workforce, our Bad Fredeburg site is setting An analysis of our workforce’s age structure a fine example for our other locations. The shows that there is currently a shift towards older certification of our Bad Fredeburg facility as a employees. We want to retain and use their “family-friendly company” by the Hochsauerland valuable knowledge – while simultaneously district in 2015 is also evidence of our years holding our ground in the face of growing of commitment to creating a family-aware competition for the best skilled workers. They corporate culture and a good working atmosphere, are crucial to our make-to-order production as well as the good working conditions that are strategy: due to the extremely wide range of essential for a healthy and contented workforce. product variants we manufacture, we expect our Enabling our staff to balance family and work is employees not just to be highly qualified but to a matter of great importance to us. exhibit a high degree of personal responsibility and flexibility as well. With an eye to the future, we would like to increase the share of employees under the age of 30. First and foremost, we see our apprenticeship programme as a huge opportunity in this respect – and aim to maintain or expand it in future. We also plan to improve the structure of our further training options and broaden the scope of the opportunities available. These training measures are conducted by the relevant department depending on employees’ requirements. Up until now, we have not compiled central data on the number of hours dedicated to training and further training. In order to enable older people in our company to maintain their health, interested employees can for instance take part in bicycle days or other health-promoting activities, many of which are organised by health insurance companies. 24 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 25 In 2015, our overall share of female employees We are already cooperating with schools We attach great importance to open and the relevant laws and guidelines and instigates was 28.4 %. Women accounted for 42.4 % of to interest as many youngsters as possible in respectful collaboration with the works the appropriate measures: while our sales salaried employees, 13.4 % of management staff burgbad’s sound and wide-ranging council that represents employees’ interests at department is already receiving comprehensive and 42 % of new recruits. apprenticeship programme in the medium the respective locations. Detailed arrangements training in relation to antitrust laws, we are term and would like to expand these activities are settled in regular internal agreements currently working with external partners on the Last but not least, we see our participation in the in future. between the works council and management. development of a guide to competition law and annual Girls and Boys Days as a way to help corruption prevention. burgbad categorically generate greater interest in technical professions burgbad wants to ensure good framework As part of our occupational health and rejects all forms of corruption – not a single case among women and thus positively influence our conditions: a healthy work environment and fair safety management, we observe the LTIR of corruption has come to the management’s share of female employees. working conditions, as well as equal opportunity (Lost Time Injury Rate) very closely. In 2014, attention to date. and equal treatment when it comes to filling the overall LTIR amounted to 5.47 across all sites, Since all our sites are located in quite rural positions. rising to 6.16 in 2015 as a result of an increase Our goal for 2016 is to develop and introduce regions, we attach great importance to the in commuting accidents – an aspect beyond a general code of conduct for all burgbad development and integration of qualified young burgbad works with a variable pay system that burgbad’s sphere of influence. In 2015, the employees. people within our company. Besides running an is based on performance criteria. At the current role of occupational health and safety specialist apprenticeship programme that has won time, social or ecological goals are not given was filled externally for all sites in Germany so awards from the Chamber of Industry and separate consideration in this context. as to ensure that all necessary actions can be Commerce, we also take promising youngsters implemented in the near term. The stated aim is on for at least six months after successful It is important to us to engage in a continuous for burgbad as the employer to collaborate with completion of their apprenticeship with the aim exchange with our employees. Regular its company doctors and safety officers to do of ensuring our company’s age structure employee surveys are embedded in our everything it can to lower the LTIR. The individual develops positively in the long term. In 2015, parent company’s HR management and cover actions to be taken are clarified in the respective apprentices accounted for 3.35 % of the the key issues affecting staff. In addition, our occupational health and safety committee workforce. management team practises the “open door” meetings. We are pleased to report that there principle. All employees can bring up any issues were no fatalities as a result of work-related Our apprenticeship programme covers the that are concerning them with their superior accidents or illness in 2015. following skilled occupations: at any time. As an internationally operating company, • Wood mechanic We also care deeply about fostering a sense it is particularly important to us to establish • Cabinetmaker of community. Besides organising Christmas anti-corruption measures. • IT specialist (specialising either in system festivities and summer parties at all our integration or application development) factories, we also support various other The executive board is responsible for ensuring • Industrial administrator community-building activities. that conduct within the company complies with • Technical product designer specialising in machinery and plant design • Industrial mechanic specialising in maintenance 26 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 27 WE CREATE VALUES THAT LAST LOOKING AHEAD OUR CUSTOMERS OUR GOALS We count wholesalers, retailers and consumers Our products carry the following quality labels: Our analysis of the opportunities and risks among our customers. involved with the individual action areas resulted • The Golden M, the only officially recognised in concrete sustainability goals that we will Via our sales team, we cultivate long-standing label for furniture quality and safety in strive constantly to achieve in the years to come. and trusting business relationships with our direct Germany customers. In both our office and field-based • The DGM Emissions label, with an Emissions activities, we attach great importance to direct, Class A rating personal contact – as well as to holding numerous • Goal: to obtain the “health label” for our training events for our customers at the relevant furniture in France (assessment of emission Action area: Action area: locations. Thanks to their assignments in levels in indoor air. The draft bill has not yet Achieve climate-neutral production Increase eco-efficiency Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Belgium been passed) Our goal: Our goal: and Luxembourg, our in-house customer service Reduce environmental pollution Resource conservation staff receive direct feedback from consumers in the field – and can pass desires, criticisms or • 15 %-reduction in CO2 emissions as compared • An eco-controlling system for measuring, trends on to the company. to 2014 (2017) reporting and improving our sustainability • Offsetting of remaining CO2 emissions as performance has already been introduced We also conduct customer satisfaction studies. per Scope 1 and 2 to become a and is being used to increase eco-efficiency However, it isn’t only customers’ opinions on climate-neutral furniture manufacturer (2017) in the long term. existing products that are important to us. As • Conversion of electricity procurement • Increase in the share of PEFC-certified wood part of our innovation management strategy, we to 100 % renewable energies in Germany • Reduce waste volumes wherever possible conducted “interviews” with selected customers (2016) and/or return waste to recycling loop when in Germany in 2014 and in France in 2015; • Reduction of emissions via exhaust air feasible. their answers provided us with some valuable treatment unit in Bad Fredeburg (2016) • Responsible handling of resources insights, ideas and opinions regarding various EMISSIONSKLASSE der Deutschen • Quantification of emissions generated by • Introduction of an energy monitoring system cutting-edge topics. Gütegemeinschaft Möbel Kastenmöbel / free cabinets Hersteller-Nr. / manufacturer-no. business travel (flights); more intensive use at all factories (2016)  Kollektion / collection / Modell / model of video conferences • Reduce paper consumption and switch to We want to provide products that pose no risk .ROOHNWLRQ Prüfnummer / control number • Accession to the climate pact of the DGM buying 100 % PEFC/FCS paper (2016) to health. Our high quality standards ensure  A (German Quality Assurance Association A our products have a long service life, which is B for Furniture) (2016) clearly in the interests of our customers. It also C • Use of GoGreen mail service (2016) saves resources and energy. We guarantee for D this high quality by offering a warranty period Emissionsklasse für Möbel nach den Richtlinien der Deutschen Gütegemeinschaft of five years, which is considerably longer than Möbel e.V. • emission class for furniture according to the guidelines of Deutsche Gütegemeinschaft Möbel e.V. • the legal requirement. www.emissionslabel.de 28 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 29 Action area: Action area: Embed the promotion of young talent Strive for sustainable supply chains – in corporate culture – encourage/ guarantee sustainable quality, service enable age-appropriate work – and innovation develop age-appropriate products Our goal: Our goal: Be equipped for economic globalisation Meet the challenges of demographic change • All new suppliers are asked to sign both the code of conduct developed in 2014 and our • burgbad trains young people for clerical and supplier agreement. technical occupations at all its German • The sustainability will be integrated into our locations and will continue to do so out of annual meetings with suppliers. conviction. • Development and introduction of policy • Encourage regular further training/continuing questionnaire for potential suppliers education of own employees • Spot checks of compliance with the code of • Development of a code of conduct for all conduct employees (2016) • Continuing focus on added value for the • Age-appropriate product development customer • Continued participation in Girls/Boys day • Design and innovation leadership Action area: Guarantee product safety – promote employee health Our goal: Safeguard the health of our staff and customers • Obtain the “health label” in France (as soon as the corresponding draft bill for assessing emission levels in indoor air has been passed) • Innovations with added health benefits • In future too, we will continue to work with safe materials and processes. • Lower the LTIR (accident rate) as far as possible 30 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 31 LOOKING AHEAD OUR SOCIAL COMMITMENT As a large regional SME employer, local and Since 2015, we have been structuring our regional commitment is very important to us. charity activities. Each of our sites is allocated That’s why burgbad’s various locations have a certain amount of money for local donations. been supporting a wide range of activities for The workforce itself also collects money and many years, including the Wormbach Summer donates it to local organisations. In 2014, for Concerts, the TV Fredeburg sports club and instance, the staff at our Greding site supported Greding’s voluntary fire service. the St. Antonius children’s home in Gersdorf, and in 2015 they collected several thousand In 2014, burgbad supported Aicha des euros for a seriously ill colleague. Gazelles, a fundraising event for charity projects in Morocco and the toughest off-road rally for We are committed members of the DGM women in the world. We sponsored the (German Quality Assurance Association participation of French drivers team Angelika for Furniture), HDH (Head Association of the Olivier and Chloée Decker in the 24th desert German Woodworking and Furniture rally. The rally is organised by the non-profit Industries), IFS (Sanitaryware Industry Forum) organisation Coeur de Gazelles with the aim of and Arge-Neue-Medien (a platform for German raising funds for new schools, wells, orphanages HVAC and sanitaryware manufacturers). Our and medical care for local populations, some executives are represented on the boards of of whom still live as nomads. Unusually, speed is both Arge-Neue-Medien and HDH. not a classification criteria; instead, the goal is to be the team that travels the lowest number of kilometres. We liked the fact that the competition is based on the idea of eco-driving. 32 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 33 Platzhalter Logo austauschen! burgbad AG, Kirchplatz 10, 57392 Schmallenberg, T +49(0)2974 772 0, F +49(0)2974 772 269, info@burgbad.com, www.burgbad.com
