Building a Better Tomorrow 2015 Global Sustainability Report | July 2016 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Building a Better Tomorrow Contents: 2015 Global 2 3 Key highlights from 2015 Introduction from our CEO and President Sustainability 4 About JLL Report 5 About this report 6 Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership 9 Our sustainability strategy 12 Generating lasting value for our clients 16 Engaging our people 20 Transforming our workplaces 24 Supporting our communities 27 Contacts and corporate documents 28 Annexes a. Data notes b. Data summary c. Stakeholder engagement activities d. GRI content index e. Material impacts JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 1 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Key highlights 287 1,706 from 2015 corporate sustainability 22 offices accredited sustainability professionals awards won OVER 80 12,040 countries where employees JLL serves clients taking in-person ethics training $56.4B 61,500 233,879 of assets under metric tons CO2e employees management by LaSalle averted by advising globally Investment Management on renewable projects 5,533 16,243 employee hours of volunteering sustainability days training JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 2 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Introduction from the CEO and President 2015 marked another outstanding year in JLL’s can deliver increased value to clients, investors and In addition, we continue to invest in sustainability250-year history, as the firm again saw record levels our other stakeholders by embedding sustainability oriented partnerships to significantly move the of revenue and profit and continued to demonstrate across our service lines and operations. We call our needle on climate change, corporate governance, leadership against numerous non-financial metrics. new global sustainability strategy Building a and the other most significant citizenship issues of Our strategy for focused growth at JLL—supported Better Tomorrow. our time. They range from the UN Global Compact by our ongoing investments in our business— The program will apply broad social and and the World Economic Forum to Green Building enables us to keep improving the value of the environmental filters to our work and to the real Councils around the globe. services we offer to clients and the opportunities estate advice and services we provide to clients. The United Nations Climate Change Conference, we create for our own people. They include facility and property management, COP 21, held in Paris in December 2015, Successful growth is not supported by monetary investment sales, valuations, investments and the rounded out a significant year for sustainability. investment alone; it is only possible thanks to the execution of leases. Building a Better Tomorrow Recognizing the leading role our industry has exceptional people who work at JLL. It is their aims to drive forward the innovative, future-oriented to play in tackling climate change, JLL sent a Colin Dyer passion, expertise and the values they exhibit that solutions we are known to provide. delegation to join leaders from the public and Chief Executive Officer makes us the company we are today. These values The program also tracks our own operations. private sectors at the event. Since the majority of of teamwork, ethics and excellence define JLL’s We engage our people through rewards and carbon reduction plans submitted by UN members approach to our work for clients as well as recognition, by focusing on training and career include measures to cut energy use in buildings our interactions between our colleagues and development, by recognizing the value of diversity and the world’s major cities, the contribution JLL with other stakeholders. and by promoting the health and well-being of our can make toward delivery of the Paris Agreement Sustainability presents one of the biggest staff. JLL also focuses on our workplaces: ensuring is clear, and we intend to remain at the forefront opportunities for us to create and to deliver value that they provide safe and productive environments of these efforts. to clients. As well as helping to drive operational for our staff and contractors, operate efficiently, and In this report you will gain deeper insight into efficiencies, attract top talent and boost productivity, are supplied with resources that do not negatively JLL’s commitment to building a better tomorrow an increasing body of evidence shows that investors impact the environment. In the communities where and the tangible ways we are producing practical are looking at the overall citizenship of businesses we live and work, Building a Better Tomorrow results. We greatly appreciate your interest in our to inform their investment decisions. seeks to continue the positive impact our company efforts and, for those of you who interact with our Christian Ulbrich To help unlock this potential, JLL is launching a makes through employee volunteering, charitable business, for your advice and suggestions for President comprehensive program which focuses on how we contributions and pro bono work. continued improvements. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 3 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance About JLL JLL is a Fortune 500 professional services and investment JLL is frequently recognized for its sustainability efforts through high-profile awards such as management firm specializing in real estate. We offer integrated those shown below. In total, we received 22 local, national and global sustainability-related services worldwide to clients seeking increased value by awards in 2015 and early 2016. owning, occupying, developing or investing in real estate. • One of the World's Most Ethical Companies, from the Ethisphere, for the eighth and JLL is a publicly-owned company that is incorporated in the ninth consecutive years (2015, 2016) state of Maryland. Shares of Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE:JLL). • 100 Best Corporate Citizens (#23), CR Magazine • 50 Out Front for Diversity Leadership: Best Places for Women & Diverse Managers to With 2015 fee revenue of more than $5.2 billion and gross Work, Diversity MBA magazine revenue of $5.97 billion, our 61,500 employees serve clients in more than 80 countries from 287 corporate offices. JLL is an • Perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality Index industry leader in property and corporate facility management • International Award for Health and Safety with Merit, for the 9th year in a row services, with a portfolio of 4.0 billion square feet worldwide. • US National Safety Council’s Occupational Excellence Achievement Award In 2015, JLL completed 35,500 transactions for clients, • A Winning W Company and listing on the 2020 Honor Roll by the 2020 Women on Boards representing 1.1 billion square feet of space and provided • One of the Best Places to Work in numerous local publications worldwide capital markets services for $138 billion of client transactions. • Best Employers 2016, Forbes magazine LaSalle Investment Management, our investment management • ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency business, is one of the world’s largest and most diverse in real • ENERGY STAR Climate Communications Award, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency estate with $56.4 billion of assets under management. • Ethics Award for JLL Turkey, three years in a row, Edmer Institute • Excellence in Global Corporate Governance, India Institute of Directors Key financial information 2015 2014 2013 Gross revenue (USD millions) 5,966 5,430 4,462 Net income (USD millions) 438 386 269 Earnings (USD per diluted share) 9.65 8.52 5.98 EBITDA (USD millions) 707 606 476 JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 4 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance About this report Scope Integrated reporting This report spans JLL’s services and operations JLL was one of the first U.S. companies to across three geographic business segments: participate in the International Integrated Reporting the Americas; Europe, the Middle East and Africa Council and has continued to adopt the principles (EMEA); Asia Pacific; as well as the global activities of the Integrated Reporting (<IR>) Framework in of LaSalle Investment Management. LaSalle has our financial reporting and sustainability materials. published detailed information on their sustainability This Global Sustainability Report focuses on our approach and performance on their website. sustainability strategy and performance. Our Unless otherwise stated, this report covers 91% of Annual Report focuses on our business strategy our corporate offices, activity related to our Energy and our financial performance and reflects the and Sustainability Services, and certain activity from majority of our <IR> efforts. In addition, our sustainability advice embedded into core services. governance and remuneration practices are The data used in this report is comprised of actual reported primarily in the Proxy Statement for our figures where possible. In cases where actual Annual Meeting of Shareholders. For the first figures are unavailable, we have made reasonable time in 2015, JLL published an on-line version of estimations or assumptions; these are indicated an integrated report for 2014, which can be throughout the report where relevant. The data in found online. this report has undergone internal validation by our Global Sustainability team. We are continuously Collaboration with the United Nations working to improve our data processes, although on sustainability due to the decentralized nature of our organization JLL has been a signatory of the United Nations this remains one of our biggest challenges. The Global Compact (UNGC) since 2009. The UNGC is information presented in this report represents the an initiative that is aimed at supporting responsible best information available at the time of publication. business activities by helping businesses align All financial figures are reported in U.S. dollars. with ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We participate in a peer review process organized by the Global Compact Network Canada to improve the quality of our disclosures. This report represents JLL’s Communication of Progress on the ten principles of the UNGC. JLL recently signed the UNGC’s Women’s Empowerment Principles and is closely monitoring the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 5 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership Corporate governance Our ethical commitment Companies’ index for the ninth year in a row. Delivering excellent client JLL‘s corporate governance arrangements are Good governance and strong integrity are not just We also received Ethics Inside re-certification from services through our focus on conducted according to the standards of the New good for business; they provide tangible financial the NYSE Governance Council, and Corporate ethics and thought leadership York Stock Exchange. The firm’s Board of Directors benefits to shareholders and provide confidence Responsibility Magazine placed us as #23 on its has ultimate responsibility for overseeing our to the communities in which we operate. The list of Best Corporate Citizens in the U.S. business. The Board elects our Chairman, Chief Ethisphere Institute publishes statistics that Ethical behavior is a core responsibility of each Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as show the World’s Most Ethical Companies have and every JLL employee and we seek to embed well as other senior officers. The management outperformed the S&P 500 by 4% on an annual these behaviors deep within the company’s team, with the Board’s oversight, is responsible for basis over a ten-year period. Additional information corporate culture. Our Ethics Everywhere program conducting the company’s business to enhance about our corporate governance can be found on 31 establishes a framework for the various activities long-term value. our website. we undertake in order to maintain compliance We seek to provide shareholders with the highest JLL is committed to a corporate culture that with our Code of Business Ethics. These efforts level of governance including: annual voting for embraces and promotes strong principles of are supported by our network of ethics officers, sustainability Directors; majority voting for Directors; enhanced business ethics at every level; a commitment numbering more than 25 people worldwide. thought leadership abilities to call for special meetings; and annual reflected in our Code of Business Ethics. We are As part of the Ethics Everywhere program, we offer pieces produced advisory voting on executive compensation. At the proud of the global reputation we have established comprehensive training to our employees. In 2015, most recent shareholder annual meeting, 99.7% and are determined to protect and to enhance it. In more than 12,000 of our employees undertook of the votes cast were in favor of each Director 2016, the Ethisphere Institute has again recognized 12,040 in-person training at more than 300 different and 94% of the votes cast were in favor of our our efforts, listing JLL on their ‘World’s Most Ethical sessions relating to legal, ethics or compliance executive compensation. employees taking in-person ethics training 55 global and local sustainability organizations engaged JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 6 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance matters. This training is proving effective—in our last Many of these pieces were published on our full Global Employee Engagement Survey, 96% of LinkedIn sustainability showcase, Green Blog, the more than 31,000 employees who responded CSRWire posts, and Real Views web pages. to the survey reported that they fully understood We know that collaboration brings with it the their obligations under our Code of Business Ethics. opportunity for making a difference. That is A further 89% recognized JLL’s commitment to why we work together with 55 global and local ethical business decisions and conduct. In 2015, sustainability organizations to develop new ways we conducted more than 500 investigations of of thinking around some of the biggest challenges potential violations of our ethics code, representing facing our sector. This includes working alongside 0.8% of our total employee population. Of these organizations such as the Global Real Estate investigations, 69% resulted in action being taken, Sustainability Benchmark and the World Green ranging from additional training to termination Building Council. of employment. The World Green Building Council is a global JLL is also actively involved in efforts to improve member network of Green Building Councils the integrity and transparency of global markets enabling green building and sustainable through collaboration with the World Economic communities through leadership and market Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, transformation. The World Green Building Council among other significant integrity-oriented initiatives aims to make all building and communities in which we are involved. Furthermore, LaSalle sustainable, enabling us to thrive on our planet Investment Management has been a signatory of today and in the future. In 2016, JLL was very the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) pleased to be invited to join the World Green since 2009 and has made a commitment to report Building Council’s Corporate Advisory Board, a on the progress toward the PRI’s six principles of select group of companies that are global leaders responsible investing. In its most recent UN PRI on sustainability, and which serve to guide the assessment report, LaSalle was awarded strong organization on its strategy and activities. scores across the board, exceeding the median score across all relevant categories on the Terri Wills, CEO of the World Green Building appraisal. Council, said: “We’re delighted to welcome JLL onto the World Green Building Council’s Corporate Thinking differently Advisory Board—it is a true global leader on green buildings, from its work to help clients to achieve JLL has earned a reputation for progressive the highest sustainability standards to its role in thinking through extensive investments in research enhancing workplace productivity and health. and thought leadership. Throughout 2015, we JLL will be a huge asset to the Corporate Advisory produced 31 pieces of sustainability thought Board, and we look forward to collaborating with leadership covering topics as diverse as climate them to deliver green building for all.” change adaptation, sustainable building design and productivity and workplace economics. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 7 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Leadership case study: COP 21 At the 2015 United Nations Climate Change me thinking about how JLL’s clients, investors, Conference held last December—informally known employees and industry partners will continue as COP 21—195 countries committed to limit addressing sustainability today so that we all have greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to curb global a better world tomorrow. If we collectively start warming. This outcome—referred to as the Paris approaching buildings differently then we will stretch Agreement—stipulates an overarching objective our role as sustainability leaders in real estate. to limit global temperatures from rising above two Sarah reflected on the achievement of the Paris degrees Celsius relative to pre-industrial levels. Agreement: “To me, post-Paris begins with each JLL For JLL, participating in COP 21 provided valuable stakeholder recognizing that the threshold is higher. first-hand insight and thought leadership on climate We therefore need to ask tough, strategic questions change, helping us improve our ability to deliver about climate change and sustainability. For the expert sustainability services to our clients. Our many JLL clients and investors who have already involvement also reinforces the firm’s commitment asked us, thank you. Your questions are a significant to ensure the long-term sustainability of our own internal driver for us to make sustainability happen. business operations. For the many JLL clients and investors who have yet Leading JLL’s delegation in Paris were Dan Probst, to ask us, please do so. Your questions will help us Global Chairman of Energy and Sustainability grow our sustainability expertise to better serve your Services, and Sarah Nicholls, Head of Global needs. And, vice versa, for the many JLL employees Sustainability. Reflecting on the role of the real who have yet to ask our clients about sustainability, estate sector in tackling climate change, Dan said: start by figuring out what COP 21 means to them.” “Reaching agreement in Paris is a significant first “The prevailing belief from the business community step toward putting us on the right path to reduce is that a global climate agreement will send a strong the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on our market signal that will spawn large increases in climate. Much work has been done leading up to the research, development and investment in new this point, and much more will need to be done in technology and products,” Dan reflected. the months and years ahead. It is widely accepted that the built environment is part of the problem and Sarah continued: “With a topic like climate change, thus represents a key area of opportunity to meet our impact can, and must, be bigger. The truth is the commitments that were made by government that we can and should engage with sustainability leaders in Paris.” because we love life. Even if you aren’t green, you can relate to that: to the love for your family and Following the achievement of the Paris Agreement, friends; or perhaps to the love for nature or your Sarah considered the long-term view and the need neighborhood. Whatever it may be that you enjoy in for collaboration to meet the challenge of climate life, it is worth sustaining.” change. “Looking ahead to the future, Paris got JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 8 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Our sustainability strategy At JLL, our vision is to be the most sustainable real estate services and investment management occupier behavior. We also provide a range of strategic solutions such as energy management Building a Better Tomorrow – Pillars firm globally, realizing our significant opportunity to and energy reduction programs that aim to deliver make buildings and cities where people thrive. lasting improvements in the efficiency of our This means sustaining our business over the long clients’ portfolios. term by successfully managing our financial, As a professional services firm, we are nothing environmental, and social risks and opportunities, without our people. This means helping our and helping our clients do the same. Not just employees grow, develop and engage in a because it is the right thing to do, but because it working experience that engenders loyalty, adds lasting value to clients, employees, commitment and motivation. We believe that shareholders, communities and our industry. building a diverse workforce and an inclusive Everything we do today should be Building a culture leads to a world of breakthrough ideas for Better Tomorrow. our clients and opportunities for all our employees to develop their skills and career. Building a Better Tomorrow We understand and capitalize on our opportunity Through this sustainability leadership agenda, to positively impact the communities in which we Building a Better Tomorrow, we seek to meet our live and work. We do this by helping our global vision through four pillars: Clients, People, and local communities through volunteering and Workplaces and Communities. JLL’s universal charitable giving as well as donating our time and values—ethics, teamwork, and excellence— expertise to those in need. And while we can mean we are trusted to deliver value everywhere. make the biggest difference in our clients’ real JLL also actively serves as a thought leader in estate, we also benefit from occupying more sustainability by promoting widespread change efficient, flexible and resilient offices. To achieve across our industry and beyond. this, we work to ensure that JLL’s occupied space By applying our global project management around the world is energy efficient and provides capabilities to the 4.0 billion square feet of alternative, flexible and technologically savvy property we manage, we deliver leading working practices. sustainability solutions to investors and occupiers Ultimately, Building a Better Tomorrow means throughout the world. JLL’s Energy and moving from hundreds of JLL employees Sustainability Services teams help to deliver with a deep expertise in sustainability (mainly savings and efficiencies for our clients. We environment) to thousands of JLL employees with provide a range of services covering the a basic awareness of sustainability in its broadest construction, operation and maintenance of their sense (social, economic and environment). facilities as well as advice on location and JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 9 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance It is a cultural shift that, when successful, will Engaging with our stakeholders achieve the following outcomes: We are proud of our reputation as a company that Key stakeholders • Successful organization is trusted and relied upon by our stakeholders. We 1. • Clients strive to maintain this standing and know that the • Employees • Differentiated brand success of our business depends on the quality • Shareholders • Happy clients • Suppliers of the relationships we forge within and outside of • Engaged people • JLL Board of Directors our organization. We define stakeholders as those 5 • Business partners/JVs • Exemplary workplaces individuals, groups or organizations who can affect • Improved communities or be affected by JLL’s business activities. The 2. • Analysts (SRI & mainstream) • High relative returns for shareholders diagram to the right shows how we have mapped • Governments and regulators • Better world our key stakeholders, enabling us to understand 4 2 3. • Industry bodies the nature of our relationships and with whom we • NGO's The four pillars of Building a Better Tomorrow shape should engage as a priority (shown in red). 1 • Wider society (social media) the structure of this report and will, in future, appear We use a number of approaches to ensure our in all of our external and internal communications 4. • Local communities sustainability strategy is meeting our priority 7 3 6 on sustainability. As we work to build up resources • Our clients' clients stakeholders' needs. Our affiliations with Ceres, and tools for implementing the strategy, Building a CDP, local green building councils and other 5. • New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Better Tomorrow will be primarily geared towards sustainability organizations are a critical part of • Securities and Exchange internal audiences initially. engaging with our stakeholders on sustainability Commission (SEC) Our material impacts matters. Specific detail on our stakeholder 6. • External sustainability organizations In its broadest sense, a sustainability agenda engagement activities can be found in the Stakeholders to whom we owe a legal, financial and operational duty • Media touches every aspect of an organization's appendices to this report. Stakeholders who are likely to influence our performance management, operations and service offering. Here are a few examples of the actions JLL has Stakeholders who are affected by our operations 7. • Employees' families To ensure that JLL’s sustainability strategy hones taken at the global level which are, in part, driven by in on the key sustainability impacts of our business, our engagement with stakeholders: and therefore the biggest opportunities to improve, • Set greenhouse gas emissions and energy we undertook a materiality review in 2010. This reduction targets; process involved input from key executives and employees as well as an examination of investors’ • Offered more programs through priorities and the sustainability landscape in the real MyDevelopment, our internal training portal; estate and professional services sectors. We further • Reviewed the employee recognition systems at refined the results of this process in 2014 with a the country and business line level; review of metrics underneath the existing material • Reviewed the processes we use to collect and issues. In 2015, we conducted two additional analyze non-financial data; materiality reviews in the context of the <IR> • Began a program to organize and enhance Framework and the impending shift to the Building our health and safety activities that have been a Better Tomorrow strategy. In combination, all of largely decentralized previously; and these materiality reviews resulted in the four pillars • Enhanced governance by establishing a Global of Building a Better Tomorrow and a prioritized list Corporate Sustainability Board. of sub-issues and metrics under each pillar. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 10 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Global sustainability governance For JLL to achieve our ambition of becoming a truly sustainable business, we must embed the principles of the GCS Board covers our internal sustainability goals; performance, strategy and reporting; Our global governance for sustainability in 2015 of sustainability not only in the way we operate as and our adoption of a consistent approach to a business, but also in the services that we offer sustainability across our global operations. to our clients. This understanding has shaped The Board is comprised of the global heads of our strategic approach and is carried through to Finance, Human Resources, Legal Services, the governance arrangements which oversee our Energy and Sustainability Services and Corporate efforts. JLL recognizes sustainability requires a Sustainability, among others, and reports into our direct line of sight to the C-suite. To that end, JLL’s Global Operating Board. These arrangements are Board of Directors is regularly engaged in reviewing currently under review to ensure our governance the different aspects of our sustainability agenda. aligns with Building a Better Tomorrow. Ultimate responsibility for sustainability within JLL rests with Colin Dyer, our CEO. He provides a direct Roles and responsibilities link to our Board of Directors and together they In 2015, JLL’s Global Sustainability team included oversee our sustainability activities. around 5 employees. They are responsible for In terms of our work with clients, the Global overseeing the firm’s approach to sustainability Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Board is at a global level. The team is supported by 18 responsible for developing and delivering a strong colleagues in regional and local sustainability and consistent sustainability service offering for our roles, and coordinates closely with other corporate clients around the world. The Board is comprised function groups such as the Ethics Officers, of regional heads of JLL’s ESS teams and is led by Professional Standards and Human Resources. the Chairman of ESS. Additionally, our staff around the globe make many and various contributions to furthering JLL’s Sustainability at LaSalle LaSalle has a range of tools such as Due LaSalle’s own sustainability activities are ambitions around sustainability. In total, we run Investment Management Diligence Guidelines, Environmental, Social and overseen by its Global Sustainability Committee in formalized sustainability programs in 52% of the LaSalle Investment Management’s top priority is Governance Portfolio Management Guidelines, and accordance with their Policy on Sustainability and countries where we operate. to deliver superior investment results for its clients; a GreenGuide, which detail how LaSalle incorporates Responsible Investing. The Board is chaired by sustainability is a key tool in enabling them to do sustainability into its decision-making process for LaSalle’s non-executive Chairman and consists of JLL has a dedicated team of 224 sustainability this. LaSalle sets sustainability policy and strategy investments. Asset managers and fund teams are senior leaders from LaSalle’s global businesses professionals who provide industry-leading at a global level, and then empowers action responsible for implementing and reporting to clients who ensure best practice on sustainability is shared services to our clients. The majority of these locally through a network of regional sustainability on the sustainability programs within their funds. throughout our investment management segment. professionals are from our Energy and officers. This network oversees the delivery of local LaSalle believes that embedding sustainability into Sustainability Services group. In total, our Our efforts to address sustainability within our sustainability goals within each region and has its operations improves its investment returns to sustainability services generated revenue of $21.8 internal operations are overseen by the Global responsibility for performance management its investors and also helps attract sophisticated million in 2015 as a result of our work with 388 Corporate Sustainability (GCS) Board. The remit and reporting. investors to LaSalle’s investment platforms. clients over the same period. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 11 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Generating lasting value for our clients JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 12 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Generating lasting value for our clients Our work with clients presents the biggest Client renewable energy projects 2015 Working with clients to reduce opportunity for JLL to make a difference. The 4.0 (estimated) their environmental footprints billion square feet of space that JLL manages globally for our clients gives us the opportunity Installed or consented Planning and feasibility TOTAL to develop industry-leading strategies, tools and Capacity (MW) 268 1,015 1,283 technologies that significantly improve energy U.S. client project savings in 2015 $ efficiency, societal impacts and costs. Averted emissions (metric tons of CO2e) 233,879 1,549,628 1,783,507 47m monetary JLL's sustainability professionals advise our savings clients on renewable energy projects, green (USD) building practices, energy management 2013: 39 | 2014: 47 programs, and socio-economic impact As well as the clear environmental benefits Advising clients on renewable energy assessments as a few examples. We are these activities deliver, they also yield significant We have substantial expertise in a wide range 424m increasingly seeking to embed sustainability operational and cost efficiencies. It is for these of renewable energy technologies such as solar energy considerations across all of our service lines, reasons that JLL puts substantial resources into photovoltaic, wind and biomass. This proficiency savings offering differentiated and forward-thinking continuing our development of world-class energy drives our ability to design and action tailor-made (KWH) solutions to our clients. LaSalle Investment management strategies for our clients. energy solutions for our clients at all levels of 2013: 377 | 2014: 477 Management also plays a role by incorporating their operations. JLL’s UK-based Energy and sustainability into the $56.4 billion of assets that JLL’s Energy and Sustainability Services Infrastructure Advisory Group supports clients it acquires and manages for clients. Integrating teams provide a range of services covering the by identifying investment opportunities, raising sustainability into the advice we give enables construction, operation and maintenance of clients’ METRIC TONS OF CO2E capital, and providing significant financial and 247,000 facilities as well as advice on occupier behavior GHG our clients to own, occupy, invest in and develop commercial know-how on every major renewable emissions healthier and more productive places and cities and site location. We aim to deliver significant energy technology category. savings that are less costly to operate. ongoing improvements to client portfolios through strategic solutions such as portfolio energy In 2015, JLL advised on installed or consented 2013: 220,000 | 2014: 278,000 management and energy reduction programs. renewable energy projects that are estimated Driving efficiencies for our clients to have averted more than 233,000 metric tons Estimates suggest that the built environment During 2015, we helped deliver estimated of CO2e. If the renewable energy projects we METRIC TONS OF CO2E accounts for approximately 40 percent of the energy savings for U.S. clients of 424 million advised on last year achieve planning consent or world’s energy consumption and one-third of all greenhouse gas emissions. The greatest kWh (247,000 metric tons of CO2e), equating to estimated cost savings of $47 million. This successful development, there is the potential to avoid an estimated further more than 1.5 million 233,879 contribution JLL can make toward helping tackle reduction in energy use is roughly equivalent to metric tons of carbon emissions. There has been averted by advising this global challenge is through the advice and the average annual energy consumption of more nearly a threefold increase in the emissions on renewable projects services we provide to clients, helping them to than 26,000 homes. averted through projects that have either been significantly reduce their energy consumption installed or received planning consent since 2014. and greenhouse gas emissions. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 13 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Energy advice at LaSalle and Environmental Design (LEED) accredited Making the best use of technology Investment Management professionals and green associates. By the JLL’s commitment to technological innovation LaSalle Investment Management has a significant end of 2015, we had 1,706 professionals with extends to our sustainability service offering for opportunity to embed sustainability best practice sustainability accreditations— LEED and others— our clients. We have developed a number of and “triple bottom line” thinking into the $56.4 billion working in our teams around the world. in-house technology platforms to help us deliver other of assets that it acquires and manages for clients. our clients’ sustainability objectives. Our OneView Leading the way through better certifications One of LaSalle’s five guiding principles is to reduce Energy and Sustainability Analytics (OVESA) 9 110 2 the environmental impact and to monitor the effects performing buildings platform is used to manage the ever-increasing of climate change on clients’ properties. LaSalle JLL's operational expertise addresses the entire volumes of complex sustainability data on behalf participates in the Urban Land Institute’s Greenprint lifecycle of a building—from its design and of our clients. This system, along with our other Center for Building Performance (Greenprint), a planning of buildings through to construction, platforms such as the Portfolio Energy and worldwide alliance of real estate owners, investors, occupation, management, refurbishment and Environment Reporting System (PEERS) and the financial institutions and other industry stakeholders committed to reducing carbon emissions across the global property industry. In 2015, more than sale. Our professionals offer green building advice on how sustainability considerations can be embedded at each of these stages to maximize Energy and Sustainability Platform (ESP), reflects our commitment to investing in digital, data and 178,908 information management platforms. By deploying buildings with data 300 assets were submitted to Greenprint for value for our clients. In 2015, our clients made use flexible technology solutions we are able to on our sustainability benchmarking and tracking. of our expertise to provide assistance on more measure, manage and improve environmental platforms LaSalle is committed to reducing energy than 11,400 buildings. impacts for more than 178,900 buildings included consumption and has set targets for core funds We have a strong record of achieving Leadership on these platforms. where it has management control. LaSalle follows in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and environmental, social and governance portfolio other building certifications for our clients, in some guidelines to complement its performance cases attaining certification levels beyond our monitoring and to further integrate sustainability clients’ original aspirations. In 2015, we assisted issues into internal investment decisions and our clients in achieving a total of 121 green with business partners. building certifications. The opportunities that green buildings present Energy and sustainability go beyond energy use, sustainably sourced accredited professionals construction materials and the preservation of local JLL recognizes that building the capacity of our habitats. Green buildings deliver value across the staff provides benefits to the individual, the firm social, financial and environmental components of and to our clients. Having the right skills for the the triple bottom line. This was evidenced by the job is a vital part of being able to deliver world2014 report that JLL co-authored with the World class advice to our clients—and this is true for Green Building Council, which found overwhelming sustainability as much as it is for other areas of evidence that the design of office space has a our business. In 2013 we became one of the significant effect on the health, well-being and world’s top employers of Leadership in Energy productivity of its occupants. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 14 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Clients case study: Delivering excellence in clients' buildings Earlier this year, JLL Russia received a BREEAM the improvements made to this area where a not all of the criteria were applicable for the project has managed to attract a strong mix of tenants, (Building Research Establishment Environmental former oil refinery area had been turned into a and our choice was very restricted. In spite of this, including several international businesses. Assessment Method) ‘Country First Award’ for the vibrant and healthy urban environment. Chevron the project team’s commitment to the certification Chevron House meanwhile has helped to certification of two business centers in Azerbaijan House in Singapore was constructed in 1993, process meant that we were still able to achieve a support improvements to the client’s service and Singapore. At the same time, grade A office and the asset quality was awarded a BREEAM strong certification in a timely fashion. through detailed analysis of their sustainability project Greendale, planned in Moscow and In-Use rating of Good in December 2014. The “Regarding the Singapore project, we found that performance.” certified at the interim stage by JLL Russia, was assessment process was initiated by the building BREEAM water criteria are relatively easy to Following on from the successful attainment of nominated as one of the highest scored owners who have committed to certify all newly achieve as the city has very robust construction the certification, the Azerbaijan Development BREEAM office projects in the world. Ksenia acquired assets to BREEAM standards.” legislation aimed at driving down the demand for Company (ADEC) said this about the Agapova and Anton Dubrovskiy oversaw the She continued: “The Baku White City project had water. However, we did face a number of difficulties achievement: “The high status of Baku White certification process. been planned by a reputable architectural office in achieving the biodiversity and ecology criteria as City redevelopment helps to increase awareness Ksenia explained in her own words the value with sustainability goals in mind. The building the area adjacent to the building is quite limited.” of environmental issues within the country. that BREEAM certification can bring to projects plan allows for natural ventilation and daylight, Ksenia went on to outline some of the benefits BREEAM was chosen by the project team such as these: “The Baku White City Office the shape of the building has been designed that achieving BREEAM certification brings to our as a recognized international benchmark of Building in Azerbaijan represents one of the to be in keeping with the surrounding area, clients: “Being recognized as the first organization building quality and environmental performance. biggest redevelopment projects in the region and and the landscaping had been conceived with in Azerbaijan to achieve such a certification is a Achieving the criteria has not only helped us to was awarded a BREEAM Good rating. Project sustainability features in mind. However, the goal great opportunity for corporate marketing and helps save operating costs, but also to create a healthy certification was an important mark of to certify the asset to BREEAM was introduced to establish our client’s reputation as green building and efficient environment for the building users Ksenia Agapova later during the construction phase. As a result, pioneers. The Baku White City Office Building and wider community.” Associate Director for Energy and Sustainability Services at JLL Russia JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 15 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Engaging our people JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 16 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Engaging our people Our success over the last 250 years is a testament Incident Rate (RIR), a measure of recordable illness working to ensure that our approach to health and Striving to be an employer of to the quality and dedication of our workforce. We and injuries per 100 full-time employees per year, safety meets the highest standards. In 2016, we are choice that attracts, rewards seek to create a work culture that values diversity, fell to 0.72 in 2015, a reduction of 17% compared undertaking several initiatives aimed at ensuring and develops diverse talent to recognizes and rewards talent, develops skills for to 2014. that our health and safety platform is more robust and capable of guiding the efforts of our large and better serve our clients tomorrow’s challenges and fosters good health, Days Away, Restricted Duty and Transfer (DART), safety and well-being. This results in more satisfied dispersed business. Chief amongst those initiatives a measure of recordable illness and injury per 100 employees who are more likely to stay thereby are the introduction of a new Global Health and 84% full-time employees per year that resulted in days reducing costs to JLL. It also means our employees Safety Policy and the creation of a Board of away from work, fell to 0.50 in 2015, a reduction of are more empowered so that they apply their broad Directors sponsored committee tasked with leading of countries participated 23% compared to 2014. The RIR and DART figures perspectives, backgrounds and ideas towards the organization through the next phase of its health in health, well-being relate to Integrated Facilities Management staff better advice for our clients and take advantage and safety journey. & safety initiatives globally and all U.S. employees. Additionally, 84% of the numerous opportunities that JLL provides to of countries reported that they were undertaking at We are committed to ensuring the health and develop their skills and career. least one health, safety and well-being initiative safety of our people and stakeholders and will shortly publish our first dedicated Health and Safety $ $248 in 2015. Health and safety Report. The Report will expand on the themes $ We have invested, and continue to invest, in the Our people are the strongest asset we have. raised in this document and candidly talk about spent on training health and safety of our employees, clients and As such, we regard the health and safety of our our health and safety journey. When published the per employee suppliers, as shown by our over 270 full-time health employees and our business partners as being of Health and Safety Report will be available here. and safety professionals. However, we can always the upmost importance. Our vision is to provide do more. The real prize is our people and business a safe and healthy workplace and to promote an partners experiencing no harm or injury. Tragically, Engagement effective and continuously improving health and we failed to achieve that goal in August 2015, Attracting and retaining the best talent ensures that total safety culture. We strive to prevent injury and when one of our mobile technicians lost his life in we maintain our competitive advantage and offer employees ill-health and to ensure that all persons we work and interact with, including those who work in the a road accident. Immediately after the incident we conducted a thorough investigation and increased the best possible level of service to our clients. JLL regularly undertakes surveys of our employees so 65% 35% buildings we manage, return home to their our efforts on road safety by: that the company is able to learn what employees 64% Board members 36% families safely. • Evaluating the crash ratings and safety think of their jobs and to understand their perception features of all of our fleet vehicles; and of the business as a whole. The 2015 Global 87% International Directors 13% In 2015, we built upon our safety performance in • Re-emphasizing our defensive and distracted Employee Engagement Survey found that 78% 83% Regional Directors 17% 2014 by engaging more deeply with our people driver training with our staff. either agree or strongly agree that they are extremely and by more actively collaborating with our 78% National Directors 22% satisfied with JLL as a place to work. This score stakeholders. We invested time in building and Additionally, we are saddened to report that we is 3 percentage points up from the previous full 67% Associate Directors 33% strengthening relationships and we believe that had three contractor fatalities. These occurred on survey undertaken in 2012. This result places us this process contributed to our strong performance contracts where JLL was involved during 2015. 4 percentage points up from the global norm as across most areas in 2015. Our Recordable We take these matters extremely seriously and are measured by our independent survey administrator. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 17 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Training and career development as sustainability reporting. Over the last year we key principles serve to highlight the gender which took part in the Workplace Equality Our future success as a firm depends on our ability delivered more than 16,200 hours of sustainability dimension of corporate responsibility and provide Index 2016. to offer our employees opportunities for personal training to employees globally, including more than a call to action for businesses. We are proud Unconscious bias awareness has been addressed and professional growth. In 2015 we invested a 4,400 delivered through the Sustainability that 44% of our independent board members are through various training interventions, including our total of $16.2 million on training across the globe, University alone. female. However, we recognize that we need to do award winning ‘icantbelieveisaidthat’ video series more to reflect gender diversity at higher grades which was created to challenge inappropriate which equates to $248 per employee. This is Diversity and inclusion compared to $15.3 million in 2014. This was in within our firm. language and behavior through humorous scenarios At JLL, diversity is a strategic imperative for the addition to the substantial investment we make way we do business. We promote an atmosphere In the UK, JLL is a founding member of in a ‘fly on the wall’ documentary style program. into local training programs that we are not able of openness, respect and trust, and bring a sense Changing the Face of Property, a program to It is available to all JLL employees via Connect. to capture centrally. We track much of our training of teamwork, collegiality and diversity to all we do. increase diversity and inclusion across the Our U.K. Board members and other managers were for staff through MyDevelopment, JLL’s own We recognize that having a range of experiences, property industry. The initiative has developed first to attend our face to face training demonstrating learning management system. MyDevelopment has backgrounds and perspectives allows us to find partnerships with a broad range of state schools the strength of their commitment to address been created to enable and empower our staff to new ways of doing things, leading ultimately and colleges, attended external careers events unconscious bias or prejudice. effectively advance their careers within our firm. to the creation and delivery of the best possible for students and careers advisers, delivering We have also set up a number of Employee As well as general training, JLL also operates services to our clients. We make sure to walk workshops to education professionals to Resource Groups (ERGs) in the U.S. with a view Sustainability University, which is designed to the talk in fostering a workplace culture that challenge stereotypes and developed a website— to supporting and promoting diversity among our ensure that our employees are equipped with encourages and empowers all our employees www.propertyneedsyou.com—to provide accurate workforce. These ERGs include the Women’s the expertise needed to offer our clients the best to fulfill their potential. information on career opportunities and the Business Network, Building Pride, African American possible service. Training from Sustainability different entry levels available. Business Network, Latino Employee Resource In April 2016, JLL joined more than 1,100 University covers technical sustainability aspects businesses around the world to take a leadership JLL achieved ‘role model’ status against all six Network and VetNet. All of these groups provide the of real estate such as green building certifications, position on gender equality by signing the UN’s principles in the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality ability to learn new skills and share experiences in a but also more general training around topics such Women’s Empowerment Principles. These seven Mark and came third against the Property firms low risk environment with access to senior leadership. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 18 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance People case study: Helping our employees achieve their potential Flexible working practices provide substantial benefits to both the firm and to the individual. Organizations that adopt flexible working practices can expect to see improvements in the attraction and retention of talent, reduced levels of absenteeism, boosted productivity and improved relationships with their employees. On the staff side, they allow individuals to flourish in their lives outside the office, spending more time on those things that matter most to them. Sanjay Bajaj, the Managing Director of the JLL office in Pune, India, illustrated these benefits with a real life example: “During the recruitment process it was clear to me that Manisha had a great deal to offer to our business and to our clients. Consequently I offered her the role of Assistant Manager and Manisha joined JLL India in the Pune office in February 2008. “After joining our team, Manisha took some time to find her footing and settle in the role. For example, she felt her skillset and background, which was rooted in finance, was not transferrable to the marketing and promotion of a project. After a number of discussions, we worked together and that would help me to maximize the time I got to an arrangement that introduced flexible working understanding of a client's business and curiosity found an ideal balance between her skillset and the spend with my young family while being able to fully practices. This enabled Manisha to continue her to learn has allowed Manisha to successfully build responsibilities of her role. By doing this, Manisha meet the requirements of my role. Ekta Acharya, excellent performance whilst taking care of her excellent relationships with some of our largest was able to bring her keen financial insights into Head of Markets in Pune, played a vital role in this, responsibilities to her family. This was extremely clients. Manisha has since engaged and transacted our client engagements. This provided a strong allowing me to focus on performance and delivery beneficial as it sustained and nurtured talent within with many clients, supporting JLL in fulfilling their differentiator for JLL and also served to boost the with the flexibility to work from home as needed.” the firm and at the same time met the dynamic and real estate requirements. To her credit, she has built skills available within the team.” Sanjay picked up the story again: “Following the variable requirements of her personal life.” up a strong portfolio of diverse transactions and Manisha reflected on some of the pressures birth of her second child in 2014, Manisha continued Sanjay also said: “Client engagement and clients across different industries. Manisha played that balancing family life with work can bring: “In to maintain contact with her clients and consistently 2012, I was blessed with my first baby, a little boy. relationship management are Manisha’s a significant part in helping to deliver the largest delivered exceptional results. JLL was keen to Following my maternity leave, JLL provided options key strengths. This combined with her keen leasing deal in the history of Pune.” support her and so we worked together to create JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 19 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Transforming our workplaces JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 20 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Transforming our workplaces Tokyo While we can make the biggest difference in our GHG emissions source GHG Protocol scope Metric tons of CO2e Percentage of total Managing our own clients’ real estate, JLL also seeks to occupy more emissions (%) environmental footprint efficient and flexible offices around the world. We Company-owned vehicles 1 16,556 26% play our part by driving down energy and resource Natural gas consumption 1 228 0.4% 1.5 GHG use and subsequent carbon emissions from both emissions JLL offices and business travel activities. We also Electricity consumption 2 11,494 18% per corporate play our part by procuring sustainable materials office employee Business travel 3 18,802 29% and striving for green building certifications where METRIC TONS CO2E possible for our leased space. We aim to provide Building-related emissions* 3 17,746 27% 4.0 per our employees with office space that supports energy use their health, safety, and productivity by employing TOTAL 64,826 100% corporate aspects such as flexible working, better access to office employee *estimated emissions MWH daylight, and enhanced technology solutions. Tackling our environmental impacts 195 rented area per corporate Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions arising as a office employee SQ FT result of operating our offices and business travel activities make up JLL’s most substantial direct environmental impacts. We are committed to minimizing these impacts wherever we possibly 64,826 total carbon footprint METRIC TONS CO2E can. To provide us with a benchmark to meet this challenge, we have set targets to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions from our offices. Using 2012 as our baseline, we have Implementing green committed to achieve the following by the end building practices of 2017: in our corporate offices • Reduce building related greenhouse gas emissions per corporate office employee by 10% • Reduce building-related energy consumption 51 JLL offices with green building per corporate office employee by 10% certifications • Reduce rented area per corporate office employee by 8% JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 21 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance In 2015, JLL’s absolute GHG emissions were reporting year and as such we were not able to approaches such as hot-desking, evolved openEngaging with our supply chain 64,826 metric tons of CO2e, compared to 49,344 obtain data to calculate market-based Scope 2 plan environments, flexi-time and making use of The opportunity presented by our supply chain metric tons in 2012, an increase of 31%. While our emissions for the full reporting year. We will be communications technologies to support remote offers JLL a chance to encourage and influence emissions increased, our business also grew with tackling data quality as a priority as we roll out working. Making best use of these strategies sustainable practices on a large scale. We are our gross global revenue increasing by 52% over Building a Better Tomorrow across our global can reduce costs, improve productivity and continuously seeking to improve the sustainability the same period. Furthermore, the floor area of business. drive efficient use of space. Furthermore, these practices of our suppliers. We expect all of our our global portfolio increased by 39% compared practices are also beneficial to the individual suppliers, whether they provide goods or services with 2014. This increase was largely due to Our business travel footprint by promoting a healthy work-life balance and directly to JLL or indirectly via our clients, to follow JLL occupying 46 new offices mainly following JLL's 2015 business travel activities generated supporting well-being. 68% of our offices have our Vendor Code of Conduct. We also aim to apply acquisitions we made in 2015. Our performance 18,802 metric tons of CO2e, making up 29% of video conferencing facilities and employees sustainability criteria to our own procurement against our targets in 2015 was as follows: our total carbon footprint. At present, we collect are routinely provided personal IT equipment practices. We focus our efforts on • Our building related greenhouse gas travel data from 47% of the countries we operate with video conferencing functionality. We also the top items by spend, which includes office, emissions per corporate office employee in, but that data covers a large majority of our encourage our employees to minimize the use of kitchen and printing supplies. We have also were 1.5 metric tons, a reduction of 6% corporate office employees. This information business travel by seeking to provide alternatives specified the selection of energy efficient IT against our 2012 baseline covers the impacts from air and rail travel as well wherever possible. equipment wherever possible. as rental cars. Due to our geographical spread and • Our building-related energy consumption per decentralized business model, business travel is corporate office employee was 4.0 MWh in procured from a multitude of sources and through 2015, up 7% compared to 2012 many channels. Our largest in-country operations • In 2015 we rented 195 square feet per usually have a contract with a corporate travel corporate office employee compared to 175 agent, but travel is currently also booked online square feet per corporate office employee in by staff members and reimbursed through our 2012, an increase of 11% expenses system. We also take advantage of the benefits of green energy; by the end of 2015, 9% of our offices Greening our building portfolio procured energy from renewable sources, down Our clients recognize the benefits of occupying one percentage point from 2014. green buildings, and so do we. We seek to Obtaining accurate, actual data relating to our apply green building practices whenever we portfolio’s energy consumption continues to be have an opportunity to do so. By the end of 2015 a challenge. All of our offices are leased and 19% of our offices had green building or fit-out in many case actual information on energy certifications such as LEED, BREEAM or RICS consumption is not available. As a result, 73% SKA. In addition, green building principles of our energy data from these buildings is partially (without a certification) were applicable to or fully estimated. We are working to meet the 50% of JLL's offices. requirements of the updated GHG Protocol JLL has adopted innovative policies in the area for reporting scope 2 emissions. The revised of workplace strategies. 73% of our offices guidelines were published midway through our have alternative workplace strategies including JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 22 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Workplaces case study: Renewing our Chicago office An office is much more than a place to work. It for a profitable future. This is quite an undertaking “Additionally, we are utilizing our own JLL Green Chuck Kelly, Senior Director of Office Services is the heart of our professional lives, the fertile when considering that the project spans six floors + Productive Workplace tool to benchmark, track and overall manager of the project mentioned soil where great ideas and solutions take root. of the Aon Center, housing more than 1,200 and measure green productivity measures in our some of the practical approaches used: “We So when JLL launched ReNew, the project to people across 200,000 square feet. workplace and to compare our office to other are using advanced technology to create a refurbish our Chicago office in 2013, we realized The sustainability measures that formed an JLL offices and industry peers. We are creating more human workplace where our people can an office spruce-up wasn’t nearly enough. We had integral of the project from the beginning and an office that is energy efficient and sustainable; shape rather than be confined by the space. to dramatically evolve our space. were crucial in achieving these goals. Jessica a place where employees are healthy and With data from an employee satisfaction survey To achieve this JLL brought in our best strategic Bollhoefer, Vice President in Project and comfortable to do their best work. to inform our decision-making, we’re directing thinkers: experts with world-class experience in Development Services, leads the sustainability Jessica continued: “There were a number of our workplace experience to foster mindfulness, selecting, planning, and building modern work effort on the project. She had this to say: “We challenges that we face in making our aspiration physical wellness, and dramatically reduced spaces. We armed them with insights from the know that working in a green office space has for our Chicago office a reality. As you would noise and distraction—a combination that people who influence JLL’s success most—our important health and wellness benefits. Green is expect, JLL is aiming for the highest level of LEED creates overall well-being.” employees—so that the new space reflects how vital to sustainability— the quality of creating a certification possible for the ReNew project. That Chuck concluded: “We hope that this healthy, they want to work. healthy environment that uses resources with care said, attempting such a high level of certification welcoming environment will instill pride in our The goal for our new Chicago office is to and supports long-term ecological balance. To in an existing 40+ year old building has been the staff and make them truly feel part of a top-notch create a workplace that meets the needs of make sure we stay green, we’re ensuring that biggest challenge. Through our project, limitations organization that cares about its employees.” a modern workforce, helps us operate with our office in Aon Center will achieve a with the existing infrastructure and HVAC system maximum productivity, and sets the stage LEED certification. have a significant impact on the overall scorecard.” JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 23 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Supporting our communities JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 24 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Supporting our communities For our business to thrive, our communities need experience of our workforce through voluntary JLL recorded total charitable contributions of Serving as a responsible to thrive. It is for this reason that we work hard to work, donations or other benefits in kind. $5.3 million from both corporate and employee corporate citizen be a responsible corporate citizen where we live At JLL, activities in our communities are largely donations. Our corporate donations of $4.6 million and work. We endeavor to create shared value by carried out a local level. This decentralized are equivalent to 0.8% of our pre-tax profits, forging global and local charitable partnerships, approach allows for flexibility and agility in the compared to the London Benchmarking Group’s offering our real estate expertise voluntarily to those in need, and giving our people time to contribute way we engage communities by giving our local operations the autonomy to tackle the issues that benchmark of 1.1%. Furthermore, our employees volunteered more than 5,533 days of their time 5,533 Employee personally to the issues that mean the most to they see as priorities and to reflect the wishes and to support charitable causes, a 21% increase volunteering them—this in turn, increases their engagement interests of employees. We are, however, currently compared to 2014. When compared against the days and loyalty to JLL. We also work to minimize the considering options around a global community average salary for a JLL employee in the U.S., this sustainability impacts of our supply chains and partnership that will complement our local efforts. volunteering contribution equates to a cost to the procurement practices, further extending JLL’s In some locations we have seen an increase in business of approximately $1.9 million. influence into communities more broadly. appetite for undertaking more pro bono and skilled It is challenging for us to fully understand the positive JLL total charitable Our business activities impact on these volunteering work among our employees. impact of volunteering activities and charitable contributions communities, whether through the employment contributions undertaken across the firm. In future, (USD millions) 2015 opportunities we create, our engagement with Investing in the community we will work to engage with our local operations to 2014 our supplier base, or the advice we provide to The level of investment into the community that better understand the difference that these activities 3.1 3.0 clients on the interactions they have with their we have made in funds and time, as well as other are making to our communities. We believe that at own communities. We aim to support the needs of benefits in kind, provides a good indication our present the figures below underestimate the positive these communities by mobilizing the talents and how well we are contributing in this area. In 2015, impacts we make on our communities. 1.7 1.2 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.02 Americas Asia Pacific EMEA Global $ 5.3m Total charitable contributions JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 25 Introduction Strategy Sustainability governance Communities case study: A joint venture with a difference Tax Office, the Department of Defence and the government departments generates more than four Department of Finance. The DoF is providing dollars of value in Indigenous communities.” benefits to Indigenous communities by providing Effective from 1 July 2015, the Australian financial independence and stability as well as Government has implemented a series of many significant social benefits.” measures designed to improve engagement of PSGH is one of Australia’s leading IndigenousIndigenous businesses. For the 2015/16 financial owned companies employing 58 staff nationally. It year, the government has mandated 0.5% of was founded in 2011 by cousins Shane Jacobs and all government external expenditure must be Troy Rugless, who are descendants of the Wiradjuri spent with Indigenous businesses, increasing Nation. They both grew up in Sydney with strong incrementally each year to become 3% by 2019/20. ties to the La Perouse community and are members Steve continued: “Current government spending of the La Perouse Local Aboriginal Land Council. with Indigenous business today is very small; Troy explains: “My cousin Shane and I started around 0.008%. We believe we can help PSGH to target tier 1 contracts with federal the government reach its targets and build a government agencies and top corporate sector sustainable business at the same time.” companies. One of the benefits we provide In April 2016, Evolve FM won their first client, for Indigenous people is financial stability and Indigenous Business Australia for a three year independence. The national average of Indigenous facilities management contract. employment sits at 1.2%, and our business sits at 15%. We’ve had to be good; we’ve had to be better Chris Kirby, COO of Supply Nation, an organization In Australia, Indigenous people make up 3% of Indigenous Australians and businesses. The than everyone else. Having JLL as a big brother— that was founded to promote and facilitate the population, yet only fewer than half of working company encourages growth, development a Fortune 500 company with the right processes, sustainable supplier diversity within the Australian Indigenous people have jobs. In 2015 JLL and and engagement in the FM sector, and more the right systems—it’s probably fast-tracked PSGH market, commented on Evolve FM: “We see this Pacific Services Group Holdings (PSGH) entered broadly, across the community. The joint venture by ten to fifteen years.” as a really great example of how the Indigenous into a joint venture to form ‘Evolve FM’, the only has a target of a minimum of 10% Indigenous JLL’s Australian Head of Government Business, business sector is maturing and that’s really Indigenous facilities management (FM) company employment, five times the industry average. Steve Mackintosh said: “We believe that by exciting for everyone involved. It builds the in Australia. This partnership has been forged to John Owens, CEO of Evolve FM said, “Indigenous leveraging the Indigenous supply chain, Evolve capability of the Indigenous business and it also create a commercial framework that will enable the business has never had a proper place in corporate FM will more broadly and positively impact builds the capability of the procuring organization.” delivery of social initiatives that positively change Australia. We believe in the role that well-managed, Indigenous Australians by helping to create Troy reflects: “For all the bad that’s happened, the lives of both Indigenous and non-Indigenous commercially competitive Indigenous-owned financial independence. History tells us that things are finally swinging in favor of Indigenous men and women. businesses can play in the advancement of Indigenous businesses are 100 times more likely people. Opportunity, that’s all that any Aboriginal Evolve FM aims to partner with and foster Indigenous people in Australia. PSGH has been to employ Indigenous people than non-Indigenous person wants; the same level of opportunity as Indigenous enterprise, hiring and supporting awarded major contracts with the Australian businesses. Every Australian dollar spent by everyone else.” JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 26 Contacts Corporate documents 2015 Annual Report Notice of 2016 Annual Meeting Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated of Shareholders and Proxy Statement JLL knows tech Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated www.jll.com 2015 Annual Report 2016 Proxy Statement 2015 Corporate Facts Code of Business Ethics Sarah Nicholls Dan Probst Head of Global Chairman Energy & Sustainability Sustainability Services JLL JLL Transparency Report Kantoorgebouw Atrium 200 East Randolph Drive Strawinskylaan 3103 Chicago, IL 60601 1077 ZX Amsterdam The Netherlands Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2013 Transparency Report Sarah.Nicholls@jll.com Dan.Probst@am.jll.com Vendor Code of Conduct Transparency Report 2015 Ethics Everywhere Report www.jll.com/services/corporates/corporates-energy-and-sustainability www.jll.com/services/investors-anddevelopers/energy-and-sustainability http://www.jll.com/sustainability/ © 2016 Jones Lang LaSalle IP, Inc. All rights reserved. The information contained in this document is proprietary to Jones Lang LaSalle and shall be used solely for the purposes of evaluating this proposal. All such documentation and information remains the property of Jones Lang LaSalle and shall be kept con dential. Reproduction of any part of this document is authorized only to the extent necessary for its evaluation. It is not to be shown to any third party without the prior written authorization of Jones Lang LaSalle. All information contained herein is from sources deemed reliable; however, no representation or warranty is made as to the accuracy thereof. BREEAM is a registered trade mark of the Building Research Establishment Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of BRE Group Limited, and is used by permission. All rights are reserved ANNEX A Data notes Overview The following notes provide definitions, re-statements and methodologies pertaining to the data in our Global Sustainability Report. These notes should be read alongside the data summary in Annex B and relevant data throughout the report. The data used in this report is comprised of actual figures where possible. In cases where actual figures are unavailable, we have made reasonable estimations or assumptions. Where estimations have been made, these are indicated in the text. The data in this report has undergone internal verification by our team and through this process we occasionally identify better quality historical data. We are continuously working to improve our data processes, although due to the decentralized nature of our organization this remains one of our biggest challenges. All financial figures are reported in US dollars. Throughout Energy and Sustainability Services indicators (all): LaSalle Investment Management is not included in these indicators (e.g. Client green building certifications) due to differences in sustainability service provision and business structure. JLL vs. clients’ offices: When we refer to 'offices' this relates to JLL’s corporate space, unless otherwise indicated. About this report In 2015, data relating to our operations (from the Corporate Sustainability Survey) represented 268 corporate offices and 18,917 corporate office employees. The data coverage, as a percentage of corporate offices and corporate office employees, was 91% and 99.8% respectively, reflecting a number of missing country survey responses. In 2014, the survey data relating to our operations represented 245 corporate offices and 15,506 corporate office employees. Data coverage, as a percentage of corporate offices was 98%. Data coverage, as percentage of corporate office employees was 95%. Office coverage decrease is due to 1) Serbia, Costa Rica and Sri Lanka not submitting a survey response for 2015, and 2) due to JLL acquisitions which added a number of small offices that are included in our carbon footprint, but not necessarily represented by the Corporate Sustainability survey yet. Our approach Global, regional and local sustainability roles—Operations (FTE): In 2013, some countries did not calculate full-time equivalent (FTE) roles, whereas in 2014 we accounted for only FTE employees and adopted more robust calculation methods. The decrease from 2013 through to 2015 reflects mostly this change in calculation methodology, rather than an actual reduction in sustainability headcount. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 28 ANNEX A Data notes Clients Driving efficiencies for our clients (all). Client renewable energy projects: Averted annual GHG emissions were calculated using a global emissions factor of 0.583 kg CO2e per kWh from Siemens' Environmental Portfolio Report. Our analysis assumes that installations are fully operational year-round and that average capacity is 30% for wind and 80% for biomass. They also assume a 1,100 kWh per kW capacity per year for solar. Energy and sustainability accredited professionals: Includes the following accreditations: AIEMA Green Advantage Assoc. of Energy Engineers: Certified Energy Manager Green Globes Professional Business Energy Professional Green Mark CAP Greenship Certified Building Commissioning Professional Green Star Certified Energy Auditor IFMA Sustainability Facility Professional Certified Energy Procurement Professional IGBC AP Certified Sustainable Development Professional LEED Existing Building Commissioning Professional NABERS BERDE Associate Pearl Qualified Professional BREEAM & BREEAM DE Bestand Data Center Energy Practitioner CASBEE Energy Institute Member Certified Demand Side Management Chartered Environmentalist SKA Assessor People People (all): For employee indicators in this section, we use data from our people system, which differs slightly from our financial system. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 29 ANNEX A Data notes Total employees (% female): Total employees from our people system were 66,024; 57,925 and 53,117 in 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively. JLL Annual Report (AR) employee figures differ slightly from these, as AR figures are extracted from our people system at an earlier date. All Directors (% female): Directors, which include Associate Directors and above, were approximately 6,986; 6,514 and 6,034 in 2015, 2014 and 2013 respectively. Workplace Tackling our environmental impacts: The base year for JLL emissions reduction targets is 2012. Our targets are normalized per corporate office employee, which we feel better reflects our operations than total employees, as this includes staff based at client sites. Our targets include only buildingrelated energy and emissions from JLL's own offices. We consolidate our GHG emissions under the operational control approach, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. The GHG gases we include in our emissions calculations are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) from the following sources: Methodology for calculating JLL GHG emissions: • S  cope 1: Fuel consumption of company-owned vehicles and natural gas consumption from JLL offices. Actual energy consumption figures are multiplied by relevant published emissions factors to convert to metric tons of CO2e. • S  cope 2: Purchased electricity consumption data is multiplied by country/state level emissions factors to convert to metric tons of CO2e. The updated GHG Protocol was published midway through our reporting year and so we did not obtain data to calculate market-based Scope 2 emissions for the full reporting year. We are gathering this data for future reporting. • Scope 3: Estimated energy consumption: All JLL offices are leased space, and in 88%, we estimate energy consumption partially or fully as we do not receive consumption data from the landlord. In order to calculate our estimated consumption of electricity and natural gas from these offices, we look at the rented area we occupy, the proportion of year it was occupied, average office energy intensity, and energy breakdown information from U.S. Energy Information Administration (under Department of Energy). The average energy intensity we use does not take into account any geographical variation in conditions or climate, and is therefore a rough approximation. As the average US energy intensity covers all US climate zones, we feel this is the best available approximation of global climate zone variation. For business travel emissions, flight and train travel miles are multiplied by CO2e/mile conversion factors. Emissions/conversion factors used above can be found here: electricity and fuels Communities Corporate donations: We state only corporate donations as a percentage of pre-tax profit. LaSalle Investment Management is included in these figures. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 30 ANNEX B Data summary About JLL 2015 2014 2013 Corporate facts Portfolio size of managed properties worldwide (billion square feet) 4.0 3.4 3.0 Private and public property equity investments managed by LaSalle Investment Management (billion $) 56.4 53.6 47.6 Corporate offices 287 230 226 Countries (with a corporate office) 55 53 50 Countries (with a presence and/or corporate office) 80 80 75 Employees 61,500 58,100 52,700 Corporate office employees 18,963 16,246 16,762 Employees, Americas 1 24,091 18,922 17,430 Employees, Asia Pacific 1 32,537 29,885 27,506 Employees, EMEA 1 8,078 8,398 7,476 New employee hires, Americas 2 7,823 5,395 4,018 New employee hires, Asia Pacific 2 13,899 11,511 11,514 New employee hires, EMEA 2 2,946 2,323 1,854 Global new employee hires (female) 9,016 7,207 6,011 Global new employee hires (male) 15,806 12,129 11,460 Sustainability awards 22 24 31 Key financials Revenue (million $) 5,966 5,430 4,462 Net income (million $) 438 386 270 Earnings (per diluted share $) 9.65 8.52 5.98 EBITDA (million $) 707 606 476 Economic value retained (million $) 434 382 266 JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 31 ANNEX B Data summary Ethics, governance and thought leadership 2015 2014 2013 Corporate and sustainability governance Independent members of the Board of Directors (% of total) 82 % 80 % 80 % Results of shareholder voting on executive remuneration (in favor) 94 % 99 % 98 % Results of shareholder voting on re-election of Board members (in favor) 99.7 % 99.6 % 99 % Countries with formal internal sustainability programs (%) 52 % 53 % 38 % Global, regional and local sustainability roles Operations (FTE) 23 26 64 Positions with a functional responsibility for sustainability Services (FTE) 224 227 180 Thought leadership Thought leadership publications 31 43 35 Green Blog posts 48 42 52 Green Blog unique readers 8,179 6,022 13,514 RealViews posts 200 N/A N/A RealViews unique readers 355,805 N/A N/A Global and local sustainability organizations 55 58 47 Ethics (see more data in JLL's Ethics Everywhere report) Number of JLL ethics officers 25 27 24 Percentage of investigations where we substantiated the claim and took some kind of action 69 % 83 % 73 % Employees who fully understand their obligations under JLL Code of Ethics 96 % No survey No survey Employees who believe JLL shows a commitment to ethical conduct (%) 89 % No survey No survey Employees who received in-person ethics training 3 12,040 3,577 4,095 Total investigations 503 333 250 Ethics investigations per 1000 employees 8.2 5.7 4.7 Total actions 4 346 277 183 JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 32 ANNEX B Data summary Clients 2015 2014 2013 Energy and Sustainability Services and embedding sustainability into core real estate services Sustainability clients (including a majority from ESS) 388 467 323 ESS revenue (million $) 21.8 18.7 21.6 ESS revenue / global revenue (%) 0.4 % 0.3 % 0.5 % Client monetary savings U.S. managed portfolio (million $) 47 47 39 Client energy savings U.S. managed portfolio (million kWh) 424 477 377 Client emissions reduction U.S. managed portfolio (metric tons CO2e) 247,000 278,000 220,000 Client emissions reduction Equivalency measure (removing emissions of average home's energy consumption) 26,082 30,011 46,316 Capacity of client renewable energy installed or consented (MW) 268 42 28 Capacity of client renewable energy sources planning and feasibility (MW) 1,015 1,095 1,861 Averted emissions from client renewable energy installed or consented (metric tons CO2e) 233,879 62,650 18,038 Averted emissions from client renewable energy planning and feasibility (metric tons CO2e ) 1,549,628 1,628,426 2,802,718 Buildings on JLL's sustainability data platforms 178,908 160,537 126,151 Energy and sustainability accredited professionals (cumulative to year-end) 1,706 1,531 1,417 Number of client buildings where JLL has enabled increased sustainability performance 11,454 8,098 1,852 Total client green building certifications 121 87 76 Client green building certifications LEED 110 61 57 Client green building certifications Green Factory 1 — — Client green building certifications Green Star 1 — 1 Client green building certifications BREEAM 9 12 9 Client green building certifications Green Globes — — 8 Client green building certifications Green Mark — — 1 Client green building certifications Unknown — 14 — JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 33 ANNEX B Data summary People 2015 2014 2013 Satisfaction Employee turnover 26 % 25 % 25 % New starters (% of total employees) 38 % 33 % 33 % Employee turnover (males) 25 % 24 % 24 % Employee turnover (females) 29 % 27 % 26 % Completion rate for Global Employee Engagement Survey 69 % No survey 66 % Employees who agree that overall, they are extremely satisfied with this company (%) 78% No survey 81 % Employees who feel positive about this company's commitment to sustainability (%) 83% No survey No survey Training and career development Training and development spend (million $) 16.2 15.3 12.5 Training and development spend per employee ($) 248 263 235 Employees with agreed performance objective 32,027 28,206 23,908 Training hours from JLL's Sustainability University 4,415 5,242 4,586 Sustainability training hours outside of Sustainability University 11,828 4,213 7,217 Diversity and inclusion Employees under 25 6% 6% 7% Employees age 25-34 33 % 34 % 35 % Employees age 35-44 26 % 26 % 26 % Employees age 45-55 21 % 21 % 22 % Employees over 55 11 % 13 % 10 % Board members (% female) 36 % 30 % 30 % Independent Board members (% female) 44 % 38 % 38 % International Directors (% female) 13 % 14 % 12 % Regional Directors (% female) 17 % 15 % 14 % JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 34 ANNEX B Data summary National Directors (% female) 22 % 21 % 20 % Associate Directors (% female) 33 % 33 % 34 % Total Directors (% female) 27 % 27 % 26 % Total employees (% female) 35 % 35 % 34 % Directors as proportion of total employees (%) 11 % 11 % 11 % Health, safety and well-being Recordable cases incidence (RIR) rate for Integrated Facilities Management globally + all employees in U.S.5 0.72 0.87 0.50 Days away, restricted duty and transfer (DART) rate for Integrated Facilities Management globally + all employees in 0.50 0.65 0.60 U.S.5 Countries with at least oneHealth, safety and well-being initiative (%)6 84 % 79 % 67 % Number of staff fatalities 1 NK NK Number of contractor fatalities 3 NK NK Workplaces 2015 2014 2013 Energy and resource use Total emissions (metric tons CO2e)7 64,826 51,917 51,062 Scope 1: Company-owned vehicles (metric tons CO2e) 16,556 10,736 11,241 Scope 1: Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 228 184 98 Scope 2: Electricity (metric tons CO2e) 11,494 10,762 10,544 Scope 3: Business travel (metric tons CO2e) 18,802 15,680 15,214 Scope 3: Estimated leased building carbon (metric tons CO2e) 17,746 14,556 13,975 Building-related emissions (metric tons CO2e) 29,468 25,501 24,607 Building-related emissions intensity (metric tons CO2e/corporate office employee) [with exclusions] 1.5 1.5 1.4 Building-related energy intensity (kWh/corporate office employee) [with exclusions] 4,000 3,695 3,476 Rented area (square feet) 3,683,428 2,622,961 2,752,389 Workplace density (square feet per corporate office employee)8 195 160 164 JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 35 ANNEX B Data summary Total actual energy consumption (MWh)9 78,906 61,734 62,747 Energy consumption Natural gas (MWh) 1,258 1,013 542 Energy consumption Electricity (MWh) 19,338 18,600 17,705 Estimated building-related energy (MWh) 54,847 42,271 40,925 Disclosure score from CDP Supplier Program 91 86 80 Performance score from CDP Supplier Program C C B Offices with energy and greenhouse gas emissions initiative(s) (%) 63 % 66 % 66 % Offices with video conferencing facilities (%) 68 % 64 % 58 % Offices with renewable energy (%) 9% 10 % 10 % Fit out JLL offices with a green building or fit-out certificate 19 % 17 % 10 % JLL offices with a green building or fit-out principles (%) 50 % 47 % 42 % Offices with an alternative workplace strategy (%) 73 % 62 % 54 % Supply chain Existence of a policy governing the procurement of sustainable kitchen supplies (% of countries) 46 % 35 % NA Existence of a policy governing the procurement of sustainable office supplies (% of countries) 66 % 53 % NA Existence of a policy governing the procurement of sustainable printers and printing supplies (% of countries) 70 % 51 % NA Existence of a policy governing the procurement of sustainable company cars (% of countries) 23 % 20 % NA Business travel Emissions from business travel (metric tons CO2e) 18,802 15,680 15,214 Countries that report business travel (%) 47 % 33 % 47 % Energy consumption outside JLL operations (diesel and gasoline) (MWh) 57,996 42,120 44,513 Energy consumption Gasoline (MWh) 52,889 39,238 41,619 Energy consumption Diesel (MWh) 5,107 2,882 2,894 JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 36 ANNEX B Data summary Communities 2015 2014 2013 Employee volunteering Volunteering days 5,533 4,590 2,821 Charitable contributions Total charitable contribution, including corporate and employee (million $) 5.3 4.8 4.2 Corporate charitable contribution (million $) 4.6 4.1 3.9 Corporate charitable contribution (% of pre-tax profit) 0.8 % 0.8 % 1.0 % London Benchmaking Group, average member charitable contributions as % of pre-tax profit 1.1 % 1.2 % 1.7 % Footnotes 1 The regional breakdown excludes 739 LaSalle employees and 579 employees that were not assigned a region. 2 The regional breakdown excludes new hires with unknown gender and new hires from some business units (e.g. Hotels). 3 Ethics training is higher than 2015 due to new webinars that reached over 1,000 people each and due to counting ethics trainings from HR for the first time. 4 Where multiple actions were taken on one investigation, we counted it as one investigation for purposes of the ratio. 5  Figures for 2013-2014 restated after data updates. 6 2014 figure revised from 80% to 79% due to calculation correction. 7 2013 total emissions has had 10 tCO2e deducted as this amount of electricity was re-sold to tenants that year. Both 2013 and 2014 figures have been restated after data improvements. 8  2013 and 2014 intensities restated after data corrections. 9 Excludes estimated building-related energy consumption and business travel. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 37 ANNEX C Stakeholder engagement Our approach to stakeholder engagement activities Clients •  •  Completed the following as a part of JLL's 2014 materiality assessment: Conducted analysis of most frequently asked questions in request for proposals. Conduct regular surveys to examine sustainability trends, such as the CoreNet Global • Participate in one-off discussions with clients that have strong supplier sustainability programs (at the request of JLL clients) • Include sustainability information in requests for proposals or supplier questionnaires (e.g. Ecodesk or EcoVadis) • Provide feedback forms on initiatives such as the Green Blog • Send client satisfaction surveys that evaluate performance at the end of major projects and/or year Employees • Completed the following as a part of JLL's 2014 materiality assessment: Surveyed 200 JLL employees; included a question about most important issues to employees in annual Corporate Sustainability Survey; conducted 13 JLL executive interviews. • Conduct a regular Global Employee Engagement Survey • Offer education opportunities (e.g. ethics training, Sustainability University) • Engage employees through the firm's ACT: A Cleaner Tomorrow program • Establish Employee Resource Groups (e.g. VetNet, Women's Business Network) JLL shareholders • Completed the following as a part of JLL's 2014 materiality assessment: Requested input from JLL's Investor Relations team; undertook a review of top shareholder sustainability initiatives and investor-led standards (e.g. The International Integrated Reporting Council and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) • Hold regular meetings between JLL Investor Relations and our shareholders • Participate in one-off discussions between shareholders and sustainability teams (at the request of JLL shareholders) Suppliers • Developed supplier surveys e.g. partnering with Ethisphere Institute on the Supplier Risk Quotient • Developed the OneView Strategic Sourcing module • Established annual Supplier of Distinction Awards • Established a Supplier Diversity Program • JLL appointed a Global Chief Procurement Officer in 2014 Multi-stakeholder • Participate in regular discussions with Ceres regarding our sustainability reporting and strategy • Review and act on feedback from disclosures such as CDP and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index • Maintain annual certifications and awards schemes (e.g. Ethics Inside) JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 38 ANNEX D GRI content index GRI G4 content index 2015 List of references 2015 Annual report Code of Business Ethics 2015 Form 10-K 2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report Notice of the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders Global Health and Safety Policy and Proxy Statement jll.com/sustainability Diversity at JLL 2015 Corporate Facts Transparency Report 2016 CDP response Global Sustainability Commitment General Standard Disclosures General External Standard Page Number (or Link) Assurance Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Introduction from the CEO and President (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 3) No Organizational profile G4-3 Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated No G4-4 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4); Services and Clientele (2015 Form 10-K, pages 4-5); Real Estate No Services: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific (2015 Form 10-K, pages 18-25) G4-5 Form 10-K (2015 Form 10-K, page 1) No G4-6 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4); Corporate Offices (2015 Annual Report, pages 14-15) No G4-7 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4) No G4-8 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4); Real Estate Services: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific (2015 No Form 10-K, pages 18-25) JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 39 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-9 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4); Who we are (2015 Annual Report, page 2); What we have accomplished (2015 Annual Report, page 3); Real Estate Services: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific (2015 Form 10-K, No pages 18-25); Item 6: Selected Financial Data (Unaudited) (2015 Form 10-K, pages 63-65) G4-10 About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4); People (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 17-18); Data No summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) G4-11 Members of a labor union as percentage of total staff = 8.2% (Note: This figure represents the percentage of employees No in the Americas region who belong to a labor union as a percentage of total employees in the Americas region, using 2015 data. We assume this figure to be similar across other regions, with the exception of China, which due to state policy includes all employees as labor union members. In the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa) we are not able to collect this information due to labor union memberships being considered a private matter of the employee.) G4-12 Workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 21-22) No G4-13 JLL has not undergone any significant changes to our size, structure, ownership or supply chain in the year 2015. Minor No changes include: Twenty targeted acquisitions (2015 Form 10-K, page 7) Two changes on our Board of Directors (2015 Annual Report, page 10) Increase in number of employees from 58,100 to 60,000 (2015 Annual Report, page 2) G4-14 Strong governance, enterprise risk management and integrity (2015 Form 10-K, page 29); Item 1A Risk Factors (2015 No Form 10-K, pages 37-59, particularly pages 55-56); Our approach (jll.com/sustainability); Global Strategic Priorities & Strategy 2020 (2015 Corporate Facts, pages 25-30) G4-15 Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); JLL engages No actively with many sustainability organizations and initiatives both globally and locally, such as: Copenhagen Communiqué Cancun Communiqué Business for Innovative Climate and Energy Policy (BICEP) Climate Declaration Caring for Climate Building and Real Estate Climate Declaration NAZCA Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action United Nations Global Compact United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Low Carbon USA JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 40 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-16 Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); JLL engages actively with many sustainability organizations and initiatives both globally and locally, such as: No Better Buildings Partnership Business for Innovative Climate and Energy Policy Caring for Climate CDP Ceres Clinton Global Initiative’s PACENOW Coalition CoreNet Global EcoVadis Electronic Industry Citizenship Council Ethisphere Institute Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Global Reporting Initiative Greenprint / Urban Land Institute International Integrated Reporting Council NAZCA Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action New York Stock Exchange Governance Council Sustainability Accounting Standards Board United Nations Global Compact United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment US Environmental Protector Agency ENERGY STAR World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative World Green Building Council Australia Green Building Council Dutch Green Building Council India Green Building Council Irish Green Building Council Polish Green Building Council Russian Green Building Council UK Green Building Council US Green Building Council JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 41 ANNEX D GRI content index Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement (3) Business Segments (2015 Form 10-K, pages 107-110); About this report (2015 Unknown Global Sustainability Report, page 5) G4-18 Our material impacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 10); Annex E: Material impacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, No pages 52-53) G4-19 Annex E: Material impacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 52-53) No G4-20 Annex E: Material impacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 52-53) No G4-21 Annex E: Material impacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 52-53) No G4-22 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) No G4-23 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) No Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Engaging our stakeholders (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 10) No G4-25 Engaging our stakeholders (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 10) No G4-26 Annex C: Stakeholder engagement activities (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 38) No G4-27 Annex C: Stakeholder engagement activities (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 38); Here are a few examples of the actions JLL No has taken at the global level, which are in part, driven by our engagement with stakeholders: Based on feedback from clients we: Set greenhouse gas emissions and energy reduction targets. Undertake environmental performance measurement, tracking and reporting. Ensure credibility in our service provision by 'walking the talk' internally. Based on feedback from employees we: Increased our emphasis on technology improvements (such as video conferencing, connectivity, and equipment). Increased the programs available through the JLL Academy, an online training portal that includes leadership development programs and client excellence training. Reviewed the employee recognition systems at the country and business line level, such as the Star Awards in Hong Kong, the Ovation Awards in India, and the da Vinci Award program for Corporate Solutions employees worldwide. Based on feedback from JLL Board of Directors we: Reviewed the robustness of processes and systems related to non-financial data collection and analysis. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 42 ANNEX D GRI content index Based on general stakeholder feedback and trends: Formalized corporate sustainability teams and budgeting. Enhanced governance by establishing a Global Corporate Sustainability Board and named Colin Dyer as Executive Sustainability Sponsor for both our services and our operations. Began consideration of post-2017 targets. Report profile G4-28 Calendar year 2015 No G4-29 7/1/2015 No G4-30 Annual No G4-31 Contacts (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 27) No G4-32 This content index demonstrates that our reporting is undertaken in accordance (core) with GRI Guidelines. No G4-33 No external assurance for our Sustainability Report is currently undertaken, however we do engage with Ceres for external No feedback on an annual basis. All data is supported by internal documentation, systems and processes. We will continue to consider external assurance going forward. Governance G4-34 Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); Global sustainability No governance (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 11) Ethics and integrity G4-56 Corporate governance, ethics and thought leadership (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); Code of Business Ethics; No Transparency Report; 2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 43 ANNEX D GRI content index Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Page Number Identified Reason(s) Explanation External Indicators (or Link) Omission(s) for Omission(s) for Omission(s) Assurance Category: Economic Material Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Strategy 2020: Our Future Orientation (2015 Form No 10-K, pages 11-12); Global Strategic Priorities (2015 Form 10-K, pages 8-11); Introduction from the CEO and President (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 3); About JLL (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 4) G4-EC1 Financial Performance (Notice of the 2016 Annual Regional breakdown of The Standard Partial Meeting of Shareholders and Proxy Statement, community investment Disclosure or part of the page S-2 and S-3); Item 6. Selected Financial Data Standard Disclosure is (Unaudited) (2015 Form 10-K, pages 63-65); Item not applicable. 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (2015 Form 10-K, pages 92-132); Supporting our communities (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 25); Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 31-37) G4-EC2 Risks and Opportunities (2016 CDP response, No pages 24-77); Environmental liabilities and regulations, climate change risks, and air quality risks (2015 Form 10-K, pages 55-56); Infrastructure disruptions (2015 Form 10-K, page 45-46). Category: Enviromental Category: Energy G4-DMA Workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, No pages 21-22); Workplaces (jll.com/sustainability); Our sustainability strategy (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 9-10). JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 44 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-EN3 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37); Workplaces (2015 Global Renewable fuels, as The Standard well as heating, cooling Disclosure or part of the JLL does not procure renewable fuels. No Sustainability Report, pages 21-22) and steam consumption. Standard Disclosure is Heating and cooling not applicable. energy consumption is included in our total energy consumption. JLL does not procure steam. G4-EN4 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, pages 31-37); Workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 21-22) G4-EN5 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, pages 31-37); Workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 21-22) G4-EN6 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, pages 31-37); Workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 21-22) Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Transforming our workplaces (2015 Global No Sustainability Report, pages 21-22); Generating lasting value for clients (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 13-14); Workplaces (jll.com/ sustainability); Clients (jll.com/sustainability) G4-EN15 Transforming our workplaces (2015 Global Biogenic emissions The Standard JLL does not produce No Sustainability Report, pages 21-22); Data Disclosure or part of the biogenic emissions. Summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, Standard Disclosure is pages 31-37); 2016 CDP Response (pages 80-87) not applicable. G4-EN16 Transforming our workplaces (2015 Global No Sustainability Report, pages 21-22); Data Summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37); 2016 CDP Response (pages 80-82, 87-88). JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 45 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-EN17 Transforming our workplaces (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 21-22); Data Biogenic emissions The Standard Disclosure or part of the JLL does not produce biogenic emissions. No Summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, Standard Disclosure is pages 31-37); 2016 CDP Response (pages 95-97). not applicable. G4-EN18 Transforming our workplaces (2015 Global No Sustainability Report, pages 21-22); Data Summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37); 2016 CDP Response (pages 93-94). G4-EN19 Targets and Initiatives (2016 CDP response, pages No 19-23). Material Aspect: Products and services G4-DMA Introduction from the CEO and President (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 3); Global Sustainability Commitment; Generating No lasting value for clients (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 13-14); Clients (jll.com/sustainability) G4-EN27 Generating lasting value for clients (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 13-14); Clients (jll.com/sustainability/) No Material Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA Engaging with our supply chain (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 22); Workplaces (jll.com/sustainability/) No G4-EN32 Engaging with our supply chain (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 22); Workplaces (jll.com/sustainability/) No Category: Social Sub-Category: Labor practices and decent work Material Aspect: Employment G4-DMA Engaging our people (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, pages 17-18); People (jll.com/ sustainability); Our Responsibility to Employees (Code of Business Ethics, pages 14-17); Introduction (Code of Business Ethics, pages 1113); Introduction (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, pages 3-4) JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 46 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-LA1 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) JLL reports new employee hires and The information is currently unavailable. We will look into the feasibility/value of No turnover. Currently we further disaggregating do not disaggregate this information in future information on new reporting years. employee hires or employee turnover by age group. Material Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-DMA Health and safety (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, page 17); People (jll.com/sustainability); Our Responsibility to Employees (Code of Business Ethics, pages 14-17); Introduction (Code of Business Ethics, pages 11-13); Global Health and Safety Policy G4-LA6 JLL reports these indicators as aggregate figures: JLL reports health and The information is We will look into the No Days Away and Restricted Time (DART) rates and safety indicators, but currently unavailable. feasibility/value of Recordable Cases Injury (RIR) rates. Health and we do not centrally further disaggregating safety (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page disaggregate by region, this information in future 17); Data Summary (2015 Global Sustainability gender or types of injury. reporting years. Report, pages 31-37) G4-LA7 Health and safety (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, page 17) JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 47 ANNEX D GRI content index Material Aspect: Training and education G4-DMA Training and career development (2015 Global No Sustainability Report, page 18); People (jll.com/ sustainability); Our Responsibility to Employees (Code of Business Ethics, pages 14-17); Introduction (Code of Business Ethics, pages 11-13); Introduction (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, pages 3-4); Summary of 2015 Experience (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, page 4-5); 2015 Statistics and Comparison to Prior Years (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, page 5); Results of Investigations and the Actions We Took (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, page 6) G4-LA9 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, JLL does not currently The information is We will look into the No pages 31-37) collect average training currently unavailable. feasibility/value of hours per employee collecting average globally. training hours information in future reporting years. G4-LA11 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, JLL reports global The information is We will look into the No pages 31-37) total of employees currently unavailable. feasibility/value of with performance further disaggregating objectives who therefore this information in future undertake bi-annual reporting years. reviews. Currently we do not disaggregate this information by gender or employee category. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 48 ANNEX D GRI content index Material Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Diversity and inclusion (2015 Global Sustainability No Report, page 18); People (jll.com/sustainability); Our Responsibility to Employees (Code of Business Ethics, pages 14-17); Introduction (Code of Business Ethics, pages 11-13); UK Equal Opportunities Policy; Summary of 2015 Experience (2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, page 4-5); Diversity at JLL (http://www. diversityatjll.com/) G4-LA12 Diversity and inclusion (2015 Global Sustainability Frameworks for The information is We will look into No Report, page 18); Data summary (2015 Global diversity data collection currently unavailable. feasibility/value Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) are varied globally of collecting this and this presents a information in future challenge in recording reporting years. diversity indicators across all JLL countries. Currently data on total staff by minority groups as well as governance bodies by age and minority groups is not complete. Sub-Category: Society Material Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Supporting our communities (2015 Global No Sustainability Report, page 25); Communities (jll.com/sustainability); Our Responsibility to Communities (Code of Business Ethics, pages 36-38) JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 49 ANNEX D GRI content index G4-SO1 Supporting our communities (2015 Global Sustainability Report, page 25); Communities (jll. No com/sustainability); Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 31-37) Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Ethics, governance and thought leadership No (2015 Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); Our Responsibility to Clients (Code of Business Ethics, pages 18-21); Our Responsibility to the Marketplace (Code of Business Ethics, pages 22-26); Our Responsibility to Shareholders (Code of Business Ethics, pages 27-35); 2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report, Corporate Governance Policies (Transparency Report, page 8) G4-SO4 Ethics, governance and thought leadership (2015 We aggregate our antiThe information is We will look into the No Global Sustainability Report, pages 6-7); Data corruption training data, currently unavailable. feasibility/value of summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, but we do not break reporting a breakdown pages 31-37); Certification of your Commitment to down by employee of this indicator in the the Code (Code of Business Ethics, page 13) groups. future. G4-SO5 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, JLL reports ethics The information is We will look into the No pages 31-37); 2015 Ethics Everywhere Annual data extensively, currently unavailable. feasibility/value of Report including all concerns disaggregating this data investigated. Our in the future. current ethics indicators do not disaggregate the number of corruptionrelated business partner contract terminations or information on public legal cases. Any corruption concerns raised or investigated, if any, are included in the ethics section of our Data summary. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 50 ANNEX D GRI content index Sub-Category: Product responsibility Material Aspect: Customer privacy G4-DMA 2016 Ethics Everywhere Annual Report; Client No Information (Code of Business Ethics, page 19); Privacy and personal data protection (Code of Business Ethics, page 16); Protection of JLL information, ideas and intellectual property (Code of Business Ethics, page 32); Technology and Information Systems; Management of Data (2015 Form 10-K, page 47); Ability to protect intellectual property; infringement of third-party intellectual property rights (2015 Form 10K, pages 44); Burden of complying with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations and dealing with changes in legal and regulatory requirements (2015 Form 10-K, pages 52-53) G4-PR8 Data summary (2015 Global Sustainability Report, JLL reports ethics The information is We will look into the No pages 31-37) data extensively, currently unavailable. feasibility/value of including all concerns disaggregating this investigated. We do not data in the future. currently disaggregate for the number of complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy; or losses of customer data. Any related concerns raised or investigated, if any, are included in the ethics section of our Data Summary. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 51 ANNEX E Material impacts JLL focus area Material issues Corresponding GRI aspects GRI aspect boundary GRI aspect boundary outside JLL Aspect boundary limitations* within JLL Portfolio-wide energy management and Energy All JLL business The facilities we We are not currently able performance monitoring segments. manage on behalf to quantify the energy of clients and reductions for clients on a Measure, report and reduce energy Emissions LaSalle assets under global scale. Clients and GHG emissions management. Green building certifications Products and services Energy and sustainability accredited Training and professionals education Health, well-being and safety of Employment All JLL business N/A Health and safety data employees segments. covers our Integrated Compensation and benefits Occupational health Facilities Management People and safety business globally, and all JLL Diversity and inclusion Training and education employees in the U.S Training and career development Diversity and equal opportunity Energy and GHG emissions reduction Energy All JLL business Suppliers to our own JLL occupies leased space from corporate offices and business segments. operations. and actual energy data travel is often not provided by landlords. Therefore 73% Energy efficiency and conservation Emissions of our energy data from our Workplaces Workplace connectivity through Supplier buildings is partly or fully For the purposes of GRI G4 ‘Core’ compliance, technology environmental estimated. we have mapped the issues identified in the assessment 2014 materiality review against the aspects More efficient use of offices included in the GRI’s G4 Guidelines. We have identified 11 corresponding G4 aspects that Employee commuting are material to JLL in addition to economic Green building certifications performance. The list of aspects, as well as their boundaries and limitations, is presented Supply chain engagement in the table. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 52 ANNEX E Material impacts Employee volunteering All JLL business segments. Local communities. JLL charitable giving and employee volunteering data is derived from our annual Communities corporate sustainability Charitable contributions Local communities survey, which covered 91% of JLL corporate offices in 2015. Ethics and integrity Anti-corruption All JLL business JLL clients and the N/A segments. broader real estate Sustainability innovation and thought Customer privacy industry through our Overarching leadership thought leadership and participation in External recognition external initiatives. Corporate governance We are aware of improvements we can make to future materiality reviews such as the inclusion of new issues (e.g. from the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board). We are also taking a more in-depth look at our material issues from the perspective of each’s financial impact on the business (as opposed to stakeholder perspectives). Much of this work relates to our use of the <IR> Framework as we prepare our Form 10-K and JLL’s application of integrated thinking. These efforts will increasingly help JLL apply materiality results beyond reporting and disclosure efforts. *For specific limitations regarding individual key performance indicators, please see our Data Summary in Annex B. JLL 2015 Global Sustainability Report | 53
