Sustainability Update 2015 Responsible research Access to healthcare Governance Ethical business practices Responding to a changing world Our sustainability journey Great place Environmental to work sustainability Introduction We want to be valued for achieving success in a way that promotes the long-term health of our company, our society and our planet. This update gives an overview of our commitments to this bigger picture, the progress we have made towards our goals and what we are doing to embed sustainability more deeply into the DNA of our organisation. Contents Sustainability at AstraZeneca Access to healthcare Environmental sustainability Great place to work Responsible research Ethical business practices Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement at AstraZeneca Our sustainability framework Refreshing our materiality process Governance Stakeholder engagement Global We are a global, science-led biopharmaceutical involvement business. We want to be valued for pushing the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines in a way that promotes the long-term health of our company, our society and our planet. 2015 highlights Materiality assessment final phases currently being carried out to further inform our strategy and commitments New Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Strategy launched, covering 2016–25 Stronger governance model and a new, expanded Sustainability Advisory Board Sustainability Update 2015 | 3 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Chairman’s statement Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability For AstraZeneca, sustainability means implementing our strategy and framework Refreshing our delivering the targets we have set ourselves in a way that promotes the longmateriality process term health of AstraZeneca, the societies in which we work and the planet. Governance Employees and external stakeholders expect it, and AstraZeneca’s future Stakeholder ability to get new medicines to patients in the most efficient way depends engagement Global on it. Moreover, it helps attract and retain talented employees and enhances involvement trust in our business and our reputation. In acting in this way, we not only protect our licence to operate but also deliver value to those who benefit from our medicines: our shareholders, society and the environment. A sustainable business Strengthening our approach AstraZeneca has been working for over a decade Looking ahead, if we are to be among the best to achieve business success in a responsible manner. performers, there is more we need to do. We For example, we have delivered safety, health and have refreshed and strengthened our governance environment improvements and created a diverse arrangements, as outlined in this update, and we workforce; we have promoted the development of our are integrating sustainability into how we measure the products in an ethical way; and we have taken steps success with which we are delivering our strategic to broaden access to our medicines. priorities. We need to build on this by focusing our work and ensuring that sustainability thinking is Achievements recognised embedded in our culture and the way we do business. I am pleased to report that, in 2015, we met all our obligations under our five-year Corporate Integrity Appreciation Agreement in the US, which has now come to an Before closing, and on behalf of the Board, I want end. Maintaining high ethical standards in the way to thank the employees of AstraZeneca. Their we conduct our business remains a priority. outstanding efforts helped make 2015 a great year for science and patients. I would also like to thank all Our achievements were once again recognised in those stakeholders – particularly the members of our 2015 with an improved score of 84% (79% in 2014) external Sustainability Advisory Board – who have in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Our score provided the invaluable insight and support that is now contributed to the Silver Class rating awarded to us shaping our approach to sustainability. for our sustainability performance by RobecoSAM, the respected sustainability investment specialist. Leif Johansson Chairman Sustainability Update 2015 | 4 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Our sustainability framework Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability framework As a company built on delivering positive health outcomes, sustainability Refreshing our underpins everything we do. As we strive to reach 200 million patients by materiality process 2025, we are evolving our approach and developing a roadmap that will further Governance embed sustainability into our DNA. This will ensure we effectively address the Stakeholder engagement most fundamental issues for our business and for society. Global involvement Our sustainability framework demonstrates our Our sustainability priorities were initially set in 2013. commitment to operating responsibly, working with In late 2015, we initiated a refreshed materiality integrity and delivering sustainable growth. In 2015, assessment that includes input from internal and the AstraZeneca Board endorsed an initiative to external stakeholders. We are using the assessment pursue a clear and prioritised sustainability framework to refine our priorities further and confirm our strategy, that is closely aligned to the company’s overall as we develop a roadmap towards further embedding business strategy. sustainability into the DNA of our company. Our five pillars of sustainability Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business healthcare sustainability to work research practices Increasing access Managing our Building an inclusive, Underpinning Delivering globally to healthcare for environmental impacts safe and trusting innovation with sound consistent standards underserved patient with a focus on: organisation that bioethics worldwide. of ethical sales populations in a • Carbon emissions embraces the skills, Maintaining a strong and marketing. sustainable way. • Waste knowledge and focus on patient safety. Working only with • Water use unique ability of suppliers who have Taking responsibility • Product stewardship. our employees. standards consistent for our medicines Supporting them throughout research with our own. to make a positive and development, Taking a responsible and contribution to and after launch. fair approach to tax. local communities. Sustainability Update 2015 | 5 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at Our sustainability goals and progress AstraZeneca To drive continuous improvement across our business, Chairman’s statement we set targets that are designed to stretch what we Our sustainability achieve. Over the past year, we have made substantial framework progress in many areas. In others, we have fallen short Refreshing our of our ambitious targets but we are moving in the right materiality process direction. The following table provides an overview Governance of our progress against targets and you can read the Stakeholder engagement full explanation in the detailed sections of our 2015 Global sustainability update. involvement What we have achieved Access to Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target healthcare progress Increase access Reach one million people Over 1.4 million young people to healthcare for through Young Health engaged since 2010 underserved Programme by 2015 patient populations Reach 10 million patients Over one million patients screened in across Sub-Saharan Africa 2015, exceeding its year one target with treatment for hypertension (abnormally high blood pressure) by 2025 through Healthy Heart Africa Screen over 750,000 people in 2015 through Healthy Heart Africa Environmental Enhancing our By 2015, reduce operational Achieved a 21.2% cut in our sustainability competitiveness greenhouse gas footprint greenhouse gas footprint from through resource (excluding emissions from 2010 levels conservation and patients’ use of inhaler efficiency across therapies) by 20% from our business and 2010 levels supply chain By 2015, reduce hazardous Hazardous waste generation indexed waste by 15% indexed to sales to sales increased 5% against the and reduce non-hazardous 2010 baseline, while non-hazardous waste by 15% indexed to the waste indexed to employees number of employees increased 11% Despite indexed waste reduction targets not being met, we reduced our total waste by 18% from 2010 By 2015, reduce water use by Water use was 3.9 million m3 25% against 2010 levels Though we were not able to achieve our ambitious target, we made substantial progress with a reduction of 14% against our 2010 baseline Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 6 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability framework Refreshing our materiality process Governance Stakeholder engagement Global involvement Great place Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target to work progress Build an inclusive, Increase female representation Increased the number of senior open and trusting at Global Career Level F and managers who are women to 42% organisation that above from 38% (2010) to 41% embraces the skills, by 2015 knowledge and unique ability of our employees Increase female representation We changed our focus from a in the global talent pool from global talent pool to a succession 33% (2010) to 38% by 2015 pool approach Representation is currently at 39% Promote a safe More than 80% of sites 60% of sites offered six and healthy work offering six essential health programmes, 84% offered five environment, and programmes or services or more embed international by 2015 human rights in our operations and our sphere of influence Accidents and illness – 25% 46% reduction achieved reduction in lost time injury/ illness rate per million hours worked from 2010 baseline by 2015 Driver safety – 40% reduction 55% reduction achieved in collisions per million kilometres driven from 2008 baseline by 2015 Make AstraZeneca a Achieve target 83% employee Q4 Pulse survey found 83% of great place to work survey score for AstraZeneca employees identified AstraZeneca as a great place to work by as a great place to work 2015 Improve employee perception Q4 Pulse survey found 79% of the opportunities for of employees saw opportunities personal development and for growth growth in AstraZeneca to 73% by 2015 Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 7 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability framework Refreshing our materiality process Governance Stakeholder engagement Global involvement Great place Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target to work progress (continued) Make AstraZeneca a Deliver further organisational Q4 Pulse survey found 67% of great place to work simplification (target: relevant employees recognised that the (continued) Pulse survey score to be organisation has been simplified over 60%) by 2015 Provide employees All employees have a Q3 Pulse survey score showed with opportunities development plan in place 87% of employees have had a to develop their by end Q3 (2015 target was development discussion skills and careers to over 95%) create a professional, motivated workforce All employees to have had at 82% of colleagues reported in the least one quality development Q3 Pulse survey, rising to 87% by discussion with their line the end of the year, that they had manager by the end of Q3 had at least one quality development (2015 target was over 70%) discussion with their line manager Ethical business Ensure ethical All employees to be trained on 100% of employees trained practices business practices our Code of Conduct by the and integrity underpin end of 2015 everything we do Communicate clear policies Updated our Ethical Interactions & to employees Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy to provide greater clarity and simplicity for the business Ensure employees and 326 reports of alleged compliance other stakeholders can raise breaches or other ethical concerns concerns and that they are made through the Code of Conduct properly addressed helpline in 2015 Meet high ethical Conducted 61 supplier audits standards across all our in 2015 procurement activities and decisions worldwide Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 8 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at Our new Safety, Health and AstraZeneca Environment (SHE) Strategy Chairman’s statement In 2015, we finalised a new 2016 to 2025 SHE Achieving these targets during a period of expected Our sustainability Strategy to build on our 2010 to 2015 performance. strong growth will require significant business framework It will ensure we continue to protect the safety commitment. We have established a fund for capital Refreshing our and health of our people and do our ‘fair share’ projects that can drive substantial improvement in materiality process to protect the planet. natural resource efficiency. Governance Stakeholder engagement Global involvement New SHE Strategy targets, 2016 to 2025 Eliminate workplace accidents Protect natural resources and illnesses Accidents: Carbon: Compared to a 2015 baseline, 75% 75% reduction in total injury rate from 2015 baseline 30% operational carbon to remain at the same level and reduce overall carbon intensity by 30%2 Health and wellbeing: Waste: 80% of sites/marketing 80% companies have all four Essential Health Activities1 10% 10% absolute reduction from 2015 baseline Driver safety: Water: Cap usage from 2015 baseline 55% 55% reduction in collisions per million kilometres driven 90% of active pharmaceutical 90% ingredient (API) syntheses meet resource efficiency targets at launch and establish equivalent targets for biologics Ensure the environmental safety of our products: Ensure effective environmental management of our products from pre-launch through to product end-of-life 1 Healthy eating and drinking, tobacco cessation, physical fitness, workplace pressure management. 2 Carbon target follows the science and uses the Science-Based Target Setting tool developed by the World Resources Institute. Operational footprint = energy and process emissions, business travel, waste incineration, freight/logistics, first tier supply chain energy and patients’ use of inhalers. Carbon intensity = CO2 tonnes/$m sales. Sustainability Update 2015 | 9 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Refreshing our materiality process Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability framework We operate in an exciting and fast-paced environment. It is vital that we Refreshing stay ahead of developments and respond effectively. Over the past year, we our materiality process have been working on a refreshed materiality assessment that will inform our Governance sustainability strategy and roadmap for 2016 and beyond. Stakeholder engagement Global Our goal is to ensure that sustainability is effectively • Inform our priorities and long-term strategy involvement aligned to our business strategy and truly embedded • Help us connect sustainability directly to our in the way we operate and define success. To do business strategy and operations that, we need to understand the sustainability issues that are most important to our business and to our • Understand non-financial risks and opportunities stakeholders, so that they help inform our future • Meet stakeholder expectations about our approach. strategy and roadmap to be launched in late 2016. We believe that these elements combined will create Materiality is the principle of defining the social, long-term value for the business. environmental and governance issues that matter most to our business and our stakeholders. In early 2015, we commissioned an independent think-tank to help us carry out a materiality assessment that would further: Relevant sustainability issues The issues identification process generated 27 issues mapped against AstraZeneca’s current categories Responsible research Access to healthcare Environmental sustainability • Product safety and quality • Health systems development • Climate change • Bioethics • Product affordability • Resource efficiency • Research with animals • Disease prevention (including • Biodiversity • Health outcome contribution antimicrobial resistance) • Pharmaceuticals in • Clinical trials • Healthcare reform the environment • Product counterfeiting • Intellectual property Great place to work Ethical business practices • Employee retention • Patient interaction • Compensation • Ethical sales and marketing • Diversity and inclusion • Bribery and corruption • Health and safety • Public policy/advocacy • Human rights • Community investment • Supply chain management • Fair taxation Sustainability Update 2015 | 10 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at AstraZeneca Our analysis consisted of 5 core steps: Chairman’s statement Our sustainability framework STEP STEP STEP Refreshing our materiality process 1 2 3 Governance Stakeholder Business assessment Identify and categorise Validate and prioritise engagement We reviewed key corporate Potentially relevant issues were Each issue was assessed across Global involvement business risks and opportunities initially identified using a wide several dimensions. through AstraZeneca’s risk variety of sources, including: Business impact – likely impact management framework sector material issues as identified on AstraZeneca based on its and assessed the business by the Sustainability Accounting existing activity. landscape and external context Standards Board; performance influencing the operating rankings such as the Dow Jones Stakeholder concern – estimated environment in order to identify Sustainability Index and Access to level of interest in the issue as it emerging sustainability issues. Medicines Index; peer materiality relates to AstraZeneca among assessments; media, nonselect stakeholders (based on a governmental organisation (NGO) qualitative review of inputs, media and government reports; trend reports, NGO activity, surveys, analysis; and global frameworks investor ratings, interviews and such as the UN Sustainable monitoring of relevant trends). Development Goals. Level of opportunity – extent A ‘long list’ of issues facing the to which this issue presents an industry was consolidated and opportunity to AstraZeneca. grouped into relevant categories. Degree of influence – degree This process generated 27 to which the company has direct issues of potential relevance influence on outcomes on the issue. to AstraZeneca. STEP STEP 4 5 Internal and external We have completed the Develop strategy framework engagement initial stages of the materiality Building upon the strong The results of the initial assessment and will continue foundations of our existing assessment and high-level to collect further internal and sustainability framework, we findings were reviewed by external stakeholder feedback, will seek to use the results of an internal focus group of including via an internal the materiality assessment 13 experts from across key employee survey and external to confirm our priorities and functions who expressed broad stakeholder review. develop a strategy comprised of support for the list of identified our vision, goals and targets. sustainability issues. Initial reflections and feedback Issues were then mapped onto suggest that our strategic a matrix according to the level of focus on promoting access to stakeholder interest and potential healthcare (exemplified by our business impact (see next page). Healthy Heart Africa programme) In February 2016, we shared and environmental sustainability the draft matrix at the inaugural (particularly doing our ‘fair share’ joint meeting of AstraZeneca’s to combat climate change) will internal Sustainability Council continue to drive and create and external Sustainability value for the business, patients Advisory Board for discussion and society. and validation. Sustainability Update 2015 | 11 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Governance Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability We are committed to operating with integrity and high ethical standards framework Refreshing our across all our activities. This year, we further developed our governance materiality process model to lead the future delivery of our sustainability programme. Governance Stakeholder How we govern sustainability engagement Our well-established robust governance model We have also repositioned the sustainability function Global involvement helps us deliver, monitor and report progress on the within Global Compliance. In early 2016, we recruited framework across the business. a new Sustainability Director to lead the transformation of our sustainability approach across the business. Over the past year, we have evolved and strengthened our approach. This includes broadening the role of the Sustainability Council to encompass more areas of the business, including the existing Safety, Health and Environment Council. The Sustainability Council is chaired by the Chief Compliance Officer. Sustainability framework A sustainability framework is embedded in the way we operate. AstraZeneca Board Non-Executive Director, Geneviève Berger, oversees the implementation of the sustainability framework and reports to the Board. Sustainability Senior Executive Team (SET) Stakeholders Advisory Board SET is responsible for the framework. Regular engagement Established in 2015 • Senior managers throughout the Group are accountable for operating with stakeholders, and will meet twice in line with the sustainability commitments within their areas, taking which takes place annually to provide into account national, functional and site issues and priorities with a range of external insight, socially responsible • Line managers are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand feedback and advice investors and the requirements and that people are clear about what is expected of to help sharpen other interest them as they work to achieve our business goals. our understanding groups, provides of, and responses the opportunity to, established Sustainability Council for sustainable and emerging The Council is chaired by a SET member, currently Katarina Ageborg, issues or concerns sustainability issues. our Chief Compliance Officer. Members comprise senior leaders from to be raised The Advisory Board each relevant SET function. Its agenda will focus on driving long-term and discussed. will also help identify value creation by, among other things: opportunities for • Agreeing sustainability priorities for the Group in line with strategic further innovation business objectives and collaboration. • Managing and monitoring the annual process of setting sustainability objectives and targets, as well as reviewing performance against key performance indicators • Agreeing appropriate policy positions to support our objectives and reputation management. Sustainability Working Group The Working Group of SET function representatives supports the Council. The Working Group reviews issues with the potential to impact AstraZeneca’s sustainability agenda. As appropriate, it prepares proposals for the Council’s consideration. Sustainability Update 2015 | 12 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at Incorporating external perspectives AstraZeneca This year, we expanded the remit of our environmentChairman’s statement focused external Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) Our sustainability to cover the entire sustainability agenda. The purpose framework of the new SAB is to: Refreshing our materiality process • Provide feedback, constructive challenges, and Governance advice on the full range of issues relevant to Stakeholder AstraZeneca’s sustainability agenda engagement Global • Provide an external perspective on our sustainability involvement plans and targets, helping to improve and evolve our long-term sustainability strategy • Forecast trends, emerging issues, challenges and opportunities in national and global contexts, and provide guidance on how to respond to them • Help AstraZeneca to develop and maintain links with external industry experts. The SAB includes five world-class thought leaders in their fields, including several who have been instrumental in integrating positive sustainability practices in large organisations. Current external members are: Pankaj Bhatia Deputy Director, World Resources Institute Polly Courtice Director of the University of Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership José Lopez Former Executive Vice President of Operations, Nestlé SA Mary-Jane Morifi Global Capital Campaign Lead, Nelson Mandela Children’s Hospital Trust Jorgen Randers Professor Emeritus, BI Norwegian Business School. Sustainability Update 2015 | 13 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Stakeholder engagement Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability We believe our long-term success lies in making better, deeper connections framework Refreshing our with our stakeholders, understanding their worlds and combining forces materiality process to achieve common goals. To earn society’s trust, we must speak but Governance also listen. The feedback we receive from stakeholders, through both Stakeholder the materiality process and ongoing stakeholder dialogue, informs our engagement Global sustainability approach, commitments and actions. involvement We define a stakeholder as any individual or group • Better decision-making – listening to stakeholders will who can affect, or is affected by, our business. The improve our knowledge of present and future threats benefits of dialogue with our stakeholders include: and opportunities, helping us to make good business decisions • Better healthcare solutions – deeper stakeholder relationships will help us come up with creative ways • Better reputation – responding appropriately to to tackle healthcare challenges the changing expectations and concerns of our stakeholders will strengthen our reputation. • Better informed stakeholders – information presented as part of a dialogue is more easily digested and understood, helping stakeholders to understand our business Examples of our stakeholders Our stakeholders include diverse groups with wide-ranging interests, from the patients who use our medicines to the academic institutions that collaborate with our scientists and the communities in which we operate. Patients Academia Investors Media Pharmaceutical Government & regulators organisations Employees Opinion AstraZeneca leaders Healthcare Local professionals communities Payors NGOs Politicians International Suppliers organisations & partners Sustainability Update 2015 | 14 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Sustainability at How we engage with stakeholders AstraZeneca We carry out regular formal and informal engagement Our global policy on Ethical Interactions & Anti-Bribery/ Chairman’s with stakeholders through a wide range of channels – Anti-Corruption Policy underpins our approach to statement from digital to face-to-face dialogue – to understand stakeholder engagement. You can read more about Our sustainability framework their views and concerns. how we enable stakeholders to raise concerns with us Refreshing our in our 2015 ethical business practices update. materiality process Through a multi-stakeholder engagement approach, Governance we identify systematic activities to create opportunities Stakeholder for interaction with groups of our stakeholders. engagement We continue to use feedback from our various Global stakeholder dialogues to make sure that appropriate involvement considerations are being included in our strategy development and risk management planning. All our relationships and engagement, including with patient groups and other healthcare organisations, are based on transparent and shared objectives to improve the lives of patients. We are currently refreshing our Stakeholder Engagement Strategy as part of our future sustainability strategy and roadmap for 2016 and beyond. We will communicate this, along with details of our key stakeholder groups and engagements, in our 2016 sustainability report. Our work with patient groups Responsible partnering Patient groups are independent organisations that We partner with other organisations to promote provide advice and support to patients and their access to the best science, and to stimulate innovation families and other caregivers. Staying in touch with for the delivery of new, life-changing medicines. We are their changing needs is vital to our aim of making the always looking for business development opportunities most meaningful difference we can to patient health. that support our vision and help deliver our business We continually talk to patient groups, organisations and strategy. Our current focus is on: physicians to understand what they need and want. • Increasing early-stage research and We support patient groups that address diseases and academic partnerships therapeutic areas in which AstraZeneca is active, but • Exploring opportunities to create value for society we never link financial support to the promotion of with our peers our medicines. • Pursuing partnering, in-licensing and bolt-on In Europe, the UK and Sweden, we make public all acquisitions to strengthen our core therapy our relationships with patient groups. In the US, we area portfolios. publish our contributions to patient groups and other healthcare organisations, and our grants in support of Ensuring these partnerships are transparent and independent medical education on our website. You uphold our high ethical standards is vital to our can find out more here. reputation. When making new acquisitions and developing partnership opportunities, sustainability is integral to our due diligence process. We assess all projects against our 5Rs evaluation criteria: Right Target, Right Tissue or Exposure, Right Safety, Right Patients and Right Commercial. We also consider ethical conduct in sales and marketing, safety, environmental management and other sustainability issues – including the historical liabilities of potential partners and the practices they currently have in place. This way, we ensure that we only take forward the most attractive and sustainable opportunities. Sustainability Update 2015 | 15 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Global involvement Sustainability at AstraZeneca Chairman’s statement Our sustainability Our involvement with sustainability initiatives, benchmarking and framework Refreshing our indices on a global scale is integral to delivering our sustainable materiality process business commitments. Governance Stakeholder Delivering the UN Sustainable engagement Development Goals Global Nothing is more important to AstraZeneca than While we are in the early stages of aligning the SDGs involvement contributing to a healthy society and a healthy planet. For with our longer-term commitments, the outline below that reason, we are committed to supporting the delivery offers some examples of how the SDGs align with of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). our current programmes. SDG Goal 3 to ‘ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all ages’ is of particular importance and relevance to our core business. The Young Health Programme is our global community investment initiative. It has a unique focus on young people and primary prevention of the most common non-communicable diseases (NCDs). We have engaged over 1.4 million young people through our Young Health Programme since 2010. Healthy Heart Africa (HHA) is our flagship access to medicines programme. Through HHA we are helping to tackle a silent killer in parts of the world where access to healthcare is at its lowest. Over one million patients were screened for hypertension through Healthy Heart Africa in 2015. We currently run affordability projects in countries across Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific and the US. Read more We are proud of our industry-leading work to understand, avoid and manage any risks associated with the presence of trace amounts of pharmaceuticals in waterways. At the start of 2015, we initiated a €10 million partnership with the European Commission under the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI). This project – called Intelligent Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (iPiE) – aims to develop screening tools for identifying the environmental risks both earlier on in drug development and for older medicines. Read more We take a whole life-cycle approach to minimising the environmental impacts of our products. In 2015, we selected five products for full Life Cycle Analysis that we believe provide a useful representation of the breadth of our portfolio. We focused on five key impact areas – climate change, water depletion, ecotoxicity, ozone depletion and resource depletion. The results of these assessments are now informing where we should focus our efforts to have the biggest effect in reducing our environmental impact. Read more In 2015, our Sweden operations completed an ambitious Air2Sea project, which saw sea freight established to 13 countries. Switching to the transport of goods by sea achieves a massive 97% CO2 saving compared with air transport. This is just one example of how we are working to ensure we do our fair share to reduce and mitigate against the impacts of climate change. Read more We believe partnership is essential in working towards a more sustainable world. We are members of the United Nations Global Compact. In setting our new carbon reduction targets, we followed the Science-Based Target Setting tool developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI), World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Read more Sustainability Update 2015 | 16 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Benchmarking and reporting “ Sustainability at AstraZeneca Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Chairman’s statement In 2015, we were once again listed in the Dow Jones As one of the top-scoring companies in Our sustainability Sustainability World Index, which lists the top 10% the pharmaceutical industry, AstraZeneca framework of the largest 2,500 companies based on economic, PLC has qualified for inclusion in the 2016 Refreshing our environmental and social criteria. Sustainability Yearbook and has received materiality process the Silver Class distinction for its excellent Governance We were also one of only four pharmaceutical sustainability performance.” Stakeholder companies out of 14 assessed to retain our listing on engagement the DJSI STOXX – European Index, placing us among Michael Baldinger, CEO of RobecoSAM Global involvement the top 20% of the 600 largest European companies for the eighth year running. RobecoSAM Our total score of 84% (2014: 79%) compared with We received a Silver Class distinction in the 2016 a sector-best score of 88% (2014: 87%), and we RobecoSAM indices, which are based on annual increased our individual scores for 14 out of 24 criteria analysis of 2,900 listed companies. in 2015. We lost ground in some areas and have commissioned an in-depth external benchmark survey UN Global Compact to understand these lower scores and identify ways We are a member of the UN Global Compact, the we can improve in these areas. world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative Access to Medicine Index that encourages companies to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, Published every two years, the Access to Medicine labour, environment and anti-corruption, and take Index independently ranks pharmaceutical companies’ actions that advance societal goals. As a member, efforts to improve access to medicine in developing we report our sustainability initiatives and progress countries. In making its assessment, it analyses patient annually to the Compact. access programmes, research and development investment in relevant diseases, intellectual property, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) pricing, compliance and clinical trial transparency. We disclose our carbon performance and targets to The latest Index was published in November external indices, including the CDP. In the build-up 2014 and AstraZeneca was ranked 15 out of 20 to COP 21, the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, we companies assessed, up one place from in the signed up to the CDP commitments for science-based previous Index in 2012. targets and public disclosure of information associated with climate change performance. We improved in several areas, including our commitment to equitable pricing and strong clinical Assurance trial codes of conduct. Management of access-related See page 234 of the AstraZeneca 2015 Annual performance was identified as an improvement area. Report and Form 20-F Information for Bureau Veritas’s assurance statement. The full assurance statement, We are currently reviewing our performance in this which includes Bureau Veritas’s scope important Index to understand how we can improve of work, methodology, overall opinion, and limitations through greater transparency and through specific and exclusions, is available on our website, initiatives to enhance affordability and access to www.astrazeneca.com. AstraZeneca medicines. Sustainability Update 2015 | 17 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable healthcare access Healthy Heart Africa Intellectual property Young Health Programme Providing access to healthcare for all those who need it is a significant and complex global challenge. We are making it easier for people to afford our medicines, especially in emerging markets. We focus, too, on strengthening healthcare capabilities, particularly in developing economies where the price of a medicine may not be the only barrier to healthcare. We believe that we will be able to make the greatest contribution when our approach is commercially sustainable. It will also take a combined global effort involving all relevant stakeholders to drive sustainable progress worldwide. Many of our activities are, therefore, underpinned by collaboration with a wide range of partners. As access to healthcare can also vary within a country, our activity is tailored locally to meet the needs of different patient populations. 2015 highlights 1 million screenings for hypertension through Healthy Heart Africa 3.5 million patients in emerging markets served by patient access programmes 1.7 million Brazilians using patient access cards through our Faz Bem programme Sustainability Update 2015 | 18 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Our approach Sustainable access At AstraZeneca we research, create, manufacture and market medicines and treatments for Healthy the whole world. We believe that everyone should have access to those medicines, regardless Heart Africa of where they live or how much money they have. We work hard to improve access to Intellectual property medicines for all, particularly those who have traditionally been underserved by the industry. Young Health Programme We have made significant progress in broadening the access to our products by making medicines more affordable and we are working towards greatly increasing access, particularly in low-income countries, through our patient access programmes. Our efforts to improve affordability are particularly focused on the ability to pay based on disposable household income. We continue to grow our capabilities and build on the experience of wellbeing initiatives and patient access programmes, which provide discounts on our medicines and other patient services. Our access to healthcare strategy combines these three strands to address affordability and other healthcare barriers, while ensuring we continue to provide high-quality medicines to those who need them. Our access to healthcare strategy: 1 2 3 To continue providing To improve affordability, particularly To bring down healthcare high-quality, effective and focused on the ability to pay in barriers, particularly in appropriate medicines to emerging markets developing countries those who need them What we have achieved Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target progress Increase access to healthcare for Expand sustainable patient 3.5 million patients in emerging underserved patient populations access to our medicines to markets served by patient access reach three million patients programmes Reach one million people through Over 1.4 million young people Young Health Programme by 2015 engaged since 2010 Reach 10 million patients across Over one million patients Sub-Saharan Africa with treatment screened in 2015, exceeding for hypertension (abnormally high its year one target blood pressure) by 2025 through Healthy Heart Africa Screen over 750,000 people in 2015 through Healthy Heart Africa Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 19 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach There are many barriers for people seeking healthcare, especially in developing economies. Sustainable These include: access Healthy Heart Africa Intellectual property Young Health Programme Lack of Availability of Local culture, Cost Lack of infrastructure medicines and beliefs and knowledge treatments traditions In 2015, we expanded efforts in Africa to enable programme, we have opened health facilities across greater access to hypertension medication and Africa to provide training, education, screening, other essential services for patients who are diagnosis and treatment for patients with hypertension. otherwise unable to access medication or other You can read more about our results on page 6. forms of treatment. Through our Healthy Heart Africa Sustainability Update 2015 | 20 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Sustainable access Sustainable access We aim to meet patient needs across the world, ranging from those for Healthy whom healthcare is readily available and who can afford our medicines, to Heart Africa those in emerging markets who may need help to access our medicines and Intellectual property those in developing economies where barriers to healthcare are not always Young Health price related. Programme We rely on sales of medicines in our established markets to help us generate the revenue we need to provide our shareholders with a return, to invest in continued innovation and to expand the availability and affordability of our medicines. Pricing and access We recently analysed our biggest-selling brands in We are working to make our medicines affordable emerging countries and the 13 biggest markets in to more people on a commercially and socially our International Region. As a result, we calculated sustainable basis, based on an in-depth understanding that by pricing our medicines at no more than 5% of the economic conditions of the population in of national disposable household income we can emerging countries and the economic burden placed make our current respiratory and cardiovascular on this population when it comes to health. portfolio affordable for around 70% of the population, specifically the median income groups for which this We do this through our mainstream operations, represents increased access to medicines, plus those but also via patient programmes and a targeted already in a position to pay full price. We expect to pricing strategy that takes into account ability to pay, expand this methodology significantly. particularly in emerging and developing markets, where 45%1 of funding for healthcare is paid by patients out Sustainable benefits of their own pocket. Wherever possible we integrate into our approach a wide range of localised support services for patients, Currently this strategy focuses on chronic conditions, ranging from disease education, health awareness and such as respiratory and cardiovascular disease. It is preventive measures, to discounted or free healthcare aimed at markets where there is significant unmet services, dietary advice and nurse counselling. We also patient need and reflects two of our core therapy partner directly with non-governmental organisations areas. We have developed an ability to pay evaluation and governments to improve the underlying healthcare framework2 to identify affordable price points for infrastructure and improve access to medical those who pay for their own healthcare, by assessing treatment. household budgets and the economic impact of medicines on a country-by-country basis, using World Our medicines play an important role in treating Health Organisation and other economic data sources. unmet medical need and in doing so they also bring economic, as well as therapeutic benefits. Effective This provides a systematic evaluation taking treatments can help lower healthcare costs by reducing into account: the need for more expensive care, such as hospital stays or surgery, or through preventing patients from developing more serious or debilitating diseases. They also contribute to increased productivity by reducing or preventing the incidence of diseases that keep people away from work. Target Funding Level of current population issues access Level of Patient access discount programme 1 A  straZeneca’s ability to pay evaluation framework and market assumptions were developed through primary research in collaboration with the University of Cape Town, Department of Public Health and the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease. 2 Ibid Sustainability Update 2015 | 21 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Case study: Brazilian Mosaic makes medicines affordable Sustainable access In many of the countries where we operate, there To address this disparity, AstraZeneca Brazil has Healthy are tremendous differences in income between the tried to understand how to apply the right discount Heart Africa most and least wealthy, which have an obvious to the right population, as well as determining Intellectual impact on access to healthcare, even where there how to incentivise people to continue with the property is a universal healthcare system. Brazil is one such treatment they need. The company’s innovative Young Health Programme country where there are huge socio-economic solution was to identify their economic patient disparities within the population and, despite the profile, a unique and customised approach called universal healthcare system, the main source of Mosaic Segmentation. The starting point is using funding for medicines remains the private sector. economic data supplied by data provider Experian In addition, the relative investment in medicines to compile profiles across the population. These is lower than in comparable countries and the profiles incorporate the income segment linked percentage of private expenditure is on a par with to patients’ national ID number. When a patient economies without universal healthcare. This has registers on the programme they are automatically an impact on household disposable income and assigned a discount level based on their ability the ease of access to medicines. to pay. This link between individual levels of affordability and access to medicines has helped more than 150,000 patients since February 2016. It is the latest development in AstraZeneca Brazil’s Faz Bem programme, which has helped a total of two million patients since it was launched in 2008. Brazil Economic Discount level Helped patient profile applied 2 million patients since 2008 Further patient access programmes, which provide For example, in Romania, a Patient Access Card discounts on our medicines, and other patient is distributed by doctors to appropriate patients to services include Disfruto Mi Salud in Central America enable co-payment reductions. Typically, a separate and the Caribbean, MAZ Salud in Mexico and Karta card is required for each treatment, but we are Zdorovia in Russia. simplifying the process by making a single card apply to reductions on a range of our key products, making We have significantly expanded these initiatives it easier for patients to manage and reducing the across Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, administrative burden on pharmacists. and Asia Pacific, and the number of patient access programmes in emerging markets has more than Patients in rural areas are also benefiting from a new doubled since 2013, reaching 3.5 million patients in dedicated call centre. total by the end of 2015. To date, we have reached an additional 30,000 In Central and Eastern Europe, we offer Patient Access cardiovascular patients through this single card Card programmes to provide discounts on some of programme. our key medicines, along with educational materials that help people understand their disease and the importance of sticking to their treatment plans. Sustainability Update 2015 | 22 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Healthy Heart Africa Sustainable access Healthy Heart Africa (HHA) is our leading access to medicines programme. Healthy Through HHA we are helping to tackle a silent killer in parts of the world Heart Africa where access to healthcare is at its lowest. Intellectual property Young Health The number of deaths attributable to cardiovascular Yet it is estimated that less than 10% of people with Programme disease (CVD) in Africa grew more significantly hypertension have access to effective treatment in than any other condition from 2000 to 2012, and is some African countries. By diagnosing and treating currently the third leading killer in the region, closely hypertension, we can prevent the development behind HIV/AIDS and respiratory infections. Moreover, of more severe forms of cardiovascular disease, CVD is the leading cause of non-communicable reducing the strain on developing healthcare systems disease (NCD)-related mortality in the Africa region, and keeping people healthier for longer. accounting for more than one-third of all NCD deaths. Tackling the problem High blood pressure, or hypertension, one of the main We launched HHA in Kenya in 2014, as a first step risk factors for CVD, is meanwhile estimated to affect towards our goal of treating 10 million people with nearly half of adults aged 25 years and older across hypertension in Africa over the following 10 years. the region, and its prevalence is expected to grow, Working with local partners, we set about providing affecting 150 million adults in Sub-Saharan Africa training and establishing healthcare centres for alone by 2025. screening and treating patients. In our first year we: Conducted 1 million Opened over 250 Trained over 2,600 hypertension screenings health facilities healthcare workers across in Kenya 21 countries Diagnosed close to Started treatment for 150,000 patients with 25,000 patients high blood pressure Sustainability Update 2015 | 23 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to Addressing the challenges healthcare Our approach Sustainable access 1 4 Healthy Heart Africa Intellectual property Young Health Identifying the right patients Ensuring no missed opportunities Programme Healthcare facilities and household screening activities The first point of entry for patients seeking acute care predominately reach women, with only 35% of those in a large health facility is generally the outpatient reached through the programme initially being men. department. The focus of these departments has In order to reach more males of working age in the typically been to address only acute conditions, with area of Kibera (Kenya’s largest slum), a new ‘walkway’ limited or no time taken to check the overall health of screening location was established to capture male the patient. Patients are often not routinely checked for commuters walking home from work. We integrated high blood pressure, losing the opportunity to provide this into an existing local health facility but one which preventative or chronic care services. However, within was not previously part of our original programme. facilities that have been mobilised through HHA, when The new Kibera facility is open additional hours in the screenings did take place, a higher prevalence of evening in order to manage the additional footfall. hypertension was observed than in community settings. Through this new screening location we have seen Instigating routine blood pressure screening processes a drastic increase in the number of males being within outpatient departments and improving links with screened. In addition, linkage rates have improved medical departments equipped to deliver chronic care between screening and diagnosis, due to evening services have, therefore, ensured that sick patients clinic hours and increased opportunity to engage with receive, not just the acute care they need but also patients on a regular basis during their daily routine. longer-term chronic care services. 2 5 Leveraging large workplaces Reaching the faith-based community to bring treatment to the patient Using religious services to help spread health Daily working hours can make it difficult for people to messages is an important way to communicate to attend screening clinics. However, combining screening a large number of people and to bring information activities with outreach clinics at large workplaces ensures closer to patient populations. HHA has combined patients can not only get their blood pressure checked health talks with screenings and treatment but also be treated at the same time by the attending outreach clinics at Kenyan churches to help health worker. This has worked well at both informal diagnose and treat hypertension patients within (e.g. factories and quarries) and formal workplaces their communities. Solely through this channel, (e.g. teacher meetings), and has resulted in an increased HHA has screened over 120,000 people. This desire for companies to keep their workforce healthy and outreach is also reinforced by weekly visits to the supported, with regular outreach clinics now visiting a church by community healthcare volunteers to number of large workplaces, ensuring continuity of care ensure continuity of care for patients. with limited impact on patients’ commitment to work. 3 Next steps Mid-2016 is the end of our HHA demonstration period, throughout which we have been refining our approach and developing the model for the programme. Integrating NCD care into existing This knowledge will help us to launch HHA more community‑level care widely in Kenya and in other African countries. Reaching rural patients can be challenging and linkage rates between community activities and attendance In 2016, we will also establish new partnerships at health facilities were initially as low as 25% in some to continue to test approaches in Kenya and rural settings. Mobilising community health visitors other countries in the region. There will also be an (CHVs) to support their community and patients independent impact evaluation of the programme throughout the whole patient journey for multiple health available to provide further insight about how HHA conditions has helped to provide better patient care for can be expanded and scaled up to other countries. both non-communicable and communicable diseases. Sustainability Update 2015 | 24 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Intellectual property Sustainable access Intellectual property (IP) rights are the lifeblood of the biopharmaceutical Healthy industry, providing the incentives required to conduct the research and Heart Africa development (R&D) that produces new medicines to treat patients and Intellectual property improve patients’ lives. It takes approximately 10 to 15 years to develop Young Health a new medicine, and for every one medicine that reaches patients, there Programme are thousands of drug candidates that fail. The ability to obtain patent protection for innovations in R&D, under a robust IP protection and enforcement framework, is one of the main incentives for innovation and provides a sustainable framework for the innovative, pharmaceutical R&D that produces life-saving medicines. 10 to 15 years For every one medicine that reaches to develop a new patients, there are thousands of drug medicine candidates that fail AstraZeneca seeks to protect innovations worldwide. Unless constrained by contract, AstraZeneca However, we have a position of not filing patent proactively abandons all patent property that does not applications in the countries listed in Table 1. We support a product, or an actual or potential pipeline have prioritised the countries where we seek patent asset, and is therefore of no use to it. This makes the protection for our products and accept that we innovations disclosed in that patent property available cannot file patent applications in every country of for all to use without the necessity of seeking a licence the world. In Sub-Saharan Africa AstraZeneca does from AstraZeneca or anyone else. seek patents of invention for new chemical entities in AstraZeneca will license (i.e. not enforce) its patent Angola, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Kenya and Nigeria, rights in the neglected tropical disease (NTD) space and also seeks them for new chemical entities and regardless of country. AstraZeneca also has a position other types of inventions in South Africa. of accepting licence terms, i.e. not enforcing its patent property in any low-income countries (LICs) or least developed countries (LDCs). While we do currently Sub-Saharan Africa seek to patent inventions directed to new chemical entities in Angola, Ethiopia and/or Gambia (which equates to about 6% of the total number of LICs and LDCs), we would not consider enforcing such rights unless the economy of a country improved to enable that country to cease to be classified as an LIC and/ Nigeria Ethiopia or LDC. There is precedent for such a transition as Gambia Botswana and Cape Verde moved out of LDC status in 1994 and 2008 respectively. Ghana Kenya Angola Sustainability Update 2015 | 25 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to We seek to improve the visibility of the existence of Also, AstraZeneca will license its patent rights in LICs, healthcare our patent rights covering products that may be used LDCs and LMICs for all Index Diseases (for all Index Our approach to treat Index Diseases and Index Countries both as Diseases see page 22 of the Access to Medicine Sustainable defined by the Access to Medicines Index (listed on Index – Methodology Report 2015) except nonaccess page 24 and 22 respectively in the Access to Medicine communicable disease uses. We reserve the right to Healthy Heart Africa Index – Methodology Report 2016). It is not always enforce these patents in LMICs for all other uses. Intellectual straightforward to access information about the expiry property AstraZeneca will license any patent rights covering of patent rights from publicly available sources. To Young Health medicines on the Essential Medicines List for supply help with this we include patent expiry information for Programme of those Essential Medicines to LICs, LDCs and China, the EU, Japan and the US for key products LMICs, and would also consider licensing any patent in our Annual Report. Table 2 provides details of the rights to third parties for supply in or to MHDCs. patent rights we have in Index Countries for medicines that are used to treat Index Diseases, together with an AstraZeneca supports the Bolar research exemption indication of the expiry of those rights. (or safe harbour exemption) under which a third party may prepare for and obtain regulatory approval so that We recognise the right of developing countries to a generic product can be available on patent expiry; but use the flexibilities in the World Trade Organization’s this does not mean that the company interprets Bolar Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual as extending to commercial manufacture, importation Property Rights (TRIPS), including the DOHA or stockpiling during the lifetime of a patent. Declaration (14 November 2001) in certain circumstances, such as a public health emergency. This is enshrined in our Public Policy Issue for Compulsory Licensing. Licensing is an important way of allowing access to patent-protected inventions. Our Non-Exclusive Voluntary Licence (NEVL) Public Policy Issue sets out the criteria under which we would grant such a licence. We are flexible and will consider proposals concerning the geographic scope of any NEVL. Sustainability Update 2015 | 26 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Access to healthcare Our approach Young Health Programme Sustainable access The Young Health Programme (YHP) is our global community investment Healthy initiative. It has a unique focus on young people and primary prevention Heart Africa of the most common non-communicable diseases (NCDs), such as Intellectual property type 2 diabetes, cancer, and heart and respiratory disease. Significant Young Health global health issues that have human, social and economic consequences, Programme NCDs have become the leading cause of death and disability worldwide and are responsible for an estimated 38 million deaths each year. We work with over 30 expert organisations, combining Over 14,000 young people have now been trained on-the-ground programmes, research and advocacy to share health information with their peers and the to target the four most prevalent risk factors for NCDs: community, and over 12,000 frontline health providers tobacco use, alcohol abuse, lack of exercise and have been trained in adolescent health. unhealthy eating. You can find stories of the young people When we launched YHP in 2010, we committed to helped by YHP at www.yhpvoices.com reach one million young people through the programme and further information on the programme at by the end of 2015. We have now reached over www.younghealthprogrammeyhp.com. 1.4 million young people in more than 20 countries. Kenya was the latest addition in 2015. Case study: The Young Health Programme in India “ In India, YHP is helping young people make sense of the physical, mental and social changes going Before I got involved in YHP, I was in bad on in their lives. Through community meetings and company. I had personal problems and no peer education, young people are able to get the one to talk to about them. Sharing these information they need about their health and their problems with my friends was just sharing bodies, instead of relying on misinformation shared poor information. I didn’t understand the by their friends. In many cases, young people importance of education. I initially joined YHP are learning about health issues for the first time for access to the computers. YHP taught us through YHP and are gaining increased awareness about drugs and substance abuse, which of how the body works, the impacts of smoking, is a huge problem. We also learned about substance abuse, diet and lack of exercise. reproductive health, which is related to many of our personal problems. Through YHP I have participated in street plays, spoken in public and shared knowledge with the community at large. Being part of YHP renewed my interest in, and commitment to, education and now I’m in my final year of a BA degree at Delhi University. I’m also a YHP Ambassador, speaking up for the health needs of young people around the world.” Suraj is 21 and has been involved with YHP in India for four years Sustainability Update 2015 | 27 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising sustainability impacts across the product life cycle Reducing our carbon footprint Reducing impacts on natural resources Environmental sustainability is about A responsible approach to waste operating our business in a manner Protecting biodiversity that respects and protects our climate Environmental and natural resources. Our approach product stewardship spans the entire product life-cycle and our science-based focus drives continuous improvement across our value chain. 2015 highlights 21% carbon footprint reduction since 2010 18% reduction in total waste since 2010 14% reduction in water consumption since 2010 Sustainability Update 2015 | 28 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Our approach Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across We are committed to minimising the environmental impacts of our business the product life cycle and our products by reducing our carbon footprint, using resources efficiently Reducing our and ensuring the environmental safety of our products as this is one of carbon footprint our key material issues. This year, we launched a new Safety, Health and Reducing impacts on Environment (SHE) Strategy, which will drive our continuous improvement up natural resources to 2025. A responsible approach to waste We face two key challenges when it comes to As we develop more innovative medicines and Protecting biodiversity improving our environmental impact: firstly, the technologies, we constantly face new challenges Environmental need to conserve natural resources and protect the and opportunities. We take a pragmatic approach, product environment as we develop, produce and transport balancing the benefits we can deliver for patients with stewardship our products, and, secondly, the need to ensure our the need to protect the environment, conserve natural products are safe for the environment at all stages in resources and create shareholder value. their life cycle. Reaching the end of our 2011–15 commitments In 2015, we came to the end of our 2011–15 commitments on environmental sustainability. Our performance is summarised in the table below: What we have achieved Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target Progress Enhancing our competitiveness By 2015, reduce operational Achieved a 21.2% cut in our through resource conservation greenhouse gas footprint greenhouse gas footprint from and efficiency across our (excluding emissions from 2010 levels business and supply chain patients’ use of inhaler therapies) by 20% from 2010 levels By 2015, reduce hazardous Hazardous waste generation waste by 15% indexed indexed to sales increased to sales and reduce 5% against the 2010 baseline, non-hazardous waste by while non-hazardous waste 15% indexed to the number indexed to employees of employees increased 11% Despite indexed waste reduction targets not being met, we reduced our total waste by 18% from 2010 By 2015, reduce water use by Water use was 3.9 million m3. 25% against 2010 levels Though we were not able to achieve our ambitious target, we made substantial progress with a reduction of 14% against our 2010 baseline Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 29 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental sustainability Case study: Striving for BREEAM ‘excellent’ at our new UK headquarters Our approach Minimising impacts across Cambridge City Council granted planning Steps we are taking include: the product permission for our new purpose-built facility life cycle • Using optimal heat differentials in cooling on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Reducing our technology to minimise energy consumption carbon footprint which homes our UK-based global research Reducing and development centre and corporate • Optimising the use of natural light in place of impacts on headquarters, along with 2,000 employees. artificial light natural resources We are working closely with our construction A responsible • Installing a combined heat and power station partners to achieve Building Research approach to waste to meet our energy needs on site Protecting Establishment Environmental Assessment biodiversity Methodology (BREEAM) ‘excellent’ ratings for • Installing rainwater recovery systems Environmental sustainability performance. throughout the site. product stewardship Setting targets for 2025 In 2015, we finalised our new Safety, Health and methodology developed by the World Resources Environment (SHE) Strategy. It will drive our continued Institute (WRI), World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and Carbon improvement and commitment up to 2025. You can Disclosure Project (CDP). The initiative promotes read more about our SHE Strategy in Sustainability at science-based emission-reduction targets that are AstraZeneca. founded not only on the carbon reduction projects in a company’s pipeline, but also on the fair, sector-specific In setting our new carbon reduction target in 2015, contribution it can make to help avoid the worst we followed the Science-Based Target Setting impacts of climate change. Our new environmental impact strategy and commitments Commitments: Commitment: Carbon Waste Limit 2025 extended operational 10% absolute reduction against a Ensure effective environmental footprint1 to 2015 level and reduce Reduce Reuse 2015 baseline management of our products from overall value chain carbon intensity2 Recycle pre-launch through to product by 30% against a 2015 baseline end-of-life Carbon sub-targets: • Reduce absolute Scope 1 and Water Scope 2 non-electricity emissions Maintain usage at 2015 level Note: For scope and boundaries of our carbon monitoring and 20% by 20253, excluding patients’ as our business grows reporting see footnotes. use of inhalers Over the coming year, we will use the outcomes of our refreshed •S  ource 100% of renewable power by materiality assessment as we continue to develop and deliver 2025, reducing imported electricity our environmental sustainability approach and commitments. emissions to zero Resource efficiency The current list of 27 material issues, which is now undergoing 90% of small molecule active validation with stakeholders, includes: climate change; resource •R  educe absolute Scope 3 emissions pharmaceutical ingredients (API) efficiency; biodiversity; and pharmaceuticals in the environment. from all sources within extended syntheses meet resource efficiency operational footprint by 20254, targets at launch excluding patients’ use of inhalers Establish equivalent resource • Improve primary data collection efficiency targets for biologics (drugs within Scope 3 value chain that are manufactured in a living greenhouse gas accounting to cover system, such as plant or animal cells, vast majority of impacts by 2020 as opposed to chemical synthesis) 1 Extended operational footprint includes: Scope 1, Scope 2 and some material Scope 3 2 O verall value chain footprint includes all sources of emissions: Scope 1, Scope 2 and all 15 emissions. It covers energy use, road fleet, process emissions, waste incineration, business Scope 3 value chain categories as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, measured in air travel, primary distribution (freight and logistics), first tier outsourced supply of API and tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent per million USD of sales (tCO2e/$m). formulation and packing (90% spend, 2014 data, energy emissions only), and patient use 3 D irect emissions from on-site energy, process emissions, AstraZeneca road fleet, and of pressurised metered dose inhalers (pMDIs), measured in tonnes carbon dioxide imported energy excluding imported electricity, which is captured through the renewable equivalent (tCO2e). power commitment. 4 Ibid footnote 1 Sustainability Update 2015 | 30 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices “ Environmental sustainability Incorporating external perspectives Our approach Minimising Our aim is to remain at the forefront of our sector We are pleased to see AstraZeneca pursuing impacts across for environmental performance, so we involve and development of science-based greenhouse the product life cycle take the advice of renowned external sustainability gas targets and applying it to guide its Reducing our experts. In 2014, we established an Environmental strategy. This is a key step in AstraZeneca carbon footprint Sustainability Advisory Board, which is made up of demonstrating its leadership on climate Reducing four leading global experts on sustainability to advise change and how impacts on natural resources us on all aspects of our environmental strategy. The it is doing its part A responsible Advisory Board actively championed ‘fair share’ to keep global approach to waste principles as we worked with them throughout 2015 warming below the Protecting to identify our new strategy and commitments. dangerous threshold biodiversity Members were also pivotal in encouraging us to of 2 degrees Celsius.” Environmental expand the remit and membership of the Advisory product Pankaj Bhatia, stewardship Board to incorporate a broader sustainability agenda Deputy Director, in 2016. World Resources You can find out more about the new Sustainability Institute, and member of the AstraZeneca Advisory Board’s role and membership in Sustainability Sustainability at AstraZeneca. Advisory Board What we include in environmental sustainability reporting Our Global SHE department receives SHE data from all across the organisation every quarter. Each facility is required to report its performance against a set of criteria, as defined in our global reporting procedure. Unless otherwise stated, we include data from recent acquisitions in our reporting. For the purposes of this report: • Data from Ardea is included from first quarter of 2013 • Amylin (former BMS sites) data is included from the Measuring the impacts of date they joined the company outsourced manufacturing • Pearl and Almirall data is included from the first Because we outsource a significant proportion of our quarter of 2015 manufacturing, some of our impacts arise through the activities of third parties. Measuring and reporting • Sites and businesses divested from the company are on these impacts are key priorities as we strive to included up to the date of divestment. improve transparency and take full responsibility for We regularly review data to ensure accuracy and our environmental performance. consistency. This has led to slight changes in the figures We work with suppliers to set appropriate produced for previous years. The figures quoted in this environmental standards and targets, and to collect report are generated from the revised data, but none of environmental performance data. We have now these changes are statistically significant. captured environmental performance data for over We treat baseline, target and reported data in 90% (based on spend) of our global outsourced accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (WRI/WBCSD, 2004 Revised Edition, Chapter 5 – (APIs) and formulation and packaging (F&P) suppliers Tracking Emissions Over Time). across our established brands. Data currently collected covers CO2 emissions from energy use only, waste generated and water use. Understanding and managing our external supplier environmental footprint will continue to be a major focus of our SHE improvement efforts. Sustainability Update 2015 | 31 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Minimising impacts across the Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across the product product life cycle life cycle Reducing our We take a whole life-cycle approach to minimising the environmental carbon footprint impacts of our products, working with all those involved in the lifespan Reducing of a product – from discovery and development through to patient use impacts on natural resources and end-of-life disposal. A responsible approach to waste Our approach to environmental stewardship involves a Once our medicines are on the market, we provide Protecting wide range of activities, including: healthcare professionals with clear information on their biodiversity appropriate use. We also work with authorities and Environmental • Life Cycle Analysis of key products to understand product industry partners to guide patients on how to safely impacts and opportunities stewardship dispose of unused medicines. • Developing environmental risk management plans for Understanding the life-cycle impacts all new products of a medicine • Applying sustainable chemistry principles to our It is vital we understand the environmental impacts manufacturing processes of our products across the entire range of our activities – from cradle to grave and including • Continual improvement of environmentally external outsourced activities. sustainable packaging • Ongoing commitment to the safety of medicines in the environment. What we consider: the different stages of the product life cycle Discovery and early development 1 Ensuring studies are completed in a timely way before regulatory submission, while at the same time avoiding unnecessary animal testing Green chemistry 2 Environmental impact at this stage relates directly to our consumption of natural resources. If we develop effective manufacturing processes, we will use fewer chemicals and fewer natural resources Emissions during manufacturing 3 At this stage, the environmental impact is potentially harmful to the local aquatic life if not properly controlled Emissions from patient use 4 We undertake environmental risk assessments as part of product approval to assess if environmental impacts occur due to continuous low-level exposure. We also conduct productfocused environmental research and we ensure that our risk assessments are updated in light of the latest scientific findings Unused medicines 5 Improper disposal adds unnecessarily to the environmental exposure to pharmaceuticals Sustainability Update 2015 | 32 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Life Cycle Analysis in action sustainability In 2015, we selected five products for full Life Cycle Our approach Analysis that we believe provide a useful representation Minimising impacts across of the breadth of our portfolio. We focused on five the product key impact areas – climate change, water depletion, life cycle ecotoxicity, ozone depletion and resource depletion. Reducing our carbon footprint The results of these assessments are now informing Reducing where we should focus our efforts to have the biggest impacts on effect in reducing our environmental impact. natural resources A responsible approach to waste Protecting biodiversity Assessing the environmental impact of Crestor, our prescription drug for lowering cholesterol Environmental product stewardship API production Tabletting and Packaging Other formulation Life-cycle stage % impact climate change 70.3 26.1 3.2 0.4 % impact water depletion 86.7 7.5 5.6 0.2 % impact ecotoxicity 7.0 69.6 20.0 3.4 (6.7% to disposal) % impact ozone depletion 63.2 35.1 1.5 0.3 % impact resource depletion 84.4 13.1 2.3 0.2 What the Extraction of resources Use of excipients, Use of packaging Distribution of medicines stage includes and manufacture of additives and solvents materials, including: for sales organic and inorganic Energy in processing • Bottle Transportation and commodity chemicals disposal of waste • Cap Use of solvents Patient use • Secondary packaging Energy in preparation Energy reclamation from of starting materials • Tertiary packaging waste and intermediates Solvent disposal Sustainability Update 2015 | 33 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Reducing our carbon footprint Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across Climate change has important consequences for the health of society and the product life cycle for the pharmaceutical industry. We believe that the only effective response Reducing our can be through a united global effort that involves business, governments, carbon footprint non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and communities working together Reducing impacts on and doing their fair share to tackle the problem. natural resources A responsible approach to waste As a business built on cutting-edge science, we make signed up to the CDP commitments for science-based Protecting it a priority to ensure our environmental commitments, targets and public disclosure of information associated biodiversity targets and monitoring are based on sound science with climate change performance. As climate-related Environmental and represent our fair share of the collective effort science and public policy develops, we will continue product stewardship needed by industry to protect the environment. to be flexible in adjusting our commitments and our approach appropriately. We have since committed We disclose our carbon performance and targets to to the RE100 campaign and set a target to achieve external indices, including the CDP. In the build-up 100% renewable power use globally by 2025. to COP 21, the 2015 Paris Climate Conference, we Our progress What we set out to achieve Our approach What we achieved Our aim by 2015 was to: • Energy efficiency • 21.2% carbon reduction improvements against the 2010 baseline • Reduce our operational greenhouse gas footprint • Pursuing lower-carbon • Energy-related emissions by 20% against 2010 levels alternatives to fossil fuels and down 28% from 2010 baseline (excluding emissions from procuring green energy • Air-to-sea conversion of 54%, patients’ use of inhaler • Improving the fuel efficiency by tonne per km moved therapy products) of our sales and marketing • Road travel emissions down vehicle fleet 16% from 2010 baseline, an • Moving our global freight efficiency improvement of 15% transport from air to sea (grams CO2 per kilometre) • Managing our business • Business air travel emissions air travel reduced by 12% since 2010 • Absorb some major • 6.1% of total energy acquisitions in 2014/15 into consumption from certified target without re-baselining renewable sources in 2015, achieving our ambition to increase supply by 50% from the 2010 baseline • CDP overall score of 97B Operational greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 (tCO2)) 2010 2015704 baseline figure 2014735 893k 2013704 0 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k 700k 800k 900k Sustainability Update 2015 | 34 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Understanding our carbon impacts sustainability Our main operational greenhouse gas (GHG) which rely on hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) propellants, Our approach emissions arise from the energy we use, travel see page 33. Minimising impacts across and transport, process emissions at our facilities New guidance released by the Greenhouse Gas the product and, indirectly, through the activities of our first tier life cycle Protocol requires dual reporting of emissions suppliers. However, the greatest single source of GHG Reducing our associated with electricity consumption. This has been carbon footprint emissions that we currently monitor comes during calculated for 2015 consumption as follows: Reducing patient use of our pMDI inhaler therapy products, impacts on natural resources A responsible approach to waste Location-based emissions from electricity (tCO2)5 Market-based emissions from electricity, Protecting including market instruments (tCO2)6 biodiversity Environmental product 277,270 325,679 stewardship Breakdown of our carbon emissions: greenhouse gas emissions by source 2015: 1,632ktCO2e (scope: 2016–25 Strategy) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 0 0.2m 0.4m 0.6m 0.8m 1m 1.2m 1.4m 1.6m 1.8m Key Direct energy (on-site production) Business air travel Carbon emissions Primary distribution (goods transport) across our value chain Processes and engineering B  usiness road travel U  se of inhalation medicine products (pMDIs) 5.4mtCO2 (AstraZeneca fleet) Indirect energy (off-site production) F  irst tier API, F&P supplier energy (90% spend, 2014) 1.63mtCO2 Waste incineration Value chain emissions Operational emissions We recognise, through life-cycle investigations and Carbon emissions from quantification of our entire value chain GHG emissions, outsourced manufacturing that our wider footprint is significantly greater than the Carbon emissions from outsourced manufacturing of boundary of our operational carbon target. While we APIs, and formulation and packing activity amounted seek to reduce emissions from sources for which we to 98,000 tonnes in 2014. We continue to work with have a degree of control, we also continue to improve our suppliers to encourage the setting of appropriate our understanding of our value chain and product environmental improvement targets, particularly in life-cycle impacts. In 2015, we undertook further work the area of energy use. We have included this portion to quantify AstraZeneca’s full value chain GHG impact, of our carbon footprint within the scope of the new which, for 2014, amounted to 4.8 million tonnes CO2e. commitments and strategy period of 2016–25. 5 L  ocation-based factors sourced from US Environmental Protection Agency eGrid (sub-regions) for US sites and International Energy Agency (IEA) for all other sites. 6 M  arket-based factors sourced from multiple sources as follows: Sweden – billing data; rest of EU – REDISS II report 2015; US – billing data or where not available from 2015 Green-e Energy Residual Mix Emissions Rates; rest of world – location-based factors used. Sustainability Update 2015 | 35 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental sustainability 2014 CO2 from outsourced manufacturing (thousand metric tonnes) Our approach 2012 2013 2014 Minimising impacts across the product life cycle AstraZeneca sites 431 417 408 Reducing our carbon footprint Reducing API category 70 57 31 impacts on natural resources A responsible approach to waste F&P category 25 32 67 Protecting biodiversity Environmental Note: Outsourced manufacturing data is collected after the year end, so data presented here is for 2014. 2015 data will be available towards the end of 2016. product stewardship Case study: From air to sea transport The emissions produced by transporting our products around the world account for almost 5% of AstraZeneca’s total operational greenhouse gas footprint (9% of the 2011–15 Strategy scope). This provides a clear opportunity to improve the carbon efficiency of our business. In 2015, our Sweden operations completed an ambitious Air2Sea project that saw sea freight established to 13 countries. Switching to the transport of goods by sea achieves a massive 97% CO2 saving compared with air transport. The project, which accounted for 80% of local exports, supported our overall goods transport emissions reduction of 7% in 2015 (-17% from our 2010 baseline) and delivered wider business benefits, including improved product security and temperature regulation, and cost savings of around $9 million. Towards lower impact respiratory therapies The propellants released when our pressurised Finding suitable alternatives is challenging as any metered-dose inhalers (pMDIs) are used represent device must use a propellant that is safe, inert, non40% of our operational carbon footprint. Typically toxic, non-flammable, tasteless and odourless. It used in the treatment of respiratory conditions must also possess the right aerosol characteristics such as asthma, pMDIs rely on hydrofluoroalkane to make it effective. In 2014, AstraZeneca acquired (HFA) propellants to deliver the medicine to a two companies, Almirall and Pearl, both of which patient’s airways. While HFAs (often referred to have technologies that could potentially lower the as HFCs) have no ozone depletion potential and impact of our own inhaler technologies. Research a third or less of the global warming potential of is ongoing to assess the feasibility of utilising these the chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) they replace, they technologies with our existing therapies. are still potent greenhouse gases and are a major In 2016, we included emissions from patients’ use contributor to our carbon footprint. of pMDI inhaler therapy products in our carbon In 2015, our Life Cycle Analysis work investigated commitments as we believe we should account pMDIs and confirmed our expectation that the vast for these emissions and find innovative ways to majority of life-cycle GHG emissions are associated minimise and mitigate them (see page 32). with the HFC propellants discharged during use and released after disposal. Sustainability Update 2015 | 36 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Reducing impacts on natural resources Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across Responsible use of water the product life cycle By 2050, at least one in four people is likely to live in a country affected by Reducing our chronic or recurring shortages of fresh water. We recognise the need to carbon footprint use water responsibly and we are working to minimise water use across Reducing impacts on our operations and ensure the water we do use is treated to the highest natural resources standards before it is returned to the natural environment. A responsible approach to waste Protecting While all our facilities use water, our sites with the To achieve it, we initiated water conservation plans at our biodiversity largest water footprints are located in the UK, Sweden largest manufacturing, and research and development Environmental and the US. Some of our sites are situated in watersites, with a particular focus on those using significant product stewardship stressed areas, such as our site in San Diego, US, quantities of water or located in a water-stressed area. where the vast majority of our water use on site is either recycled or reclaimed. We are working to ensure In 2015, our water use was 3.9 million m3, a reduction all sites in water-stressed areas are taking extra steps of 14% from our 2010 baseline. This was a 4% to mitigate their water risk and will report on this in increase on 2014, largely due to integration of newly more detail in 2016. acquired sites. When indexed to revenue, our water use was 159m3/$million, up 16% since 2010 due to Our progress falling revenues over the target period. Our company-wide target for 2015 was to reduce absolute water use by 25% compared with 2010 levels. Water used (million m3) 2010 20153.9 baseline figure 20143.8 4.6m 20133.7 0 1m 2m 3m 4m 5m Note: Significant site purchases in 2014 and 2015 have been absorbed into the annual data without historical rebasing of data. 2014 water use from outsourced manufacturing The water used in our outsourced manufacturing is footprint due to AstraZeneca’s diabetes portfolio much less than that used in our own activities; some acquisition from Bristol-Myers Squibb and the 55% of water used on AstraZeneca’s own sites. In increase in manufacture of one of our key growth 2014, we saw an increase in our outsourced water platforms, Brilinta. Water used (million m3) 2012 2013 2014 AstraZeneca sites 3.6 3.7 3.8 API category 0.2 0.6 1.2 F&P category 0.4 0.6 0.9 Note: Outsourced manufacturing data is collected after the year end, so data presented here is for 2014. 2015 data will be available towards the end of 2016. Sustainability Update 2015 | 37 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Wastewater treatment/discharge (%) sustainability Our approach Key Minimising 21.94 Direct to surface water impacts across the product Off-site wastewater treatment life cycle 0.76 Reducing our On-site wastewater treatment carbon footprint Reducing impacts on natural resources 77.30 A responsible approach to waste Protecting biodiversity Environmental product stewardship Chemical oxygen demand of discharged water We track and report our total effluent emissions facilities, while the majority work with downstream using the standard chemical oxygen demand municipal wastewater treatment plants, both of which (COD) parameter. This figure represents the COD of are designed to remove most of the COD before the wastewater as it leaves our sites. A number of our wastewater is discharged to the environment. sites have their own on-site wastewater treatment (tonnes COD) 2010 baseline 2015210 222 tonnes COD 2014196 2013154 0 100 200 300 Safe discharges of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) Since 2006, it has been a regulatory requirement We have shared our ERC and MTC methodology to complete a comprehensive environmental risk with key relevant suppliers so they can risk assess assessment (ERA) prior to the launch of any new drug. and manage emissions associated with the APIs they As well as implementing this requirement, we have manufacture or formulate on our behalf. In 2015, we introduced Environmental Reference Concentrations completed 98 ERC assessments with our suppliers (ERCs) and Maximum Tolerable Concentrations (2014: 72). We run annual training for suppliers to (MTCs), which must not be exceeded for our explain our approach and methodology. manufacturing discharges to the aquatic environment. We have now established ERCs and MTCs for 45 of our APIs (2014: 42) and we have a rolling programme to confirm compliance. In 2015, all our worldwide manufacturing sites met our ERC and MTC criteria for these products. Sustainability Update 2015 | 38 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices A responsible approach to waste Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across Waste management is central to our SHE Strategy. We characterise waste the product life cycle as either hazardous7 (such as chemical waste) or non-hazardous waste. The Reducing our majority of our hazardous waste consists of solvent and aqueous streams carbon footprint from our manufacturing activities. Non-hazardous waste includes general Reducing impacts on waste, such as paper and plastics from our facilities around the world. natural resources A responsible approach to waste Waste prevention is our primary goal. Where this is not We aim to reduce the amount of waste we produce Protecting biodiversity practical, we concentrate on waste minimisation followed during our production processes, as well as integrating Environmental by appropriate treatment or disposal to maximise reuse waste-minimisation considerations into purchasing product and recycling, and reduce disposal to landfill. decisions and engaging our employees to reduce waste. stewardship Our progress What we set out to achieve Our approach What we achieved Our aim by 2015 was to: • Waste audits and • We achieved a 22% employee engagement reduction in hazardous waste • Reduce hazardous and nonat sites worldwide against the 2010 baseline hazardous waste by 15% from 2010 levels indexed • Investing in the reuse and • When indexed against against revenue and number recycling of solvent wastes revenue, hazardous waste of employees increased 5%, missing our • Promoting responsible 2015 target end-of-use disposal of our medicines • We reduced non-hazardous waste by 14% against the Reduce Reuse Recycle 15% 2010 baseline • Indexed against staff numbers, volumes of non-hazardous waste increased 11% • In 2015, our total waste was 38,452 metric tonnes with a tonnes/$m index of 1.56 Reducing hazardous waste through solvent recovery Our Avlon site near Bristol in the UK is the £437,000. During 2015, it contributed a 3.4% manufacturing home of the active pharmaceutical reduction in our total hazardous waste generation, ingredients (APIs) for two of our key medicines. In and, for the drug in question, a 4.5% reduction 2012, we embarked on a £4.7 million investment in production costs by avoiding 85% of previous in a major new facility for the recovery of solvents virgin solvent use. The project has also significantly used in the production process of one of these reduced road haulage for the transport of virgin APIs. Solvents are a significant hazardous waste and waste solvents, and generated significant stream of the API manufacturing process. CO2 benefits. Savings are projected to increase to £695,000 in 2016, with payback of the original Now, three years on, we are reaping the benefits. capital investment expected after seven years. The recovery unit processed 480,000 litres of solvent waste in 2015 and generated savings of 7 A  s defined by national legislation in each country. Sustainability Update 2015 | 39 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Sustainable packaging sustainability Packaging plays a critical role in protecting our Our SHE Triggers model ensures we consider Our approach products as they transit through the supply chain – environmental considerations at the earliest possible Minimising impacts across improving product security and avoiding unnecessary stage of packaging and device development. We also the product waste. We are constantly looking at ways to improve continuously review our packaging requirements and life cycle the sustainability of our packaging, reducing resource identify improvements for existing products. Reducing our carbon footprint consumption and waste, and improving the efficiency In 2015, we updated our global Packing Strategy to Reducing of transporting our products. include new and improved standards. By the end of impacts on natural resources We focus on: the year, 90% of sites were aligned to the new global A responsible Pack Standards. We also consolidated our packaging approach to • Minimising the amount of material used solutions across the business to reduce and simplify waste • Using materials from recycled or renewable sources our standard packaging sizes. Protecting biodiversity • Using materials that can be recycled. Environmental product stewardship Case study: Optimising blister packs in Japan In 2010, our Japan operation responded to patient benefits – including 50% reduced GHG emissions feedback and competition with generics by and 75% reduced resource use. As well as launching an investigation into the optimum size, delivering packing line efficiencies. The new barrier material and packing line processes for tablet packaging also offers a 70% financial saving blisters produced for the Japanese market. and is predicted to save $21 million in packaging material costs in its first six years. As a result, this year sees the launch of new packaging that delivers significant environmental 75% resources 50% 70% GHG saving Responsible disposal of medicines We work with authorities and industry partners to raise public awareness of the safe disposal of medicines. In 2015, we supported a new social media campaign, medsdisposal, a joint initiative involving European healthcare, industry and student organisations designed to raise awareness of how to dispose of unused or expired medicines across European countries. Sustainability Update 2015 | 40 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Total waste (thousand tonnes) sustainability Our approach Minimising 46.9 201538.5 impacts across 2010 baseline the product figure life cycle 201435.8 Reducing our carbon footprint 201332.8 Reducing impacts on natural resources 0 10k 20k 30k 40k 50k A responsible approach to waste Protecting Non-hazardous waste sent to landfill (thousand tonnes) biodiversity Environmental product 5.8 2015 1.7 (9% of total) stewardship 2010 baseline figure (26% of 2014 1.9 (10% of total) total) 2013 1.8 (9% of total) 0 1k 2k 3k 4k 5k 6k Waste from outsourced manufacturing (thousand tonnes) AstraZeneca sites 201436 201333 201244 API (active pharmaceutical ingredients) category 201423 201324 201235 F&P (formulation and packing) category 20147 20134 20125 0 10K 20K 30K 40K 50K Note: Outsourced manufacturing data is collected after the year end, so data presented here is for 2014. 2015 data will be available towards the end of 2016. Sustainability Update 2015 | 41 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental sustainability Our approach Protecting biodiversity Minimising impacts across We are committed to managing our impact on biodiversity – both on the product life cycle our own sites and when we use natural biological resources in our Reducing our product development. carbon footprint Reducing Protecting biodiversity on our sites Nagoya Protocol and use of resources impacts on We actively support the principles of the Convention in product research natural resources on Biological Diversity and we continue to apply best We believe in fair and equitable sharing of the benefits A responsible approach to waste practice on our sites through the development and arising from the use of biological resources and Protecting implementation of local biodiversity action plans. associated traditional knowledge. This benefit sharing biodiversity These plans set out locally specific actions to conserve helps ensure a more measured and transparent Environmental and enhance native habitats on our sites, create and approach to the use of natural resources and protects product stewardship maintain refuges for flora and fauna, and preserve links the biological diversity that society and our business with the surrounding environment via green corridors depends on. of uninterrupted habitat. Where we use natural biological resources (such We have now assessed our potential local biodiversity as plant or fish extracts), we acknowledge our impacts at 38 of our major sites. As a result, 25 sites responsibilities under the Nagoya Protocol, an are implementing bespoke biodiversity action plans international treaty which aims to ensure fair reward (BAPs), including all major fully operating sites of over is given to the country that originally supplied the five hectares. biological material. We are currently developing a governance structure, toolkit and standards to assist researchers across the company when using certain biological resources around the world. These processes are designed to ensure we carry out due diligence during the sourcing of all biological materials that fall under the scope of the Protocol, and that any required consents or agreements are in place to enable the fair sharing of access and benefits associated with their use. Sustainability Update 2015 | 42 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental product stewardship Environmental sustainability Our approach Minimising impacts across the product Improving the environmental performance of our product pipeline involves a life cycle delicate balance between meeting patient needs, while reducing environmental Reducing our carbon footprint impacts and other sustainability considerations. Drug design is extremely Reducing complex and the needs of the patient will always come first. But we are impacts on natural resources committed to the proactive development of more environmentally friendly A responsible drugs – an area with significant opportunities to develop our understanding approach to waste and reduce our environmental impact. Protecting biodiversity Environmental product Sustainable chemistry Process Mass Intensity stewardship One of the areas we continue to invest considerable We aim to achieve the highest levels of efficiency when effort towards is sustainable chemistry. Our it comes to developing manufacturing processes for SHE Triggers model is designed to promote the new products – helping us to reduce the raw materials sustainability of our design and manufacturing we use, the waste we generate and the financial costs processes – including active pharmaceutical incurred, as well as delivering other business benefits ingredients (APIs), products, devices and packaging. across the lifetime of a medicine. It flags potential safety, health and environmental Developed by the American Chemical Society Green issues at the earliest possible stage in development, Chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable (ACS allowing them to be investigated and, where possible, GCIPR) for the pharmaceutical industry, Process designed out of the process. The model incorporates Mass Intensity (PMI) is a smart measure of the total an environmental risk assessment tool that enables quantity of raw material used in a product, against the our scientists to assess environmental risks and quantity of product made. The aim is to strive for the challenges in the products they are developing. lowest possible PMI in every development project in order to drive the right behaviours towards improved For over 10 years, our Green Chemistry Network has sustainability and efficiency. helped AstraZeneca’s environmental specialists link up with pharmaceutical and medical chemists and In 2015, we achieved a 28% reduction on the PMI chemical engineers to build shared understanding. baseline from the start of the year, representing 35,964 Scientists in our Global Pharmaceutical Development tonnes of waste avoided at peak-year sales (2014: 22%). function also have the opportunity to attend training courses on how they can minimise the environmental impact of manufacturing processes, including the application of green chemistry tools. In 2015, we completed 14 environmental risk assessments covering hundreds of chemical transformations. The environmental risk assessment process highlights the use of Substances of Very High Concern and targets them for elimination or substitution aligned to green chemistry principles and as required by multiple legislations, including REACH. Sustainability Update 2015 | 43 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental sustainability Case study: Reducing the environmental impact of Avibactam Our approach Minimising Over the past four years, our scientists have medicine used for treating complicated urinary impacts across worked with our partners at Forest Laboratories tract and abdominal infections. Their work the product life cycle in the US (now a subsidiary of Allergan plc) to achieved considerable positive impact upon the Reducing our significantly improve the processes involved environmental footprint of the drug, including: carbon footprint in the manufacturing of Avibactam, a new Reducing impacts on natural resources A responsible approach to waste Protecting biodiversity Environmental product stewardship A reduced PMI from 92% increase in  A predicted annual 6,480 526 to materials efficiency waste reduction of 89,310 tonnes Use of organic solvents Avoidance of a number Water consumption reduced from 3,229kg of hazardous chemicals reduced from 2,290kg to 160kg per kg of API to 61kg per kg of API $1.65 million in Estimated savings of savings during development $1 billion over and $8 million during the the product lifetime establishment and validation phase of the project Ensuring efficient product use One of the most important things we can work on as we aim to develop a range of innovative solutions with our stakeholders is ensuring patients use our that will benefit both our environmental performance medicines effectively, efficiently, and avoid unnecessary and the patients who use our medicines, as well as waste. This is an increasing focus for our researchers creating added value for health service providers. Sustainability Update 2015 | 44 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Environmental Pharmaceuticals in the environment sustainability Drugs taken by humans can eventually find their way To maximise the benefits of our research, we Our approach into the environment – including rivers, lakes and even publish around 10 peer-reviewed scientific Minimising impacts across drinking water. The majority of pharmaceuticals get manuscripts every year and provide numerous the product into the environment through patient excretion, but external scientific presentations. life cycle they can also enter the system during manufacture Reducing our For example, recognising the risks that AMR poses carbon footprint or through inappropriate disposal or discharge of to society, and that the current environmental risk Reducing wastewater effluent. impacts on assessment frameworks do not consider AMR, we natural resources We aim to lead our industry in understanding and co-sponsored an expert workshop to address the A responsible mitigating the effects of pharmaceuticals in the environmental dimension of AMR. This workshop resulted approach to waste environment (PIE). We are investing significant financial in a series of strategic publications and recommendations Protecting biodiversity resources and effort into understanding the fate and that addressed issues including the environmental Environmental effects of our medicines in the environment so that management of AMR and the development of product we can identify risks and manage them effectively, appropriate environmental and human health protection stewardship while balancing these effects against the benefits our goals. We are currently co-funding research aiming to medicines bring for patients. develop and validate new regulatory protection goals for AMR development in the environment. Our proactive environmental research programme involves collaboration with leading universities and In 2015, we also hosted a PIE Symposium, which academic scientists. At any one time, we co-sponsor brought together external stakeholders and key over 20 PIE-related research projects that support opinion formers together with the students, postaround 14 PhD students and four post-doctoral doctoral scientists and academic supervisors scientists across a wide range of cutting-edge projects. involved in our environmental research programme. The Symposium was an opportunity to discuss key Together, we aim to: scientific concerns and uncertainties associated with • Identify the risks associated with the presence of PIE and identify research gaps and areas of consensus PIE and potential mitigation where further action is needed. • Understand whether the therapeutic targets of our medicines are present in wildlife, and the potential impacts • Reduce PIE-related uncertainties within our environmental risk assessments • Address the global environmental risks posed by PIE, especially in emerging markets where there are different standards of water management and novel exposure scenarios • Understand the relationship between the environmental dimension of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and resistance in the clinic. Intelligent Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment At the start of 2015, we initiated a €10 million partnership with the European Commission under the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI). This project – called Intelligent Assessment of Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (iPiE) – aims to develop screening tools for identifying environmental risks both earlier on in drug development and for older medicines. Sustainability Update 2015 | 45 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Great place to work Our approach Talent to work management Human rights Safety, health and wellbeing Community investment Medicine is a fast-moving industry, with frequently changing priorities and challenges. To keep pace with those challenges, AstraZeneca works hard to attract and retain the most skilled and talented individuals all over the world to help us develop new treatments and medicines faster, and create breakthrough drugs that can transform lives. We have a global workforce of around 61,500 people in more than 100 countries. We are dedicated to building an inclusive, open and trusting organisation that embraces the skills, knowledge and unique abilities of our employees. Being a great place to work is one of our strategic priorities. To achieve it, we continuously invest in our workforce, and in the recruitment and retention of excellent individuals. We do this by providing development opportunities to enhance their careers and knowledge; and by working to be a responsible business that our employees can be proud to work for. 2015 highlights 46% reduction in illness and injury rates across AstraZeneca and a 55% reduction in collisions 79% of employees feel that the availability of opportunities for development and growth has improved at AstraZeneca 42% of our senior leaders are women Sustainability Update 2015 | 46 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Our approach Great place to work Our approach Talent management As a major global employer and a world leader in the pharmaceutical Human rights industry, we have the opportunity to improve the working lives of tens Safety, health and wellbeing of thousands of people, while transforming the lives and health of Community everyone. We are investing in our people leaders to ensure we get the investment most out of every individual employee. We prioritise diversity and human rights, and ensure everyone who works for us has the opportunity to work in a healthy and safe environment. Our employees are proud to support and invest in the communities in which we operate. We are focused on developing a talented, science-led Our commitment to embedding international human and patient-focused workforce that is committed to rights in our operations and our sphere of influence the pursuit of our purpose and values, and that is agile is reinforced in our global Code of Conduct, which and high-performing. employees individually commit to annually. We support the principles set out in the UN Universal Declaration Our vision of a great place to work is one in which all of Human Rights (UDHR) and the International Labour our employees are engaged and inspired by a clear Organization’s (ILO) standards, and we are signatories shared purpose and a compelling strategy; where they to the UN Global Compact Principles on Human Rights. are encouraged to perform and develop to their full potential; and where they are supported by the right organisation design, culture, technology and processes. Sustainability Update 2015 | 47 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place What we have achieved to work Our approach Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target Talent management progress Human rights Safety, health Build an inclusive, open Increase female Increased the number of and wellbeing and trusting organisation representation at Global senior managers who are Community that embraces the skills, Career Level F and above women to 42% investment knowledge and unique from 38% (2010) to 41% ability of our employees by 2015 Increase female We changed our focus representation in the from a global talent global talent pool from pool to a succession 33% (2010) to 38% pool approach by 2015 Representation is currently at 39% Promote a safe and More than 80% of sites 60% of sites offer six healthy work environment offering six essential programmes, 84% offer and embed international health programmes or five or more human rights in our services by 2015 operations and our sphere of influence Accidents and illness – 46% reduction achieved 25% reduction in lost time injury/illness rate per million hours worked from 2010 baseline by 2015 Driver safety – 40% 55% reduction achieved reduction in collisions per million kilometres driven from 2008 baseline by 2015 Make AstraZeneca a Achieve target 83% Q4 Pulse survey found great place to work employee survey score for 83% of employees AstraZeneca as a great identified AstraZeneca as place to work by 2015 a great place to work Improve employee Q4 Pulse survey found perception of the 79% of employees saw opportunities for opportunities for growth personal development and growth in AstraZeneca to 73% by 2015 Deliver further Q4 Pulse survey found organisational 67% of employees Key simplification (target: recognised that the Target exceeded relevant Pulse survey score organisation has to be over 60%) by 2015 been simplified Full target Provide employees with All employees have a Q3 Pulse survey achieved opportunities to develop development plan in place score showed 87% of their skills and careers by end Q3 (2015 target employees have had a to create a professional, was over 95%) development discussion Ongoing motivated workforce progress All employees to have 82% of colleagues had at least one quality reported in the Q3 Pulse Target not development discussion survey, rising to 87% by the achieved, with their line manager end of the year, that they some progress by the end of Q3 (2015 had had at least one quality target was over 70%) development discussion with their line manager Sustainability Update 2015 | 48 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Talent management Great place to work Our approach Talent management In order to continue to be a high-performing organisation, we need to Human rights attract the best people in our industry and, once they are here, we need to Safety, health and wellbeing make AstraZeneca a company that talented people want to keep working Community for. To achieve this, we invest in our workforce through the identification investment of individuals with the required capabilities to achieve our bold ambitions and work collectively in purposely accelerating their development. We measure employee engagement through regular staff surveys to identify areas in which we need to do more. Good leadership plays a critical role in stimulating high Over the last two years, we have provided tailored levels of performance and engagement. In the past, leadership programmes with Harvard Business School we have used a number of tools globally to identify and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to and develop talent, and as a way of rewarding and approximately 700 people across the organisation to recognising the efforts of our employees. In 2016, we support the development of their leadership skills, help will roll out our new Hi-Potential Strategy. It recognises them enable others to live our values and behaviours, the unique contributions of individuals with particular and foster an environment of openness, inclusivity skills and capabilities against newly defined business and innovation. critical roles to help us achieve both our short and our long-term aims. The new programme puts the primary emphasis on identifying credible successors, from ‘Ready Now’ to as far as ‘Early’ (5+ years’ horizon), for our roles that are currently deemed most critical to achieving our bold ambitions. Sustainability Update 2015 | 49 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Employee engagement to work In 2015, we held three brief Pulse surveys across a Results from the last Pulse survey show that we made Our approach sample of the organisation, together with a final survey good progress against these goals. The survey item Talent in January 2016, which we used to measure our related to eliminating obstacles to efficiency improved management overall 2015 performance. We found that 83% would from a score of 59% to 67%, the result of organisationHuman rights recommend AstraZeneca as a great place to work, an wide initiatives to simplify the business. The survey Safety, health and wellbeing increase of 1% on 2014. The Pulse surveys generated item related to opportunities for development and Community just over 39,000 responses during the 2015 cycle. growth improved from 72% to 79%. Again the result of investment a range of initiatives to encourage and support greater We are using 2012 results as a baseline and are personal development across the business. making steady progress against those results. In our last full FOCUS survey in 2014, we found that scores in the ‘understanding and belief in our direction and priorities’ category had risen from 68% in our 2012 baseline survey to 86%. This question was not included in our 2015 Pulse survey. Based on the FOCUS 2014 results, we identified two specific areas for improvement. One relates to further simplifying the business and eliminating obstacles to efficiency. The second relates to developing our people, where the survey results showed that employee belief in the existence of opportunities for career development and personal growth is two percentage points below the high-performing benchmark. Staff survey results 2012 baseline 2014 (FOCUS) 2015 (Pulse) (FOCUS) Would recommend AstraZeneca as a great place 77% 82% 83% to work I believe strongly in AstraZeneca’s future direction 68% 86% (not asked) and key priorities AstraZeneca was ranked second in Bloomberg’s inaugural ‘Best Place to Work in Corporate Britain’ survey in 2015. Sustainability Update 2015 | 50 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Relocation to work In 2013, we announced plans to invest in three Our approach strategic research and development centres, which Talent management affected employees in the US and the UK. The most Human rights significant part of the plan will be the relocation of our Safety, health UK-based global research and development centre and wellbeing and corporate headquarters to a new, purpose-built Community facility at the Cambridge Biomedical Campus. investment Case study: Cambridge Biomedical Campus The new 2,000-person site at the Cambridge For employees who do not accept offers to Biomedical Campus will be our new UK corporate relocate to Cambridge, we provide career and headquarters and our global research and outplacement support. Similar relocation development centre. It will be ready at the end initiatives are under way elsewhere in our of 2016 and will host the majority of the staff organisation, including in the US, where almost currently located in three existing UK sites in 300 employees have accepted offers to relocate to Cheshire, London and Cambridge. Gaithersburg, Maryland. We now have 1,600 employees working in Cambridge. We encouraged and supported employees to relocate, and now have 500 people at Cambridge who have relocated from other AstraZeneca UK sites. We recruited 410 new employees to Cambridge and aim to hire a further 600 over the coming two years. Sustainability Update 2015 | 51 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Diversity to work We believe in having a diverse workforce that accurately Our efforts on gender diversity received external Our approach represents the communities in which we work. We try recognition in 2015, when the National Association Talent hard to ensure our Board and leadership teams are for Female Executives ranked us as one of its management diverse in terms of gender, ethnicity and culture. 50 leading companies for the seventh year running. Human rights We also featured among Working Mother magazine’s Safety, health To ensure our senior leadership reflects our diverse and wellbeing 100 Best Companies. geographic footprint, we track the country of origin of Community investment senior leaders and reflect this in our diversity targets. Female representation in the Senior Executive Team (SET) In 2015, 15.6% of leadership roles that report to our succession pool is at 39%. Our target is to increase that senior leadership team have a country of origin that is to mirror the same level as the number of female senior an emerging market or Japan (an increase from 5% in managers, i.e. currently 42%, by the end of 2020. 2012), which exceeded our Scorecard target of 13% for this measure. Women comprise 49.8% of our global workforce, 33.0% of our Board, 42.0% of our senior managers and 29.0% of our most senior leaders. Gender diversity at AstraZeneca Number (2014) Number (2015) Male 2014 Male 2015 Female 2014 Female 2015 Board of 13 12 69% 67% 31% 33% Directors of the company SET 13 13 77% 69% 23% 31% Directors of 332 360 74% 72% 27% 28% the company’s subsidiaries AstraZeneca 57,473 61,500 50% 50% 50% 50% employees Sustainability Update 2015 | 52 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Human rights Great place to work Our approach Talent management In 2015, we concluded our second human rights employment matters Human rights review in all countries where we have a presence. The review focused Safety, health and wellbeing on ILO core themes, including freedom of association and collective Community bargaining, child labour, discrimination, working hours and wages. In this investment second survey we added questions on the Living Wage, data management and recruitment, and the results have remained very positive. Case study: Paying the Living Wage We have assessed Living Wage progress internally and globally, and are satisfied that we meet/beat any of the local recognised bodies’ definition of a Living Wage. In addition, we conducted an independent external review so that we could assess developments in this area to inform our approach better from a global perspective. As a first step we are in the process of seeking accreditation from the Living Wage Foundation in the UK and will treat this as an experience to be evaluated alongside all other associated evidence in respect of seeking a global solution, for example monitoring the impact on our cost base. Sustainability Update 2015 | 53 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Safety, health and wellbeing Great place to work Our approach Talent management The welfare of all our employees is of critical importance. It is our responsibility as an Human rights employer to ensure every person who comes to work can do so in a safe environment, Safety, health and wellbeing where the risk of accidents is carefully managed, and health and wellbeing are Community prioritised. Our long-term ambition is to eliminate workplace accidents and illnesses. investment There are safety and health risks inherent in pharmaceutical research, manufacturing and sales activities, and we have stringent policies and procedures in place to protect our employees. In addition to managing workplace safety and health by, for example, improving ergonomics and controlling occupational exposure, we have worked hard to increase employee access to activities and resources that improve their wellbeing, including fitness opportunities and stress management training. Our global Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Policy Case study: Asia area awarded a coveted SHE outlines the principles for each employee to contribute Excellence Award for their campaign to our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy workplace for all our people, and operating in an Utilising the Global SHE Road Safety Top 10 environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Campaign for International Markets in June, the Detailed global standards and procedures establish Asia Area Road Safety team did a superb job specific minimum requirements in key risk areas. organising, promoting and engaging leaders from Our SHE performance is regularly monitored and across the business to deliver an outstanding managed through a range of comprehensive assurance awareness campaign to the nearly 3,000 programmes. We use a global SHE reporting system employees in the Asia area. This reinforces road to record accidents, incidents, occupational illness and safety awareness to our employees. environmental data, and to report progress against our global performance metrics. As part of our SHE Strategy, our current targets were on AstraZeneca business. Our focus is on promoting set in 2010 for the years up to and including 2015. driver safety through awareness and training During 2015, we have established new targets that will programmes among our sales force. take us up to 2025. We monitor performance centrally to assess progress We achieved our 2015 lost time injury/illness rate and identify areas for attention. In 2015, we exceeded target two years early and achieved further reductions our five-year target for reducing collisions per million in 2014 and 2015. The lost time injury/illness rate kilometres driven, achieving a 55% reduction from our reduced by 17% from 2014, which equates to a 46% 2010 baseline. We regret, however, that in 2015 an overall reduction from the 2010 baseline. employee was killed in a traffic accident while driving on AstraZeneca business. We carried out a detailed Driver safety investigation into this accident and developed an In 2015, we ran a successful safety campaign focusing action plan to address the findings. Learning from the on The Road Safety Top 10, a collection of simple tips incident has been shared widely across the business. on road safety that could save lives. A light-hearted The main contributory factors were found to be speed, video animation was used to launch the campaign, fatigue and distracted driving. along with a variety of leaflets, posters, checklists and team discussion guides. A competition inviting teams Training workshops for all employees who drive for to make their own video based on The Road Safety work in the international function area are being rolled Top 10 was won by the Malaysian team. Their winning out early in 2016. Our entry was entertaining, while portraying the key global procedure on the messages of the campaign, as well as supporting the use of electronic devices company value of ‘We do the right thing’. while driving has been reviewed and a supporting Driving is our highest-risk area for serious injury and communication campaign fatality. This is why improving driver safety is our will be rolled out this year. highest priority, particularly among our sales forces, which form the largest group of employees driving Sustainability Update 2015 | 54 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Health and wellbeing to work Our Essential Health Activities framework consists of While we did not achieve this target, we now have 60% Our approach six global programmes and services that are being of sites offering six Essential Health Activities and 84% Talent management promoted and tailored to suit local cultures and risk offering at least five activities, compared to only 28% Human rights profiles. These are physical fitness, healthy business in 2011. Going forward, we will focus on more active Safety, health travel, workplace pressure management, tobacco promotion in four key areas: physical fitness, healthy and wellbeing use cessation, healthy eating and general health eating and drinking, workplace pressure management Community promotion. We developed standards and guidelines to and tobacco cessation. In this way, we aim to reduce investment support the implementation of programmes in these the health risks associated with chronic diseases, such six areas and set an ambitious target for more than as diabetes, heart disease and cancer, and to enhance 80% of sites or marketing companies to have all six in the psychological wellbeing of our employees. place by 2015. Safety, health and wellbeing targets 2010 baseline 2015 target 2015 actual Fatalities – zero tolerance 5 0 1 Lost time injury/illness rate per million hours 2.55 1.91 1.37 worked – 25% reduction from the 2010 baseline (-46% from baseline) Vehicle collisions per million kilometres driven – 9.22 5.60 4.15 40% reduction from 2008 baseline (-55% from baseline) Sites and marketing companies offer six Essential 70% offer at >80% offer 6 60% offer Health Activities least 1 activity activities 6 activities (84% offer 5 or more) In 2015, we finalised our new Safety, Health Our audit results confirmed that our local operations and Environment (SHE) Strategy. It will drive our are effectively managing SHE and maintaining continued improvement and commitment up to compliance with internal and external requirements. 2025. You can read more about our SHE Strategy They also highlighted areas for attention and continued in Sustainability at AstraZeneca. improvement, including the management of change and SHE training. During 2015, we continued our rolling risk-based programme of internal SHE compliance audits. Coordinated by Internal Audit Services (IAS), and conducted by auditors from within the company and external organisations, the schedule reflects the individual risk profile of particular facilities and functions, management changes, timing and other considerations. Twenty-two audits were conducted in 2015 (18 in 2014) and 154 findings were identified. Sustainability Update 2015 | 55 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Community investment Great place to work Our approach Talent management Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, we aim to make a positive Human rights contribution to local communities through sponsorships, partnerships, Safety, health and wellbeing charitable donations and other activities that improve health and promote Community science education. investment As well as benefiting the local communities in which we work, our community investment activities give employees another reason to feel proud to work for AstraZeneca and offer further career development opportunities. Our approach We target our global community investment towards To ensure a consistent, transparent and ethical promoting healthcare in the community and supporting approach to community investment and charitable science-based education and careers. contributions, we provide guidance via our Community Investment Contributions Standard. This Standard Our global approach includes flagship community represents the minimum requirements for contributions investment programmes, such as our Young Health to third-party projects in all markets. It also provides Programme, patient assistance programmes and guidance on how to define which contributions may be support for global disaster relief. We allow our markets classified as community investment to ensure they are to address relevant local issues aligned to our Global aligned with our core business strategy. Focus Areas through their own community investment programmes, encouraging employee-led programmes In 2015, we spent a total of approximately $680 million and engagement. (2014: approximately $880 million) on community investment sponsorships, partnerships and charitable donations worldwide, including our product donation and patient assistance programmes, which make our medicines available free of charge or at reduced prices. Case study: Young Health Programme The Young Health Programme is our global Over 14,000 young people have now been trained community investment initiative. It has a unique to share health information with their peers and the focus on young people and primary prevention of community, and more than 12,000 frontline health the most common non-communicable diseases providers have been trained in adolescent health. (NCDs), such as type 2 diabetes, cancer, and heart You can find stories of the young and respiratory disease. Significant global health people helped by the programme at issues that have human, social and economic www.yhpvoices.com and further information consequences, NCDs have become the leading at www.younghealthprogrammeyhp.com. cause of death and disability worldwide and are responsible for an estimated 38 million deaths each year. We work with over 30 expert organisations, combining on-the-ground programmes, research and advocacy to target the four most prevalent risk factors for NCDs: tobacco use, alcohol abuse, lack of exercise and unhealthy eating. When we launched the programme in 2010, we committed to reach one million young people through the Young Health Programme by the end of 2015. We have now reached over 1.4 million young people in more than 20 countries. Kenya was the latest addition in 2015. Sustainability Update 2015 | 56 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place to work Case study: Investing in the next generation of scientists Our approach Talent Our company is built on the scientific talent and management expertise of its people. That is why we support Human rights science, technology, engineering and maths Safety, health (STEM) education. and wellbeing Community In 2014, we signed a new three-year agreement investment with Career Ready, a UK youth employment charity, to encourage more young people in the UK to study STEM subjects and to pursue STEMrelated careers. Our support is helping to establish new STEM hubs in areas with strong employer support and where students are under-represented in STEM careers. We also provide internships and employee mentoring. Key highlights include: • 4 7 STEM Career Ready centres in place, 30% of the total • A  record 12 STEM small and medium enterprise internship bursaries provided for students in 2015 • C ontinued growth in STEM activities in Scotland • S even paid internships provided at Alderley Park and Macclesfield in 2015 • N ew AstraZeneca STEM Student of the Year Awards, a major success in 2015 • A straZeneca Cambridge Career Ready STEM Pathfinder project launched, with 50 students participating. By supporting STEM education we are investing in a healthy pipeline of future talent and helping to ensure the ongoing successes of research at AstraZeneca. Sustainability Update 2015 | 57 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Great place Supporting disaster relief worldwide to work We partner with the British Red Cross to support In addition to financial contributions to disaster relief, Our approach global disaster relief and help vulnerable people in AstraZeneca also donates medicines where they Talent management the UK and abroad prepare for emergencies in their are most needed. In 2015, we donated medicines Human rights own communities. in 70 countries and across all AstraZeneca therapy Safety, health areas: cardiovascular disease and diabetes, oncology, In 2015, we donated: and wellbeing infection, respiratory and inflammation, neuroscience Community and gastrointestinal medicines. investment £50,000 £127,000 to the Nepal to the Kuala Earthquake Appeal Lumpur Emergency via British Red Cross Response Unit via British Red Cross (to be repeated in 2016) £50,000 £19,826 to the Europe to support those Refugee Crisis affected by the Appeal via British floods in Chennai via Red Cross Sewa International Employee-supported volunteering programmes Our employee-led programmes are an opportunity In Russia, employees led a marathon of health as part for our people to support their local community, while of the Young Health Programme. 142 young people developing their skills and experience. Examples of took part in sports workshops, attended doctors’ employee-led programmes in 2015 include the following. lectures and entered ‘Say “No” to bad habits’ creative contests. The best six participants were selected for In the US in October 2015, MedImmune employees a three-day visit to Moscow as part of International and senior leaders assembled and delivered care Children’s Day, including a visit to our Moscow office, packages to nearly 250 children receiving treatment at and another 16 participants won a stay at a sports Children’s National Medical Center in Washington DC. camp in the Altaisk region. In the UK, AstraZeneca and MedImmune employees In China, 1,032 employees have helped to inspire teamed up with artists to lead a summer outreach 4,652 young people through our Young Health programme for over 400 students in Cambridge. Programme since November 2013. In 2015, they Students aged 7 to 17 took part in workshops established a social media account to provide details designed to provide insight into the science behind of events to promote a monthly star volunteer. The new medicines. Following the workshops, they created employee volunteer network in China now covers over pictures to capture what science means to them, 25 sales teams and two operational sites. which are now displayed on hoardings around the construction site of the new research and development centre and corporate headquarters in Cambridge. Sustainability Update 2015 | 58 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible Responsible research Our approach Patient safety and research product security Clinical trials Research with animals Human biological samples The Nagoya Society depends on us to conduct effective, ethical and Protocol Addressing thorough research in the development of medicines and antibiotic resistance treatments that save and improve lives. Patients who take our medicines have a right to safety. In order to meet those expectations, we set ourselves high standards of ethical practice across all aspects of our research activity worldwide, from clinical trials to our research with animals. We believe society expects us to take every safety precaution and responsible decision that is required of us by regulators, as well as those that are ethically sound. We also work to ensure that we are aware of any risks to patient safety such as side effects or cases of product counterfeiting, which is a serious global problem that, if left unchecked, can cause severe health problems for its victims. 2015 highlights $17.3 million worth of AstraZeneca counterfeit medicines seized through operations led by our Global Security team Contributed to the first Concordat on Openness on Animal Research Annual Report Created a dedicated Clinical Trial Transparency team Sustainability Update 2015 | 59 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Our approach Patient safety and product security We want to be recognised for our high-quality science and for the impact we Clinical trials can make on serious disease – and to be trusted for the way in which we do Research with that. This means setting and living up to high standards of ethical practice animals across all aspects of our research activity worldwide, including clinical trials Human biological samples and research with animals. The Nagoya Protocol Our Code of Conduct requires that our research be Addressing conducted in accordance with all relevant external laws antibiotic resistance and regulations. It also requires compliance with our Bioethics Policy, which describes our commitment beyond legal compliance and defines the ethical standards, principles and behaviours governing all our research and development (R&D) activity worldwide. In addition, our Global Standard Expectations of Third Parties sets out the standards to which we hold external partners. Our Code of Conduct also requires all AstraZeneca employees to report any possible adverse effects relating to our medicines within 24 hours through our established procedures. Our safety standards are global and apply in all countries where we operate. We audit our patient safety systems regularly to make sure our policies and standards are being implemented. We are constantly reviewing laws, regulations and best practice to ensure we abide by the very highest standards, wherever we operate around the world. Sustainability Update 2015 | 60 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Patient safety and product security Patient safety and product security Developing a new medicine carries inherent risk, and ensuring patient safety Clinical trials is our top priority. It is our responsibility to eliminate all risk where possible, Research with and to minimise it where it is not possible to eliminate it completely. animals Human biological Patient communication samples During the development phase, extensive and rigorous The Nagoya pre-clinical and clinical testing is done to establish a As we develop each medicine, we work with regulators Protocol potential new medicine’s safety and efficacy. Once to develop prescribing information that provides Addressing we establish an acceptable benefit and risk profile, we healthcare professionals with the information they antibiotic need to promote patient safety, including indications resistance submit comprehensive information, including clinical trial data, to the regulatory authorities responsible for use, dosing recommendations, warnings and for approving medicines in each country or region in contraindications, as well as what side effects which we want to launch the product. might occur. While enormously helpful in defining how patients will In addition, where it is appropriate, we make broadly respond to a medicine, clinical trials cannot information available directly to patients about our replicate the complete range of patient circumstances medicines and how they should be taken. that exist among larger and more diverse patient We have comprehensive and rigorous systems in populations. Rare side effects can often be identified place for detecting and rapidly evaluating adverse only after a medicine has been launched and used in effects, including mechanisms for highlighting those far greater numbers and over longer periods of time. that require immediate attention. We provide any new Information is provided from many sources, among safety data to regulators, doctors, other healthcare others including reports on suspected adverse drug professionals and, where appropriate, patients. reactions from healthcare providers and patients, as well as from reviews of the scientific literature. Our Fighting illegal trade, protecting our patients Global Patient Safety Database is the central source of Key for Product Security is protecting our patients from information for patient safety across our organisation the dangers of illegally traded (including counterfeits or and for reporting to regulatory authorities. stolen) medicines. Counterfeits, for example, often fail to provide effective treatment and sometimes cause direct We develop patient risk management plans for all our harm to patients. It is impossible to estimate on a global medicines. These help us identify, further evaluate scale how common is the illegal trade in medicines. and reduce risks to patients and, where appropriate, we provide the plans to the regulatory authorities. Although the scale, complexity and covert nature We review plans regularly and update them with new means it is impossible to prevent illegal trade entirely, safety information as our knowledge of the medicine’s we aim to protect patients by disrupting networks and safety profile evolves. operations, and making it as difficult as possible for people to carry out these illegal activities. Pharmacovigilance is the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and We require our employees to report suspicions of prevention of adverse effects or any other drug-related possible illegal trade of medicines that come to their problems. It is our responsibility to our patients, and attention. We also find illegally traded medicines we take it very seriously. through the work of our Global Security investigators, Customs, other law enforcement agencies, regulatory authorities, healthcare professionals, patients and others. Our Global Security investigators gather the evidence needed (according to globally acceptable standards) for a prosecution and pass this to, for example, relevant local law enforcement agencies. We analyse samples that are suspicious and have a global team to coordinate our response, such as reporting cases to health authorities, alerting doctors, pharmacists or wholesalers. We rely on their cooperation and the local health authority to stop such medicines from reaching patients. Sustainability Update 2015 | 61 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our Global Product Security strategy focuses on three key areas: Our approach Patient safety and product security Clinical trials Research with animals Human biological samples 1 2 3 The Nagoya Protocol Building strong, Working in enforcement – Securing our products – Addressing antibiotic collaborative partnerships – to combat illegal activity through through the introduction of pack resistance to strengthen enforcement, raise reporting and professional features and enhanced integrity awareness and provide advocacy investigation of suspicions of the end-to-end supply chain to increase the likelihood of regulation in this area being effective and efficient Our Global Product Security strategy The illegal trade of medicines is not a problem Our Global Security investigators are responsible AstraZeneca can tackle alone. We work closely with for the enforcement activities for AstraZeneca and other pharmaceutical companies through, for example, work closely with law enforcement agencies, Interpol industry trade associations (IFPMA, EFPIA, PhRMA) and Customs, to dismantle illegal trade operations/ and coalitions (EAASM (European Alliance for Access networks. In addition, Global Security works closely to Safe Medicines) and ASOP EU (Alliance for Safe with other pharmaceutical companies through the Online Pharmacy – Europe)), to raise awareness of the Pharmaceutical Security Institute, a not-for-profit threat of counterfeit medicines, for example. organisation, to identify cases of illegal trade and coordinate investigations. One such initiative to help raise awareness among patients, healthcare professionals and regulators is As there is no global law enforcement agency or the IFPMA Fight the Fakes campaign and their regulator, pharmaceutical companies like AstraZeneca False Friends video. can often act as an interface between authorities in different countries. In 2015, investigations conducted by Global Security led to the seizure of $17.3 million worth of AstraZeneca counterfeit medicines, and disrupted counterfeiting operations that had netted in excess of $100 million, leading to over 140 arrests. What to do if you are concerned about receiving an illegally traded medicine or you have a suspicion about your medicine AstraZeneca urges patients and healthcare Patients can protect themselves from illegally professionals to be alert to the possibility of illegally traded medicines by obtaining their medicines only traded medicines. Anyone who is concerned that from licensed and regulated outlets, and avoiding their AstraZeneca medicine may not be genuine can unregulated sources on the internet. Patients contact their doctor (physician), pharmacist (or other should be vigilant when examining their medicines, healthcare professional) or health authority. You can paying attention to altered or unsealed packaging or also contact AstraZeneca through this website or in changes in the product packaging. the country where you are based. Sustainability Update 2015 | 62 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible Security along our supply chain research We include security features on our packs to enable Our approach us to distinguish legitimate products from counterfeits. Patient safety and We also work to improve security in our supply chains product security for our investigational and commercialised products Clinical trials (bespoke product security audits, collaborating with Research with animals others to share best practice and supply chain integrity Human biological principles for supply chain design) to inhibit the entry of samples illegally traded medicines. The Nagoya Protocol Addressing antibiotic This includes: resistance • Strengthening our due diligence processes for third • Using seals and/or unique identification numbers parties and adding product security clauses in our (a serial number) on some packs to make it more contracts with supply chain partners difficult and expensive for counterfeiters to copy our packaging, and help identify packs that have • Training our third parties to report any suspicions been tampered with. Applying serial numbers to and to maintain secure distribution channels packs is now becoming a legislative requirement in some markets as governments recognise this as part of their anti-counterfeiting strategy. Driving greater protection As the illegal trade in medicines is an illegal activity and therefore hard to measure, we do not publish performance targets around our work. However, we continue to make positive progress on all three areas of our strategy. As an industry, there has been a lot of progress in terms of raising awareness of the dangers of counterfeit medicines, including the dangers of buying medicines online, but there is more work still to be done. While the counterfeiting of any product is illegal, we need to ensure that patients recognise the potentially life-threatening risks specifically associated with counterfeit medicines. We are also encouraging regulators to address this issue of illegal trade by enacting legislation that will better protect patient safety and by ensuring that the sentencing of those convicted of producing and distributing counterfeit medicines, for example, reflects the seriousness of the crime. . Sustainability Update 2015 | 63 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Clinical trials Patient safety and product security We study the effects of potential new medicines in humans using clinical Clinical trials trials. The clinical trial phase is essential in the development of new Research with medicines. At any one time, AstraZeneca may have hundreds of clinical trials animals under way in different locations around the world. We take very seriously our Human biological samples commitment to delivering consistently high standards of ethical practice and The Nagoya scientific conduct in all our trials, wherever they take place. Protocol Addressing A potential new medicine is tested in humans only To ensure patients understand all the information that is antibiotic resistance after rigorous and extensive pre-clinical research has being given to them, we provide it written in a language confirmed its potential efficacy and safety. Trial medicines they understand or, if literacy is an issue, we provide the go through three phases of testing before they are information verbally. We use independent witnesses to submitted to regulatory authorities for an approval to ensure patient safety. These witnesses are responsible market. All medicines have side effects that may affect for confirming that a participant has received and some people, so the safety of any medicine needs to be understood all the information they need to be able to assessed in terms of its benefit and risk profile. give their informed consent. We cannot eliminate all the risks to clinical trial All our clinical studies are designed and finally participants, but we aim to minimise risks as much as interpreted in-house, but some are conducted by possible. Our top priority is to make sure that those taking contract research organisations (CROs) on our behalf. part in our studies are not exposed to any unnecessary In 2015, approximately 36% of patients in our small risks and that, before they give their consent, they fully molecule studies and 56% of patients in our biologics understand what taking part in a trial means. studies were monitored by CROs. We require these organisations to comply with our global standards and Our informed consent process ensures that patients we conduct risk-based audits to monitor compliance. participating in any and every trial understand the benefits and risks, the purpose of the trial and how it will be conducted. We explain that they could receive a comparator drug or placebo and that they can pull out of the trial at any time, with or without giving a reason. Clinical trials around the world in 2015 Europe Central/Eastern Europe Japan US/Canada 16% 14% 27% 25% 3% 12% 26% 34% Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Latin America 3% 2% 15% 6% 10% 7% Type of study conducted Small molecule Biologics studies studies Sustainability Update 2015 | 64 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible Implementing the highest standards research The commitment to responsible Our standards are global and apply to all AstraZeneca Our approach data sharing is a voluntary, clinical trials, in all locations, whether they are being Patient safety and conducted by us or on our behalf by external CROs. industry-wide scheme designed to product security If our policies differ from local regulations, we adopt improve transparency across the Clinical trials Research with whichever standard is higher. pharmaceutical industry. animals Human biological Our Standard Operating Procedures and Policies In order to communicate better with clinical trial patients, samples require that all staff involved in clinical trials and all AstraZeneca has developed a suite of 95 different The Nagoya investigators are trained in ICH (the International patient engagements. For example, our lay-language Protocol Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements summaries explain research findings in a way that Addressing antibiotic for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use) guidelines and patients and the general public can understand. resistance local Good Clinical Practice regulations. Our standards apply to all AstraZeneca-sponsored clinical trials, in In 2016, we will be preparing to meet the Redacted all locations, but the conduct of our trials in emerging Clinical Report Package of the European Medicines countries is a specific focus for our compliance Agency (EMA) Publication of Clinical Data Policy. monitoring and assurance activities. The Policy is designed to further improve transparency and access to research information. Throughout 2015, Clinical trial transparency we have taken significant steps to make increasing In 2015, we created a dedicated Clinical Trial amounts of data available to those who request it. Transparency team whose primary task is to ensure our Our challenge is to protect patients’ personal compliance with clinical trial policies and governance. information and company confidential information, We have committed to allowing external parties to while still achieving the highest levels of transparency. request patient-level data as part of our commitment to the Principles for Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing. Sharing more data in this way will help the industry as a whole develop new products and treatments, improve existing ones, and will save money by avoiding duplication of research. Sustainability Update 2015 | 65 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Research with animals Patient safety and product security We are committed to helping the public understand our use of animals in research and our Clinical trials methods for Replacing, Reducing and Refining the study of animals in research (the 3Rs). We Research with understand that the use of animals in research is still a difficult issue for many people, but animals animal studies remain a critical stage in the development of new life-saving and life-improving Human biological samples medicines and treatments. The Nagoya Protocol Our commitment to the 3Rs and high standards of animal welfare begins in the Code Addressing of Conduct, and is reflected in our global Bioethics Policy. In addition, we practise high antibiotic resistance standards of animal welfare. This year, we submitted our progress for inclusion in the first Concordat on Openness on Animal Research Annual Report. Rapid advances in technology in recent years have Our consistent global standard for animal welfare is led to the increasing availability and use of alternatives compliance with relevant external laws and regulations, to animal research. But these alternatives cannot yet and consistency with the principles of the Guide for the provide all the essential information needed about how Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (‘the Guide’) – the a potential new medicine works on a disease and the internationally respected good-practice guideline for living body, and what the possible side effects might be. this area. Wherever possible we prefer to use facilities accredited by the Association for the Assessment and Animal studies continue to play a vital role in the Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care (AAALAC search for new and improved medicines. All medicines International). AAALAC International accreditation we have available today have involved some animal serves as an independent quality mark, validating that research, and animal studies are required by regulators the standards of the Guide are being met. before they approve a new medicine to be tested in humans during clinical trials. Openness in animal research AstraZeneca is committed to being transparent about While we will always focus on replacing animal studies our use of animals in research and, as such, we with better, more accurate models, we know that in the became a signatory of the Concordat on Openness on interim it is essential to provide the best possible care Animal Research in 2014. In 2015, we compiled our and the highest welfare standards available, while using first progress update for inclusion in the Concordat’s the minimum number required to achieve the benefits. Annual Report. Our Bioethics Policy states that all research involving animals must be carefully considered and justified, that the principles of the 3Rs be applied and that the welfare of the animals we use is a top priority. Our requirements apply globally across all our internal animal research, to third parties who conduct research on our behalf, and to the breeders and suppliers of animals for use in such studies. © Understanding Animal Research Sustainability Update 2015 | 66 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible The Concordat on Openness on Animal Research Animal welfare research We signed up to all four of the Concordat’s The welfare of the animals we use in research is a top Our approach commitments in 2014: priority. It is the right thing to do ethically, but it is also Patient safety and product security essential for reliable research outcomes. Stress can • Being clear about when, how and why we use Clinical trials cause different responses in different animals. Ensuring animals in research Research with animals are fit and well, and that their behavioural needs animals • Enhancing our communications with the media and are met reduces stress and variation, and produces Human biological the public about our research using animals better quality data from fewer animals. Read more samples about our collaboration with the University of Stirling on The Nagoya • Being proactive in providing opportunities for the Protocol improvements in laboratory dog standards here. public to find out about our research using animals Addressing To reduce stress in the animals we use, and to work antibiotic • Reporting annually on our progress. resistance to the highest standards of animal welfare, we provide We welcome and engage in open and constructive mandatory training, ongoing competency assessments dialogue with stakeholders who have a legitimate and continual professional development opportunities, interest in our use of animals in research. As well such as certifications and ratifications for employees as supporting organisations and working groups involved in our animal research. All AstraZeneca that educate the public about the use of animals in employees involved in research with animals work research, we have conducted over 30 facility tours to to consistent standards and in accordance with the staff and external representatives from UK universities Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals – and animal welfare organisations to showcase our the internationally respected good-practice guide. unique facilities. Additionally, we offer opportunities for open Animal Welfare Ethical Review Body (AWERB) All employees involved in our animal meetings, where we discuss past, present and future research programme undertake animal work to ensure appropriate ethical review. mandatory training, and are assessed on their technical competency before being allowed to work with animals. We used 182,055 animals in-house and a further 33,220 animals at external CROs in 2015. The majority of the animals used are rodents and many are undergoing mild procedures, such as oral dosing, blood sampling or a simple injection under the skin. The total number of animals we use will continue to vary because use depends on a number of factors, including the amount of pre-clinical research we are doing, the complexity of the diseases under investigation and regulatory requirements. We believe that without our active commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use would be much greater. © Understanding Animal Research Our priorities are to ensure we are using the right number of animals needed to deliver a statistically reliable result, and to avoid repeating studies unnecessarily. We are also committed to ensuring the welfare of the animals we use. Number of animals used in research 2013 2014 2015 In-house 260,930 194,162 182,055 External contract research 19,676 15,634 33,220 Total 280,606 209,796 215,275 Sustainability Update 2015 | 67 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible Implementing and sharing the highest standards research Having a single council responsible for all aspects of field, including a representative from the UK’s National Our approach animal care and welfare ensures that we have one Centre for the 3Rs (NC3Rs). The committee received Patient safety and consistent global standard for all work involving animals, 32 submissions, including several from our third-party product security and one consistent approach to animal welfare and collaborators and CROs. Once again, there were three Clinical trials compliance. Our Council for Science and Animal categories, including Scientific/Technical Advancement; Research with animals Welfare (C-SAW) is the expert decision-making group Laboratory Animal Management; and Collaborator of Human biological accountable for animal welfare and compliance across the Year. samples the AstraZeneca Group of companies. Chaired by The Nagoya “ AstraZeneca’s Chief Veterinary Officer, the C-SAW is Protocol responsible for developing and implementing policies and Addressing antibiotic standards, and provides the highest level of governance We are a company focused on science and resistance for animal welfare across the organisation. innovation and committed to our value of doing The C-SAW includes representative members, who the right thing. As such, we are continuously are its eyes and ears in each region, as well as experts looking for ways to support the 3Rs agenda in specific areas, such as the 3Rs, statistical practice to Reduce, Refine and Replace the use of and regulatory compliance. Through the representative animals in research. This is a vital part of members and their networks, C-SAW is able to receive getting medicines to patients, driving scientific feedback from stakeholders, as well as ensuring that discovery and helping us to challenge prevailing important communications and messages reach the assumptions about the best research models. necessary people. Science, animal welfare and ethical practice come together in the way we undertake animal To recognise efforts to Reduce, Refine and Replace the research, and the 3Rs Awards showcase our use of animals in research, we developed the C-SAW leadership in those areas.” Global 3Rs Awards. The 2015 C-SAW Awards were Pascal Soriot, Chief Executive Officer announced in December 2015. Entries were judged by an internal and external panel of experts in the Scientific advancement winner Typically, ADC research requires the use of of the 2015 C-SAW Awards non-human primates, because these specific interactions do not occur in other species. In A recent focus of AstraZeneca’s anti-cancer this case, the research team was looking to research has been on the development of Antibody evaluate the non-specific side effects and were Drug Conjugates (ADCs). ADCs are targeted able to conduct an innovative study using rats to antibodies that are connected to a very potent successfully do so. chemotherapeutic drug. This allows the highly Using rats instead of non-human primates is a potent drug to be delivered directly to the site where significant refinement and a great contribution to the tumour is. reducing the number of these higher animals used ADCs are challenging to develop as they are highly in research. complex in structure. One of the leading causes The use of rats allowed the selection of ADC of failure with ADCs has been unexpected nonproperties that result in the fewest non-specific side specific side effects. This occurs when the ADC effects, maximising the chances of clinical success enters healthy tissue instead of just the tumour. in cancer patients. The use of animals in research is a complex topic. For more information visit: The National Centre for the Replacement, Understanding Animal Research: Refinement & Reduction of Animals in Research: www.understandinganimalresearch.org.uk www.nc3rs.org.uk Foundation for Biomedical Research: www.fbresearch.org Sustainability Update 2015 | 68 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Human biological samples Patient safety and product security The use of human biological samples (HBS), such as solid tissue and biofluids, Clinical trials plays a vital role in developing a deeper understanding of human diseases Research with and how they work, which helps us develop effective, new and personalised animals medicines. In carrying out this important area of research, we maintain policies Human biological samples and processes to ensure that we both comply with the law and meet regulatory The Nagoya concerns. This includes approval of HBS sources, which support our scientists, Protocol and third parties working on our behalf, in being compliant with the ethical Addressing antibiotic principles relating to HBS in our policies and standards. resistance Protecting the rights of donors and their families AstraZeneca greatly appreciates the generosity of those donating HBS for research. We place an emphasis on informed consent that protects the rights and expectations of donors and families throughout the process of acquisition, use, storage and disposal of the samples. Maintaining the anonymity of the donor is of the utmost importance, and a key part of our process includes the coding of biological samples and associated data, including genetic data, to help achieve this. Sustainability Update 2015 | 69 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible Stem cell research research Stem cell technology may offer new opportunities to In rare circumstances, AstraZeneca may use human Our approach develop innovative and safer medicines, and would help foetal tissue. In these circumstances, we will conduct Patient safety and ensure better treatments for patients. There are two main an internal review of the scientific validity of the product security forms of stem cell research, human-induced pluripotent research proposal. We will only give permission Clinical trials stem cells, or hiPSC, which can be taken safely from to use the tissue when no other scientifically Research with animals adult volunteers, or human embryonic stem cells (hESC). reasonable alternative is available. We are committed Human biological The majority of our stem cell work uses hiPSC, which to minimising the use of foetal tissue by exploring samples is a less ethically sensitive alternative to using human technological alternatives. The Nagoya embryos. We are actively evaluating both technologies. Protocol We use extremely rigorous assessments and have high Addressing We use hESC when there is no alternative technology quality and ethical expectations of our tissue suppliers. antibiotic resistance that would provide the scientific information required to increase our knowledge of a serious disease. We are interested in the potential of stem cells to AstraZeneca is not involved in any differentiate into mature human cells, allowing more research on human reproductive cloning, accurate prediction of drug metabolism and certain for which there is a UNESCO international safety and toxicity outcomes in people. ban and country-level legislative bans. Another area of interest for AstraZeneca where stem cells may prove valuable is for the development of more biologically relevant in vitro models for disease modelling and drug target efficacy evaluation. This would represent a significant step forward in increasing the human relevance of early drug development studies, and help us overcome current limitations that a restricted supply of normal cells presents, as well as potentially reducing animal testing. Sustainability Update 2015 | 70 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach The Nagoya Protocol Patient safety and product security AstraZeneca is a signatory of the Nagoya Protocol, an international Clinical trials agreement to protect the benefits enjoyed by the country of origin of natural Research with biological resources used in research. animals Human biological samples The pharmaceutical industry sometimes uses natural of this for 20 years (‘due diligence’). They also have The Nagoya biological resources (such as plant or fish extracts) that to set ‘mutually agreed terms’ – a contract that legally Protocol might be modified to support its R&D programmes defines the conditions of the deal and the benefit that Addressing on the path to finding a new medicine. The Nagoya will be received by the country of origin if a new drug antibiotic resistance Protocol is an international treaty that helps to ensure is produced. This sharing of benefit helps to ensure a fair reward is given to the country that originally more measured and transparent approach to the use supplies the biological material. In accordance with the of natural resources, and supports the sustainability of Protocol, users of biological resources have to record our planet’s biological diversity. their access and use of the material and keep a record Sustainability Update 2015 | 71 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Responsible research Our approach Addressing antibiotic resistance Patient safety and product security The increasing resistance of infectious diseases to antibiotics is a global Clinical trials issue on which AstraZeneca is taking a lead. We have invested in research Research with and development in infection and are calling on our colleagues across the animals industry, health leaders, patients, physicians and governments around the Human biological samples world to come together with a multi-stakeholder approach to tackle the The Nagoya hurdles that prevent new antibiotics coming to the market. Protocol Addressing We believe the fight against antibiotic resistance 3. Commercial models – current private/public antibiotic resistance requires three key developments: models are not conducive to bringing antibiotics to market. The pipeline is virtually dry, especially in gram1. Stronger antibiotic stewardship – appropriate negative bacteria; an area which particularly needs selection, dosing, route and duration of antimicrobial new antibiotics. therapy, along with proper manufacturing controls and environmental management, are necessary to help Antibiotics need to be viewed as a public good, similar address the threat posed by antibiotic resistance. to the firefighting system in place in all communities, and will require a reimbursement strategy that There is an urgent need for global collaboration to recognises the reality of the insurance value of develop or update a locally relevant framework of antibiotics. stewardship practices, which delineate responsible surveillance, prescribing practices and antibiotic use to address current trends in increasing antimicrobial resistance (AMR). 2. Innovative regulatory pathways – new antimicrobial drugs are needed urgently, but the current drug pipeline is alarmingly thin, with many companies moving away from antibiotic development. Innovative regulatory approaches that balance the data needed for registration with the unmet medical need would encourage further drug development. Positive steps have been taken by leading regulatory authorities. These new approaches to regulatory pathways will facilitate the development of new drugs to combat emerging, rare pathogens, especially those that are resistant to multiple antibiotics. It will be important to see these new ideas implemented globally. Sustainability Update 2015 | 72 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business Ethical business practices Our approach Compliance practices Working with suppliers We want to be valued for the medicines we provide and trusted for the way we work. That means leading our industry in demonstrating ethical business practices and high levels of integrity in everything we do. It is why human rights, safety and health, environmental protection, preventing bribery and corruption, and business ethics are core to AstraZeneca’s approach to sustainability. 2015 highlights 100% of employees completed our Code of Conduct training 100 sector-best score for Codes of Business Conduct category in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 13,845 active supplier assessments completed using our third-party due diligence process Sustainability Update 2015 | 73 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business practices Our approach Our approach Compliance Working with Our Code of Conduct sets out the commitments and ethical standards we expect of suppliers everyone who works at AstraZeneca. It provides high-level guidance on how these commitments and standards are to be translated into consistent actions worldwide. The Code is supported by a wide range of global policies, including our global policy on Ethical Interactions & Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption. In addition, our Global Standard Expectations of Third Parties sets out the ethical standards expected of third parties who work for, or on, AstraZeneca’s behalf. We focus on two key areas to drive our ethical business practices: Compliance Working with suppliers Driving and embedding a culture of ethics and Only working with third parties that embrace integrity throughout the organisation. standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our own. What we have achieved Our aims Goals Progress highlights Target progress Ensure ethical business All employees to be trained on 100% of employees trained practices and integrity our Code of Conduct by the underpin everything we do end of 2015 Communicate clear policies Updated our Ethical to employees Interactions & Anti-Bribery/ Anti-Corruption Policy to provide greater clarity and simplicity for the business Ensure employees and 326 reports of alleged other stakeholders can raise compliance breaches or other concerns and that they are ethical concerns made through properly addressed the Code of Conduct helpline in 2015 Meet high ethical Conducted 61 supplier audits standards across all our in 2015 procurement activities and decisions worldwide Key Target exceeded Full target achieved Ongoing progress Target not achieved, some progress Sustainability Update 2015 | 74 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business practices Our approach Compliance Compliance Working with We expect everyone at AstraZeneca to observe the highest suppliers standards of integrity and honesty, and to act with care, diligence and fairness in all they do. We are committed to delivering consistently high standards of sales and marketing practices worldwide, and we only work with those third parties who embrace high standards of ethical behaviour that are consistent with our own. Building a culture of compliance Our Global Compliance function exists to drive and values. That means engaging them and supporting embed a culture of ethics and integrity throughout them to ensure they understand and follow our our organisation. We require all our employees to standards, and feel comfortable asking questions or take personal accountability for their actions and to reporting incidents of non-compliance. demonstrate individual behaviour that is in line with our We focus our efforts on: Ensuring Providing key employees and the Communicating stakeholders with public can raise clear policies to assurance and concerns, and that employees effective reporting those concerns are on key issues properly addressed Risk management Monitoring relating to third compliance parties working for, or on, our behalf Supporting ethical Fair and objective behaviour through investigations of effective advice, possible policy training and support breaches Global Compliance also works closely with Internal Audit Services (IAS) to provide assurance reporting to the Audit Committee. Mandatory ethics training for all Simplifying compliance Our Code of Conduct – which is translated into We want to make it as easy as possible for our 40 languages – states our core commitments and employees to do the right thing. That is why the high ethical standards expected of everyone at simplifying our organisation and processes is central AstraZeneca. Our Ethical Interactions & Anti-Bribery/ to our commitment to being a great place to work. Anti-Corruption Policy reinforces our zero tolerance Our aim is to be an industry leader in our approach for bribery and corruption, and also focuses on the to global policies, training and communications. appropriate promotion of our products. In 2015, we updated our Ethical Interactions & Every new starter receives mandatory training on the Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy to provide greater Code of Conduct. We then require all employees to clarity and simplicity for the business. The improved complete an annual course covering the Code of policy moves towards a more principles-based Conduct and Ethical Interactions & Anti-Bribery/ approach and uses more straightforward language Anti-Corruption Policy. that is easier to understand. We base our training on real-life scenarios, tailored to specific business units and roles to help put these principles into practice. Sustainability Update 2015 | 75 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business Reporting breaches and concerns Sales and marketing practices practices AstraZeneca’s Code of Conduct requires employees It is very important to our long-term success that the Our approach to report any concern they may have about a public has confidence in our sales and marketing Compliance possible breach of the Code or its supporting practices. Our global policy on Ethical Interactions & Working with policies. Employees are advised to consult with Anti-Bribery/Anti-Corruption Policy sets out what we suppliers their line manager or their Human Resources, Legal require of all employees to meet our commitment to or Compliance Departments. The Code provides operate ethically and with integrity – including our zero additional contact channels for AstraZeneca’s Helpline, tolerance position on bribery and corruption. It includes which includes the AZethics telephone lines, the guidance on appropriate product promotion to ensure AZethics website, and email and postal addresses for we provide healthcare professionals with evidencethe Global Compliance Department. These channels based, reliable information about our medicines in the are also available to the general public for reporting best interests of patient care. concerns. Our online global reporting system is We have a network of nominated signatories who available in 40 languages and we make it clear that review our promotional materials against applicable anyone who raises a possible breach in good faith is requirements. IAS audit professionals also conduct fully supported by management and will not be subject compliance audits on selected marketing companies to retaliation. The fact that the majority of cases come and third parties. to our attention either through the line management route or self-reporting can be seen as a good indication When we work with suppliers, distributors and that employees feel comfortable raising concerns, as partners on the sales and marketing of our products, recommended in the Code and reinforced in the annual we do appropriate risk assessments and due diligence Code of Conduct training. to ensure we are using reputable third parties. We also actively engage with these organisations and maintain In 2015, 326 reports of alleged compliance breaches or continued oversight of their activities to make sure that other ethical concerns were made through the helpline, they are operating to standards of ethical practice that including reports made by any other anonymous route are consistent with our own. that could be considered whistle-blowing (2014: 247 reports). We take all alleged compliance breaches and We identified 11 confirmed breaches of external sales concerns extremely seriously, and investigate them and and marketing regulations or codes in 2015. report the outcome of such investigations to the Audit Committee, as appropriate. Reports of alleged compliance breaches Confirmed breaches of external sales and via the Helpline marketing regulations or codes 350 350 12 12 300 300 10 10 250 250 8 8 200 200 6 6 150 150 4 4 100 100 2 2 50 50 0 0 0 0 2013 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 2013 2014 2013 2015 2014 2015 Sustainability Update 2015 | 76 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business There were 1,749 instances, most of them minor, of We continue to focus on management oversight, and practices non-compliance with our Code of Conduct, global strengthening employee awareness and adoption of Our approach policies or related control standards in our Commercial our ethical standards into their daily work. Selection Compliance Regions, including instances by AstraZeneca and oversight of third party engagements to ensure Working with employees, as well as by contract staff and other third our third parties continue to operate with high ethical suppliers parties. We removed 339 individuals from their roles as standards of sales and marketing practice consistent a result of these breaches (a single breach may involve with our own are also ongoing priorities. 300 more than one person). We300also formally warned 490 10 10 others and provided further guidance or coaching 250 250 on our policies 300 to 1,476 more. These figures include 8 10 8 200 AstraZeneca 250 employees, as 200well as contractors and 6 8 6 150 other third200parties. The most 150 serious breaches were 100 raised with the Audit Committee. 100 4 6 4 150 2 4 2 50 100 50 0 Instances50of non-compliance 0 with Code of 0 2 0 2015 Conduct, 2014 global 2013 0 policies or related 2015 standards 2014 in 2013 2015 2014 0 2013 2015 2014 2013 our Commercial 2015Regions2014 (including 2013 contract staff 2015 2014 2013 and other third parties) 2,000 2,000 2,000 Guidance Guidance 1,500 1,500 187 and coaching 187 and coaching Guidance 300 1,500 187 Formal and coaching Formal 10 10 568 warning 568 warning Formal 250 568 warning 1,000 1,000 Removal Removal 8 8 1,000 from role Removal from role 200 from role 6 6 1,813 1,813 500 500 1,813 150 500 4 4 2013 2013 100 2013 0 0 0 2 2 50 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 0 0 0 2015 2014 20132015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 Corrective actions taken in our Commercial Regions 2,000 Guidance Guidance Guidance Guidance Guidance Guidance Guidance Guidance 213 and coaching 339coaching and coaching 1,500 213 and coaching 187 213 and coaching and coaching 187 339 and and coaching 339 and coaching Formal Formal Formal 454 Formal warning Formal Formal Formal warning Formal 454 warning568 warning 454 warning 568 warning warning warning Removal 490 Removal 1,000 Removal Removal from role Removal 490 Removal Removal from role 490 Removal from role from role from role fromfrom role role from role 1,573 1,476 1,573 1,813 1,573 1,8131,476 1,476 500 2014 2015 2014 2013 2014 20132015 2015 0 2013 2014 2015 Guidance Guidance Guidance hing 213 and coaching 339 and coaching 339 and coaching Formal Formal Formal 454 warning warning warning Removal 490 Removal 490 Removal from role from role from role 1,573 1,476 1,476 2014 2015 2015 Sustainability Update 2015 | 77 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business practices Our approach Working with suppliers Compliance Working with Building a responsible supply chain suppliers Our future success depends on building and maintaining a strong and sustainable supply chain that supports our research and development of new medicines, and upholds our high ethical standards. Monitoring and improving performance across the suppliers we use around the world protects our business and, more importantly, the patients who use our medicines. We are committed to meeting high ethical standards In 2015, we focused on increasing our coverage across all our procurement activities and decisions of third-party activities, providing greater senior worldwide. We expect our third parties to meet leader insight and ensuring quality and depth of these strict standards, as set out in our Global compliance assessments. Standard Expectations of Third Parties. Our Global Our approach to supplier risk management Standard incorporates our Code of Conduct and key Our Procurement organisation works to assess and international standards, such as those published by monitor risks within our global supply chain, including the International Labour Organization (ILO). suppliers, downstream supply chain partners and local Every employee who sources goods and services business development partners. on behalf of AstraZeneca is expected to follow We apply a globally consistent approach to assessing responsible business processes, which are risk, which allows us to focus our efforts on high-risk embedded into our procurement procedures. relationships, and to ensure suppliers understand and All our procurement professionals receive are able to meet our expectations. detailed training on responsible procurement. Our four-stage assessment process Where the risk is deemed to be If no material risks are identified, the low enough to be acceptable, the assessment defaults to our controls assessment defaults to our controls process, which ensures appropriate process, which ensures appropriate conditions and due diligence steps conditions and due diligence are implemented as part of our are implemented as part of our commercial agreements. commercial agreements. 2a 3a 1 4 2b 3b Initial assessment of Where required, activity, geography and extended due diligence is value to assess the performed, for example overall business risk. through a detailed audit conducted either by a specially trained If a potential risk is identified, If questions still persist after this AstraZeneca auditor or we undertake a more detailed stage, we ask third parties to by a third-party auditor. assessment of the activities provide evidence around their being conducted. policies and processes and, in some cases, to take appropriate steps to mitigate the risk. Sustainability Update 2015 | 78 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business A collaborative approach In 2015: practices We support our suppliers to address risks and implement Our approach the improvements we require. Most cases have a Compliance positive outcome but, when a supplier is unable to meet Working with our expectations in a timely way, we exit the relationship. suppliers In 2015, 65 potential suppliers failed to meet our required standards and we discontinued the relationship. Our regions develop and implement their own supplier engagement programmes to reflect geographical risk areas and gaps in third-party understanding. For 61 example, in Turkey our procurement specialists work supplier audits with suppliers to identify risk and to adapt AstraZeneca were conducted policies to mitigate specific risks. Higher-risk suppliers undergo a comprehensive training programme. In 2015, 204 completed this training. Around 150 suppliers also worked with us to adapt their policies to mitigate specific risks, while the remainder already had appropriate policies in place. Complying with the Modern Slavery Act The Modern Slavery Act will be in force in the UK from April 2016. We will fully comply with the Act, which 35% supports those subjected to human trafficking and of these suppliers met slavery, and will seek to ensure that the Act is complied our expectations with along the entire length of our supply chain. We will report on our progress in this area in 2017. and the remaining 65% are developing and implementing action plans to ensure they meet our expectations Sustainability Update 2015 | 79 Sustainability at Access to Environmental Great place Responsible Ethical business AstraZeneca healthcare sustainability to work research practices Ethical business 2015 assessments by region practices Our approach Compliance Working with Global Europe 488 4,115 suppliers Asia Pacific 4,613 Americas Middle East Total & Africa 3,538 1,091 13,845 Encouraging supplier diversity In recent years, our strategy to become more science-led and innovative has driven a shift towards smaller companies who tend to be more flexible, responsive and creative. We value this diversity in our supply chain. While all our suppliers must meet the same global quality and ethical standards, our supplier diversity programme helps small businesses understand our requirements and strengthens their ability to win work with us. Fair and fast payments to suppliers AstraZeneca operates to a principle of paying suppliers Invoice submission on time and is a signatory of the Prompt Payment Code. 1. Ariba Network invoices  Suppliers who are set up on the Ariba Network In order to ensure we are able to pay suppliers (AN) should submit their invoices through this on time, we have certain requirements in relation to system. Once submitted via AN, they should not be invoice submission: submitted by any other means (e.g. emailing copies • All invoices should clearly state the purchase order (PO) in) unless requested. number received from AstraZeneca, and the currency 2. Invoices via email (electronic) of the invoice must be the same as that specified  PDF copies should be sent to the correct email on the PO. If not, the invoice will be sent back to the account for the country, i.e. for the UK only, this is supplier for correction. p2pinvoice@astrazeneca.com. • Our standard payment terms operate from the invoice 3. Legal requirements for paper invoices receipt date (the date we receive the invoice). Where  Where paper invoices are required, the necessary constrained by legal requirements within countries, helpdesk should be contacted for details on the payment term will be aligned to meet those invoice submission. requirements. Full details of our payment terms can be found at www.astrazeneca.com/terms-and-conditions. Questions/support • All questions should be addressed to the Finance • All invoices should be submitted electronically unless Direct Helpdesk for the relevant country: constrained by country requirements or facilities. For the UK: FinanceDirect.English@astrazeneca.com • The invoice should be addressed to the correct +44 1625 231406/Mon–Fri 8am–4pm company entity and clearly state a unique invoice number. For the US: Helpdesk.USPTP@astrazeneca.com +1 800 773 7119/Mon–Fri 8am–5pm EST. Sustainability Update 2015 | 80
