GM 2015 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT ACCELERATING AHEAD How We Are Sustainably Moving The World Contents GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Accelerating Ahead How We Are Sustainably Moving The World IN THIS REPORT 8 Leadership 28 Approach 127 Reporting Chairman & CEO Message 9 Accelerating Ahead (Q&A) 30 About 129 North America 13 Sustainability Strategy 34 GRI Content Index 132 South America 15 Stakeholder Engagement 36 UNGC Index 142 Europe 17 Governance 40 142 Data International 19 Ethics 41 Financial 143 China 21 Environmental Management 44 Vehicle 144 22 At-A-Glance 47 Impacts Environmental 145 Corporate Profile 24 Customer Satisfaction 49 Social 146 Highlights 26 Fuel Efficiency & Emissions 56 Regional 147 Commitments 27 GM People 67 151 Statement of Assurance Vehicle Safety 77 Diversity & Inclusion 82 Operational Impact 95 Supply Chain 103 Community Impact 111 Innovation 121 2 Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AHEAD Lifelong Customer Relationships We listened closely to our customers – some of the most satisfied electric-vehicle owners in the industry – to help us develop the next-generation Chevrolet Volt. 2016 Chevrolet Volt THEY SAID WE DELIVERED A nearly 40% increase in electric driving range, Extended range from 38 to 53 miles* and total range more than 400 miles on a full charge and full tank of gas A reduction in the drive unit weight by Greater efficiency 100 lbs (45 kg) and up to 12% increase in drive unit efficiency A two-motor drive unit design, enabling More power 19% improvement in electric acceleration from 0-30 mph *EPA estimated 3 Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AHEAD The Next Generation of Scientists and Engineers We are addressing the talent gap in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) education – both in number of students and in proficiency – by supporting programs around the world that range from kindergarten through college level. A World In Motion® Integrates STEM education into the classrooms of GM GREEN students in K-8 grade. Mentors students through a watershed program improving scientific knowledge. Lead the Way PACE Funds STEM curriculum at Brings CAD and automotive middle and high schools. engineering tools into universities around the globe. EcoCAR FIRST® Robotics Engages college students in reducing Inspires students to become a vehicle's environmental impact innovators and enhance their through a competition on 16 North 21st century work-life skills American campuses. through team competitions. 4 Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AHEAD A Shared Economy We’re helping to build the shared economy through a host of new innovative services that move our customers from point A to point B, while addressing urbanization, congestion and air quality concerns. Maven A new brand platform that encompasses GM personal mobility efforts EN-V 2.0 into an integrated A fleet of these carand ride-share concept vehicles is program. CarUnity shared by staff and This Opel program students at Jiao Tong in Germany enables car University to navigate owners to rent out their the Shanghai own vehicles on an campus. hourly basis. Lyft We’ve formed a strategic alliance with this leading ride service to develop a network of on-demand autonomous vehicles. Maven+ A residential car-sharing program that allows users to rent GM vehicles. 5 Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AHEAD A Well-Connected World From car-sharing services to autonomous vehicles, vehicle connectivity is the foundational technology that will enable a new era of personal mobility. SUPER SAFETY CRUISE PROACTIVE ALERTS OVER-THE-AIR CUSTOMER UPDATES AUTONOMOUS EXPERIENCE URBAN MOBILITY PERSONALIZATION REMOTE FUNCTIONS 6 Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AHEAD New Levels of Performance Integrating Chevrolet’s latest in engine efficiency technology, electrification, safety and light-weighting, the 2016 Malibu Hybrid stretches a conventional gas-powered vehicle to new performance. Lithium-ion battery pack Exhaust gas heat EPA-estimated powers car up to 55 mph recovery to warm 47 mpg city fuel on electricity alone engine and cabin economy Built-in Chevrolet MyLink Nearly 300 pounds 4G LTE Wi-Fi with Apple CarPlay lighter through use and Android Auto of aluminum compatibility for high-level connectivity 2016 Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid See page 162 for footnotes. 7 Leadership GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADERSHIP IN THIS SECTION Chairman & CEO Message 9 North America 13 South America 15 Europe 17 International 19 China 21 8 Leadership > Chairman & CEO Message GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MARY BARRA, GM CHAIRMAN & CEO To Our A cross the industry and around the world, social and technological changes are transforming personal mobility. I believe the auto industry will change more in the next Stakeholders five years than it has in the last 50, as we develop new options and modes of transportation for moving us from point A to B. This gives us an unprecedented opportunity to develop cleaner, safer, smarter and more environmentally friendly vehicles for our customers. At GM, we’re excited by this opportunity and working hard to lead it. We’ve made strategic investments in technologies that are rewriting the rules of vehicle use and ownership, including connectivity, car-sharing, alternative propulsion and autonomous driving. We see tremendous potential in these technologies and huge long-term benefits for our customers and communities around the world. “I believe the auto industry will change more in the next five years DRIVING CONNECTIVITY than it has in the last 50, as we develop new options and modes of Many of today’s changes are made possible by connectivity, transportation for moving us from point A to B.” and GM’s 20 years of OnStar experience give us a commanding lead. By the end of 2016, thanks to OnStar, we expect to have 12 million connected vehicles on four continents. We’re also the industry leader in 4G LTE connectivity. In 2015, we sold seven times more 4G-equipped vehicles than the rest of the industry combined. And this is just the start of the OnStar story. Since being introduced in 1996, OnStar has now responded to more than 1.2 billion customer requests. Even more exciting is where OnStar will take us in the future, as we build on our growing connections to expand the customer experience beyond the car. SHARING OPTIONS An important change shaping personal mobility is the growth of the sharing economy. Today, an estimated 15 million people around the world use shared mobility services such as ridesharing and car-sharing. By 2020, this number is projected to be more than 50 million, and we plan to be a big part of it. In 2015, we launched car-sharing programs in Germany, China and New York City. In early 2016, we announced new programs in Chicago and Ann Arbor, Michigan, and combined all our efforts under a single brand called Maven, which offers access to highly personalized, on-demand mobility services. Among other things, Maven’s unique mobile app allows customers to bring their digital lives into the vehicle through services like OnStar, 4G LTE 9 Leadership > Chairman & CEO Message GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT wireless, Apple CarPlay, Android Auto and SiriusXM. Our goal is to offer an ownership-like experience with the convenience of car-sharing. We’re also very excited about a strategic alliance we announced in early 2016 with Lyft, the fastest-growing ridesharing company in the U.S. We believe the convergence of connectivity, Climate Change ridesharing and autonomous vehicles will shape the future of personal mobility, and Leadership we’re working across multiple fronts to create an integrated network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S. In the meantime, Lyft drivers and customers have access to our portfolio of cars and OnStar services, creating a richer ridesharing experience for drivers and passengers alike. We’re also now a preferred provider of short-term-use vehicles to Lyft drivers through a number For three consecutive years, GM has earned of U.S. rental hubs. a perfect score in the annual Climate Disclosure Project (CDP) climate change EXPANDING OUR ELECTRIC PORTFOLIO disclosure survey and been named to the Another area where we’re changing the industry is alternative propulsion. S&P Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. Last year, we introduced the second-generation Chevrolet Volt, which is more capable and efficient than the first-generation Volt in every way. Last November, it was named 2016 Green Car of the Year by Green Car Journal, the second time Volt has won this prestigious award. Building on the technology that enables Volt, we will start production this year on an all-new, all-electric vehicle called the Chevrolet Bolt EV. Bolt EV will feature a range of more than GM was the first automaker to sign the 200 miles and a price around $30,000 after government incentives. By putting truly BICEP declaration, which asserts that responding to climate change is good cutting-edge technology within the reach of so many customers, Bolt EV cracks the code business. The declaration is organized of affordability and long range. by Ceres and its Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) coalition. Beyond the Chevrolet Volt and Bolt EV, we’re working to bring other breakthrough vehicles to customers around the world. In 2016, we launched the all-new Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid, which gets combined city-highway fuel economy of 47 miles per gallon, and we plan to introduce an all-new Cadillac plug-in hybrid EV in 2017. In China, we expect to introduce 10 alternative-propulsion vehicles in the next five years, from hybrids and plug-in electrics to pure electric vehicles. We also expect to be the first foreign automaker to open a batteryassembly plant in China. GM was among 13 initial companies to ADVANCING AUTONOMOUS DRIVING join a 2015 White House initiative to Active safety technology and rapid advances in connectivity are providing the foundation demonstrate support for action on climate for increased vehicle automation. At the same time, we are developing fully autonomous change by committing $140 billion in new vehicles, which will offer customers greater convenience, lower cost and improved safety. low-carbon investments. To capitalize on GM’s deep engineering talent and speed the arrival of self-driving cars, we created a new Autonomous and Technology Vehicle Development team this past February. The team will focus on everything from electrical controls and software to safety integration and vehicle development – all crucial elements to realizing the full promise of autonomous vehicles. We’re also excited about our pending acquisition of San Francisco–based Cruise GM was the only North American automaker in 2015 to be named to the Dow Jones Automation, a leading startup in autonomous technology. Sustainability Index, the leading global benchmark for corporate sustainability. In 2017, we will take an important step toward autonomous vehicles when we introduce “Super Cruise” technology on the Cadillac CT6. Super Cruise is a highway driving automation technology that will enable hands-free driving, even in stop-and-go traffic. 10 Leadership > Chairman & CEO Message GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LEADING FROM A POSITION OF STRENGTH As we work to shape and lead these exciting changes in personal transportation, we are building on and leveraging the strength of our core business. • Financial Resources: In 2015, GM recorded its third consecutive year of record sales, generated record net income and continued to maintain a strong balance sheet, all of which gives us the capital to invest in new technologies and services. • Operating Scale: Last year, GM sold more than 9.9 million vehicles around the world, volume that provides the scale and leverage necessary for us to commercialize advanced new products and technologies. • Product Quality: Around the world, we believe GM employees are launching the best cars, trucks and crossovers we have ever built – vehicles like the Chevrolet Volt and Bolt EV I mentioned earlier; Chevrolet Camaro and Colorado, the 2016 Motor Trend Car and Truck of the Year winners; Opel Astra, the 2016 European Car of the Year; the all-new Cadillac XT5 mid-size luxury crossover; Buick Cascada, the first Buick convertible offered in the U.S. in 25 years; and many more. • Intellectual Capital: Around the world, we employ tens of thousands of researchers, scientists, engineers, IT professionals and workers with technical degrees – employees with the talent and skill to transform the industry. We are also investing millions to support science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education to prepare, train and attract future generations of talent globally. LEADING THROUGH ACTION Being a global automotive leader, we need to consider not only the vehicles we make, but also how we make them – and today that’s with ever-increasing efficiency. As detailed in this year’s report, we used less energy and water, generated less waste and emitted less carbon to manufacture a vehicle in 2015 than ever before. Our focus on efficiency also extends to materials and logistics, where we saved approximately $2 billion during 2015. These are wins for both our business and the environment. GM also continues to lead in the area of renewable energy. Today our solar, landfill gas, hydro and waste-to-energy applications make us one of the largest industrial users of renewable energy in the world. To date, we have used renewable energy to reduce the overall carbon footprint of our facilities and save more than $80 million. In 2016, we expect to add 64 megawatts of wind power to our renewable energy portfolio, offsetting part of our energy use in Mexico and at our Arlington, Texas, assembly plant. By obtaining this power through Power Purchase Agreements, we are enabling third-party investment to support the growth of the wind industry. I’m also proud to say that, through the combined efforts of our manufacturing teams and union partners, GM continues to lead the industry in landfill-free facilities, which now number 131 around the world. Our commitment to environmental stewardship and social responsibility was underscored in 2015 when we became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate responsibility initiative. As a signatory, GM pledges to support and promote the compact’s 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Our intent is not only to uphold these principles, which are closely aligned with our core values and practices, but also to seek opportunities to collaborate with others in the U.N. network to advance broader initiatives such as the organization’s Sustainable Development Goals. 11 Leadership > Chairman & CEO Message GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM is also an active participant in a number of key environmental initiatives, including action to engage in the issue of climate change. BEHAVIORS AND VALUES With so many changes transforming the global auto industry, it’s more important than ever that we maintain a consistent understanding within GM of who we are and why we are here. It starts by putting customers at the center of everything we do. Throughout the company, we listen intently to our customers’ needs. We focus on things that delight and add value for the customer, with the ultimate goal of earning customers for life. Quality and safety – both customer and workplace – are foundational commitments, never compromised. We’ve also made a clear commitment to become the industry leader in workplace and vehicle safety, and we are working diligently and making steady progress toward achieving this goal. We build relationships inside and outside the company by holding ourselves accountable and keeping commitments. Individually and collectively, around the world, we do what we say we are going to do. And we drive excellence into everything we do. We look over the horizon to anticipate what’s coming, we look for opportunities in every challenge, and we demonstrate the tenacity to win in all things. We act with integrity and take accountability for our results. I am very proud of the more than 200,000 men and women around the world who make GM what it is today. Our employees are talented, passionate and highly committed to working and winning for our customers. ACCELERATING AHEAD Going forward, we are working to develop and fully capitalize on the new technologies and services that are transforming today’s global auto industry. These changes will allow us to build on the advances we have already made to improve safety for our customers, save energy and reduce emissions. I believe the opportunities to create lasting change and environmental benefits are greater today than they have ever been, and I’m excited about our work at GM to lead the way. We look forward to partnering with you, our stakeholders, as we continue to serve and improve the communities in which we live and work around the world. Thank you for your support. Mary Barra Chairman & CEO May 10, 2016 12 Leadership > Regional Messages > North America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT North America “Putting an accessible electric vehicle like the Chevrolet Bolt EV on the road speaks directly to GM’s sustainability strategy, which extends to how we manufacture our products and how we engage our communities.” At GM North America, we continue to be focused on the customer as we work to carry out GM’s mission to transform transportation, from designing more efficient vehicles to redefining how they’re built to reduce environmental impact. These efforts allow us to deliver great cars and trucks to our customers and bottom-line benefits to investors. GMNA contributed to an overall record-setting year for GM in terms of sales and earnings. For the year, we sold 3.6 million vehicles in North America, up 6 percent from 2014 and our best total sales year since 2007. And our average transaction prices were the highest ever, up about $800 per vehicle over the previous year. That helps the bottom line. Our revenue was up 5 percent to $106.6 billion, and, most important, our margins were 10.3 percent, which means we delivered 10 percent margins to Wall Street a full year ahead of our stated commitment. In 2016 we plan to keep delivering this type of breakthrough performance. ALAN BATEY, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT & We’ll do that on the backs of our strongest product lineup ever, with such award-winning PRESIDENT, GM NORTH AMERICA vehicles as: • Chevrolet Camaro, 2016 Motor Trend Car of the Year • Chevrolet Colorado Diesel, 2016 Motor Trend Truck of the Year • Chevrolet Volt, 2016 Green Car of the Year • 2016 Cadillac CTS, a Car and Driver “10 Best” for the third year in a row In fact, all four of our brands are making waves in the marketplace and raising awareness on the street. The most recent J.D. Power Customer Service Index study ranked Buick, GMC and Chevrolet second, third and fourth behind Mini. Cadillac ranked third in luxury cars. Chevrolet had four segment-leading vehicles in the 2016 J.D. Power Vehicle Dependability Study. Buick was the third-ranked brand overall in the same study, and the Buick Verano was named the industry’s most dependable vehicle, regardless of segment. GMC moved up five spots to fifth in that study, with the Yukon winning its segment, and it was also named Most Refined Brand in the 2016 Kelley Blue Book Brand Image Awards for the third consecutive year. Cadillac launched the all-new CT6, marking its return to the global prestige segment. Cadillac will also launch the XT5 mid-size luxury crossover in 2016; GMC will have an all-new Acadia; Buick has its first convertible in a generation, the Cascada, and, later in 2016, we’ll 13 Leadership > Regional Messages > North America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT start production of the new Chevrolet Bolt EV, an all-electric vehicle with a range of more than 200 miles and a price around $30,000 after government incentives. Bolt EV puts truly cutting-edge technology within the reach of so many customers. It cracks the code of long range at an affordable price. Putting an accessible electric vehicle like the Chevrolet Bolt EV on the road speaks directly to GM’s sustainability strategy, which extends to how we manufacture our products and how we engage our communities. We’re making great progress at our own facilities and plants. It was a big year for renewable energy projects, from procuring wind to installing more solar arrays. According to a report released by the Solar Energy Industries Association, GM leads the automotive industry in solar energy use in the U.S. Here are a few recent renewable energy projects: • An 850-kW solar array at Bowling Green Assembly, home of the Chevrolet Corvette, will generate 1.2 million kWh of energy annually, enough to produce about 850 Corvettes. • An 800-kW solar array at Warren Transmission will be GM’s largest solar installation in Michigan, with 2,800 solar panels generating electricity that will go back to the grid. • A new wind deal online this year will enable GM’s Toluca Complex in Mexico, sitting on 104 acres, to be powered almost completely by renewable energy. Our Silao, San Luis Potosí and Ramos Arizpe complexes will use some of the wind power, too. Together the facilities will avoid nearly 40,000 tons of CO2 emissions annually as a result. • Arlington Assembly Plant will soon be able to build up to 125,000 trucks a year using wind power – that’s more than half of its annual truck output. • Our Fort Wayne Assembly Plant – home of the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra – ranks No. 5 among the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s top 30 generators of onsite green power. Nearly half of the plant is powered by methane captured from decomposing trash in a nearby landfill. • Five used Chevrolet Volt batteries coupled with a 74-kW solar array and two wind Landfill gas generators can provide up to 43 percent of electricity at our Fort Wayne turbines supply power to our data center and power the lights in the parking lot in Assembly Plant. Milford, Michigan. This system delivers net zero energy on an annual basis. Our North American facilities continue to reduce their energy use as well. From Wentzville to Spring Hill, six facilities met the EPA ENERGY STAR® Challenge for Industry in 2015. Five sites achieved landfill-free status in 2015, and five facilities achieved certification from the Wildlife Habitat Council for establishing a wildlife habitat on their grounds, while 10 more achieved recertification for continual improvements. Our employees are as committed to helping their communities as they are to safeguarding the environment. In 2015, more than 6,300 GMNA employees spent an astounding 53,497 hours volunteering with 62 different nonprofit organizations on 267 total projects. We truly are all in this together. At GMNA, we are focused on providing our customers the best, safest and highest-quality cars, trucks and crossovers on the road, which in turn helps us deliver the kind of results that help us do even more for our communities and explore new and innovative ways to run a sustainable business of which our customers, employees, partners and communities can be proud. The entire team at GM North America looks forward to a terrific 2016. Alan Batey Executive Vice President & President, GM North America 14 Leadership > Regional Messages > South America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT South America “GM is facing many challenges in South America, but as we move forward, we have a clear strategy to continue leveraging our leadership position in the region.” In 2015, GM established new milestones in South America, celebrating sales leadership for the 15th consecutive year and positioning the Chevrolet Onix as the best-selling car in Brazil and in the region. As we proudly strengthen our presence in the region, our commitment to sustainability remains at the core of our operations. Achieving sustainability certifications is part of GM’s responsibility, and we’ve been recognized for continuous improvement of the environment around our facilities: • Wildlife Habitat Council – Rosario achieved the “Corporate Lands for Learning” certification. • Landfill Free – Our facilities in Rosario, Gravataí, Mogi das Cruzes and Joinville are already waste-free. • Energy Star Performance – Our facilities in São Caetano do Sul, Mogi das Cruzes and Gravataí were recognized by Energy Star as energy-efficient. • LEED Gold – Joinville is still the only facility in Brazil to have this prestigious certification. BARRY ENGLE, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT & • Built-In Quality (BIQ) Level III Certification – GM Colombia was recognized by General PRESIDENT, GM SOUTH AMERICA Motors Company as one of the plants with higher levels of competitiveness, production standards and excellent quality. • Punto Verde Certification – The highest Ministry of Environment certificate in Ecuador. • Carbon footprint – In Ecuador, GM has a program to reduce the carbon footprint of both its operations and its products, offsetting the CO2 emissions of its assembly plant, through a partnership with a well-known environmental organization. THE FUTURE STARTS NOW Our responsibility is not only to contribute to the well-being of future generations, but also to proactively influence the present with innovative technologies related to fuel efficiency, urban mobility and connectivity, that help further reduce the impact of our industry on the environment while meeting customer expectations. Technologies like OnStar and MyLink, developed by GM and already offered in most countries in the region, are changing the face of urban mobility, creating more conscious drivers, consuming less fuel and producing less CO2 just by making smarter daily routes. In Ecuador, we are moving forward with an initiative called, “Conductor Amigo,” for continuous learning for taxi drivers. This training program for taxi drivers will improve the quality of their services and strengthen the development of tourism, making an impact in the community with a multiplier effect on income generation. In Brazil, we just launched a pilot of “MAVEN,” 15 Leadership > Regional Messages > South America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT our innovative car-sharing program that is changing how people are rethinking urban mobility in the cities. The initiative allows employees to rent Chevrolet cars for the time they need, as long as they need, for less than it would cost to own a car. In Argentina, we started the “Chevrolet Bike,” a program with bicycles designed to use in the cities, the mountains and for children; bikes are a complement to the car and a quick alternative to get around in a healthy and sustainable style. GM is facing many challenges in South America, but as we move forward, we have a clear strategy to continue leveraging our leadership position in the region. From 2014 to 2019, GM aims to invest BRL 13 billion only in Brazil, to renew the product portfolio and introduce new technologies in order to offer compelling cars to our customers in the region. We are also investing USD 740 million through 2016 in Argentina for the production of a new global model and construction of a new powertrain plant. In Ecuador, we are investing more than USD 70 million in the next three years in the development of new products, safety, efficiency and quality of the models assembled in the local plant. The South American market is strategic for GM, and we reached some important milestones in several areas this past year: • Improvement in our local process in logistics and quality and enhancing our compliance with extensive internal and external metrics, including expansion of our certified facilities to satisfy several international standards. • An extensive Dealers Program, the Chevrolet University, designed to train and develop the network by emphasizing our core messages and philosophy to earn customers for life. • Continuous positive results in customer satisfaction surveys, in which several countries exceeded 86 percent of customers completely satisfied with their shopping experience and after-sales service – record results for the region. For the first time in Brazil, the rate of satisfaction with our services was higher than that for sales – 86.9 percent for services and 85.5 percent for sales. This is recognition that our strategy to focus on the consumer is the right way to go. Participants in Chevrolet University, which strengthens the technical capacity and EARNING CUSTOMERS FOR LIFE employment of sponsored students. With our continuous drive to deliver the best products, and thanks to our excellent product portfolio and comprehensive dealer network, we’ve kept sales leadership for the 15th consecutive year. We’re determined to leverage the Chevrolet brand as one of the most valued by customers in the region. To lead our new product portfolio renewal, we have many challenges ahead. But, to our advantage, the next generation of our vehicles makes use of lighter materials and offers greater fuel efficiency, not only to comply with emission standards in the various countries, but also to lead the way in the industry. We’re also looking into increasing productivity, reducing costs and innovating in design, engineering, development of new suppliers and manufacturing, to be more competitive in a challenging market. Since our arrival in South America, we have pioneered the industry and led the market with technologies, innovative products designed to satisfy our customers, services focused on delivering high-quality cars and trucks, and exemplary after-sales connections that resulted in a growing brand and customer base. We at Chevrolet continue to inspire passion, customer loyalty and recognition of our innovative products. We want to keep earning customers for life. Barry Engle Executive Vice President & President, GM South America 16 Leadership > Regional Messages > Europe GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Europe “As ever, we endeavour to minimise our environmental footprint, promoting energy diversity and energy efficiency, and reduce the amount of nature’s resources we use in our business operations.” T here is no doubt that 2015 was a very challenging year not just for Opel/Vauxhall, but for the automotive industry as a whole, and indeed the European community. Our industry has come under severe scrutiny following the emissions scandal that surfaced in September, and cast a shadow of suspicion over the whole of the industry. Nevertheless, we are on the threshold of the biggest turnaround in the European automotive industry. As ever, we endeavour to minimise our environmental footprint, promoting energy diversity and energy efficiency, and reduce the amount of nature’s resources we use in our business operations. I am proud to say that all Opel/Vauxhall manufacturing plants now send zero waste to landfill, making Europe the first global GM region to achieve 100 percent landfillfree status in its manufacturing processes. We are also continually looking to develop and bring to market new and innovative products and technologies that reduce the emissions of our vehicles and enhance our customers’ experience of Opel/Vauxhall. The safety of our employees is of paramount importance. We wholeheartedly support Mary KARL-THOMAS NEUMANN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT & Barra’s campaign to “Live values that return people home safely. Every person. Every site. PRESIDENT, GM EUROPE Every day.” Safety is the overriding priority. Taking responsibility and leading by example are CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT behaviors we stress with our employees. Since 2014 across the region we drive home the BOARD OF OPEL GROUP GMBH point through a series of focused activities during Global Safety Week. In 2015 Opel/Vauxhall achieved its best European sales for four years, delivering more than 1.1 million vehicles despite having taken the strategic decision to withdraw from the Russian market. This represents an increase of over 35,000 units, or 3.3 percent, versus 2014, and our market share increased for the third year in a row to 5.8 percent. Commercial vehicles posted the highest sales and market share results since 2008, with sales up 24 percent to over 100,000 units. We are well into the biggest model offensive in our history that will include 29 new models by 2020, and 2015 saw the launch of the best model we have ever built, the new Astra. It has been fantastically received, claiming the European Golden Steering Wheel 2015 award as well as many national awards, and it was named European Car of the Year 2016 at the Geneva Motor Show. Part of our focus going forward will be the introduction of the game-changing EV, the Ampera-e, opening the road to electric mobility by breaking down the barriers of high price and short driving range. 17 Leadership > Regional Messages > Europe GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In the future, however, it will be increasingly important to develop from a product manufacturer to a mobility service provider. We recognise this and launched our own car-sharing scheme in 2015 called CarUnity. We also took a major step forward in automotive connectivity by introducing our personal connectivity and service assistant OnStar to Europe in 2015. These two new services will play an important role in digitalizing the Opel brand. Over the next couple of years the legislative landscape in terms of vehicle emissions will change significantly, with the current test cycle (NEDC) scheduled to be replaced by a new one (WLTP) in 2017 that will feature an element of real world driving. We strongly believe that the industry has to regain trust by increasing transparency with customers and authorities, and that is why we announced in December that we are voluntarily taking the next step to improve transparency and meet future emission protocols. Starting with the new Opel Astra from June 2016 onwards, and in addition to the official fuel consumption and CO2 information, we will publish fuel consumption numbers, reflecting different driving behaviour recorded under the WLTP test cycle. From August 2016 onwards, we will also implement an initiative to improve NOx emissions on SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) diesel applications in new vehicles. This is a voluntary and early intermediate step toward the so-called RDE (Real Driving Emissions) legislation that goes into effect in September 2017. The start of the implementation for this Euro 6 SCR improvement in new vehicles is currently scheduled for August 2016. In addition, this activity also includes a voluntary customer satisfaction field action that will involve Euro 6 SCR vehicles that are already on the road in Europe. Furthermore, starting in 2018, the entire diesel fleet Opel launched its car-sharing program, will feature SCR technology. We are also offering to provide the regulatory authorities with CarUnity, in Germany during 2015. the engine calibration strategies, which should serve as the basis for a proactive dialogue. Discussions are already underway regarding the EU’s post-2020 CO2 emissions targets. Rather than just focusing on new registrations, we propose a more integrated solution where fuel is included in the EU ETS, so the responsibility for the actual emissions is passed on to the end user, thereby having a greater impact on reducing actual emissions. Two massive issues we are facing in Europe are those of critical youth unemployment and the ever-worsening refugee crisis. These are not just political challenges – they affect the economy, and therefore in 2015 Opel spearheaded an initiative called InCharge, aimed at utilizing in-house company know-how in countering youth unemployment and integrating refugees into the German employment market. One hundred fifty of our own employees in Germany have volunteered to act as mentors for 150 refugees to help integrate them into the job market. It really is a true representation of serving and improving the communities in which we live and work and one of which I am personally very proud. So as you can see not only are we addressing the significant issues currently facing Europe, the car industry and Opel/Vauxhall, we are also looking forward to design and manufacture better, safer and more efficient products in a more environmentally friendly manner. Karl-Thomas Neumann Executive Vice President & President, GM Europe Chairman of the Management Board of Opel Group GmbH 18 Leadership > Regional Messages > International GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT International “A combination of improving infrastructure, growth in middle class purchasing power and increasing connectivity are driving mobility trends across the region.” GM International (GMI) is our company’s most diverse region, with more than 100 markets in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa. It includes both mature markets such as Australia and South Korea and high-potential growth markets ranging from India to Kenya and markets in the Middle East. In 2015, more than 794,000 vehicles were sold by our team in GMI as we adjusted our business strategy to adapt to a “new normal” of foreign exchange fluctuations, low oil prices, and social and political instability. Across emerging markets in our region, we continue to see significant untapped demand for four-wheel transportation. A combination of improving infrastructure, growth in middle class purchasing power and increasing connectivity are driving mobility trends across the region. GMI is undergoing a transformation led by an unprecedented product offensive. In 2016, our markets are introducing 24 vehicles that take design, technology and competitiveness to a STEFAN JACOBY, EXECUTIVE new level in their segments. By 2018, half of the products in our region’s showrooms will be VICE PRESIDENT & PRESIDENT, GM INTERNATIONAL completely new. We are leveraging outstanding local companies, such as our technology partner LG in South Korea, for GM’s current and next-generation vehicles. We are backing up our new products with a renewed focus on the customer. In 2015, we began rolling out Chevrolet Complete Care at our dealerships to give our customers an unmatched level of service. We also introduced the I CARE Culture Award to recognize our employees and dealers who go the extra mile for the men and women who buy our vehicles. At the same time, we are focused on building a strong base of local talent. This is critical for understanding new industry trends. A great example is GM India, which is welcoming about 70 graduates from tier-one engineering and business colleges. Another means of promoting our brands and strengthening our positive reputation is corporate social responsibility. This is helping Drive a Better Tomorrow – one that is safer, smarter and healthier – for our customers, stakeholders and employees. 19 Leadership > Regional Messages > International GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I want to share just a few of the many community and socially responsible activities from across GMI in 2015. To support a safer community, GM East Africa partnered with the Automobile Association of Kenya in the Save Kids Lives educational initiative, while GM Korea and the local arm of Safe Kids provided blind zone safety classes. Following natural disasters in Vanuatu and Myanmar, GMI donated vehicles for emergency relief, while our teams in India and Australia donated money and supplies to those impacted by a massive earthquake in Nepal. To support a smarter community, GM East Africa and GM South Africa helped rebuild schools, Chevrolet Thailand and GM India adopted classes at underprivileged schools, and GM Vietnam presented Chevrolet scholarships to 41 primary and middle school students. To support a healthier community, we leveraged Chevrolet’s sponsorship of Manchester United by taking children from Thailand and India to Manchester as part of the Beautiful GM Korea was recognized in 2015 for its Possibilities Program. We also continued supporting One World Play Project, which is corporate social responsibility leadership donating and distributing 2 million nearly indestructible footballs. In the same spirit, GM as part of the KCCI Forbes CSR Awards. Thailand and GM Indonesia helped refurbish local football pitches, GM Egypt organized the Junior Football league for orphans, and GM Holden launched the Home Ground Advantage to support grassroots community sports across Australia. Our employees have been actively involved in many of our CSR activities. GMI’s Singapore headquarters staff donated toys to the Toys for Tots Program in Southeast Asia, GM GBS Philippines employees reached out to street children in Manila, and employees in the Middle East helped hand out thousands of hot meals to laborers during Ramadan. For their efforts, GM Korea won the Grand Prize in the Global Contribution category at the 2015 KCCI Forbes CSR Awards, while GM Thailand and GM Vietnam were honored by the American Chamber of Commerce in their respective markets for their commitment to CSR. This is an exciting time for GMI. Our company and employees have a renewed focus on putting the customer at the center of everything we do while extending a helping hand to the communities where we live and work. Stefan Jacoby Executive Vice President & President, GM International 20 Leadership > Regional Messages > China GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT China “GM is intent on helping disrupt the industry to drive us to tomorrow and shape the future of transportation in our company’s largest market.” C hina has been the world’s largest vehicle market since 2009 and GM’s largest market since 2010. As we have maintained our leadership position in China, GM has also maintained our support of the local community, as well as our focus on the sustainable development of the automotive industry. To promote a safer and healthier community, we carried out the GM China Safe Kids Safe Ride program in 2015 for the second consecutive year with 30 activities at kindergartens and primary schools. GM employees across China got involved, volunteering more than 2,300 hours of their time. In addition, we extended our support of the Partners for the Advancement of Collaborative Engineering Education (PACE) program with the establishment of a PACE Center at Hunan University in central China to train the next generation of industry professionals. Meanwhile, staff from GM and our joint ventures once again generously supported the Chevrolet Red MATT TSIEN, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT & PRESIDENT, GM CHINA Chalk Program as volunteer teachers in disadvantaged communities. While doing our part to address society’s current needs, GM is committed to defining and leading the future of personal mobility through the creation of an entirely new transportation business model. We are not just talking about it. We are driving the development of the technology and concepts necessary to support it. Our China operations have access to a broad array of GM solutions. They range from light electrification to pure electric vehicle technology and from connected vehicle to car-sharing concepts. We are being supported by outstanding facilities such as the state-of-the-art battery lab at the GM China Advanced Technical Center in Shanghai and innovative partnerships across the industry value chain. GM and our manufacturing joint ventures have begun introducing more than 10 new energy vehicles (NEVs) in China between 2016 and 2020 – about a sixth of our total new entries during the five-year period. These NEVs represent our popular Chevrolet, Buick, Cadillac and Baojun brands. 21 Leadership > Regional Messages > China GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition, GM sees great potential for V2X connected vehicle technology here in China to help reduce congestion and accidents. We will continue exploring opportunities on our own and supporting the work of organizations like SAE-China and C-ITS, which are developing a V2X application standard. To explore opportunities in car sharing, a fleet of 16 Chevrolet EN-V 2.0 electric concept vehicles went into service at Shanghai Jiao Tong University in 2015. The two-year program is generating more than 1,000 rentals per month by university faculty and students while providing valuable learnings. GM is receiving additional insights into the car-sharing user experience through a carpooling pilot program introduced for our employees based in Shanghai. Staff members are conveniently arranging rides with one another using a self-developed mobile app. The Chevrolet EN-V 2.0 electric concept vehicle is We now believe that we have the real potential to make the vision GM showed the world the basis of a sharing pilot program at Jiao Tong at Expo 2010 in Shanghai a reality. It is a future of the automobile that will be free from University in Shanghai. petroleum, free from emissions, free from congestion and free from accidents. GM is intent on helping disrupt the industry to drive us to tomorrow and shape the future of transportation in our company’s largest market. We will also continue contributing to local talent development at universities and remote rural schools to support our company’s sustainable long-term growth in China. For GM China, the best is yet to come. Matt Tsien Executive Vice President & President, GM China 22 At-A-Glance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AT-A-GLANCE IN THIS SECTION Corporate Profile 24 Highlights 26 Commitments 27 23 At-A-Glance > Corporate Profile GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Profile OUR PURPOSE WHO WE ARE AND WHY WE ARE HERE We earn Our brands We translate We serve and improve We are building customers inspire passion breakthrough the communities in the most valued for life and loyalty technologies into which we live and work automotive vehicles and experiences around the world company that people love OUR VALUES CUSTOMERS RELATIONSHIPS EXCELLENCE We put the customer at the center of Our success depends on our relationships We act with integrity. We are driven by everything we do. We listen intently to inside and outside the company. We ingenuity and innovation. We have the courage our customers’ needs. Each interaction encourage diverse thinking and to do what’s difficult. Each of us takes matters. Safety and quality are foundational collaboration from the world to create accountability for results and has the commitments, never compromised. great customer experiences. tenacity to win. OUR BRANDS Chevrolet Buick GMC Cadillac Opel Vauxhall Holden Baojun Wuling Jiefang OUR REACH 140+ COUNTRIES #7 EUROPE Market Share #1 NORTH #1 AMERICA CHINA #1 #2 SOUTH ASIA, AMERICA MIDDLE EAST, AFRICA 24 At-A-Glance > Corporate Profile GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR SALES 2015 SALES BY REGION* 2015 TOTAL SALES* U.S. SALES AS A PERCENTAGE (in millions) (millions of units) OF INDUSTRY 9.7 9.9 9.9+ 30% Cars 41% Trucks 29% North America 60.5% Europe 19.2% International 10.0% 2013 2014 2015 South America 10.3% Crossovers *Wholesale vehicle sales *Retail vehicle sales OUR DISTRIBUTION AUTHORIZED DEALERSHIPS BY REGION FLEET SALES AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL GLOBAL SALES North America 4,886 Europe 6,330 18.1% International 7,755 South America 1,281 We met the local sales and service needs of both individual consumers and fleet customers through our global network of independent dealers. OUR PEOPLE 2015 EMPLOYEES BY REGION 2015 TOTAL EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE EMPLOYEES BY TYPE North America 115,000 215,000 Europe 36,000 Hourly 61% International 32,000 Salaried 39% South America 24,000 GM Financial 8,000 25 At-A-Glance > Highlights GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 During 2015, we worked to strengthen our company, serve our customers and build better communities across a broad spectrum of Highlights efforts – all with a goal to help move the world more sustainably. 72% We garnered a record response from invited suppliers to GM was the only automaker to be named to the 2015 participate in our CDP Supply Chain initiative, a voluntary Dow Jones Sustainability Index for North America, the program to help increase engagement with suppliers about leading global benchmark for corporate sustainability. environmental performance and disclosure. 100% 215,000 Employees CDP, the world’s only global environmental disclosure Our employee engagement survey has been expanded system, awarded GM perfect scores on climate change to include hourly employees in order to have a more data disclosure. comprehensive view of our global workforce. American Business 9 Act on Climate Pledge The number of U.S. models offering an EPA-estimated 40 mpg highway or better. In advance of COP21, GM was one of 13 initial companies to commit to this White House initiative, which addresses 53 EV Miles* climate change through more than That's the EPA-estimated all-electric driving range of the 1,600 megawatts of new renewable customer-inspired 2016 Chevrolet Volt. In addition to energy initiatives collectively. introducing this next-generation, extended-range vehicle in 2015, we also announced that the all-electric Chevrolet Bolt EV will begin production in 2016. UNGC GM became a signatory to the world’s largest corporate 106 MW responsibility initiative, pledging to uphold 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and antiOur renewable energy use continues to climb. GM is the corruption. number one automotive user of solar and is among the top 25 solar-powered companies in the U.S. $500 Million 35,000+ Our investment in Lyft is focused on creating an integrated network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S., The number of students impacted by A World in Motion and and we introduced Maven, a carand ride-sharing platform FIRST Robotics, just two of the dozens of STEM education focused on personalizing the shared car experience. programs we support around the world. 1.2 Billion 57 Models Received the highest overall vehicle score in regional new That’s the number of customer interactions car assessments in our five largest markets for 2015. that OnStar has surpassed since its inception nearly two decades ago. 50% 131 We’re halfway toward reaching our goal of securing wildlife habitat certifications, or an equivalent certification, at each The number of GM facilities that have achieved of our manufacturing sites by 2020. landfill-free certification worldwide – the most of any automaker – through the end of 2015. 2.5+ Million Vehicles with OnStar 4G LTE connectivity – the largest deployment in the industry. *EPA-estimated all-electric miles 26 At-A-Glance > Commitments GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Commitments PRODUCT COMMITMENTS U.S. ELECTRIFICATION* MOBILE EMISSIONS U.S. FUEL ECONOMY 500,000 vehicles on the road in the U.S. with Reduce the average carbon emissions of U.S. GM will double the number of U.S. models some form of electrification by 2017. fleet by 15 percent by 2016; Opel/Vauxhall that can achieve an EPA-estimated 40 mpg fleet in Europe by 27 percent by 2021; and highway or better by 2017. China fleet 28 percent by 2020. 196,861 9 180,834 153,034 U.S. Europe China 6 Goal 15.0% 27.0% 28.0% 5 2015 7.4% 5.7% 4.3%** Base 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 *Includes all eAssist, two-mode hybrid, extended-range **The 2015 number for China is based on an internal electric vehicle and electric vehicle models since model preliminary assessment of GM data; the confirmed year 2010. final number will be available later in 2016. 2020 MANUFACTURING COMMITMENTS ENERGY INTENSITY RENEWABLE ENERGY CARBON INTENSITY 20% 125MW 20% 125.0 105.2 106.6 metric tons CO2e/vehicle 2.44 2.37 2.30 73.0 0.92 0.90 2.22 2.20 66.2 0.88 2.09 55.0 62.3 0.87 0.84 MWh/vehicle 1.97 0.78 0.74 MW 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Our facilities have reduced energy intensity Our renewable energy portfolio, which A 15 percent reduction in carbon intensity by 14.3 percent since 2010 in part due to our includes solar, landfill gas, hydro and since 2010 by our facilities has closely tracked leadership in a number of external energy waste-to-energy, has more than doubled with improvements in energy efficiency. management programs. its generating capacity during the past six years. 27 At-A-Glance > Commitments GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VOC EMISSIONS WATER INTENSITY WASTE INTENSITY 10% 15% 40% 4.77 310 303 3.7 4.69 287 4.62 263 3.5 3.5 246 243 3.4 4.39 3.3 4.31 4.31 186 m3/vehicle 3.1 kg/vehicle kg/vehicle 3.0 4.09 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Since 2010, we have lowered our VOC While we manage water at the local facility As we have increased the number of landfillemissions by 19 percent, well ahead of level, our global operational footprint has free sites around the world, we have been our 2020 goal. reduced water intensity by nearly 10 percent able to decrease our waste intensity by Commitment achieved in 2013. over the past six years. nearly 22 percent over the past six years. LANDFILL-FREE SITES COMMUNITY OUTREACH WILDLIFE HABITATS 131 Sites 46 100% 131 46 111 122 40 26 Participation in 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 We are on track toward our goal to achieve Our goal is to promote and engage We are working to improve wildlife habitats 100 landfill-free manufacturing sites and community outreach on environmental by having a Wildlife Habitat Certification 50 nonmanufacturing sites by 2020. and energy issues by completing an (or equivalent) at each GM manufacturing outreach activity at all plants on an site where feasible by 2020. annual basis. See page 162 for footnotes regarding Our Commitment data. 28 Approach GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH IN THIS SECTION Accelerating Ahead (Q&A) 30 Sustainability Strategy 34 Stakeholder Engagement 36 Governance 40 Ethics 41 Environmental Management 44 29 Approach > Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Accelerating Ahead Q How do you define sustainability at GM? General Motors’ Director of A We know that for some stakeholders, “sustainability” is identified as being focused primarily on environmental impacts. As the content of this report reflects, we believe sustainability encompasses a wide range of social and economic issues, as well as Sustainability, David Tulauskas, environmental ones. GM’s global impact certainly includes the environmental performance discusses topics that are top-ofof our vehicles and our facilities, but it goes much further. So we tend to think about our mind with our stakeholders. challenges and opportunities in a very holistic way. It's pretty clear that Earth – its people and its environment – make up one big shared system. GM has a role to play to make that system work more effectively for all of us. Q How does that view, as well as your strategy, align with support of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)? A GM has long approached sustainability through a broad lens, with a strong emphasis on social, economic and environmental issues. The SDGs do a really good job of showing the connections between all of these interrelated dynamics. It’s clear that you cannot really achieve one SDG without working on them all. Today, for businesses like GM, there are much broader expectations for us to tackle problems beyond our traditional fence lines, and even our communities, and to take on a larger role to address these connected issues. That goes beyond the more traditional, obvious issues and ones that impact our bottom line. So we’re looking closely at the SDGs and how we can best integrate them into our strategy going forward. And we want to do it in a way that also David Tulauskas works in concert with governments and their goals, while ensuring that our priorities Director, GM Sustainability align with theirs. 30 Approach > Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Q Thinking about emerging sustainability trends, and some of the areas that are not traditionally associated with the automotive industry, which ones are the most relevant? A One notable area is deforestation, and the impact our supply chain has on the destruction of forests. Materials we use in manufacturing vehicles – mainly rubber and leather – can contribute to these impacts. The leather we use is a byproduct of beef agriculture. In some instances that could mean cutting down forests for grazing land. Our supply chain is certainly not the primary driver of cattle-related deforestation – but we recognize the connection. So as we think about selecting materials in our vehicles, and as consumers increasingly make purchase decisions based on sustainability considerations, we need to become more focused on those impacts and ways to mitigate them. Q Are there other trends that present opportunities to drive profitability and strengthen your business? A We see a lot of opportunity in the circular economy – going beyond waste reduction and recycling to find new ways to keep the molecules in materials at their highest value of circulation. One example is how we reuse batteries from the Chevy Volt that, with minimal processing, can become a new energy storage unit for renewable energy in our data center. Even more intriguing is to look at our manufacturing processes through that prism. For example, when we’re manufacturing the door of a pickup truck, there is a large piece of steel that is stamped out to create the window opening. The traditional approach would be to sell that piece for scrap where it is melted down, which requires a lot of energy to transport and process. Instead we’re looking at ways to sell those openings in their Five used Volt batteries help to power the GM existing state, to repackage them for customers that need cold rolled steel for industrial Enterprise Data Center in Milford, Michigan. or consumer products. When you reconsider your manufacturing processes in that way, it opens up a lot of opportunity to create new revenue streams and improve cost efficiency while also further reducing environmental impacts. Q A very significant 2015 event that will have broad global impact was COP21, which resulted in the Paris Agreement on the reduction of climate change. What role did GM play in the conference, and how will you be affected? A GM has advocated for climate policy for quite some time, so we were pleased to see nearly 200 parties come together to form consensus and adopt this agreement. It will accelerate the need for climate policy at the country level, and that’s something we’ve been advocating for. In terms of GM’s role, we were a signatory to the American Business Climate Pledge facilitated by the White House. In addition, our Chairman & CEO Mary Barra was one of 12 leaders in the automotive industry to sign a statement facilitated by the World Economic Forum in support of a positive outcome in Paris and for putting a value on carbon. Moreover, we’ve said that we see this as a road through Paris, not a road to Paris that ends there. Pre-production for the all-new 2017 As far as the impact of the Paris Agreement on our business, it’s important to note that we Chevrolet Bolt EV is underway. are already a heavily regulated industry – more than 90 percent of our global sales are regulated in terms of fuel economy and GHG emissions. So we don’t anticipate a major new impact on sales of our products from COP21. But, longer term and more strategically, we have spoken out for putting a value on carbon and for climate policy that provides long-term stability in these markets so we can plan accordingly. The Paris Agreement adds momentum to reaching those objectives. 31 Approach > Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Q How will the Agreement influence the way you manage your operating footprint? A It really underscores and reinforces our commitment to renewable energy. GM is already one of the top industrial users of renewables in the U.S. as well as globally. Well before Paris we were accelerating our efforts in this arena, and we’ve demonstrated there is a clear business case to do so. Today our strategy calls on us to build on that leadership. And one of the big takeaways from Paris was the very influential role of nonstate actors in this process, including businesses like GM, but also cities, the Council of Mayors and others. It’s a recognition that to achieve these objectives, to build the resilience of communities and to help them flourish, a lot of this work has to happen at the local level–one community and one company at a time. We also believe that this broader involvement helped give political leaders the confidence to move forward with the Agreement. GM’s Arlington Assembly Plant will soon be able to build up to 125,000 trucks a year using wind power from turbines. Q 2016 marks the beginning of the joint process by NHTSA and the EPA to conduct a mid-term evaluation of the CAFE and GHG fuel economy standards for model years 2017-2025. As that initiative, which will produce a final rule by those agencies, gets underway, what is GM’s position? A We’re taking the same collaborative approach we took five years ago which resulted in GM’s agreement with and support for the program established at that time. We were part of the process and part of the solution and expect to play that role again. So we’ve already begun to engage key stakeholders to share our perspective and assure that the outcome continues to focus on vehicles that consumers want to drive. As this process unfolds, we think it is very important to try to achieve a fully harmonized regulatory program that aligns NHTSA’s fuel economy standards with the EPA’s GHG regulations. Today those regulations are not fully aligned, and harmonizing those requirements would be an important step forward that would benefit not just manufacturers, but also consumers and communities as well. Q In a market environment where the price of oil has dropped dramatically and gasoline is much cheaper at the pump, how is that affecting your commitment to electrification? What are you doing to encourage EV sales in this more challenging environment? A We have made a long-term commitment to electrification, and the market price of oil has not changed that commitment whatsoever. We see lower gasoline prices as a temporary phenomenon, and if history teaches us anything, it’s that energy market fluctuations – both up and down – are unpredictable. Moreover, the price of gas is not cheap everywhere, and in markets like Europe and China it’s still quite expensive. So our commitment is unchanged, and we’re focused on designing, engineering and marketing EVs that will resonate with customers. We remain excited about the opportunity to lead in this space. 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EV (Pre-Production Vehicle) 32 Approach > Accelerating Ahead GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Q There is increasing interest among consumers and the media in autonomous vehicles. How do you see autonomous technology progressing, and what are the big challenges? A From strictly a technology perspective, many of the systems are well into development. But for autonomous vehicles to be viable on a mass market scale, there are a host of issues beyond technology that have to be addressed. Integrating the autonomous systems with the vehicle and with the infrastructure, developing a whole new set of traffic laws, policies and regulations, addressing insurance and liability issues – these are all areas where a lot of work remains to be done. There’s a great deal of learning we still need to do. The opportunity is exciting, and autonomous vehicles are on the horizon, but it’s going to take time. Autonomous driving builds upon GM’s active safety technologies. 33 Approach > Sustainability Strategy GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Chevrolet Spark EV Sustainability O ur customers expect us to provide them with mobility that is safe, reliable and unencumbered, and to address societal issues that impact these imperatives like Strategy congestion, pollution and traffic accidents. For GM to thrive well into the future, we have a responsibility to provide solutions that help address these issues. We are developing solutions against the backdrop of a significant period of change in the automotive industry. In fact, we expect our industry to change more in the next five years than it has in the previous 50 years, as the nature of customer interaction evolves, the “I'm listening to customers for insights... importance of environmental efficiency increases, technology reshapes the industry, and and what they want from the auto global growth shifts to new markets. Our opportunity is to lead change and be a driving industry is clear. They want unfettered force in transforming transportation. personal mobility. More specifically, they expect us to help mitigate... if not Through the lens of sustainability, we view industry challenges and change as new business eliminate... the congestion... pollution... opportunities that can drive additional value for our customers. We call this customerand traffic accidents that are the driven sustainability. From designing more fuel-efficient vehicles and deploying advanceddownsides of automobiles. To me, safety technologies to being the workplace of choice for employees and the neighbor of these aren't noble causes. They are choice for communities, we make strategic decisions based on how the outcomes ultimately imperatives. If we expect our industry translate into value for our customers. In the process, we’re executing key business imperatives to thrive well into the future, we have that are “sustainable” rather than viewing sustainability as a separate corporate initiative. to provide solutions.” This approach creates positive benefits for our stakeholders, drives long-term success for GM – Mary Barra and enables each employee at every level of our company to help build value for the customer. GM Chairman & CEO We measure value creation through sustainability in three primary ways: • Top-line growth opportunities, such as vehicle purchases by environmentally conscientious consumers who want to do business with a company viewed as socially responsible, new business models based on emerging urban mobility trends, and new revenue streams from proactive waste management activity. • Bottom-line improvements realized by taking a systemic approach to our operations and business processes that eliminate cost, drive efficiency and increase productivity. 34 Approach > Sustainability Strategy GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Risk mitigation, when matters of reputational integrity are involved or where we anticipate potential operational disruptions due to resource scarcity, such as the use of rare earth minerals. A STRATEGY OF INTEGRATION We are focused on further integrating sustainability into our business through GM’s Purpose and Values. In particular, our work is driven by GM’s five corporate strategic priorities. In the context of serving customers and improving communities, the opportunity to create value and have a positive impact on the world is significant. The following illustrates how environmental and social sustainability can help drive these priorities. EARN GROW OUR LEAD IN DRIVE CORE CULTURE CUSTOMERS BRANDS TECHNOLOGY & EFFICIENCIES TO WIN FOR LIFE INNOVATION SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Surpassing Offering sustainable Leveraging Minimizing the Building a culture customer vehicle choices advanced impact of our that promotes expectations for that meet the technologies to operations and our values quality & safety. diverse needs of enhance fuel supply chain. of customers, customers. economy, safety relationships and and customer excellence. connectivity. We aspire to serve customers and improve communities with a zero-impact mindset. And our work is grounded in our values, with the customer as our compass to guide decisions, with strong and transparent stakeholder relationships, and with excellence as our standard. 35 Approach > Stakeholder Engagement GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A group of fleet customers, invited to our Match Up @ Milford Fleet team event, test driving the Chevrolet Bolt EV (pre-production model). Stakeholder O ur success depends on our relationships inside and outside the company and our engagement is driven by this core value. We embrace diverse thinking and Engagement collaboration in our global sustainability efforts to create great customer experiences. We have identified our primary stakeholders as: • Customers, both individual and fleet • Dealers and dealer councils • Employees, both current and potential new talent • Investors and analysts • Suppliers, Tier I and beyond • Communities in which we operate • Governments at the national, state/provincial and local levels • Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) We engage these stakeholders in a variety of ways, all with the goal of effectively facilitating a meaningful dialogue. Brand marketing, investor relations, global purchasing, human resources, labor relations and government relations are some of the GM functions that engage stakeholders on a regular basis to understand and address concerns, as well as to advance social and environmental goals. Forms of engagement include, but are not limited to, quantitative consumer research studies, employee focus groups, congressional testimony, blog posts and community meetings. As an automotive company, “ride and drive” events are a popular forum for engaging with stakeholders. For instance, recently we hosted more than 100 stakeholders, representing over 30 organizations, in Washington, D.C., to ride and drive in the new 2016 Chevrolet Volt, and to receive a detailed technical review of the next addition to our electric vehicle portfolio, the Chevrolet Bolt EV. Also during 2015, we observed a growing trend of increased interest in environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance among investors and were pleased to meet with several of GM’s largest shareholders on ESG issues. 36 Approach > Stakeholder Engagement GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER STRATEGY Since the formation of our global sustainability function six years ago, we have partnered with Ceres, a nonprofit organization advocating for corporate sustainability leadership, to help us regularly engage with an external sustainability stakeholder advisory group. This group consists of NGOs, socially conscious investors, a peer company and a supplier, to help guide our strategy and focus, as well as to provide informed feedback about opportunities and challenges. A key outcome of our work with Ceres was becoming the only automaker signatory to date of the Climate Declaration, which asserts that there is economic opportunity in addressing climate change. The declaration is an initiative of Ceres’ Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy (BICEP) and calls for policymakers to address climate change by promoting clean energy, boosting efficiency and limiting carbon emissions. In 2015, GM was one of the initial 13 companies to sign the American Business Act on Climate Pledge, a White House initiative calling for a strong outcome in advance of the Paris climate conference, COP21. Companies who signed the act also pledged to reduce emissions, increase low-carbon investments, deploy more clean energy and build more sustainable businesses. Our engagement with Ceres demonstrates the effectiveness of our strategy to work with the most impactful organizations and pursue more meaningful partnerships around sustainability issues that are critical to our business. In addition to Ceres, we work closely with organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the World Resources Institute (WRI) to provide guidance on a range of issues, such as renewable energy, climate change, water risk management, environmental education and sustainable transportation. We partnered, for example, in 2015 with WRI, the Global Environmental & Technology Foundation and Dow to conduct a water risk workshop for internal and external stakeholders. One outcome of our work with these two organizations has been as an initial signatory of the Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles, which were developed by WRI and WWF. The Principles provide a clear set of guidelines to help utilities and renewable energy providers understand how they can help make renewable energy investments easier for companies and meet rising demand. GM is also a founding member of the Business Renewables Center, a collaborative platform launched in January 2015 by the Rocky Mountain Institute. The center aims to accelerate corporate renewable energy procurement with a goal of nearly doubling U.S. capacity of wind and solar energy by 2025. The Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles helped set the framework for this partnership and guides the Business Renewables Center. 37 Approach > Stakeholder Engagement GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We also continue to participate in key stakeholder dialogues around The 3% Solution: Driving Profits Through Carbon Reduction, an effort led by CDP and WWF to mobilize U.S. industry to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in line with scientific targets while capturing significant savings and driving business value. In collaboration with McKinsey & Company and Point380, WWF and CDP use The 3% Solution to illustrate how the private sector could save up to $780 billion over 10 years by reducing emissions by an average of We also continue to participate in 3 percent annually and increasing energy efficiency investments by a mere 1.6 percentage key stakeholder dialogues around points. GM supports this initiative and is exploring how it can inform the next generation of The 3% Solution: Driving Profits goals. More information on The 3% Solution can be found at www.the3percentsolution.org. Through Carbon Reduction, an effort led by CDP and WWF to mobilize U.S. Another important forum for stakeholder engagement in recent years has been through the industry to reduce greenhouse gas Chevy Carbon Reduction Initiative. This $40 million commitment by Chevrolet reached its (GHG) emissions in line with scientific culmination in 2015 after investing in 38 carbon-reduction projects that prevented 8 million targets while capturing significant metric tons of carbon – the equivalent of planting a forest the size of Yellowstone – from savings and driving business value. entering the atmosphere. Chevrolet retired all the carbon credits to benefit the climate instead of using them to offset emissions of its vehicles or operations. Chevrolet collaborated with hundreds of climate stakeholders and supported carbon-reducing projects that have a positive impact on people in 29 states, from helping a landfill heat a hospital with methane gas to helping truckers avoid idling their engines at rest stops. In the U.S., we are members of several advisory boards where we can share our experience and help promote corporate environmental leadership. One of these is the Corporate Advisory Council for the BlueGreen Alliance, which is comprised of 14 of the largest unions and environmental organizations in the U.S. that focus on building a cleaner and more competitive economy. And, we serve on the Business Environmental Leadership Council with the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, the largest U.S.-based group of corporations focused on addressing the challenges of climate change. 38 Approach > Stakeholder Engagement GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AROUND THE WORLD Stakeholder engagement is not only important in the U.S., but also is a key component of our global commitment to sustainability. 3 9 8 7 5 6 4 2 1 1. ARGENTINA 6. MIDDLE EAST UNICEF has been a key stakeholder partner since 2003. Annually, GM Middle East has been working with governments in Saudi Chevrolet donates vehicles to the “Un Sol para los Chicos” (A Sun Arabia, Qatar, Oman and Kuwait to prevent the importation for the Kids) Program, and the “Running for Education” Program. and sale of counterfeit automotive parts, including training for government customs officials to identify counterfeit parts at 2. AUSTRALIA the border. Since 2002, GM Holden has partnered with the Leukemia Foundation, donating a fleet of 17 vehicles used to transport 7. SOUTH KOREA patients to and from treatment. GM Korea & Safe Kids Korea together founded the traffic safety campaign, “Sa-gak Sa-gak Campaign,” which aims to prevent 3. CANADA children from getting injured in accidents caused by blind spots The commitment to sponsor the Toronto 2015 Pan Am/ Parapan while driving. The program provides traffic safety education Am Games was a natural extension of GM Canada and Chevrolet’s using Chevrolet vehicles and education kits that help explain how long history of supporting Canadian amateur sports and involved dangerous blind spots can really be during driving. providing the event with a fleet of over 1,000 vehicles. 8. S PAIN 4. ECUADOR GM Spain has partnered with the regional employment office to In 2015, GM Ecuador launched a public-private partnership with the manage the employment selection processes for GM, which, in Ministry of Tourism for a taxi-driver training program – a crucial turn, prepares young candidates for work in the industrial sector. piece to increasing tourism in Ecuador – that provided 250 drivers with approximately 40 hours of training. 9. UNITED KINGDOM Vauxhall presented vehicles, engines and gearboxes to the new 5. MEXICO Academy of Central Bedfordshire in Houghton Regis, an alternative Since 2011, GM Mexico has partnered with the Cimab Foundation provision free school. The school has two sites that have been to raise breast cancer awareness with informative talks and training significantly remodeled to create state-of-the-art bespoke to underprivileged women to aid in its early detection. Funds are vocational courses, one of which is motor vehicle engineering. raised by donating Chevrolet Sparks to be raffled at the annual “Huellas” race. 39 Approach > Governance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Pictured left to right: Tom Schoewe, Kathy Marinello, Jim Mulva, Carol Stephenson, Tim Solso, Mary Barra, Mike Mullen, Linda Gooden, Joe Ashton, Pat Russo, Steve Girsky and Joe Jimenez. Photo as of April 1, 2016. Governance F or General Motors, the Board of Directors’ mission is to represent the owners’ interest in the long-term health and the overall success of the business and its financial strength. GM’s Board of Directors is comprised of 12 members, as of March 31, 2016. With the exception of Chairman & CEO Mary Barra, former Vice Chairman Steve Girsky and former UAW Vice President Joe Ashton, all the Directors are independent, as defined by the Board’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are based on the standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The Board has the following standing committees: Audit, Executive Compensation, Governance and Corporate Responsibility, Finance, Risk, and Executive. The Audit, Executive Compensation, and Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committees are composed entirely of independent Directors. The membership of each committee is listed in the Investor Relations section of the company’s website (http://www.gm.com/investors/ corporate-governance.html#). Each standing committee has a written charter setting forth its purpose, authority and duties. During 2015, the former Public Policy Committee of the Board was dissolved and its responsibilities reassigned to other committees, principally the newly reconstituted Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee. Among other things, this committee helps the Board shape the company’s corporate governance, including the composition of the Board and qualifications of Directors. It also oversees the company’s policies and strategies related to corporate responsibility, sustainability and political contributions. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AND OVERSIGHT The Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s management of risks, including oversight of its strategic risk management program and processes. The Board is assisted in this responsibility by its committees, each of which oversees particular areas of risk and aspects of strategic risk management, with appropriate reporting to the Board. The Risk Committee retains oversight responsibility for the key strategic and operating risks within the company, while the Finance and Audit Committees retain oversight responsibility for key financial and compliance risks. And, the Governance and Corporate Responsibility committee oversees corporate responsibility, sustainability and political risks. 40 Approach > Ethics GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethics At GM, our business is guided by our purpose and values. They drive our business decisions and activities worldwide and are our road map for sustainability. Our business is more than making great products; it’s about building trust with our customers and stakeholders, and trust is fundamental to our business success. It starts with our core values: Customers, Relationships and Excellence. Excellence means we act with integrity and are diligent to do the right thing in every situation, in every region, across the globe. We all want to work for a company we can be proud of, a company that encourages and supports its employees to do the right thing. Winning With Integrity, GM's Code of Conduct, reinforces our commitment to a work environment founded on mutual respect, trust and accountability and outlines the policies and obligations that guide our business conduct. High ethical standards begin with the Board of Directors at GM, which is committed to upholding the highest legal and ethical conduct in fulfilling its responsibilities. All Board members, officers and employees are expected to act ethically at all times and to adhere to GM’s policies and the law, as set forth in Winning With Integrity. Winning With Integrity applies to all staffs, divisions and subsidiaries of GM (their salaried employees globally) in which GM, directly or indirectly, owns more than 50 percent of the equity interest or which GM otherwise controls. Where GM owns 50 percent or less and does NOT exercise management control, a case-by-case determination is made. This Code also applies to consultants, agents, sales representatives, distributors, independent contractors and contract workers (collectively, “GM Representatives”) when they act on behalf of GM, to the extent sections of the Code are applicable to the services the GM Representatives provide. The GM employee(s) who engage the GM Representatives must ensure that the GM representatives follow the applicable sections of the Code. On an annual basis, all salaried employees are required to review Winning With Integrity and certify that they agree to comply with the Code of Conduct and have reported any violations of the Code or vehicle or workplace safety issues. Additionally, all salaried employees, regardless of role or location, are required to disclose actual and potential conflicts of interest as part of the Winning With Integrity certification process. Board members who are not employees provide written disclosure of any actual or potential conflicts of interest at least once a year. 41 Approach > Ethics GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Winning With Integrity governs how our employees are expected to act: displaying integrity in the workplace, in the marketplace and in their communities when representing GM. Additionally, Winning With Integrity directs all employees to be good stewards of the environment as embodied in our Environmental Principles, which guide the conduct of our daily business practices worldwide. Winning With Integrity also outlines what is considered misconduct, including what constitutes misuse of company property, discrimination, harassment, conflicts of interest, unethical behavior or misuse of information or computer systems. Additionally, Winning With Integrity provides guidance about what may constitute unfair competition or insider trading and guidance on export compliance, privacy, anticorruption and interactions with government officials. GM is committed to maintaining a culture that promotes the prevention, detection and resolution of misconduct. All salaried GM employees complete global anti-corruption training on an annual basis and have an obligation to report any potential misconduct. Corruption of any kind undermines GM’s commitment to integrity and is not tolerated. Even the appearance of impropriety in giving or receiving gifts, entertainment or things of value can jeopardize GM’s interests and is inconsistent with this commitment. In cases where an individual is uncomfortable reporting through established internal channels, reports can be made using the GM Awareline (a toll-free hotline). The Awareline is operated by a third party and allows employees and others to report concerns of misconduct by the company, its management, supervisors, employees or agents. Reports can be made in over a dozen languages 24 hours per day, 7 days per week, by phone, web, email, postal service or fax. For potential vehicle or workplace safety-related issues, a special Speak Up for Safety hotline has been established. GM employees and contract workers may also communicate with our independent Monitor anonymously, as permitted by law, or otherwise at any time. The Monitor maintains an independent toll-free phone number for reporting any violation of law or unethical conduct, as well as a globally available online web form. The Monitor’s role supplements but does not replace, existing established global employee Our employees are required to complete annual training about GM policies and reporting tools, such as GM Awareline and Speak Up For Safety. (See page 79 for information procedures. on the independent Monitor.) Speak Up!, GM's Non-Retaliation Policy, is intended to protect GM employees from retaliation as a result of raising concerns in good faith, but individuals filing reports can also remain anonymous if they choose. To help ensure that GM complies with anti-corruption laws and its Code of Conduct, Winning With Integrity, GM utilizes a due diligence process for certain covered third parties, which includes anti-corruption checks, as well as checks against restricted party lists of the U.S. and other countries. GM’s compliance training program was robust in 2015. Employees are required to complete the following corporate required courses every year to build upon their awareness of the Code of Conduct and to ensure every employee has a basic understanding of GM policies and procedures: • Global Product Safety 101 • Global Anti-Corruption • Reporting Wrongdoing & Business Misconduct (people leaders only) • Information LifeCycle Management 42 Approach > Ethics GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT To support our global employees, courses are available in a variety of languages. Last year, GM achieved an overall completion rate of approximately 99.9 percent for these courses. In addition to GM’s online courses, GM’s Regional Compliance Officers and local compliance lawyers conducted numerous in-person training sessions globally, training approximately 7,000 employees in 2015. These in-person training sessions included anti-corruption, general compliance, third-party due diligence, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act, export control and sanctions, data privacy, antitrust, IT security, and GM’s obligations under its Deferred Prosecution Agreement. General Motors is a member of the Automotive Compliance Roundtable, a group of automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and suppliers that meet regularly to share best practices and lessons learned; identify resources helpful in developing and managing a compliance program; identify compliance risks in the automotive sector; and benchmark concerning the structure of a compliance program. A GM employee shines the Chevrolet logo on a 2015 Chevrolet Suburban. As we strive to win in the changing global marketplace, Winning With Integrity remains the cornerstone of our corporate values. We are committed to maintaining a corporate culture that promotes trust. We strive to create diverse work environments that accept and tolerate differences while promoting productivity and teamwork. 43 Approach > Environmental Management GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental We currently maintain nearly 400 facilities, including more than 170 manufacturing Management & plants around the world. No two facilities are alike. There is a great range among them in terms of size, function, processes and local environment. All GM-owned and operated Principles facilities, however, operate under a common set of Environmental Principles, which provide an effective foundation for environmental stewardship and support our efforts to build the most valued automotive company. GM ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES As a responsible corporate citizen, GM is dedicated to protecting human health, natural resources and the global environment. This dedication reaches further than compliance with the law to encompass the integration of sound environmental practices into our business decisions. The following Environmental Principles provide guidance to GM personnel in the conduct of their daily business practices. 1. We are committed to actions to restore and preserve the environment. 2. We are committed to reducing waste and pollutants, conserving resources and recycling materials at every stage of the product life cycle. 3. We will continue to participate actively in educating the public regarding environmental conservation. 4. We will continue to pursue vigorously the development and implementation of technologies for minimizing pollutant emissions. 5. We will continue to work with governmental entities for the development of technically sound and financially responsible environmental laws and regulations. 6. We will continue to assess the impact of our plants and products on the environment and the communities in which we live and operate with the goal of continuous improvement. 44 Approach > Environmental Management GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE GM has a robust process to enhance the integration of environmental sustainability practices into daily business decisions and to (1) comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations; (2) monitor GM’s performance according to GM’s own Environmental Performance Criteria (EPC), which are universal performance requirements designed to protect human health and the environment in accordance with the GM Environmental Principles and set baseline standards; and (3) conform to other key performance indicators, such as landfill-free sites. Each GM manufacturing site has one or more environmental engineers, who are supported by a GM regional environmental team. Our Global Manufacturing organization oversees and manages these teams. We also have an annual business planning process, known as Business Plan Deployment (BPD), to strengthen the management of environmental performance (e.g., linking more Global Manufacturing employees to GM’s performance against our 2020 manufacturing commitments). Furthermore, throughout our manufacturing organization, annual compensation is based on performance to the BPD, which includes environmental metrics. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY We believe our past achievements in the area of environmental stewardship are the result of a combination of global principles, our environmental policy, the EPC and local policies. With our Environmental Principles as a foundation, this combination provides a framework for our manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facilities and major technology centers around the world to implement global policy, consistent and complementary local policies and the EPC. This approach helps us to strive for operational compliance across all sites at all times and to embed a philosophy of continuous improvement into each facility’s environmental management system. These plant-specific actions play a significant role in our overall environmental compliance, ensuring that local plant policies: • Are appropriate to the nature, scale and environmental impacts of its activities, products or services. Chevrolet Spark EVs on display at our Baltimore Operations complex, where • Reinforce a commitment to comply with applicable laws and regulations and with other the Spark EV electric motors and drive relevant environmental requirements. units are manufactured under a rooftop solar array. • Include a commitment to continuous improvement and pollution prevention. • Provide the framework for setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets. • Are documented, implemented, maintained and communicated to all employees. Statutory, regulatory and permit programs administered by various governmental agencies impose numerous environmental requirements on our facilities and products and compliance with these requirements is an organizational imperative. Compliance issues occasionally arise and each allegation of noncompliance is treated seriously. In 2015, GM received 34 Notices of Violation (NOVs), 20 in the U.S. and 14 outside the U.S. In 2015, actions were taken to resolve these NOVs and GM did not pay significant fines. 45 Approach > Environmental Management & Principles GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM All the manufacturing facilities that GM owns and operates, and a number of our nonmanufacturing sites around the world, have implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS). This system combines elements of the environmental management standard International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 and elements that are specific to our operations. The GM EMS is designed to drive a continuous performance improvement cycle in line with legal requirements, site-specific objectives and targets, and corporate and regional policies and strategies. GM has developed a robust internal process to self-declare conformance to ISO 14001. Our U.S. and Mexican operations use this process to self-declare conformance to the ISO EMS standard. GM operations in other regions currently utilize third-party accredited registrars to certify conformance to ISO. New manufacturing operations must develop and implement EMS Boy Scouts plant flowers at GM’s Toledo Transmission flagpole garden. within 24 months of the start of production or the date of acquisition. Our operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico have integrated their EMS within the GM Global Manufacturing System and Business Plan Deployment process, resulting in an EMS with attributes beyond those specified in ISO 14001. By maintaining a common EMS, we can measure our environmental performance and share knowledge, processes and technologies within GM to plan and measure improvements across all our manufacturing facilities. Our environmental management practices have helped us improve our environmental performance. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Implementation of our Environmental Principles is facilitated by Environmental Performance Criteria (EPC) that apply to our global manufacturing facilities and major technology centers. In 2015, we made the decision to expand EPC application to our nonmanufacturing facilities and are working toward implementation of this during the next 12 to 18 months. The EPC are internal performance requirements for the management of environmental issues at our facilities. In many cases, they also supplement applicable legal requirements by setting minimum standards for environmental management and performance practices that may be more stringent than those required by law. As a result, we work to ensure that a base level of environmental performance is achieved, regardless of where a facility is located or whether a particular jurisdiction has an environmental regulatory program in place. For example, the EPC establish a global baseline standard for all new assembly operations with regard to paint shop emissions and associated minimum technology requirements, regardless of whether or not the country in which the paint shop is operated has adopted specific air emissions requirements. Where laws are more stringent than our EPCs, the law controls. 46 Approach > Environmental Management & Principles GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE TRAINING Our people are key stakeholders in our environmental stewardship and are critical to our environmental performance. We strive to have the best-trained environmental professionals in the world. Although most environmental training is specific to the facility, country or region, we continually provide strategic training and guidance to our environmental professionals to help them keep pace with evolving environmental issues and best practices that could have application worldwide. Our training addresses a variety of issues including, but not limited to: implementation of corrective and preventive actions, effective use of safety data sheets, management of greenhouse gases and regulatory requirements for air, waste and water. In the U.S., we have set a goal for all our facilities’ environmental professionals to become The Chinese Employee Resource Group hosted Certified Hazardous Materials Managers (CHMM®). The certification requires a relevant the first Lunch and Learn event March, 2016, degree and three years of appropriate experience or 11 years of experience without a and topics included an electrification vehicle powertrain overview. degree, and the successful completion of an Institute of Hazardous Materials Management® exam. In order to maintain certification, at least 20 hours of technical environmental training is required annually. In Canada, new environmental professionals receive at least 40 hours of training initially, followed by regular refresher training. In addition, some Canadian environmental professionals receive specialized training as certified toxic substance reduction planners. Outside North America, we have developed a Global Environmental Certification and Training Program focused on GM Environmental Principles, our internal environmental performance criteria and industry best practices. *Automobile Manufacturing Environmental Regulatory Profile Prepared by Horizon Environmental Corporation, December 2014. See more at: www.gm.com/vision/environment1/our_commitment.html 47 Impacts GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT IMPACTS IN THIS SECTION Customer Satisfaction 49 Fuel Efficiency & Emissions 56 GM People 67 Vehicle Safety 77 Diversity & Inclusion 82 Operational Impact 95 Supply Chain 103 Community Impact 111 Innovation 121 48 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4G LTE keeps the whole family connected. Customer PROGRESS Satisfaction • Continued implementation of tools and programs to support enterprise-wide quality focus. • Integrated teams with customer interaction points into one seamless Global Connected Customer Experience organization to create a 360-degree customer experience. Sustaining our business by earning customers for life • Improved standings in various third-party quality and customer satisfaction surveys and studies. PRIORITIES • Complete the process of migrating all plants to the highest “Built-in-Quality” levels with the goal of shipping defect-free products. • Increase our Net Promoter Score among customers. • Ensure advances in vehicle connectivity are made while safeguarding customer privacy and maintaining cybersecurity. CHALLENGES • Reinforcing the need for a more consistent customer-centric focus among stakeholders across our value chain, especially among suppliers and dealers. • Overcoming negative customer perceptions based on past performance and experiences. • Managing increased cybersecurity risks in a rapidly changing technology and regulatory environment. 49 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH It’s not surprising our stakeholders have identified customer satisfaction as General Motors’ most material issue. This aligns completely with our purpose to earn customers for life, and customer satisfaction ensures the long-term sustainability of our business in a highly competitive marketplace. According to Forrester’s Customer Index, companies who lead in customer experience have enjoyed a 43 percent increase in stock value during the past six years, while those who lag in customer experience have seen a 34 percent decline. When you consider a single percentage point improvement in U.S. sales retention is equivalent to selling about 25,000 vehicles, or approximately $700 million in annual revenue, the business benefits are significant. Customer satisfaction also speaks to what we believe as a company. As a business, our objective is to provide our customers with quality and safe products and services. Today, we are more focused on this responsibility than at any other time in our history. The goal is to satisfy our customers to a level where they are not only loyal to our brands and products, but also recommend them to others. PRODUCT QUALITY Everything we do across the enterprise is about delivering the highest levels of product quality so that we earn customers for life. Our brands, products and services aim at being consistent top performers in benchmark quality studies and consumer purchase references. Accordingly, we are expanding our focus on product quality by aligning the entire company with the goal of exceeding customer expectations and providing customers with the best overall experience. This total focus on the customer defines how we develop, engineer and manufacture our vehicles to ensure top quality and durability, starting with product development. Here, we are infusing the voice of the customer into the process – largely through clear, concise and compelling data, and utilizing our internally developed GM Compass customer survey in key global markets to provide our product developers with more precise and direct customer feedback. It’s also important to understand that quality today goes beyond reliability to encompass often intangible experiences. This is why we are taking more scientific approaches to translate customer input and feedback into technical requirements that define the overall driving experience. Consider, for example, how an engine sounds and a transmission shifts, how buttons feel when pushed or the type of sound doors make when closing. Such quality attributes often can be difficult for customers to describe and quantify. New advanced tools and approaches, such as Human Vehicle Integration, help to translate customers’ requirements into technical specifications and ultimately vehicle designs. The implementation of the latest quality tools and programs is helping GM employees around the world to react better and faster to the needs of our customers. For example, in 2015 our Global Product Development organization completed the highest level of Design In May 2015, we celebrated 500 million for Six Sigma training, a process that focuses on customer issues and solutions. We also GM-branded vehicles built globally at five are migrating all of our plants around the world to the highest “Built-in-Quality” levels events around the world. In recognition of the important role customers have with the goal of shipping defect-free products. Operational Excellence also has been played in our 500 Million milestone, the implemented across the enterprise as a proven, system-wide and data-driven approach company gave away vehicles at each event to loyal customers. to confronting business issues and identifying lasting solutions. In 2015 more than 1,700 executives/managers attended a leadership workshop. About 680 potential Operational Excellence project leaders completed week long technical training. 50 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The goal of these and other programs is to take action as early as possible in the vehicle development and manufacturing process to ensure excellence at product launch. This “quality across the enterprise” approach drives behaviors and actions throughout the company to result in the best brands, products and services for our customers. CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE We recognize customer satisfaction is a function of both quality products and customer interactions to create a distinctive customer experience. This The addition of 4G LTE earned OnStar its third “Best of What’s New” award from requires developing a 360-degree view of our customers so we have a system in place Popular Science magazine. that enables us to recognize, understand and serve them best. In the past, this was a challenge because the many different types and phases of customer interaction within GM were not coordinated effectively or consolidated. Today, all teams with customer interaction points – from OnStar to owner services to Customer Care and everything in between, both online and offline – form our Global Connected Customer Experience organization. These groups work as one team with a united goal of creating a seamless 360-degree customer experience, one which inspires confidence, fosters trust, provides value and exceeds customer expectations. We measure customer satisfaction progress primarily through the Net Promoter Score, which is an important key performance indicator that gauges how likely a customer is to recommend our products. In addition to our internal metrics, we also monitor third-party measures of customer satisfaction and quality to gauge our progress. Recent highlights include: • In the U.S., the 2015 J.D. Power Initial Quality Study counted four Chevrolet segment award winners, more than any other brand. • In Argentina, GM won a 2015 AMAUTA Award for customer service from the Latin American Federation of Direct and Interactive Marketing Associations (ALMADI). • In Europe, the new Opel Astra K won the Golden Steering Wheel overall award in the compact car segment, and the Astra scored best across all eligible models in all award segments for workmanship. In the Computer Bild Connected Car Awards, the Astra ranked among the top three vehicles in the overall category of Connected Car of the Year. The Plus X award, the world’s largest innovation award for technology, sports and lifestyle, also awarded a number of Opel models their high quality award. • In South Korea, GM ranked first in the sales category of Korean Service Quality Index for the third consecutive year. Also in South Korea, Chevrolet ranked first – for the fourth consecutive year – among automakers in the sales satisfaction and customer service categories in a study by Consumer Insight, an auto market researcher, in recognition of its brand value emphasizing the customer. Regardless of whether we are using an internal or external measure of success, we are gratified to see progress, but will be satisfied only when we are exceeding the expectations of each and every GM customer. 51 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CUSTOMER PRIVACY & CYBERSECURITY Customer privacy and cybersecurity remain important issues for GM and for our stakeholders as the evolution of vehicle connectivity continues. As with many other industries, protecting our customers’ data is vital to the development of connected experience technologies. We are mindful that there is always some level of risk associated with connectivity, but we believe those risks are outweighed by benefits such as increased safety and helping customers maintain optimal vehicle performance, as well as improved efficiency and convenience. We utilize privacy and cybersecurity by design, meaning that we seek to address these issues when developing new connectivity functions and services. GM understands that our customers’ trust is essential to our business, and we remain committed to meeting their expectations for privacy and cybersecurity. In fact, GM has enjoyed a head start, compared with others in the industry, on addressing privacy and cybersecurity issues, thanks to nearly two decades of OnStar’s telematics services and connectivity. This experience, for example, has enabled us to leverage long-standing relationships with suppliers and network providers to address vehicle cybersecurity, as well as to implement defensive security strategies in a proactive manner. HOW WE APPROACH PRIVACY GM puts the customer at the center of everything we do and is proud to be one of the first to commit to the automobile industry Consumer Privacy Protection Principles (CPPP). Though CPPP were set forth by the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in 2014, GM already had a set of similar principles in place that were self-implemented in 2009 and were based on globally recognized fair information privacy principles. In relevant part, these The OnStar Command Center principles are based on: • Transparency – Vehicle owners are clearly informed as to GM’s policies for data collection, including data use and sharing practices. • Consent – GM does not disclose vehicle data or share vehicle data without a vehicle owner’s consent unless required by court order or exigent circumstances such as imminent loss of life. • Protection – GM vehicle owners should expect protection of their personal data and that GM will take responsible measures to meet this expectation. HOW WE APPROACH CYBERSECURITY We also take a layered approach to in-vehicle cybersecurity and are designing many vehicle systems so they can be updated with enhanced security measures as potential threats evolve. These efforts are led by our product cybersecurity organization, which now has more than 70 dedicated professionals. This team consists of internal experts who work with outside specialists to actively minimize risks of unauthorized access to vehicles and customer data. This team also leads GM’s participation in industrywide efforts to develop and implement defensive measures and strategies to reduce cybersecurity risks. Our Chief Product Cybersecurity Officer, for example, is vice chair of the recently created Automobile Information Sharing and Analysis Center (Auto ISAC), which allows automakers to share potential cybersecurity threats. Auto ISAC celebrated an achievement this year in the passing of the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015, which will help prosecute 52 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and prevent cybercrimes and allow automakers to share information about potential breaches. Industry initiatives, such as Auto ISAC, and risk management systems based on the National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Security, are key to providing automotive companies with appropriate guidelines, standards and best practices, while maintaining the flexibility needed to make rapid adjustments in a fast-changing technology environment. GREEN DEALERSHIPS GM dealerships are the “face of GM” to customers around the world and one of the best forums for communicating the sustainability commitment of our brands. We developed the GM Green Dealer Program (GDP) to enable eligible Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac dealerships in the U.S. to promote their environmentally sustainable business practices. The voluntary program recognizes dealers who have made strides in the areas of energy reduction, water conservation, renewable energy usage, waste elimination, recycling and community outreach – all of which help them reduce operating costs, provide employees a better work environment and differentiate their business in the local marketplace. The GDP is designed to encourage dealers to continually carry out environmentally conscious practices and help build a network among dealers of sharing best practices for sustainability “Although financial savings started our and cost-saving measures. Participating dealers believe that the program encourages environmental upgrades, we’ve found eco-conscious customers who are interested in fuel-efficient or electric vehicles to shop their we have like-minded people in our dealership. More sustainable dealerships also help instill a greater sense of pride among community who really appreciate the employees and help strengthen the dealership’s image in the community. effort we’ve made. We’re seeing that In its first full year, response to the program has exceeded expectations, with dealer through in our service lanes and on participation extending across all four GM brands. We count 435 dealers, representing our sales floor. These are people who just over 10 percent of all U.S. dealers, as active participants in the program, incorporating have not previously driven a Chevrolet, sustainable initiatives into their operations and continually working to certify each year as a but who want to buy vehicles GM Green Dealer. That level of interest reflects the strong focus of dealers, across all channels, from environmentally responsible on continued implementation of environmentally sensitive programs and the sharing of those companies.” sustainable initiatives with their peers. There are currently 35 Green Dealer certifications as – George Nunnelly of the first anniversary of the program. George Nunnelly Chevrolet Bentonville, Arkansas There are several programs available that support dealers in their drive toward improving their sustainable operations and reaching certification. The GM Dealer Equipment group provides dealers with an option to purchase “green tools” and drive operational efficiencies into their service operations. Dealers also are provided opportunities to engage with local schools in support of their environmental education activities by sharing lessons learned and collaborating with school green teams to collectively drive more sustainable communities. The GM Eco Green school outreach program is designed to produce a culture of support and continuous learning among GM dealers, employees and students in the communities they serve. Although the Green Dealer Program has been launched only in the U.S. to date, a pilot program is slated for Canada. Beyond North America, GM Brazil bestows sustainability Dealers are proud to display this accomplishment awards to recognize Chevrolet dealers and suppliers for best sustainable practices. Those for their employees and customers through practices bring economic development while preserving environmental resources and various showroom displays. creating a means for social development. 53 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Encouraging employees to follow their lead LaFontaine Cadillac in Highland, Michigan, is Freemont Cadillac in Freemont, California, in reducing energy consumption, McCormick generating electricity through a windmill that installed a solar tracking EV charging tree in Motors in Nappanee, Indiana, established an powers an irrigation system with water collected their front parking lot to showcase their EV energy conservation and efficiency fund for from a rain and groundwater retention pond. The products, provide charging opportunities for every full-time employee who is a homeowner. retention pond is able to provide the water for customers and reduce their electricity usage Up to $700 annually is available to employees the irrigation system used during the spring and by embracing the sun’s energy. More than 35 to offset expenditures made on a home summer months. The windmill and retention pond dealers and GM facilities with approximately improvement that directly relates to energy work in tandem as a renewable energy source and 124 charging stations across the nation also conservation or efficiency. means of conserving water. provide customer solar EV charging through the installation of solar charging structures in their parking lots, offering extended electric range to their driving experience. Advancements in lighting technologies make Solar systems at the Davidson Automotive Group For more information on our Green Dealer possible positive returns on energy efficient LED dealerships in both Rome and Watertown, New Program, please visit www.gmgreendealer.com lighting installations both in new construction York, generate approximately 80 percent of their and retrofit situations. Bleeker Chevrolet in Dunn, electricity usage through solar panels installed on North Carolina, is an example of a dealership that the dealership rooftop and surrounding property. has minimized their daily energy usage through installation of LED lighting in combination with state-of-the-art programmable capabilities. 54 Impacts > Customer Satisfaction GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLOSER LOOK The Next-Gen Chevy Volt: Customer-Driven Sustainability Chevrolet Volt owners are among some of the most satisfied in the industry, according to independent surveyors. So it only made sense for these customers to serve as our compass in the development of the next-generation Volt, one of the industry’s leading plug-in vehicles. T hough we incorporate customer feedback into the design of all GM vehicles, it is particularly important in Volt owners also wanted more range while getting a more powerful vehicle with more control. The two-motor drive the design of electric vehicles, which unit delivers increased efficiency and face more customer acceptance hurdles performance along with reduced noise than traditional vehicles. The voice of VOLT PHOTO and vibration. The drive unit operates up loyal Volt owners comes through loud to 12 percent more efficiently and weighs and clear in the new Chevrolet Volt 100 pounds (45 kg) less than the current – named the 2016 Green Car of the system. Both motors operate together in Year – which is sleeker, sportier, more more driving scenarios, in both EV and affordable and delivers greater acceleration, range and efficiency. extended-range operation. The ability to use both motors helps deliver a 19 percent improvement in electric acceleration from Customer research influenced a number of features on the Volt, zero to 30 mph (2.6 seconds) and a 7 percent improvement from but perhaps none more important than the decision to extend zero to 60 mph (8.4 seconds). GM engineers designed the Voltec the electric range of the vehicle from an EPA-estimated 38 to electric motors to use significantly fewer rare earth materials. 53 EV miles, a nearly 40 percent increase. Total range is now One motor uses no rare earth–type magnets. more than 400 miles on a full charge and full tank of gas, and we expect owners can travel more than 1,000 miles on average Another customer request: more convenient charging and the between gas fill-ups with regular charging, although actual ability to check charging status. Chevrolet improved both, based range varies with conditions. on real-world experiences of Volt owners. Now, owners can set their charging preferences exclusively for “home” charging and the These enhancements were partially informed by a study of more vehicle will automatically adjust to that setting when it is at “home” than 300 model year 2011 and 2012 Volts in service in California for based on GPS data. more than 30 months. The study found many owners exceeded the EPA-rated label of 35 miles of EV range per full charge, with about The new Volt also makes it easier for owners to confirm that their 15 percent surpassing 40 miles of range. For the second-generation vehicle is charging and gauge charging status. The new status Volt we used this knowledge to produce an even better battery system features a specially designed tone that indicates when system that’s lighter, has fewer cells and more storage capacity. charging has begun, with additional tones for delayed charging. The system will even indicate if the charge port door was left open The 2016 Volt uses an 18.4 kWh battery system featuring revised after unplugging but before entering the vehicle. cell chemistry developed in conjunction with LG Chem. While overall system storage capacity has increased, the number of cells Finally, customers told us they sought a sleeker, more fun, has decreased 33 percent from 288 to 192 cells as the result of a contemporary vehicle to drive. So, the new Chevrolet Volt has a revised chemistry. The cells are also positioned lower in the pack sportier, muscular design. The expanded use of high-strength steel for a lower center of gravity, and the overall mass of the pack is throughout the body structure helps improve strength and reduce 21 pounds (9.8 kg) lighter. weight, making the new Volt 200 pounds lighter. Both the internal and structural improvements serve to improve packaging to further reduce noise and vibrations. 55 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Bolt EV builds upon Chevrolet’s experience gained from both the Volt and Spark EV to bring an affordable, long-range, all-electric vehicle to market. Fuel Efficiency PROGRESS & CO2 Vehicle • Increased the number of U.S. vehicles with some form of electrification by 9 percent to 196,861 vehicles. Emissions • Increased the number of U.S. models that can achieve EPA-estimated 40 mpg highway or better from six to nine models. Delivering value for our • Reduced average CO2 tailpipe emissions of U.S. fleet by 7.4 percent against a 2011 baseline; customers and the environment of Opel/Vauxhall fleet by 5.7 percent against a 2012 baseline and China fleet by 4.3 percent against a 2013 baseline. PRIORITIES • Offer a variety of fuel economy choices in each segment to allow consumers to select the most cost-effective vehicle based on their needed utility and driving habits. • Gather and provide cost, technical and market adoption information and data to the U.S. EPA and NHTSA for use in their midterm reviews of 2025 light-duty fuel economy and greenhouse gas goals, as well as the Heavy-Duty Phase 2 fuel economy and greenhouse gas rulemaking. • Encourage and educate customers on the benefits of advanced vehicle technologies available to them. CHALLENGES • Advancing new technologies to achieve increases in our corporate average fuel economy in the face of lower gasoline prices and limited, but growing, customer acceptance of advanced propulsion technologies. • Executing a global strategy in a fragmented environment of increasing regulation at the country and regional levels. • Global movement of vehicle testing toward real driving emissions in place of current standardized test protocols. 56 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH F uel-efficient vehicles provide value to our customers by decreasing their total cost of ownership. Vehicles with higher fuel efficiency also provide us with the opportunity to positively impact climate change by reducing the CO2 emissions of our global vehicle fleet, which accounts for 77 percent of our annual carbon footprint based on life cycle data that analyzes our entire multitiered supply chain. We are navigating these opportunities and challenges by fielding one of the largest and most experienced teams of automotive engineering talent in the world. This team is focused on both expanding the efficiency performance of conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) technologies and developing advanced propulsion technologies, such as electrification, that have the potential to transform personal mobility in the future. This dual approach is enabling us to realize progress across all markets, economic conditions and vehicle categories around the world today. With weight savings of up to 390 pounds (177 kg), the all-new Camaro resets performance benchmarks for During 2015, relatively low oil prices continued to translate into low global average gasoline the segment. prices. With this price deflation, fuel economy as a customer purchase consideration, though still important, has decreased relative to other options. This makes it more challenging to increase sales of fuel-efficient models and gain broad market acceptance of higher-cost, advanced fuel-saving technologies, like electric vehicles. In less-developed markets, the situation is compounded by fuel economy mandates and regulations that are often as stringent as those in the U.S. or Europe, but where average household incomes are significantly lower. Incomes in these regions often cannot support the higher upfront cost of advanced fuel-saving technologies and lighter-weight materials. Furthermore, demand for these technologies often does not exist until government policies and/or regulations are put in place to change or incentivize consumer purchasing behavior. In these conditions, we are challenged to provide fuel-efficient products and to introduce new advanced technologies that address regulatory frameworks within the prevailing market conditions. Given that emerging markets represent the most significant area of industry growth in coming years, solving this challenge successfully is a business priority for GM. 57 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONVENTIONAL TECHNOLOGIES Conventional powertrain vehicles will continue to comprise the vast majority of global automotive sales for the foreseeable future. Reductions in vehicle mass and enhancements to the ICE are the keys to improving the efficiency of these vehicles. During the past decade, GM has made significant progress on both fronts across our global fleet. Through more efficient aerodynamic design and the combining of materials, such as high-strength steel, carbon fiber and aluminum, GM is realizing weight reductions across its global product portfolio. The consumer benefits are clear. Mass reduction on the order of 10 percent translates into fuel efficiency gains of approximately 5 percent. These advancements can be seen in some of our best-selling models: • The Opel Astra five-door model is up to 441 pounds lighter. • The 2016 Chevrolet Camaro has shed almost 400 pounds and improved fuel efficiency by 7 percent, thanks to an investment of 9 million hours of computer-aided engineering time to make the chassis lighter. • The 2016 Chevrolet Cruze, our top-selling global model available in 40 markets, is nearly 250 pounds lighter and gets an estimated 40 mpg on the highway with automatic transmission . • The 2016 Chevrolet Malibu has shed nearly 300 pounds and improved fuel efficiency by 5 percent through the use of aluminum in body structure and lighter-mass engines, seats and instrument panel. In 2015 alone, these and other models with more efficient designs and lighter-weight materials helped GM eliminate $2 billion in material costs. Mass reduction is being achieved not only through lighter material inputs, but also through new proprietary and patented manufacturing techniques, such as aluminum spot welding technology, self-piercing rivets, flow drill screws, friction welding and advanced adhesives. In 2015, we announced a breakthrough in resistance spot-welding technology that allows us to weld aluminum to steel – an industry first that will be introduced in assembly plants this year. ENGINE EFFICIENCY We continue to invest in technologies that push the limits of ICE efficiency, because gasoline will likely remain the primary fuel in most of the world for the near future. We employ a suite of technologies, including downsizing, turbocharging, “stop-start” technology, direct injection, variable valve timing and cylinder deactivation, in improving the thermodynamic efficiency of gasoline engines. These technologies are leading to a portfolio of GM engines that are considerably smaller, cleaner and more efficient than in the past, while maximizing usable power and performance characteristics important to our customers. We began rolling out a new technologically advanced engine family in model year 2015 that streamlines and simplifies our global powertrain portfolio. This enables a broad deployment across a variety of global markets and price points. Designed to achieve segment-leading efficiency, these new engines are powering many of our highest-volume small cars and compact crossovers, including the next-generation Chevrolet Cruze, specifically tailored for China. We are building more than 2.5 million of these engines around the world, introducing them across five GM brands and 27 models cumulatively by the 2017 model year. At that time, the result will be a GM fleet that sets a new performance level in fuel economy and carbon emissions around the globe while reducing overall material usage, costs, and development time and expenses compared with the previous generation of engines. 58 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES GM’s focus on efficiency improvements for conventional powertrain technologies is complemented by our leadership in alternative fuel systems and advanced technologies. This commitment is underscored by our investment in an expanding portfolio of electric vehicles, as well as our internal development and manufacturing capability for electric batteries, motors and power controls – the same capabilities that we have for traditional propulsion technologies. These capabilities provide us with a range of technologies that can operate on alternative fuels and adapt to different markets around the world where fueling infrastructure varies. Read more about electrification technology on page 126. During 2015, we advanced our electrification portfolio in several important ways by: • Introducing the second generation of our popular plug-in EV, the 2016 Chevrolet Volt, with 40 percent more EV range. • Committing to produce the Chevrolet Bolt EV, making “all-electric driving available for everyone” with a range of more than 200 miles and a target price of around $30,000 after U.S. Federal incentives; this builds off GM’s first-generation all-electric vehicle, the Chevrolet Spark EV. • Announcing the addition of a plug-in hybrid electric propulsion system to the Cadillac CT6 sedan in China and U.S. markets. Our investments in advanced technologies are a critical part of our long-term fuel economy strategy, a driver of future personal mobility solutions and an enabler of more mainstream fuel-saving solutions today. These solutions include Stop-Start technology, which helps customers conserve fuel by automatically shutting off the engine when the vehicle comes to a full stop, improving city fuel economy up to 14 percent depending upon the application. Stop-Start technology is standard on both the Chevrolet Impala and Malibu 2.5-liter ECOTEC® base engine. 2016 Opel Astra 2016 Chevrolet Cruze Similarly, our eAssist technology is an electrification solution that combines Stop-Start technology with regenerative braking and an on-board lithium battery to provide an electric boost in certain conditions that improves fuel economy by as much as 25 percent. In total, Stop-Start and eAssist technology account for 7.4 percent of our volume in the U.S. 2016 Cadillac CT6 59 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Product Commitments and Progress Goal 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 500,000 vehicles on the road in the U.S. with some form 39,843 95,578 153,034 180,834 196,861 of electrification by 2017* Double the number of U.S. models that can achieve EPA2 Models 4 Models 5 Models 6 Models 9 Models estimated 40 mpg highway or better by 2017 Reduce average CO2 tailpipe emissions of U.S. fleet by Baseline 2.3% 5.2% 6.3% 7.4% 15 percent by 2017 Reduce average carbon tailpipe emissions of Opel/ n/a Baseline 2.3% 3.3% 5.7% Vauxhall fleet by 27 percent by 2021 Reduce CO2 emissions of China fleet by 28 percent n/a n/a Baseline 0.5% 4.3%** by 2020 * Includes all eAssist, two-mode hybrid, extended-range electric vehicle and electric vehicle models since model year 2010. ** The 2015 number for China is based on an internal preliminary assessment of GM data; the confirmed final number will be available later in 2016. 2015 PROGRESS TO DATE • Commitment: Vehicle Deployment Commitment – Trailing Our outlook currently projects us, along with the broader automotive industry, to fall short of expectations for 2017 due to market impacts of lower fuel prices and the increased saturation of electric model offerings in the marketplace. However, our commitment to electrification remains steadfast as evidenced by our being the manufacturer to introduce the industry's first long-range affordable all-electric vehicle, continued R&D investment in one of the largest battery labs in the world, and leading manufacturing capabilities for electric powertrains and batteries. • Commitment: U.S. Models with 40+ MPG – Ahead We would project this progress continuing as fuel economy improvements through our vehicle light-weighting strategies are encompassed in new model introductions. • Commitment: U.S., Europe and China CO2 Emissions Reduction – On Track The glide path for both Europe and China comprehends that most gains will come from new product launches and technology introductions, thereby maintaining year-overyear progress. 60 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REGULATORY REVIEW Currently, we estimate that nearly 90 percent of our global volume is sold in countries where there are aggressive fuel-economy and carbon-emissions regulations. Many countries around the world are adopting standards similar to either those of the U.S., which are based on a footprint metric or size of the vehicle, or those of the European Union, which are weight-based. In many cases, fuel-saving solutions under one system do not necessarily translate to another, which presents a regulatory inconsistency. In addition, many regulations escalate fuel-economy and carbon-emissions standards over a period of time. For example, when we introduce a new model with the latest powertrain technology, the model is most likely above compliance levels in its initial deployment years, but may not keep pace with escalating regulation by the fourth or fifth year in the product cycle. Shorter product cycles that are more aligned with regulatory cycles present both research and development challenges, as well as financial obstacles. At the end of 2015, carbon-pricing programs were in place in some countries and subnational jurisdictions. Though CO2 pricing varies widely around the world, all are intended to encourage consumers to purchase vehicles that emit less carbon or, at a minimum, to help raise public awareness about the importance of CO2 reduction. Within GM, we have embedded institutionalized governance processes that predict, plan, measure and monitor The 2016 Chevrolet Cruze – a larger, lighter, more our fleet’s fuel economy and emissions performance on a dynamic and country-by-country efficient and more sophisticated evolution of the brand’s best-selling global car. basis. This requires significant resources and an enormously complex algorithm that calculates the fuel economy of dozens of models sold across nine markets with finalized regulation and two more with proposed regulation. These calculations and the subsequent plans around them are now an intrinsic part of our business that impacts nearly every operational function from product development through delivery on a daily basis. The current regulatory environment related to mobile CO2 emissions and fuel economy varies greatly throughout key business regions in the world. Like many other stakeholders, we believe harmonized standards would be in the best interests of our business, customers, competitors and the environment. This would require, however, consensus among countries on the policies and standards that apply to the auto industry – consensus standards that may take years to develop, if ever. Accordingly, we advocate mutual recognition agreements, a practice by which two or more markets agree to recognize each other’s standards and eliminate costly and nonbeneficial redundancies. 61 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Outlook for global fuel economy and greenhouse gas requirements EUROPEAN UNION • 130g CO2/km in 2015 (50.3 mpg) CANADA • 95g CO2/km w 95% Phase In 2020 • Green Levy • 95g CO2/km in 2021 (68.8 mpg) • 6.6L/100km (35.5 mpg) in 2016 • Local CO2 taxation SWITZERLAND CHINA CALIFORNIA • 130g CO2/km in 2015 (50.3 mpg) U.S. FEDERAL • 6.9L/100km in SOUTH KOREA • 80% CO2 reduction • 95g CO2/km w 95% Phase In 2020 • 35.5 mpg 2015 (40 mpg) • 130g/km in 2015 by 2050 • 95g CO2/km in 2021 (68.8 mpg) in 2016 • 5.0L/100km in (42 mpg) • ZEV, PZEV rules • Local CO2 taxation • 54.5 mpg 2020 (56 mpg) • 97g/km in 2020 in 2025 (57 mpg) MEXICO SAUDI ARABIA • 14.9 km/L in INDIA • 11.3 km/L (26.6 mpg) JAPAN 2016 (35.1 mpg) • 5.6 L/100km in 2018 in 2015 • 29% CO2 2010 – 2015 (47.2 mpg) • 12.8 km/L (30.1 mpg) • 4.7 L/100km in 2022 in 2020 (56.2 mpg) BRAZIL • 1.82 MJ/km by 2017 (42.0 mpg) Requirement quoted on regional drive cycle. Following are detailed regulatory discussions about each of our major markets. Converted to mpg on Federal Test Procedure (U.S.) drive cycle in parentheses. AUSTRALIA The Australian government is developing the country’s first-ever fuel economy program and is engaged with the auto industry, through the local Auto Association (FCAI), in compiling a CO2 program. Several regulation schemes, based on both vehicle source and market breakdown, have been reviewed by FCAI and the government. Based on the majority of vehicles in the market, the government suggested that the EU CO2 process and targets may be the best fit. The industry (FCAI), based on studies, suggests the U.S. CO2 system best aligns, given similarities in market segments in the overall car parc. BRAZIL In Brazil, the government has finalized aggressive fuel consumption reduction requirements as part of an overall automotive program. The program requires in-country engineering, manufacturing and assembly. The fuel consumption piece of the program requires at least a 12 percent improvement for the Brazilian industry in consumption reductions by the 2017 calendar year. GM is working to strictly comply with all government legal requirements. Discussions with the Brazilian government on the next phase of requirements, INOVAR2, will begin near the second half of 2016. INOVAR establishes a new approach toward energy efficiency that demands from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) the same level of technological development applied in developed markets, where limits for gCO2/km emissions are regulated. INOVAR2 is expected to begin in 2020-21 and continue to require in-country engineering, manufacturing and assembly, as well as more aggressive fuelconsumption reduction targets. 62 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CANADA In September 2014, the government of Canada finalized the 2017-2025 Light-Duty Green House Gas (GHG) Regulations. In February 2013, the government’s final 2014-2018 Heavy-Duty Vehicle GHG Regulations were published. Both of these regulations harmonize with those promulgated by the U.S. EPA, in the same manner as the 2011-2016 Light-Duty GHG Regulation. With this same North American outlook, in July 2015, the Canadian government published its final regulations to align with new U.S. Tier III standards for stricter limits on air-pollutant emissions from new cars and light trucks, and reductions to the amount of sulfur in gasoline for 2017 and beyond. Application of these regulations will ensure that Canada gains GHG performance benefits equivalent to those that the U.S. will experience from the progressive introduction of higher technology powertrains with even greater fuel efficiency and enhanced emissions controls. CHINA Opel Ampera-e (pre-production model) Nationwide, China has implemented China 4 standards with European OBD-requirements for all newly registered vehicles. Cities such as Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou each currently require China 5 standards for newly registered vehicles. In total, 11 eastern municipalities and provinces are expected to require China 5 standards prior to nationwide implementation in 2017. The China 5 standards include more stringent emissions requirements and increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle’s emissions performance. The Beijing municipality is currently considering the implementation of a China-unique emissions standard for China 6 with the potential to combine elements of European and U.S. standards as early as 2017. EUROPE Legislation targets a fleet average requirement that is being phased in from 2012, with full compliance required by calendar year 2015. In 2014, the last year of “phase-in,” GM’s fleet reached an average of 123 g CO2/km, about 9 g CO2/km below its target. The target of 95 g CO2 per kilometer will begin to phase in during 2020, with a 100 percent required phase-in by model year 2021. Automobile manufacturers can earn super credits for the sales volume of vehicles having a specific CO2 value of less than 50 g CO2 per kilometer. This is intended to encourage the early introduction of ultralow-CO2 vehicles such as the all-new Opel Ampera-e that Opel will introduce in 2017 on the European market, by providing an additional incentive to reduce the CO2 fleet average. INDIA Mandatory fuel-efficiency regulations for new passenger cars manufactured and imported for sale in India (with gross weight not exceeding 3,500 kg and not having more than nine seats) will be enforced from the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2017 onwards. These fuel-efficiency targets must be complied annually and based on the notified formula and target for OEM that varies with the average weight of the individual OEM fleet. There are two different time periods provided, each with its own formula, thereby imposing different fuel-efficiency standards. The first time period will commence from fiscal year 2017-18 until 2021-22, and the second time period commences from fiscal year 2022-23 onwards. The draft notification of fuel-efficiency labels was issued on Jan. 7, 2015 for consultation, and initial discussions about mandatory labels, ranging from 1-star as poor to 5-star as best, were held in October 2015. The draft proposes that labels are to be pasted on vehicles, as well as displayed at the dealership near the point of sale. Presently, all Indian car 63 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT manufacturers are following a uniform Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) fuel-efficiency labeling system, voluntarily implemented by each manufacturer and displayed at the dealership. India implemented Euro 4-equivalent emissions norms from the year 2010 onwards in 13 major cities, and issued a notification to cover all of India by April 2017 in a progressive manner, with an additional 50 cities and all of northern India by 2015 and all of southern India by April 2016. The government of India issued a press release on Jan. 6, 2016 regarding a decision to introduce BS VI norms from April 2020 (skipping BS VI norms) and the withdrawal of a draft notification issued earlier (November 2015) for phased implementation of BS V and BS VI. This was triggered due to public interest litigation in the Supreme Court of India regarding worsening air quality conditions. The Supreme Court also banned registration of new diesel cars and SUVs with engine capacity of 2000 CC and more in the national capital region until 2015 Chevrolet Spark March 31, 2016. MEXICO The Mexican government currently has a fuel economy regulation, NOM 163, affecting 2014 through 2016 model years. Compliance for auto manufacturers is compulsory over this period of time, and the regulation also provides that credits for early compliance can be obtained for the 2012 and 2013 model years. The Industry is working with the Mexican government on post-2016 standards that recognize the unique market and geographical conditions in Mexico. The future proposal to date indicates that Mexico will continue towards harmonization with U.S. fuel economy standards. Discussions with government decision-makers are to begin in mid-2016. SAUDI ARABIA In late 2014, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) finalized fuel economy requirements for all new and used vehicles entering KSA beginning on Jan. 1, 2016. The KSA government modeled its requirements after the U.S. NHTSA CAFE requirements, but also accounted for the unique differences in market conditions – gasoline is priced at approximately U.S. $0.09 per gallon – and in conditions in which temperatures are significantly higher. KSA plans to look toward post-model year 2020 requirements in a few years, while closely watching the developments in the U.S. regarding the light-duty midterm evaluation and the progress of their finalized fuel economy requirements. SOUTH KOREA In South Korea, the government delayed the implementation of CO2-based “auto BonusMalus scheme” to 2021, which is a fuel-efficiency based system of fees and rebates. Instead, they set the stringent 2020 fuel economy/CO2 target of 97 g/km on Dec. 30, 2014. The target phase-in began in 2016, with full compliance required by 2020. Manufacturers have the option to certify based on either fuel consumption or CO2 emissions. Each manufacturer has been given a corporate target to meet based on its overall fleet fuel economy/CO2 average. In late 2015, the government promulgated the guideline of eco-innovation credits (off-cycle credits) which defined the credits for various off-cycle technologies such as Mobile Air Conditioning (MAC) and Start & Stop, to name a few. Although the government provided flexibilities such as off-cycle credits, BEV and mini-car credit, and credit carry back-forward, the industry feels it is a significant challenge to reach the target by 2020. The industry anticipates requesting a midterm review in 2017 to assess the feasibility of a target similar to the U.S. target. 64 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UNITED STATES Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) reporting is required for three separate fleets: domestically produced cars, imported cars and light-duty trucks. Beginning with the 2011 model year, both car and light-duty truck standards were established using targets for various vehicle sizes and vehicle model sales volumes. In 2015 our domestic car standard was estimated to be 34.8 mpg, our import car standard was estimated to be 38.3 mpg and our light-duty truck standard was estimated to be 25.6 mpg. Our current product plan is expected to be compliant with the Federal CAFE program. In October 2012, the U.S. EPA and NHTSA finalized a coordinated national program consisting of new requirements for the 2017 through 2025 model year light-duty vehicles that will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve fuel economy. This regulation represents a continuation of the national program that was established for 2012 through 2016 model year light-duty vehicles. This program includes EPA and NHTSA standards that 2016 Chevrolet Volt will require an industrywide target standard of 250 g of carbon-related exhaust emissions per mile and 34.1 mpg by 2016. Our current product plan projects compliance with both Federal programs through 2016. 65 Impacts > Fuel Efficiency & Emissions GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLOSER LOOK Conventional Technology, Unconventional Performance The 2016 Malibu Hybrid represents the successful convergence of multiple product priorities at GM today: lightweight materials, efficient engine technology, electrification and connectivity. 2016 Malibu Hybrid T he result is a model that demonstrates how advanced technologies can significantly enhance the fuel efficiency and performance of a mainstream vehicle, with this next-generation on electricity alone. The gasoline-powered engine automatically comes on at higher speeds and high loads when additional power is necessary. Malibu model offering an EPA-estimated 46 mpg combined fuel Fuel efficiency is further enhanced by a mass weight reduction of economy rating. nearly 300 pounds from the previous model. These reductions were The Malibu Hybrid’s propulsion system is derived directly from the achieved through: Chevrolet Volt. An all-new direct injection 1.8-liter, four-cylinder • A leaner and stronger body structure. engine mated to a two-motor drive unit, slightly modified from • Greater use of aluminum. the 2016 Volt drive unit, powers the Malibu Hybrid. The drive unit • A streamlined instrument panel and lighter power accessories. provides additional power to assist the engine during acceleration. • Lighter leather seats and other softer, lighter materials. The engine also features Chevrolet’s first application of exhaust • A 1.8-liter hybrid engine that is lighter than the previous model’s gas heat recovery, or EGHR technology, which uses exhaust heat standard 2.5-liter engine. to warm the engine and cabin. EGHR improves engine warmup and ensures consistent fuel economy performance in cold These light-weighting achievements were realized while delivering weather. Additional fuel economy benefits come from exhaust gas comparable or better crash performance. Standard safety recirculation, or EGR. technologies include 10 standard air bags, with available features such as Forward Collision Alert and Rear Cross Traffic Alert. Read An 80-cell, 1.5 kWh lithium-ion battery pack provides electric more about the safety features of the Malibu Hybrid on page 79. power to the hybrid system. The advanced lithium-ion-based chemistry can power the Malibu Hybrid at speeds up to 55 mph 66 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Workers collaborate at the GMIT Michigan Innovation Center on our Warren Tech Center campus GM People PROGRESS • Employee engagement has increased 50 percent since the first survey in 2012 that measured Building a culture to win by global engagement for employees of all levels and in every country. living our Purpose and Values • Continued to shape the employee engagement survey process in order to garner meaningful learnings about how engagement is progressing around the world. • Expanded the employee engagement survey for 2016 to include global hourly employees for the first time to have a comprehensive view of our workforce. • Executed a workplace safety management system that includes performance and technical standards and a comprehensive global internal communications strategy. PRIORITIES • Focus on populations with the most significant gaps in engagement. • Provide best-in-class career development tools and resources. • Focus on global leadership development through behavioral change. • Continue to realize improvements across all five workplace safety key performance indicators. CHALLENGES • Managing the expectations and unique perspectives of four generations in the workplace. • Continuing to address the career development needs of loyal (tenured) employees with as much mindful intent as new hires. • Focusing on expanding the idea that ‘culture is how we act and behave’ so that GM’s Purpose and Values are personal to employees not just propaganda on company walls. 67 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH In order to stay competitive and relevant as a company, our global workforce must: • Embrace rapid change as part of our efforts to put the customer at the center of everything we do. • Adopt behaviors that demonstrate an individual commitment to live our GM Values. • Build relationships before we need them. • Increase the level of accountability at every level of the organization. As these personal and professional shifts occur, we will be creating a workplace of choice as well – one that attracts and retains the industry’s best talent by creating ongoing opportunity for individual growth and development. We emphasize positive leadership behaviors throughout our organization, including accountability, candor and performing with excellence. We encourage employees to look past their own roles to see the possibilities that lie beyond horizons and around corners. Though some may read this as rhetoric, there is an internal commitment at GM today to prove any critic wrong and to create an authentic movement toward transparency and trust. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The vision of GM’s employee engagement strategy is simple: Generate a positive work environment to drive long-term success by creating a place where employees feel inspired to do their best work and feel valued for doing it. We strive every day to engage our employees in a meaningful way, so that we may further instill our Purpose and Values into our global workforce. We know that top talent is attracted to companies that are recognized externally for being among the best or most admired in the world. What employees say, why they choose to stay and whether they choose to give their best at work is a unique formula that is part personal and part professional. Today, we are building our corporate culture by giving GM employees five things they need, not only as employees, but also as unique individuals: GM employee installs wheels and tires on a pre-production 2016 Chevrolet Camaro • To be valued and to do valuable work. for testing. • To make their time count rather than to be counted. • To know that their leaders know how much effort their work takes. • To know what skills will keep them in critical roles or what roles are giving them critical skills. • To be provided with the truth behind business decisions and strategy rather than protection from change. Our objective is to create a workplace of choice built on dimensions that are consistently demonstrated by best-in-class companies: teamwork, fairness, trust, growth, commitment, recognition and impact. Appropriately, we measure employee engagement through our Global Workplace of Choice Survey – a name that signals our recognition that employees have a choice about where they work. The 2016 employee engagement survey conducted in April continues to validate that employees perceive the internal culture at GM is improving. 2016 is the year GM expanded the scope to include its global hourly workforce. For the first time leaders and employees could view the survey results as a true enterprise and were excited to learn that as a whole, GM experienced a significant increase in engagement from its last survey in 2014. Employee perception of the company and pride in work is on the rise. 68 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This survey process itself is one of continuous improvement. Given that GM surpassed the global employer average for engagement in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on how to close the gap between above average and best-in-class. We also decided to expand the survey to include our global hourly employees, who make up approximately two-thirds of our workforce and are closest to our products on a day-to-day basis. This expansion also is important symbolically as it signals that we are eliminating “silos” between our salaried and hourly populations – a criticism of GM in the past. By deciding to include the hourly workforce in our engagement survey, we have taken on the logistical challenge of ensuring that every employee, regardless of location or role, can participate. For this reason, we elected to postpone the survey until the spring of 2016 to better allow our locations with large hourly populations to prepare. The survey timing also is in thoughtful consideration of global and world religious holidays. This shift in our survey strategy demonstrates how we are working toward living our core value that “relationships matter,” by placing greater value on our employees’ input at all levels. We anticipate that gathering feedback that is more representative of our global workforce will provide critical insights to improve our business and workplace in the years ahead. INNOVATIVE ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMMING With a focus on global leadership development this year, we have expanded our Leadership Compass program beyond management, to include leaders at all levels. This award-winning program helps leaders learn the importance of our Purpose and Values and receive the tools they need to integrate that culture into their own teams. Senior leadership and our top 300 leaders challenged themselves and their peers to recognize and reward employees for “living the GM behaviors.” During 2015, we institutionalized this concept by requiring, for the first time, midyear performance conversations between leaders and their employees. These reviews include a conversation about how employees’ roles and individual efforts are perceived in terms of GM behaviors, not just technical expertise. GM2020 is another great example of the impact collaborative and transparent programs An employee in the Body Shop of GM’s are having on employees from all levels and functions. This workplace initiative allows manufacturing plant in Rayong, Thailand, takes precise digital measurements of a Chevrolet cross-functional employees to come together to reimagine the way we work at GM. Captiva’s supportive structure to ensure the The year 2020 marks a significant milestone in GM’s history as a company – it will be body parts are accurately assembled. 10 years since the most recent IPO. As such, it is also a significant time to reflect on our cultural transformation. In 2015, our GM2020: Engage New Possibilities event brought 200 employees together to envision new possibilities for making GM a better place to work. The participants were asked to consider: What if the company you worked for was a community you had to get involved in, instead of just a place to work? Each participant left with a new network, renewed faith in their ability to make change, as well as innovation tools and techniques to use with their teams. We challenged each participant to become an agent of change by thinking big, starting small and scaling fast. Employees also participated in a community service activity with a local Detroit school as part of the event. At the end of the year, all participants in the movement were invited to bring their leaders and teammates to a Living Museum, which showcased dozens of examples of the tangible impact employees are having across the company. 69 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Other engagement activities during the year included: • CO: LAB Series, 24-hour, fast-paced, collaborative sessions where groups of 30 to 70 employees are challenged to solve specific business issues. In 2015, we hosted four new CO:LABs focused on workspace, the design innovation process, vehicle accessories and creative storage solutions for SUVs. • Catalyst Camp was created to give employees the proper tools to make change. Participants dove more deeply into design thinking and the principles of human-centered design. • TED Talk Tuesdays were established as an opportunity for employees to learn something new and connect across the organization. These “Lunch and Learns” take place every other week, in various locations across the company. • Five new Global Engagement Webinars were produced on the DNA of Engagement, 25 Years of Engagement in 25 Minutes, Global Engagement Trends and Engaging Millennials. Each webinar saw more than 2,500 views and had over 200 live participants. Workplace & Employer Awards • GM Australia was a finalist of the Australian Human Resources • GM Mexico was awarded the Socially Responsible Company Institute’s Workplace Change Award. (ESR) Certification by the Mexican Center for Philanthropy • GM Canada was recognized as a “Top 100 Employer” (CEMEFI) and the Alliance for Corporate Social Responsibility in for 2015 by MediaCorp Canada Inc., for the fifth Mexico (AliaRSE). consecutive year. • GM U.S. was given the silver “Collaboration” Learning in • GM China was recognized as one of China’s Top Employers by Practice award by Chief Learning Officer magazine for its global the Top Employer Institute. collaboration between leaders, HR teams, functions, regions • GM China recently received an award from the Shanghai and employees on career development initiatives. Municipal Police Headquarters for excellence in security • Vauxhall was rated in the “Top 60 Employers” by management. RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk, which identifies employers most • GM Korea won the Grand Prize in the Global Contribution popular among young people leaving school in the U.K. who category of the 2015 Korea Chamber of Commerce were part of an apprenticeship. and Industry. • Vauxhall was named one of Britain’s Top Employers by the Top • GM Mexico ranked No. 7 in the “Top Ten Super Companies” by Employers Institute for the fifth year in a row. Expansion magazine, for the third consecutive year, a ranking • GM Egypt was named “Best Place to Work for Women” by that assesses climate and organizational culture. AmCham MENA Regional Council. 70 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT Culture change happens locally and then scales globally. Therefore, we rely on our employees to champion efforts that support engagement and innovation throughout the company. They are shifting our workplace culture in a way that is bringing tangible change to every level of the organization. Success stories from around the globe in 2015 showed how we are performing on our promise to build an engaging culture with a desire to win in the marketplace and in the hearts of customers. GM South America hosted a competitive Culture Week where, based on the premise of the popular television show “The Amazing Race,” employees “raced” to prove their country has the best culture and engagement. The week was filled with charity walks, community events and take-your-family-to-work days. All were designed to build pride in the company and provide an opportunity for employees to share their success with their family and friends. In the U.S., a regular, entrepreneurial “Shark Tank”–like event was started at the Warren Technical Center. The event allows any employee with an idea to pitch to staff once a month. Then, the leadership team assesses the ideas and connects the best ones to the people who can implement them. In India, we introduced hiring assessments in order to bring more objectivity, fairness and transparency to the process of filling positions and openly announced promotions. We also initiated Appreciation Week and Team GM Awards at all sites to reward management excellence. In Germany, we implemented Drive!2022 where Opel employees engage as change agents to implement strategy, improve brand image, strengthen market share and enter new markets, all toward revitalized profitability. Our teams in Germany also hosted “Bring Your Kids To Work Day” where employees had the opportunity for their children to experience the workplace of their parents. In the United Kingdom, an “Investors in People Award” was implemented to highlight best practices in people development and high-performance work. In Australia, we went through the process of redesigning the Holden Vision by setting up vision workshops and forums to elicit feedback at every site. More than 900 employees participated in discussions focused on defining what “winning” looks like for Holden. CAREER DEVELOPMENT Attracting and retaining the world’s best and brightest people – both within and beyond the automotive industry – is one of our biggest priorities and essential to winning in a competitive marketplace. We continue to increase the amount and variety of career resources available to help employees grow their careers within GM. Career development remains one of the top concerns for our employees around the world. Formal performance management and individual tools for employees to use on their own are helping us address employee engagement, retention and development. 71 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Based on our 2014 survey feedback, we know that employees desire more experiences and exposure during their GM career, including opportunities to discuss their career interests with others. To this end, our 2015 global career development strategy focused around: • Growing early-career functional rotational programs. • Providing rotational and lateral experiences to midand late-career employees. • Launching global mentoring resources. • Working as one company to offer employees career guidance in a variety of delivery methods. This strategy continued to evolve in 2015 as we conducted ongoing conversations with all five global regions and functional human resource teams throughout the year. CAREER DEVELOPMENT RESOURCES We integrate the company’s Purpose and Values throughout existing and new career development learning resources for employees. In 2015, we linked three critical components of career success – resume, networking and personal brand – to our Values of customers, relationships and excellence, so that employees better understand the impact our Values have on their careers. We also mapped many of our online learning resources to each of the Values to help employees better understand and embrace the Values. All career development communications reinforce our Purpose and Values and involve input and execution from global regions and functions. In addition, our new quarterly, global Career Matters eMagazine for employees includes career articles that directly link our Purpose OnStar employees in Shanghai, China and Values to career topics and include messages from both employees and leaders. EVENTS Career presentations, facilitated by GM leaders and HR professionals throughout 2015 at functional career days, global webinars, leadership discussion panels and more, reinforce the connection between GM’s core values and career success. For instance, during our monthly new-hire orientation day event, Starting Line, a member of our Executive Leadership Team visits with new hires about our workplace vision. At functional Career Days, leaders share their career stories and advice for growing a career at GM. These “Career Talk” panel discussions draw standing room only crowds and are growing in popularity at functional and global GM Career Day events. In 2015, we worked to enhance our Technical Rotation and Career Knowledge (TRACK) early career rotational development program and launched the program’s first cross-functional TRACK Learning Summit, which received favorable feedback from attendees. We also launched our first enterprise self-service mentoring learning resources for employees and began piloting a mentor-matching technology tool with a small pilot group of cross-functional employees. GM’s Career Days remain our most popular Career Development Month activity, with presentations that encourage career growth and provide transparency around our talent development and human resource processes. The inclusion of onsite job fairs during the Career Days allows employees to build relationships with leaders within their business function and learn more about other functional teams. 72 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We also created a new online gamification component, Career Development Month Quest, where employees find hidden badges in our online career resources to win prizes, while learning about career development in a fun, competitive way. Our global Career Development website continues to provide resources that help employees build awareness to proactively manage and grow their careers, with the support and engagement they need from their leaders. This year we observed that employees tend to participate more in onsite career presentations and events as opposed to virtual webinars and online learning. Accordingly, we plan to expand onsite career activities in 2016. As part of our effort to continuously evolve and update programming, GM will reevaluate current career development resources and use feedback from the upcoming 2016 survey to enhance our global offerings. GLOBAL CAREER DEVELOPMENT Career development is a priority for GM around the world, and a variety of programs are implemented at the country level, geared to the unique needs of local employees. In South America, we offered a talent fair for accelerated career development that focused specifically on GM women, as well as monthly employee activities centered on professional and personal development subjects such as design thinking, happiness and courage. In the U.K., Vauxhall was one of a number of We continue to increase the number of resources available to employees for career development. the U.K.’s leading businesses that signed up to deliver new and improved apprenticeships, as well as thousands of new youth vocational training schemes. We also continued the U.K. INSPIRE Leadership Development program, with more than 256 executives having been through the course that focuses on leadership qualities, inspiring communication, customer experience, raising the performance of teams and managing conflict. In India, we improved leadership development by introducing four mandatory trainings to better transition new people into leadership roles. We also executed a Business Simulation workshop, Strategic Field Leadership Program, Extraordinary Leadership Coaching and HIPOT Development Mentoring Program, each designed to develop competencies and equip participants with an understanding of the essential skills that will drive their personal career growth. In South Korea, we wanted to break down employee group silos, so we held sessions focused on each function that were open to anyone in the organization to learn more about other 73 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT parts of the business and future career opportunities. In addition, we hosted Group Mentoring and services through our Career Consulting Center. In North Africa, we created our “Find, Grow, Keep Women in GM” classroom training program for high-potential women. Over a six-month period, women participating received eight days of personal and professional development, to bolster their future career success. In Mexico, we continued our annual offsite team training and development for each function, as well as focus groups for every site. More than 200 employees participated in different initiatives promoting career development during Career Development Month, and 100 employees were assisted through our Mentoring Program where they are paired up with company leaders. GLOBAL SAFETY & INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE Occupational physicians in South America The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers and all who visit our global locations is driving GM employee’s health paramount, and we are committed to industry leadership in the field of global workplace safety and industrial hygiene. We recognize that efforts to provide safe workplaces can always be improved, which is why we continued the process of transforming the safety culture at GM sites around the world. Our efforts in 2015 continued to build toward the new vision we established a year ago: Live values that return people home safely. Every person. Every site. Every day. The five strategies to help us achieve this vision are: • Implement fatality prevention to drive and sustain ZERO fatalities. • Sustain a Safety Management System to assure compliance with regulations and conformance to GM standards. • Drive risk mitigation. • Leverage personal accountability and safety branding to transform our safety culture. • Utilize continuous improvement tools and technology to eliminate waste and drive business value. Since launching this new vision and strategy, we have also put internal branding and marketing activities in place that elevate workplace safety to a personal level of “It’s Personal” for each person who enters a GM property. SETTING PRIORITIES Each year, we host a global meeting with safety and industrial hygiene leaders. Each region submits the priorities that it thinks will continue our journey to reach our vision in the coming year. Priorities are voted on, action plans are formed and then incorporated into the Method Execution Plan, a tool in our Global Manufacturing System used to track and execute our goals. In addition, these priorities are in our Global Safety and Industrial Hygiene Playbook. The priorities we identified for 2015 to be carried out at more than 200 locations across the globe included: • Conduct Safety Management System and performance standard self-assessments and develop a 2015-2016 gap closure plan. • Implement and launch the Management of Change (MOC) performance standard. • Implement the safety contract (construction, service provider, spot buy and production) management performance standard. • Develop reliance modules, including incident reporting and self-assessment. 74 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Execute the Global Safety and Industrial Hygiene internal communications and awareness strategy. • Perform industrial hygiene exposure assessments (chemical and physical agents) and implement corrective action plans. In 2015, significant progress was made in each of these priority areas. We commenced the execution of our Safety Management System, resulting in the development of 20 performance standards and eight technical standards that address our highest risk areas. We successfully implemented our internal workplace safety communications strategy, management of change, and safety contract management performance standards. We anticipate that we will begin seeing tangible results from these new and improved standards in the latter part of 2016. TRACKING AGAINST OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2015, we tracked well against all five of our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) with the exception of fatalities, which we consider to be our most important KPI. • Fatalities – Our target is zero, so that every person who enters a GM facility leaves safely and unharmed. In 2015, we had one fatality. • A Sentinel Event – An injury, property damage, near-miss or unsafe act or condition that could have led to a fatality. Our goal is to prevent the recurrence of these events or risks. In 2015, we reported over 2,200 sentinel events, and our closure rate was 98 percent, with plans in place to close any open items. This KPI is critical to our fatality elimination efforts, as every sentinel event identified and corrected is a potential life saved. • Global Calls to Action – A global call to action is triggered by: a fatality, a sentinel event resulting in hospital admission or a permanently disabling injury. A global call to action requires a facility to evaluate its operations based on the root causes identified in the event, develop a corrective action plan and close each action. We had 14 global calls to action and our closure rate was 98 percent with a plan to close any items. • Sentinel Event – Proactive – We can learn from sentinel events and better predict where the next injury, property damage or near-miss event with fatality potential will occur so that we can eliminate those hazards. In 2015, while this KPI did not have a target, we A Vauxhall General Assembly employee works on determined that 57 percent of our sentinel events were proactive, meaning no one was the final engine dress at Ellesmere Port, England. hurt and no property damage occurred in these events. • Total Incident Rate – The number of recordable and nonrecordable injuries and illnesses per 100 full-time employees and contractors per year. This helps to identify hazards, eliminate risks and drive reporting for all incidents so that we can learn and assess areas for improvement. We will not publicly report on this KPI until an internal review is complete. In 2016, we plan to add Permanent Disabling Injuries as a KPI. GLOBAL WORKPLACE SAFETY We encourage each of our sites across the globe to participate in Global Safety Week, in whatever way is most appropriate to their local safety awareness needs. For example, in China, our SGMW Qingdao safety department led several safety workshops, trainings, quizzes and contests throughout the week, including a safe driving and traffic accident emergency response training, as well as a dry-powder fire extinguisher drill. We also produced multiple animated safety videos that were shared with our global workforce. 75 Impacts > GM People GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We recently developed a five-year LEARNING strategy that includes using our new video technology to produce videos on 20 different safety topics. We plan to produce five videos per year starting in 2016. We are also extending our internal safety communications strategy, as well as our safety branding and tag line: It’s Personal . . . Own It! GM is on the cutting edge with how this internal marketing will be used to drive employee accountability by impacting individual decision-making when beginning an activity in the workplace. An employee in the General Assembly shop at GM’s Rayong, Thailand, manufacturing plant LABOR RELATIONS during engine installation We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association in all countries and comply with our obligations to satisfy all local labor laws and regulations. GM works with about 40 unions globally, representing approximately 96 percent of our global manufacturing workforce. GM’s relationships with labor unions are generally healthy and stable business partnerships. In many instances, we have worked collaboratively with our union partners to realize significant increases in performance. During 2015, GM became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which calls upon companies to align their strategies and operations with universal principles on such matters as labor, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. By signing the UNGC, GM agrees to uphold 10 principles derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. GM’s participation in the UNGC underscores our confidence that we are operating in a consistent manner around the world to ensure the proper treatment of all employees. The way we manage labor relations is evolving as the nature of unions and the interaction among them evolve around the world. We are increasingly working to share best practices and solutions among regions. As an example, our labor experts from our developed markets often mentor and advise labor personnel in emerging markets. Our Largest Union Relationships United Automobile Workers (UAW) 52,200 United States The Korean Metal Workers Union (KMWU) 10,400 South Korea The Union of Metal Mechanical Workers 13,300 Brazil Confederación de Trabajadores de México (CTM) 11,900 Mexico Unifor 5,000 Canada 76 Impacts > Vehicle Safety GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The all-new 2016 Chevrolet Malibu has the most available active safety features in its class. Vehicle PROGRESS Safety • Continued building industry-leading, customer-focused safety organization. • Increased use of data analytics to identify potential safety issues and product improvement opportunities. Seeking to set a new standard in customer safety • Received the highest possible overall vehicle score in regional new car assessment testing in our five largest markets for 57 2015 models. • Introduced Teen Driver, an industry first, to assist parents in encouraging and monitoring safe driving habits of their kids. • Introduced six active safety features. PRIORITIES • Continue development of crash-avoidance technologies, such as Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) Communication, which will debut as an industry first in 2017. • Bring an advanced, semi-autonomous driver assist technology, called Super Cruise, to market. • Develop new technology to help encourage seat belt usage and help address impaired driving. CHALLENGES • Implementing new safety technologies in an increasingly complex competitive environment. • Introducing safety technologies in regions around the world with varying regulatory and customer driving environments. 77 Impacts > Vehicle Safety GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH As GM seeks to set a new standard for customer safety, we continue to build on a foundation designed to serve our customers well. As part of our global vehicle development process, GM designers and engineers take a comprehensive approach to safety by considering all three phases of a vehicle crash when designing and engineering our vehicles: Before, During and After. Technical specifications for GM vehicles ensure compliance with regional regulatory requirements and also may take into account regional consumer metric programs. In addition, our vehicle safety specifications meet an internal set of requirements that typically go above and beyond regulatory compliance. GM’s approach to vehicle safety also includes offering our customers a variety of strategic safety technologies, such as OnStar, forward collision alert, lane departure, automatic braking systems and adapative cruise control. For the 2015 model year, in five of our largest markets, 57 models received the highest possible overall vehicle score for their respective market’s new car rating program. In the U.S., government 5-Star Safety Ratings are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program (NCAP). Market Top Ratings for Model Year 2015 United States 20 China 9 Australasia 12 South Korea 9 Europe 7 The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS) is an independent, nonprofit scientific and educational organization dedicated to vehicle safety. For the 2015 model year the Chevrolet Spark, Volt, Malibu, Sonic, Trax and Equinox; the Buick Encore; and the GMC Terrain were named IIHS 2015 Top Safety Picks. The designation goes to models that achieve a good or acceptable rating in the challenging small overlap front test – introduced in 2012 – and a good rating in each of the Institute’s four other crashworthiness evaluations – moderate overlap front, side, roof strength and head restraints. SAFETY ORGANIZATION In 2015, we continued our focus on customer outreach for recall completion and leveraging our strengths in Customer Relationship Management (CRM) marketing tools and capabilities to improve recall completion rates. We continue to focus on developing capabilities, such as data analytics, to find potential 2016 Chevrolet Equinox LTZ emerging issues and future product improvement opportunities. Another focus is the global Safety and Field Investigation process to complete timely and effective investigations in order to minimize future safety risks. Our goal remains building a proactive safety culture where all employees have a role in vehicle safety through the Speak Up for Safety (SUFS) program and comprehensive Global Product Safety training class. The SUFS program was launched in 2014 to encourage employees to report potential workplace or vehicle safety issues or to offer safety-related suggestions. The process by which GM evaluates and decides on potential safety-related issues also was restructured to engage the highest level of the company in determining safety issues. During 2015, the SUFS program 78 Impacts > Vehicle Safety GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT continued to grow in number of submissions. In Mexico, for example, an engineer spoke up to suggest a more appropriately sized fuse in the brake systems of the 2015 Chevrolet Colorado Read about GM and the and the 2015 GMC Canyon prior to launch, avoiding potential risks to our customers. GM Foundation’s global In 2015, GM began working with an independent Monitor appointed under our Deferred partnerships with SafeKids Prosecution Agreement related to the ignition switch recall. The independent Monitor’s Worldwide on page 114. expertise will be brought to bear on our policies, processes and procedures related to vehicle safety. GM’s commitment to active safety also can be seen at the new 52-acre Active Safety Test Area dedicated facility at Milford Proving Grounds to develop and integrate new collisionavoidance technologies. The new state-of-the-art Active Safety Test Area concentrates the company’s active safety testing into one site. It features: • A 16-acre dynamics pad for testing a variety of robot-controlled and automated vehicles. • Highway simulation with six lanes, on/off ramps, controlled lighting, road signs and lane markings that represent global specifications. • A parking test area with a variety of different curb types and landscaping detection. • Pedestrian test area with a 90-degree traffic intersection and precisely controlled dummy movement. • Tunnel simulation that simulates toll booths, tunnels and other structures. • A building for observation, indoor testing, hoists for test preparation and a robotic control station. ADVANCED SAFETY TECHNOLOGIES Our pursuit of industry leadership in vehicle safety continues to be underscored by the introduction of new advanced technologies. The 2016 Malibu, for example, features a new, industry-leading feature, Teen Driver. This technology allows parents to help teens develop safe driving habits by learning more about a teen’s experiences behind the wheel. Parents can register their teen’s key fob to obtain a report card following the teen’s driving trip on parameters such as: • Distance driven • Maximum speed traveled • Number of over-speed warnings issued • Number of Enhanced Stability Control (ESC) events • Number of Antilock Brake System events • Number of Forward Collision Alerts, if equipped • Number of Front Automatic Braking events, if equipped Front Pedestrian Braking, a new active safety technology available on the 2016 Chevrolet Teen Driver also reinforces safe driving behavior by allowing parents to set a warning when Malibu and 2016 Cadillac CT6, is one of many safety features tested at our new Active Safety the vehicle exceeds a preset speed and limit the maximum audio volume. The technology Test Area at the Milford Proving Ground. also encourages teens to buckle up by muting the radio or any device paired to the vehicle until the driver and front passenger are wearing their seat belts. During 2015, GM also introduced six new active safety features for 2016 model year vehicles, bringing the total active safety offerings up to 22 features. • Low Speed Front Automatic Braking applies the brakes automatically if a vehicle is traveling at a low speed and the system detects that a front-end collision situation is imminent and the driver has not already applied the brakes. By automatically applying the brakes, the system can help reduce the severity of the collision or avoid it entirely at very low speeds. 79 Impacts > Vehicle Safety GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Front Pedestrian Braking alerts the driver and, if necessary, automatically applies the brakes if the system detects that a pedestrian is directly ahead and a collision is imminent. Automatic brake application can reduce the collision’s severity or avoid the collision. • Full Display Mirror displays a wider, less obstructed field of view to assist when driving, changing lanes and checking for vehicles and traffic conditions as compared with a traditional inside rearview mirror. The system may also provide increased rear visibility at night. • Curb View Camera provides the driver a view of the scene immediately ahead of the vehicle on the vehicle’s center stack display to help the driver avoid low-speed collisions into nearby objects, such as curbs, poles and parked vehicles. The system works in forward gear during low-speed maneuvering (e.g., parking). • Surround Vision Recorder allows the driver to record, store (on an SD card) and play back a video of the images recorded by the vehicle’s Surround Vision feature cameras. • Night Vision provides the driver an infrared night vision image of the area lit beyond the headlamps that highlights and provides alerts to detected pedestrians or large animals. In addition to the active safety features introduced in 2015, GM has announced support for Taking It to the an automotive industry agreement proposed by NHTSA and IIHS that would lead to making Streets of M-City Forward Collision Warning and Automatic Emergency Braking standard on light vehicles. A natural place to test self-driving cars Both technologies are available today on dozens of 2016 Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac is city streets, but it’s not always easy models, accounting for more than 1 million vehicles on the road. Currently, 37 models are to simulate certain conditions and available with forward collision alert, and 19 models offer both forward collision alert and tricky situations. That’s the idea behind automatic emergency braking. M-City, a unique 32-acre test facility, in Ann Arbor, Michigan, for evaluating the Beyond active safety technology, the past year also saw the validation of OnStar’s Injury capabilities of connected and automated Severity Prediction (ISP) algorithm. Dr. Stewart Wang, director of the University of vehicles and systems. M-City simulates the broad range of complexities vehicles Michigan Program for Injury Research and Education (UMPIRE), published and presented encounter in urban and suburban findings validating the ISP, which GM introduced in 2010. The validation used actual environments. There are numerous crashes from the state of Michigan. ISP is included as part of OnStar on equipped benefits to testing in this closed, Chevrolet, Buick, GMC and Cadillac vehicles in the U.S. and Canada to provide additional controlled environment. For example, information to first responders in the event of a vehicle crash triggering Automatic Crash what happens when a traffic light goes Notification. The algorithm analyzes crash information such as air bag deployment, seat out? What if a policeman is gesturing? What happens if there’s a storm and belt use and direction of impact to determine the probability of severe injury to the the traffic light turns to a blinking vehicle occupants. OnStar Advisors then relay the ISP rating to 911 centers for the use of yellow? Will the vehicle know what to first responders. The publication of the study has generated great interest within the do? Those are the types of experiences emergency service response community. encountered in real life. M-City provides the opportunity to set these situations OnStar’s next-generation wireless capabilities may even further enhance the connected up in a controlled environment so that vehicle’s transformative public safety function by allowing emergency responders and one day in the not-too-distant future, other medical providers to obtain, receive and analyze even more information related to next-generation technologies will be an emergency incident. production-ready for the real world. NEXT-GENERATION TECHNOLOGIES Some of the most important changes sweeping the automotive industry in the next several years are around intelligent vehicle technologies, such as autonomous, vehicle-to-vehicle (V2) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I). GM is a leader in the development of these technologies. As vehicles become equipped with V2V communication technology, many traffic collisions can be avoided or mitigated. V2V also is expected to help improve traffic congestion. When V2V-equipped vehicles approach each other, the vehicles exchange basic safety information, such as location, speed and direction of travel. V2V features notify and warn drivers of a 80 Impacts > Vehicle Safety GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT variety of situations, adding to increased driver awareness provided by current production active safety features. GM continues to work with the Michigan Department of Transportation, the University of Michigan’s Mobility Transformation Center and other automakers to create V2I-enabled corridors on 120 miles of metro Detroit roadways, including stretches of Interstate 96 and the Reuther and Ford freeways. When completed, it will be the largest deployment of V2I technology in the United States. In 2017, we also will bring an advanced, semi-autonomous, driver assist technology, called Super Cruise, to market. This new feature, which will be offered on the Cadillac CT6, provides customers with a driving experience that works with Adaptive Cruise Control to also provide hands-off, automatic lane following under certain highway driving conditions. The system is designed to increase driver convenience and reduce stress for an attentive driver on limited-access freeways, both in bumper-to-bumper traffic and on long road trips. Super Cruise technology is a step toward autonomous technology, which we believe has important safety benefits. GM is also focused on developing and implementing new technology to help encourage seat belt usage and help address impaired driving. Seat Belt Assurance System (SBAS) is a seat belt interlock that prevents the vehicle from being shifted out of park until the driver and detected front seat passenger are buckled up. This feature is available on a limited number of fleet vehicles. It is being evaluated as a pilot to determine customer acceptance and the effect it may have on increasing seat belt use. By predicting the severity of crash victims’ injuries, OnStar advisors can better inform first responders to allow for improved on-scene treatment. Driver Alcohol Detection System for Safety (DADSS) is a collaborative research program between the automotive industry and the government to develop a sensor technology which, someday, could reliably keep intoxicated drivers off the road. Proving Crash Data Counts Over the past four years, GM, OnStar and limb-threatening injuries – require the and computerized tomography (CT) scan the University of Michigan’s International most urgent attention. With the right data. The goal was to see if the predicted Center for Automotive Medicine (ICAM) data, responders are able to much more injury rating accurately matched the have conducted research that illustrates accurately predict which people might be occupants’ confirmed injuries. This study how crash data, such as that provided by in this critical subset so that proper confirmed that for the first time, under On-Star’s Injury Severity Prediction Service, resources can be deployed to rescue and real-world field conditions, occupant can assist first responders. This was the transport them to the right level of care. injury severity can be predicted using first known study to match real-life injury vehicle data. This service enables first outcomes with crash telemetry data. As part of the research for each crash responders to better treat injuries today, incident, the research team matched and in the long run, it may allow us to Only a subset of all people involved in each ISP rating with the corresponding prevent certain injuries from occurring. a crash – those with serious lifeor police report, medical records, EMS data 81 Section >>Subsection Impacts Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM strives to create diverse teams to bring a wider range of thinking and experiences to the company. Diversity & PROGRESS Inclusion • Completed second year of a five-year plan to further increase workforce diversity and remain on track to meet our 2018 targets. • In 2015, 34 percent of all U.S. hires were minorities, and 26 percent of all global hires Strengthening our business were women. with a diverse workforce and • Half of GM's Board are women and/or ethnic minorities, making us a leader among the an inclusive workplace Fortune 100 for Board diversity. PRIORITIES • Recruit and develop the best and brightest talent from around the world. • Improve progress in developed markets and capitalize on new and emerging markets. • Leverage the different traits and attributes inherent in our workforce. CHALLENGES • Attracting diverse talent to work in the auto industry and, in particular, attracting them to move to the communities in which we operate. • Increasing minority and women dealer representation within an already contracted dealer network base. • Increasing efficiencies and streamlining the procurement supply process without impacting diverse dealers. • Increasing minority and women pipeline representation in the core elements of the business, given the academic underrepresentation of these groups. 82 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH GM views diversity and inclusion as a strength, based on our ability as an organization to value and respect individual differences. We appreciate what each individual brings to our team, including background, education, gender, race, ethnicity, working and thinking styles, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, religious background, age, generation, disability, cultural expertise and technical skill. Empowering these unique perspectives keeps GM on the cutting edge of technological innovation in the fast-paced automotive industry. In today's global automotive market, GM recognizes the significance of diversity and inclusion – it is integral to the workplace and a business priority. As a recent McKinsey & Company study1 found, “Companies in the top quartile for racial and ethnic diversity are 35 percent more likely to have financial returns above their respective national industry medians. Companies in the top quartile for gender diversity are 15 percent more likely to have financial returns above their respective national industry medians.” We believe that our ability to meet the needs and expectations of an increasingly diverse and global customer base is tied closely to diversity and inclusiveness. To this end, we are focused on: • Finding and growing the best and brightest talent from around the world. • Capitalizing on new and emerging markets. • Leveraging the different traits and attributes inherent in our workforce. Today, GM continues to be among the most diverse automotive employers globally, from the board room to the plant floor. Half of the members of our Board of Directors are women and/or ethnic minorities, making us a leader among the Fortune 100. In addition, our corporate officers comprise 26 percent women and minorities. DIVERSITY GOVERNANCE The GM Executive Leadership Team, chaired by our Chairman and CEO, serves as the company’s senior diversity council. Other diversity-focused councils within our organization include: Supplier Diversity Council, Employee Resource Group Leader Council, GM was honored with a perfect score for the Disabilities Advisory Council, Minority Dealer Development Council, Women Dealer Human Rights Campaign’s 2015 Corporate Development Council, Eyes Right (Veterans Council) and the ERG Executive Champions Equality Index. Roundtable. Further, our Global Chief Diversity Officer chairs the Strategic Diversity Working Group which aligns all D&I efforts globally and incorporates inputs from marketing, communications, corporate relations/philanthropy, talent acquisition, public policy and legal. Additionally, GM’s diversity initiatives are routinely reviewed with the executive leadership team and the Board of Directors. SELECT 2015 RANKINGS & ACCOLADES • GM Egypt was named the “Best Company for Women to Work For” by the American Chambers of Commerce in the Middle East North Africa region. • The National Association for Female Executives honored GM as one of the “Top 50 Companies for Female Executives.” • GM received a perfect score of 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2015 Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on LGBT workplace equality. • 2015 Corporation of the Year Award for Supplier Development by National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC). 1 http://www.mckinsey.com/business-functions/organization/our-insights/why-diversity-matters 83 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • LATINA Style Magazine ranked GM 12th on the 2015 Latina STYLE 50 Report’s “50 Best Companies for Latinas to Work For” and recognized our Hispanic Initiative Team (GM HIT) as the #1 Hispanic Employee Resource Group (ERG) in the nation. • Our Vice President of Global Design Ed Welburn received the Black Engineer of the Year Award at the 2015 Becoming Everything You Are (BEYA) STEM conference. • Top 20 “2015 Best for Vets Employer” by Military Times and the only automotive manufacturer to merit the recognition. • American Indian Science & Technology Society – Top 50 STEM Workplaces for Native Americans. • Top 20 Industry Supporters of Historically Black Colleges and Universities • Our GM Korea team won the “Female Talent Management” Award. • Our GM Mexico team won the “Inclusive Company” award for the third consecutive year. Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency Director Jeff Barnes (center) presents the first-ever Gold-Level Veteran-Friendly Employer Award to GM Vice President of U.S. Sales and Service Steve Hill (left) and GM Chief Diversity Officer A Strong Legacy of Firsts Ken Barrett, to recognize GM's ongoing efforts GM has a long history of supporting and leading the way for diversity and inclusion to hire and support U.S. military veterans. in the workplace: • First minority supplier program in the auto industry (1968) • First Fortune 500 Company to have an African American Director on its Board (1971) “I was given the chance to work my • First minority dealer program in the auto industry (1972) way up at GM because 20 years • First company to sign a letter of support for the Guard and Reserve (1972) ago at GM, people valued diversity. • First and only auto company to have a women’s dealer program (2001) If you want to hire someone to • First and only auto company to have an African American lead its Global get the job done, you should pick Design Team (2005) people not like you to create that • First woman CEO in the auto industry (2014) diversity, which will be across gender and across cultures and Today, this tradition continues, and GM is proud to employ the highest-ranking across experiences.” Latina and African American women in the auto industry, as well – Mary Barra as one of the highest-ranking Indian-American women. GM Chairman & CEO 84 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Workforce At-A-Glance GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY TYPE PERMANENT TEMPORARY Male 82% Male 78% Female 18% Female 22% MANAGERS NON-MANAGERS Male 82% Male 83% Female 18% Female 17% PERMANENT EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE FULL-TIME PART-TIME Male 83% Male 46% Female 17% Female 54% 85 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Workforce At-A-Glance GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY GENDER FEMALE MALE North America 75% North America 51% Europe 11% Europe 19% International 8% International 17% South America 6% South America 13% U.S. WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP FEMALE MALE Under 30 Years 12% Under 30 Years 10% 30-49 Years 49% 30-49 Years 41% Over 50 Years 39% Over 50 Years 49% TOTAL U.S. WORKFORCE BY AGE GROUP Under 30 Years 11% 30-49 Years 43% Over 50 Years 46% 86 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Workforce At-A-Glance U.S. WORKFORCE BY ETHNICITY FEMALE MALE TOTAL WORKFORCE White 63% White 75% White 72% Black 26% Black 14% Black 17% Asian 6% Asian 6% Asian 6% Hispanic 5% Hispanic 5% Hispanic 5% NtHw/PclsI/ NtHw/PclsI/ NtHw/PclsI/ American Indian/ American Indian/ American Indian/ Two or More Two or More Races Two or More Races Races <1% <1% <1% U.S. WORKFORCE SELF-IDENTIFIED AS U.S. WORKFORCE BY SELF-IDENTIFIED VETERAN STATUS HAVING DISABILITY VETERAN DISABLED VETERAN Male 79% Male 90% Male 87% Female 21% Female 10% Female 13% 87 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DIVERSITY RECRUITMENT Our 215,000-plus employees work in nearly 400 facilities on six continents across 23 time zones and speak 70 languages. From designing and engineering state-of-the-art products for global markets to building relationships in the communities where we live and work, GM team members are valued for their unique contributions. We have completed the second year of a five-year plan to further increase workforce diversity. With an aggressive focus on women and minorities in STEM disciplines, GM is on track to meet its 2018 targets. In 2015, 34 percent of all U.S. hires were minorities and more than 26 percent of all global hires were women. Our Executive Leadership Program in the U.S. focuses on further development of leadership capabilities of executive-potential women and to build a support network of women leaders. The program targets “ready now” female leaders, already in executive positions with 5 to Veterans participating in the 2015 Hiring Our 12 years of managerial experience. Four leadership attribute categories frame the focus Heroes hiring fair. area for the program: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness and relationship management. The training and development sessions – hosted by female executives from different areas of the business – include a combination of lectures, group activities and self-reflections. Strategic With new Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) guidelines in place, we Partnerships are building on our efforts to hire veterans and people with disabilities in the U.S. We are GM is focused on expanding the diverse among six Fortune 500 companies participating in a three-year pilot initiative to recruit, pool of talent we attract globally. This hire, develop and retain persons with disabilities. As a member of the “Going for Gold” includes building key relationships disability hiring initiative, we have hired over 130 people with disabilities. and strong strategic partners with organizations that include: In 2015, 4.5 percent of all new hires were veterans, and we continue to support several • Society of Women Engineers training and recruitment programs for veterans, including: • National Society of Black Engineers • The Shifting Gears Program that trains current military members to become certified • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers technicians prior to leaving service. • Black Engineer of the Year • The U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s “Hiring Our Heroes Program,” a national • Great Minds in STEM grassroots effort to find jobs for returning veterans and their spouses. • Out in Science, Technology, • The “100,000 Jobs Mission,” a coalition of private-sector businesses dedicated to hiring Engineering, and Mathematics 100,000 veterans by 2020. • Women of Color in Technology • Providing free training to all veterans through our Service Technical College. • American Indian Science and Engineering Society • Historically Black Colleges and Universities • Hispanic Serving Institutions • United Negro College Fund • U.S. Hispanic Leadership Institute Additionally, we have partnerships at 20 universities, such as the University of Puerto Rico and Howard University, where we have a direct presence on campus to recruit top talent. 88 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS Our employee resource groups (ERGs) play a key role in fostering an inclusive place to work. These groups provide a forum for employees to share common concerns and experiences, gain professional development support and engage in local communities. Approximately one-third of GM employees are involved in our 12 ERGs and their chapters throughout the world. During 2015, our ERG Council was ranked sixth among the top 25 ERGs in the U.S. and received the Association of ERGs & Councils’ 2015 ERG & Council Honors Award. Globally, we have 22 active women’s councils and several JumpStart chapters, which represent our new employees. All ERGs are working toward our corporate effort to make GM a Workplace of Choice. ERGs provide us with insights that help us better understand diverse and emerging consumer markets, while offering a platform for our employees to contribute to diversity initiatives within our community. Each GM ERG also has a business plan tied to talent acquisition, The 3rd Annual “Honoring Our Heroes Gala hosted by GM and the Veterans Affinity Group talent development, community outreach and business support. Following is an overview of raised $500,000 for organizations supporting each GM ERG and one of their success stories from 2015. veterans in Michigan and throughout the nation. African Ancestry Network (GMAAN) is a resource attracting, developing and retaining employees of African descent, and connecting them with local communities to meet GM business priorities. Members are offered mentoring programs, quarterly professional development workshops, monthly networking activities, product awareness ride and drives, and support for numerous community organizations in southeast Michigan and beyond. In 2015, GMAAN engaged in a collaborative fundraising effort, consisting of over 60 teams of committed UAW-GM employees, business partners and other volunteers, to raise student scholarship funds over a four-month period. The effort raised $345,526 – 50 percent over the targeted goal – for the United Negro College Fund (UNCF). Asian Indian Affinity Group serves as a link for our employees from Indian subcontinent countries within the company and outside communities. It raises cultural awareness by providing educational tools and resources to employees and our dealer network. In 2015 the group initiated a one-on-one, year-long mentoring program that pairs members with GM executives for career and professional development. Chinese Employee Resource Group (CERG) aims to provide opportunities for cultural awareness, career development and community interactions for all GM employees while integrating membership with GM’s business objectives to increase U.S.Chinese market share. CERG’s signature Chinese New Year celebration gala attracts people from both GM and community organizations to an evening of cultural entertainment, charity fundraising and leadership keynote and interaction. The evening allows CERG to proudly showcase their Chinese heritage and expertise in establishing relationships with GM’s global interest in China. CERG kicked off a new career development event in 2015, when its board of directors Employees at the Vehicle Engineering Center in Warren, Michigan, celebrate Chinese New Year. worked with GM Human Resources to develop a series of “career talks” that provided GM employees with an opportunity to hear career advice from top GM executives and ask career-related questions relevant to their needs. These well-received sessions were held at different GM locations throughout the year, with the knowledge exchange enhancing employees’ professional career development. 89 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT General Motors Veterans Group (GMVG) creates positive, lasting relations with veteran communities, union partners and organizations, while striving to make us a workplace of choice by recruiting talented military veterans and empowering and engaging current veteran and military employees. With eight chapters in four states, GMVG supports a variety of programs and organizations, including the Stephen Siller Tunnel to Towers Foundation, Piquette Square Project, Operation Stand Down, and the Fallen and Wounded Soldiers Fund. In 2015 the Customer Care and Aftersales (CCA) chapter of the GMVG held the “Honoring Our Heroes Gala” in Detroit that raised more than $400,000 for Stephen Siller to erect homes for wounded veterans; hosted the “Field of Flags” event at the CCA Willow Run Parts Distribution Center; and the 9/11 Never Forget Memorial Exhibit at the Renaissance Center and CCA Headquarters in Grand Blanc. GM Hispanic Initiative Team (GM HIT) has a mission to attract, develop and retain Hispanic Members from GM’s Austin Innovation Center employees; grow our relationships with the Hispanic community; and promote growth of HIT ERG use “Day of Giving” to host a community event promoting STEM education. our Hispanic market share. GM HIT strategizes to harness growing Hispanic disposable income with its commitment to develop every level of the talent pipeline from elementary, middle and high school STEM engagement activities through new and active employee mentor programs and the use of executive management development programs. Latina Style has recognized GM HIT for the last two years with its Top 5 ERG of the Year Award. In 2015, GM HIT members actively engaged in a number of service-oriented activities designed to raise the quality of Hispanic talent available to enter the job market and build brand loyalty. For example, members volunteered across the U.S. to support National STEM Week by speaking to schools about the role of STEM in everyday activities. Members also provided plant tours to students, while discussing the important role of technology integration in the workplace. GM PLUS is the ERG for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) employees and their allies, with a vision that all GM employees feel safe, respected, valued and supported in their workplace. In 2015, GM PLUS launched a mentor program for LGBT and ally employees in order to provide our rising talent with targeted support for achieving their individual and professional development goals. We believe mentoring is a key enabler for developing GM Workplace of Choice focus areas of recruitment, retention, and personal and professional growth. GM WOMEN aims to assist women with professional development, establishing GM as a workplace of choice, creating leadership opportunities for women and impacting GM’s ability to connect with the female consumer. GM has 22 women’s councils globally. These strategic groups are integral to connecting directly with female populations in local automotive markets. In 2015, we focused on connecting women’s councils across the globe to share best practices and to leverage key learnings on supporting women inside and outside the organization. As part of this effort, we held our first-ever Global Women’s Leadership Summit, bringing together 100 women from 27 different countries that represented all functions and levels in the business. Held at our global headquarters in Detroit, the event allowed for the in-person exchange of ideas and brainstorming with fellow female colleagues – women who would have otherwise never connected – and the sharing of innovative best practices being implemented in their respective countries. 90 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT JumpStart is an ERG focused on connecting, engaging, developing and retaining the newest employees at GM. Our goal is to create lifelong ambassadors for GM. With operations ranging globally, JumpStart provides opportunities for networking, professional development, leadership exposure and community service. JumpStart also gives new employees the opportunity to recruit the next generation of employees. JumpStart an Executive is a program that aims to connect senior leaders with new employees through a one-on-one reverse mentoring partnership. Through this mutually beneficial program, participants act in both mentor and mentee capacities to learn from each other’s experiences, communication styles and workplace behaviors. New employees gain knowledge of the company and our products, as well as valuable career advice from senior leaders. In parallel, this program allows senior leaders a view of the company through the eyes of a new employee, resulting in a better understanding of the unique generational challenges and issues facing new employees. Participants meet once per quarter and develop initiatives to close a gap in the company by the end of the year-long partnership. Through 2015, JumpStart had partnered individually with 30 of the most senior leaders at GM. Middle-East, Southeast Asian (MESEA) strives to make GM the workplace of choice for people of the Middle East, North Africa, Southern Europe and Southeast Asia, and is the most diverse ERG, representing more than 48 countries. MESEA focuses on employee development, networking and empowering its constituents to be our product ambassadors. In 2015, MESEA, with the support of Global Diversity and the vice president of vehicle engineering, launched the first annual celebration for Arab American Heritage Month, giving GM GM employees in Detroit celebrate employees the opportunity to learn about various cultural and professional contributions, Arab-American Heritage month. ranging from art and literature to science and medicine. Native American Cultural Network (NACN) seeks to educate, inform and create a greater awareness among our employees, customers and the general public about Native American Indian culture, beliefs and values. NACN encourages GM’s Native American employees to grow their careers, to network with company leaders and to support local community organizations. NACN strives to grow Native American youths' interest in STEM, especially engineering, through involvement in the American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES). With the support of the GM Foundation, NACN has been able to work with the society to implement a robotics competition and to provide robotics kits to schools in underserved areas. In 2015, GM was named one of the Top 50 Companies for Native Americans in STEM. 91 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT People With Disabilities promotes awareness of the abilities of those with disabilities and serves as a resource to our employees who are disabled or who care for a person with a disability by providing valuable input to the company relative to accessible design of our products and facilities. In 2015, the group created a Disability Advisory Council, responsible for creating procedures in all functional areas that will support a reasonable accommodation process. The council is led by executives to provide effective top-down support. Some successes include captioned broadcasts, facility-reasonable accommodations that are given top priority and accessible campus shuttles. As work continues, GM becomes a more inclusive company that is desirable to potential employees and customers with disabilities. Vietnamese Affinity Group (VietAG) aims to provide employees with a means to connect with local Vietnamese communities to learn about Vietnamese heritage and to enhance their leadership skills. Leveraging activities with other GM ERG groups, VietAG members were able to network and build their personal and professional knowledge while attending leadership training and conferences throughout the year. Also, with the support of the GM Foundation, VietAG was able to contribute to the success of the Georgia Vietnamese Community annual health fair program in 2015. The group continues to grow their contributions as GM expands more into Vietnam. ® SUPPLIER DIVERSITY GM Supplier Diversity Program is focused on developing and growing a competitive, diverse supply base that can thrive in the marketplace. We were the first automotive company to establish a formal Supplier Diversity Program in 1968 and since then have received many accolades for our record of setting industry standards. Over the past several decades, GM has spent more than $70 billion with diverse suppliers. We are one of 20 members of the Billion Dollar Roundtable (BDR) that leads, influences and shapes supplier diversity globally. The BDR was created in 2001 to recognize and celebrate corporations that achieved spending of at least $1 billion annually with minorityand woman-owned suppliers. The BDR promotes and shares best practices in supply chain diversity excellence. GM has been a member of the BDR since its inception. $3.8 GM continues to focus support towards our minority-owned suppliers by sharing industry-best practices in the procurement process, enhancing our suppliers' ability to grow into Tier I or Tier II suppliers. Fostering stronger relationships with our suppliers Billion remains a priority. We hold an intensive, five-day executive development program for Minority and Women Business Enterprises (MWBE) focused primarily on increasing the competitive advantage 2015 Tier 1 Spend and robustness of the participants' businesses. Our Pathways program matches mentors with mentees for one year to assist with new business development and growth. Our supplier diversity initiatives include several scholarships to help underprivileged students attend major colleges and universities. In 2015, these scholarships benefitted 32 students through Detroit Cristo Rey, the Detroit Hispanic Development Corporation (DHDC), the National Association of Black Suppliers (NABS) and the Tuck-Executive Program. 92 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MARKETPLACE DIVERSITY With more than 20,000 dealers worldwide, our dealerships are integral to the distribution of our product and serve as the local face of GM in communities around the world. The GM Dealer Development organization is responsible for managing diversity in our dealer network. Its mission is to create a profitable dealer network across all GM brands that reflect consumer diversity in the U.S. The GM Dealer Development organization supports three specific programs: • Minority Dealer Development (MDD), launched in 1972, was the first program of its kind. MDD focuses on developing, building and retaining a profitable minority dealer network. The Minority Dealer Advisory Council (MDAC) gives GM insights into the concerns of the dealer network. • Women’s Retail Network (WRN), launched in 2001, is the first and only structured program in the industry developed exclusively to attract and develop women dealers. WRN expanded its reach in 2013 to represent the interests of GM women dealers and management staff in the U.S. and Canada and, most recently, in 2015, globally through the establishment of WRN Germany. Under WRN, GM Women’s Dealer Advisory Council (WDAC) aims to grow GM’s purchase consideration and market share among women buyers. WDAC includes women dealers, women in automotive retail management and other key stakeholders. • The National Candidate Program is the training and development arm of the Dealer Development program. Its mission is to prepare minority and women candidates to become GM dealer operators/owners. One component of this is our longstanding Motors Holding investment group which provides qualified dealer candidates with a means to own dealerships through structured investment and buyout plans. Today, ethnic minority and women dealerships represent nearly 11 percent of GM’s dealer network. GM’s dealer diversity programs, along with partnerships such as with the National Association of Minority Automobile Dealers in the U.S., are critical for our commitment to grow a dealer portfolio that more closely reflects the diversity of GM’s customer base. Vice President, Chevrolet Marketing Paul Edwards (left) and Founder and President of the Rainbow PUSH Coalition Rev. Jesse L. Jackson DIVERSE MARKETING AND COMMUNICATIONS Sr. at the kick-off of the Rainbow PUSH Money With vehicles sold in more than 140 countries, our global customer base is, by definition, Matters workshops sponsored by Chevrolet. diverse. In the U.S., we have made a significant effort through our diversity branding and communications to reach out to minority consumers to better understand their needs. We listen to our customers, appreciate their differences and leverage our collective diversity to continually evolve as a company. Our relationship with customers is critical to our purpose of earning customers for life. The Diversity Marketing Center of Expertise focuses on evolving market research to ensure GM is positioned to capitalize on emerging consumer trends. Our marketing programs also focus on promoting financial literacy. In 2015, Chevrolet and Rainbow PUSH teamed up to implement Rainbow PUSH Money Management, a financial literacy training series hosted in Detroit, Chicago and Atlanta. 93 Impacts > Diversity & Inclusion GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Our Diversity & Inclusion focus also extends to communities where we seek to support underserved populations, often through the GM Foundation. As an example, the Foundation provided grants totaling $1 million in 2015 to fund Hispanic science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education activities to empower youth to join the workforce of the future. Nineteen leading groups in the Hispanic and Latino communities received grants to fund programs focused on STEM education, including: • League of United Latin American Citizens will expand its Empower Hispanic America with Technology (EHAT) initiative, which provides access to state-of-the-art technologies in 60 Hispanic communities across the United States. The centers will provide STEM-related student support services to five EHAT sites to help improve high school STEM achievement among Hispanic youth. In September of 2015, the General Motors • National Council of La Raza will develop a new component within its successful Lideres Foundation presented grants totaling $1 million program that facilitates professional development opportunities for 18to 24-year-old to fund Hispanic education and STEM initiatives to help empower young Latinos to join the workforce Latinos and helps students gain leadership skills required for positions in both the nonprofit of the future. and for-profit sectors. • SER National will focus on an early education model designed to respond to the unique needs of young linguistically and culturally diverse youth and their families. The primary goal is to advance early development and dual language learning of young children, preparing them for achievement in school, higher learning, economic well-being and participation in civil society. • United States Hispanic Leadership Institute will develop a school-based project for economically disadvantaged students attending underserved schools and engaging the community in four predominantly Latino communities. Prominent Latino experts in STEM-related fields from similarly disadvantaged backgrounds will help promote a greater understanding of STEM-related studies, practical uses and employment/career opportunities. The Buick Achievers Scholarship Program, funded by the GM Foundation, continues to be one of the nation’s most impactful scholarship programs. Since its inception in 2011, the Buick Achievers Scholarship Program has awarded more than $28 million in scholarships to 3,450 students. In 2015, the program awarded 50 scholarships of up to $25,000 per year, renewable for up to five years for qualified engineering programs. Scholarships are awarded to students who have interest in STEM-related studies, excel in the classroom and give back to their communities. Special consideration is given to students Buick awarded $1.18 million for its Buick who are female, minorities, first-generation college students, military veterans and military Achievers scholarship program. dependents. Of those scholarship recipients, nearly 70 percent are minority students. Additionally, more than 60 percent are the first in their family to attend college – most of whom are African American or Hispanic. 94 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The assembly line at our Arlington Assembly Plant. Operational PROGRESS: Impact • Increased number of landfill-free sites from 122 to 131, while reducing total waste from facilities by 3 percent year-over-year. Optimizing our energy, • Decreased manufacturing energy intensity by 5 percent in 2015 vs. 2014, and carbon intensity by 8 percent; water intensity reduction was flat 2015 vs. 2014, but 10 percent intensity emissions, carbon and reduction since 2010 is ahead of targets. water footprints in vehicle • Increased renewable energy use to 106.57 megawatts and announced two purchase manufacturing processes agreements for wind power in Mexico and Texas. • Invested approximately $23 million on energy, including solar and renewable projects, carbon and water efficiency projects. PRIORITIES: • Work toward our aspirational goal of zero-waste manufacturing by using an integrated, enterprise approach to sustainable material management. • Improve energy integration into GM’s global manufacturing system and business plan. • Pursue a renewable energy and energy resiliency strategy as an integral component of our global operations. • Work with external partners to drive improvements in renewable energy infrastructure and policy. • Drive toward a net-zero carbon footprint through global operations, product and supply chain. CHALLENGES • Prioritizing funding for investments in energy, carbon and water efficiency with strategic needs in other areas of the business. • Bridging gaps in materials management flow to drive circular economy initiatives. • Identifying infrastructure needs to facilitate new business opportunities that support zerowaste progress. • Bringing renewable energy to scale at our company and across industry. • Strengthening our business and NGO partnerships to more effectively manage financial and business risks associated with these opportunities. 95 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH GM is committed to manufacturing vehicles with minimal use of natural resources and impact on the environment. With GM Environmental Principles (see page 44) as a foundation, our manufacturing facilities have been working for decades to optimize their environmental footprint. The motivation is simple: sound resource management helps drive manufacturing excellence significant cost savings, and reduces various risks, all of which helps us offer customers better vehicles at more affordable prices. Today, GM is proud to be an industrial leader in energy, emissions, water and waste reduction. We also are proud of the progress we have made against our 2020 manufacturing commitments, having achieved four out of nine commitments up to seven years in advance. Where we achieve goals earlier than anticipated, we are using the opportunity to identify even more aggressive and impactful targets. In the area of waste, for example, we’ve not only set new commitments, but also set an aspirational goal to become the first automotive company to achieve zero-waste manufacturing. We measure and manage resource use at all our manufacturing locations, as well as our engineering centers, parts distribution centers and proving ground sites around the world. These facilities vary in function, size and surrounding natural environments that give rise to concerns such as water scarcity or air quality. Our strategy across these facilities, however, has common attributes. HOLISTIC We approach resource conservation from a systems perspective in order to develop optimal Luton production Vauxhall assembly line strategies. Our annual waste reduction efforts, for example, also eliminate an average of 8.9 million metric tons of CO2-equivalent emissions, which is more than our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. Likewise, water and energy use are often linked inextricably, as water can be used to produce energy, and energy is needed to treat and transport water. INNOVATIVE We use as much creativity and out-of-the-box thinking in our conservation efforts as we do in innovating new vehicle technologies. In fact, manufacturing process and product development often cross each other in the quest for resource efficiency. At our Flint Assembly and several other locations, for example, we recycle foam packaging material into vehicle parts. COLLABORATIVE Our ability to realize measurable, global progress reflects a manufacturing culture steeped in the sharing of best practices, particularly behavior. Plants document and share energy, emissions, water and waste best practices on a regular basis, and ultimately communicate them to other plants around the world to create global impact. Some of these same practices are shared both internally, to improve the efficiency and impact of our own manufacturing processes, and externally. We often collaborate with other businesses and organizations to address tough challenges and engage local communities and schools on environmental stewardship. INCENTIVIZED We link the annual environmental performance of our facilities and our 2020 manufacturing commitments to the compensation of a cross-section of global manufacturing employees and plant-level management. In addition, employees in the U.S. who offer energy, waste and water conservation ideas that are implemented are eligible to receive a portion of the savings up to US$20,000. 96 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A New Take on Urban Growth A project that touches on many of the 187 pounds of vegetables last summer, areas addressed by our manufacturing which one of the restaurants used and in commitments, including waste reduction, turn made a donation of the food’s value can be found in an urban garden at our to a nearby homeless warming shelter. global headquarters complex in Detroit. The garden is supporting local urban farming, The garden also incorporates Chevrolet while also providing a means to engage Volt battery cover planters, which grow employees in our sustainability efforts. flowers that serve as pollination sources to two beehives housed at the garden. Our garden is located on top of a The Honey Bee Squad placed the hives at seven-story parking deck adjacent to our the garden in the spring of 2015, and used Renaissance Center complex. The garden GM’s scrap engine control module shipping beds are constructed from 48 steel shipping trays as wintering screens to keep the bees crates from our Orion Township, Michigan, warm through the Detroit winters. In the assembly plant. Local minorityand fall, we harvested about 65 pounds of woman-owned business, Detroit Dirt, fills sweet Detroit honey, offered to employees these crates with organic compost made in jars for a suggested donation of $10, with from the Renaissance Center restaurants’ proceeds also going to the shelter. food prep scraps. The garden produced SHARING BEST PRACTICES We share successes beyond our own walls and often advocate for implementation of sound environmental practices at other industrial companies. An important part of our landfillfree and energy programs is to mentor other companies, in part to create scale for recycling infrastructure and help other companies reduce their carbon footprint. ENERGY USE & EMISSIONS Our facilities are working toward a 20 percent reduction in energy and carbon intensity by 2020 against a 2010 baseline. Since our 2010 baseline year, the company has realized energy intensity improvements of 14 percent, while carbon emissions intensity has decreased by 15 percent. Beyond our own manufacturing commitments, we are leaders in a number of external energy management programs. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has recognized GM as an ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence in Energy Learn more about how GM is Management for four years running. For the third year in a row, EPA also presented us reducing its environmental with the Climate Communications award for our commitment to educating employees, impact at generalmotors.green customers and other stakeholders about the importance of energy efficiency and the impacts on climate change. 97 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition, GM has the most plants of any corporate participant in the world that have achieved the EPA ENERGY STAR® Challenge for Industry. We have 130 of our major worldwide manufacturing facilities in the challenge to reduce energy intensity by at least 10 percent within five years. To date, 73 have achieved the Challenge at least once, with many of those facilities recognized multiple times. Collectively, these manufacturing sites cut energy intensity by an average of 24 percent, avoided $237 million in energy costs and reduced CO2 emissions by 1.8 million metric tons, equivalent to the emissions of 378,947 passenger vehicles. We also continue to participate in the U.S. Department of Energy Better Buildings, Better Plants program. This commitment calls for us to reduce energy costs, per unit of production, at 31 of our U.S. facilities. The result is an anticipated 25 percent or greater combined reduction in energy use at these plants by 2018. RENEWABLE ENERGY Renewable sources make up a significant part of our manufacturing energy strategy. Our continued investment enables us to grow our business while decreasing our carbon footprint and minimizing the risks associated with energy-related volatility. GM’s renewable portfolio includes solar, landfill gas, hydro and waste-to-energy, totaling 106.57 megawatts (MW) today as we work toward a goal of 125 MW by 2020. Investments in renewable energy to date have yielded nearly $80 million in savings. We continue to invest in solar power, with more installations in the U.S. than any other automaker and the secondhighest percentage of solar use among all commercial users, according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. With the addition of 2 MW in early 2016, GM will house 48 MW of solar power at 22 facilities around the world. In 2015, we increased renewable energy use by more than 1.4 MW to reach just over 106 MW globally, primarily from the addition of solar power projects in Kentucky, New York, Indiana and Michigan. GM broke ground on new solar arrays at sites in Our Baltimore Operations complex in White Marsh, Maryland, where electric motors for Bowling Green, Kentucky, and Rochester, New York. the Chevrolet Spark EV are manufactured, went greener in 2015 with the addition of a GM now leads the automotive industry in solar energy use in the U.S. 580 kilowatt (KW) rooftop solar array. This, combined with its existing 1.23 MW solar rooftop array, means 6 percent of the facility’s electricity now comes from renewables. The building received Silver LEED certification from the U.S. Green Building Council due to such upgrades, in addition to installing light-emitting diode, or LED, exterior lighting and using compact fluorescent lighting in production areas. Also during 2015, we implemented our first renewable energy project in Canada, creating a micro-hydro energy-generating system at our St. Catharines Engine Plant in Ontario. The system saves 1.3 MW of energy by using water from the adjacent St. Lawrence Seaway, requiring less electricity to run pumps and fans by providing cooling water to 98 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT maintain the appropriate temperature of process equipment in the plant. During peak periods, gravity-fed, cool water can save 2,000 KW of electricity. This amounts to 8,600 MW of electricity savings annually and avoids 800 tons of CO2 emissions. In a demonstration of how far we push innovation in renewable energy use, five used Chevrolet Volt batteries are storing and contributing power to our new Enterprise Data Center at the Milford Proving Ground in Michigan. A 74 KW solar array and two 2 KW wind turbines, along with the Volt batteries, work in parallel to generate enough power to provide all the energy needs to the Center’s administration building. Together, these renewable sources generate approximately 100 megawatt-hours (MWh) of energy annually, roughly equivalent to the energy used by 12 average households. This reuse of batteries represents our first real-world commercial application of energy storage, as well as a circular economy approach for a key automotive component, demonstrating how we can reduce waste while delivering economic benefits on an industrial scale. The reuse of Volt batteries also helped this facility attain LEED Gold certification from the U.S. Green Building Council in 2015. Our Fort Wayne, Indiana, assembly plant ranked fifth among EPA’s top 30 generators of onsite green power in 2015. The facility is 30 percent powered by methane gas captured from decomposing trash in a nearby landfill, generating 53 million kilowatt-hours (KWh) of green power, equivalent to the electricity use of more than 4,400 American homes annually. This marks the 13th year that Fort Wayne has used landfill gas for energy. The facility also finished construction on a 14.4 KW solar array in 2015. These renewable energy commitments put GM in EPA’s Green Power Leadership Club in the category of Onsite Generation. In 2016, our renewable commitments will expand, once again, as we move into wind power generation for the first time. In the last quarter of 2016, wind energy will start helping power three GM Mexico facilities through a power purchase agreement with Enel Green Power, which operates a massive wind farm in Palo Alto, Mexico. Approximately 75 percent Used Chevrolet Volt batteries are helping keep of the energy coming from the wind turbines will power most of GM’s 104-acre Toluca the lights on at the new GM Enterprise Data Center at its Milford Proving Ground in Milford, Complex, making it the company’s largest user of renewable energy. The remaining capacity Michigan. Five Volt batteries work with an will help power the Silao, San Luis Potosí and Ramos Arizpe manufacturing complexes. The adjacent solar array and two wind turbines use of renewable energy is helping these facilities avoid nearly 40,000 tons of carbon dioxide to help supply power to the data center’s administrative offices. emissions annually. By the end of 2016, wind power also will be helping provide for 55 percent of our Arlington, Texas, assembly plant’s electricity demand, or the equivalent to building up to 125,000 trucks per year with clean energy. The 115 million KWh of renewable energy will help us avoid about $2.8 million in energy costs annually and more than 1 million metric tons of CO2 over the life of the 14-year wind-power agreement. Beyond investing in renewable energy, GM is a leader in advocating for the industrial use of BUSINESS renewable energy sources. We are a founding member of the Business Renewables Center RENEWABLES (BRC) (http://www.businessrenewables.org), a collaborative platform launched in early 2015 CENTER by the Rocky Mountain Institute to accelerate corporate renewable energy procurement. We MEMBER sit on the advisory board and provide input to support a BRC goal of doubling U.S. capacity of wind and solar by 2025. Due in part to our influence on industry peers, BRC has expanded to nearly 60 members. GM is also a founding signatory to the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers’ Principles (Principles) (http://www.buyersprinciples.org), a guiding framework for BRC’s efforts, as the Principles help the energy market understand how they can make renewable energy investments easier for companies like GM. 99 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WASTE The automotive industry is a material resource–intensive industry, which makes waste minimization an important mission for us. Responsible management of the materials used in our products and waste created by our manufacturing processes impacts our business strategy and the communities in which we operate. Thinking of waste as just a “resource out of place” is in our DNA. At year-end 2015, 90 of our manufacturing operations – or 53 percent – and 41 nonmanufacturing operations were landfill-free. New landfill-free sites in 2015 include: two assembly plants and a stamping facility in the U.K.; Russelsheim Tool & Die in Germany; two engine plants, a warehouse and technical center at GM’s Toluca Complex in Mexico; Uzbekistan Engine; a Chevrolet sales office in India; an IT Innovation center building in Georgia; a Howell spare parts operation in Michigan; and customer care and aftersales facilities in Cincinnati, Ohio, and Willow Run, Michigan; Rancho Cucamonga, California; and Woodstock, Ontario and Langley, British Columbia, both in Canada. With the additions of Luton Assembly and Ellesmere Port Assembly, all 18 Opel/Vauxhall manufacturing plants in Europe are now landfill-free. The addition of the Toluca operations means that all of GM Mexico assembly, powertrain and stamping plants are landfill-free, as well. At our landfill-free manufacturing operations, approximately 89 percent of waste materials Waste* are reused or recycled and approximately 9 percent are converted to energy at waste-to310 303 287 energy facilities. Including construction, demolition and remediation wastes, we estimate 263 246 243 that we reused, recycled or composted over 2 million metric tons of waste materials at our 186 global manufacturing operations, converted approximately 144,000 metric tons of waste kg/vehicle materials to energy at waste-to-energy facilities and avoided 8.9 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions during 2015. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Baseline Goal *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline Our initiatives in this area of waste management have resulted in generating as much as and are working toward 2020 goals. $1 billion in byproduct recycling and reuse revenue in recent years. As we continue to increase Total waste includes all byproducts that are our manufacturing efficiencies toward 100 percent, our scrap volumes are decreasing and generated as a result of daily manufacturing operations. This definition includes metal scrap an increased amount of our materials are consumed within our processes, thereby reducing and foundry sand, and excludes reused waste, our scrap revenues and reducing the amount of resources consumed on a per unit basis, construction, demolition and remediation debris. For 2012, a comprehensive global review of waste which is in direct correlation with our very aggressive 2020 total waste reduction goal. management classifications identified some instances where closed-looped recycling and A common and consistent definition for “landfill-free” has been an important part of the other forms of recycling were misidentified as reuse, resulting in an adjustment of previously success of our waste reduction program. According to the Zero Waste International Alliance, reported data. organizations that achieve more than 90 percent of diversion of waste from landfills and incinerators are considered acceptable in achieving zero waste. Our definition goes even further with the following requirements: • All waste generated from ongoing, day-to-day operations, including episodic/periodic events such as pit cleanouts. • Byproducts dispositioned by any method except placement in a landfill. • Byproduct materials sent to an off-site recycling or processing center and subsequently landfilled must not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the facility’s total annual waste production. Ash generated from waste-to-energy recovery systems is exempt. 100 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TAILORING WASTE REDUCTION EFFORTS TO LOCAL NEEDS The waste reduction strategy of GM plants abroad requires a customized approach, as waste issues and risks vary from country to country depending on waste management infrastructure. For example, in Argentina, we focused our 2015 efforts on the reduction of scrap metal and its transport outside our plant. This year, we reduced the number of freight trips by 87 percent with the use of new compacting machines, significantly reducing our carbon footprint. In Brazil, scrap metal is also an issue. Our Gravataí facility worked on optimizing usage of the sheet metal coils from 95 to 98 percent in 2015, saving resources and reducing the generation of scrap metal by 7 tons per year. In India, at our Talegaon plant, we concentrated on implementing the waste reuse concept around our facilities’ waste cardboard and wood. In 2015, we increased the reuse of both materials to 53 and 47 percent, respectively, a 10 percent increase over our 2014 target. Photo by: © Piao Longguo COLLABORATIVE WASTE PARTNERSHIPS Providing Cover to an The sharing of best practices and collaborating to innovate new reuse and recycle methods – Endangered Species both internally and externally – have been a mainstay of our waste reduction efforts since day one. In doing so we are not only reducing more waste, but gaining insights about closedRepurposed scrap Chevrolet Volt battery covers already star in a variety of loop manufacturing and our place in a circular economy. applications, such as wildlife habitats for bats, wood ducks and bluebirds. In 2015, In 2015, we helped establish the Reuse Opportunity Collaboratory Detroit (ROC Detroit), in collaboration with World Wildlife Fund along with the U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development and a diverse group of and Wetlands International, we expanded companies, academic institutions, nonprofits and government agencies. All have a strong our reuse program abroad. We sent 20 common interest in creating environmental, beneficial societal and economic opportunities battery cover boxes to China, where they from Detroit’s underutilized materials. As a result, we have connected local companies with were successfully used to provide wildlife other people who can give their scrap a second life, from artists to recyclers and even other habitat to the region’s endangered scaly-sided merganser. This duck is an corporations who can repurpose those waste streams. endangered species living in East Asia and GM also co-championed the U.S. Materials Marketplace, a U.S. Business Council for Sustainable could use some extra protection due to the declining number of trees old enough Development initiative that puts company byproducts into a database to enable better reuse to provide natural cavities for nesting. and collaboration. Read more about this initiative in Supply Chain on page 108. The duck's history dates back millions of years, but now only an estimated 2,200 WATER breeding pairs are alive. Water scarcity is a complex global issue that requires the attention of major industrial companies throughout the world. Though we identify only eight facilities to be in waterstressed areas, our intent is to understand the level of risk associated with water stress and scarcity in each of these areas and to be a leader in helping to shape solutions. In addition, we are committed to responsible water management across our operations and a 15 percent reduction in water intensity, based on a 2010 baseline, by 2020. Though our water intensity remained steady from 2014 to 2015, we have realized nearly a 10 percent decrease against our 2010 baseline year. We use water stress tools like the Global Water tool from the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Aqueduct tool from the World Resources Institute and local site analysis to quantify the level of water stress at each of our major manufacturing sites. We also have used a third party to update a life cycle analysis of water use on a country-tocountry basis down to the sixth tier in our supply chain to help prioritize our water stewardship efforts in the future. 101 Impacts > Operational Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We recognize water is a local issue. This is why our water management policy starts at the facility level, where conservation and stewardship strategies can be aligned with local resources and regulations. When plants are located in water-stressed areas, special consideration is given to water treatment technologies. Minimizing water use and withdrawals allows the plant to minimize the stress it is placing on local water sources, which in turn helps lessen the risk that, in times of drought, local water sources may be depleted beyond carrying capacity. One example of a successful water treatment and reuse initiative in 2015 took place at our operations in Ecuador. The plant’s water treatment facility completes the water treatment process by means of ultrafiltration through reverse osmosis. This equipment allows us to reduce and eventually eliminate water discharge into the municipal sewage network, by reusing the water used in the plant’s industrial processes. In Brazil, a wastewater treatment facility sits Our corporate water stewardship strategy is intended to build on such local water conservation near Joinville Engine's filtering gardens. efforts and help us maximize the full potential value of responsible water management for our company and communities. GM’s commitment to water management is also reflected in our transparency and disclosure efforts through CDP’s water program, which we joined in 2014 to improve engagement of our supply chain in water use globally. 102 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Cadillac CTS sedans are loaded onto car carriers for delivery. Supply Chain PROGRESS • Garnered a record 77 percent participation rate among suppliers in our voluntary CDP Supply Strengthening environmental Chain disclosure program. stewardship and social • Initiated a green supply chain project in China to engage suppliers in a year-long energy responsibility in our reduction program. supply chain • Joined the U.S. Materials Marketplace pilot program to identify ways to reuse or exchange undervalued materials via an online database and establish new circular supply chains. • Reduced CO2 emissions intensity (measured as grams per ton-mile) of outsourced transportation in the U.S. and Canada by 18 percent based on EPA SmartWay data. PRIORITIES • Find ways to promote transparency and sustainability among suppliers without adding duplicative tasks and complexity. • Evaluate monitoring tools and engagement opportunities to strengthen our supplier relationships around sustainability efforts. • Expand the scale of our product life cycle analysis to better understand where our greatest environmental impacts occur in the supply chain. CHALLENGES • Increasing transparency within our multitiered supply chain to better manage various risks and collaborating with others in the industry to improve supplier management techniques. • Educating suppliers about the importance of obtaining smelter information with respect to conflict mineral use and encouraging smelters to join the Conflict-Free Smelter Program. 103 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH S upply chains built on strong, transparent and trusted partnerships are critical to ensuring product quality, availability and affordability for our customers. These partnerships help us to: • Accelerate innovation to bring the newest technologies and innovations to our customers. • Improve our business competitiveness and lower business risks. • Eliminate waste from value streams and deliver defect-free vehicles. • Position us as a customer of choice so that we can develop transformative transportation solutions for industry and societal challenges. In return, we offer suppliers opportunities to realize significant scale and growth potential for their businesses. Given these mutual benefits, GM has renewed its commitment in recent years to work toward exemplary supplier partnerships built on integrity and shared values. Among the tools helping us to strengthen partnerships is our Strategic Supplier Engagement (SSE) Program. The program is a robust and transparent communication process that improves our information sharing with suppliers who represent more than All-new Chevrolet Volt drive units await final 80 percent of our annual spend. SSE promotes collaboration, builds strategic relationships assembly. and increases alignment between GM and our suppliers through a transparent rating system that assesses business and cultural priorities. Suppliers who rate highly on both have increased opportunities to partner with us in areas such as technology visioning, strategic planning and training. Strategic Sourcing Process (SSP) is a sourcing model tool that helps us “frontload” suppliers early in the vehicle development process to enable input into design and cost elements before design is finalized. We also are enhancing transparency on cost LOCAL COMMUNITY SOURCING structure and identifying waste elimination opportunities by using a One Cost Modeling tool in order to produce a part. North and South LOCALIZATION America Localization is another important tenet of our supply chain philosophy. We prefer to build 70%-80% where we sell and to buy where we build. This enables our vehicles to be more competitive because they’re built to suit unique local requirements and conditions that drive customer enthusiasm and brand loyalty. Europe and IO Localization also lowers risks by increasing the flexibility of our supply chain to respond to disruptions caused by nature, politics or other causes. Furthermore, when we work 60%-70% with local suppliers, we also support the local economies of the communities in which we operate and realize environmental benefits by helping to minimize shipping, thus reducing fossil fuel use, carbon emissions and material use. GM works cross functionally through its China product development activities, sourcing activities and logistic planning to maximize the benefits of localization. 80% The degree to which we can localize our supply chain varies around the world, depending on local supplier resources. We estimate that in North America and South America 70 to 80 percent of procurement is sourced locally compared with Europe and our international operations, where 60 to 70 percent is procured locally. In China, we estimate more than 80 percent of procurement is from in-country. 104 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN GOVERNANCE We expect our suppliers to be fair, humane and lawful employers, as well as solid environmental stewards and responsible managers of dangerous goods or hazardous materials. These expectations are specifically outlined in purchase contract terms and conditions, which clearly state our prohibition against any use of child labor or any other form of forced or involuntary labor, abusive treatment of employees, or corrupt business practices in the supplying of goods and services to us. Furthermore, our contracts lay out expectations for lawful compliance with data protection and privacy, wages, hours and conditions of employment, subcontractor selection, discrimination, occupational health/ safety and motor vehicle safety. In 2015, we requested that all of our direct suppliers certify compliance with Section 31 of our contract, which specifies lawful compliance for suppliers, and we followed up with those suppliers who did not provide certification. We require our Tier I suppliers on a global basis to source from Tier II suppliers who meet in-country environment and safety standards, as well as quality standards. However, visibility into supplier relationships, especially at lower levels of the supply chain, is a challenge. We are working to NEEDS PHOTO better understand how to manage the risks associated with a multitiered supply chain and continue to collaborate with others in the industry to improve these areas. An ongoing challenge for us is to advocate for a sustainable and socially responsible (Left) Mary Barra greets a few of the 110 best GM supply chain without adding more complexity and burdens to our supplier relationships. global suppliers as they arrive for the 24th This is why we continue to believe that collaboration among auto manufacturers makes annual Supplier of the Year awards ceremony in Detroit, Michigan. Recipients from 17 countries sense, particularly given the level of common suppliers among the major automakers. This received awards for going above and beyond approach also helps ensure that automotive suppliers are not overburdened by duplicative GM’s requirements, providing customers with the most innovative technologies for the OEM efforts and have a shared understanding of the key issues up and down the supply chain. industry’s highest-quality vehicles. To help guide industry collaboration and individual company efforts, GM and the other OEM (Right) members endorse the Automotive Industry Action Group (AIAG) Corporate Responsibility GM assembly parts being inspected, packaged and shipped at the GM Customer Care & Guidance Statements, which provide guidance on business ethics, global working conditions and Aftersales Plant in Burton, Michigan. environmental responsibility. Supply Chain Responsibility Training is another way in which we collaborate with AIAG. This training highlights fundamental principles of responsible working conditions and expectations of GM and the other AIAG auto company members, all of which contributed to developing the content of the training. Participants review in detail the areas of child labor, forced labor, freedom of association, harassment and discrimination, health and safety, wages and benefits, working hours, business ethics and environmental responsibility. In 2015, we required all of our employees in Supplier Quality that visit supplier facilities to take AIAG training regarding child labor. AIAG, other AIAG members and GM currently have plans in place to expand this outreach to additional countries in 2016. 105 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Supply Chain Governance Our expectations with respect to employment and environmental practices for suppliers are outlined as part of GM’s Purchase Contract Terms and Conditions. Seller, and any goods or services supplied by Seller, will comply applicable anti-corruption laws, including, without limitation, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, conventions, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, ordinances or standards of the country(ies) of destination or that and that neither it nor any of its subcontractors, vendors, agents relate to the manufacture, labeling, transportation, importation, or other associated third parties will engage in any form of exportation, licensing, approval or certification of the goods commercial bribery, nor directly or indirectly provide or offer to or services, including, without limitation, those relating to provide, anything of value to or for the benefit of, any official or environmental matters, the handling and transportation of employee of a governmental authority or of any governmentdangerous goods or hazardous materials, data protection and owned, government-controlled or government-affiliated entity privacy, wages, hours and conditions of employment, subcontractor to obtain or retain any contract, business opportunity or other selection, discrimination, occupational health/safety and motor business benefit, or to influence any act or decision of that vehicle safety. Seller further represents that neither it nor any person in his/her official capacity. At Buyer’s request, Seller will of its subcontractors, vendors, agents or other associated third certify in writing its compliance with the foregoing. Seller will parties will utilize child, slave, prisoner or any other form of indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from and against any forced or involuntary labor, or engage in abusive employment liability, claims, demands or expenses (including, without or corrupt business practices, in the supply of goods or provision limitation, legal or other professional fees) arising from or of services under this Contract. Seller agrees to comply with all relating to Seller’s noncompliance. In 2014, our efforts focused on updating our training outreach plans around a threepronged approach – self-assessment, web-based training and in-person workshops using case studies for practitioners. Our goal was to leverage this revamped approach to engage suppliers beyond Tier 1, and we piloted the new program with suppliers in several countries in 2015. AIAG, other AIAG members and GM currently have plans in place to expand this outreach to additional countries in 2016. SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Transcending the effort to build stronger supplier relationships is the recognition that we can strengthen our supply chain by eliminating waste of every kind – opportunity, spending, talent, materials, time and energy, to name a few. An efficient supply chain is one that optimizes every type of capital input. By realizing these efficiencies, we build a more sustainable supply chain. Currently, our work is focused in several areas: CONFLICT MINERALS Annual SEC disclosure of conflict mineral sourcing is fully integrated into our business processes. A dedicated team conducts due diligence, analyzes findings and reports conflict mineral information from our supply base that encompasses more than 2,500 supplier locations. Governance processes include a compliance committee of multifunctional GM leaders and an executive steering committee to provide leadership and direction for the program. Beyond our own reporting activities, we continue to collaborate with others in the industry to educate suppliers. We co-chair the AIAG Conflict Minerals Work Group, which works on common automotive industry solutions with other OEMs and suppliers. Through our membership in the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI), we help fund an audit program to increase the number of smelters and refiners in the Conflict-Free Smelter Program. Through the end of 2015, 78 smelters and refiners have been contacted by GM and encouraged to 106 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Conflict Minerals Position Statement On August 22, 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Through industry collaboration, GM has adopted a common adopted final rules to implement reporting and disclosure methodology to obtain chain of custody declarations from suppliers requirements related to “conflict minerals,” as directed by the to increase the transparency of conflict minerals in our global supply Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act chain. GM has been an active contributor within the Automotive of 2010. Industry Action Group (AIAG) in developing an automotive industrywide approach in reporting the use of conflict minerals. The term “conflict minerals” is defined as columbite-tantalite (coltan), cassiterite, gold, wolframite, tantalum, tin, tungsten, We require our suppliers to engage in due diligence of their supply and any other mineral or its derivatives determined by the U.S. chains to understand and report the content of their parts supplied Secretary of State to be financing conflict in the Democratic to GM. Further, we encourage our suppliers to source responsibly Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country. with certified conflict-free smelters, wherever possible, to increase our level of confidence that the parts in our vehicles and products contain conflict-free minerals. complete the audit program so that they can join this program. We also work with our own supplier base regularly to increase education and awareness, including conducting periodic webinars and providing a dedicated email contact to answer specific questions. CDP SUPPLY CHAIN Life cycle analysis (LCA) is an ongoing area of focus in order to help us better pinpoint where our greatest environmental impacts occur in the supply chain in order to prioritize our resources. LCA findings are leveraged to target suppliers for participation in our CDP Supply Chain program, a voluntary initiative intended to help increase engagement with suppliers on environmental performance and disclosure, particularly around reducing CO2 emissions and water use. In 2015, we used LCA findings to identify and invite over 200 suppliers to participate in our third annual CDP survey and were pleased to see Supplier Resource Reduction Targets and Initiatives 120 Have targets in place 120 100 Integrate resource management into 100 their business strategy NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS 80 61 57 60 40 20 0 ClimateChange Climate Change Water Water 1 Total number of suppliers to respond to climate change questionnaire is 204 2 Total number of suppliers to respond to water questionnaire is 173 107 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT response rates rise to a 77 percent level – a record level that represents nearly 75 percent of our supply chain spend. Annually, we continue to see that more suppliers not only participate in this program, but also are highly engaged in integrating resource-reduction initiatives into their business strategies. In 2015, nearly 70 percent of our responding suppliers reported their Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and disclosed the type of standard, protocol or methodology by which they collected and calculated this data. We also discovered that nearly half of our respondents have targets to reduce their emissions, and more than 60 percent of respondents have initiatives in place to actually do so. Additionally, some suppliers who responded to the survey also participated in the CDP Action Exchange, which provides a detailed analysis of opportunities to reduce carbon footprints. As seen in the supplier water questionnaire, 35 percent of suppliers have companywide targets related to water, and over 30 percent reported that they have actually integrated water and wastewater management into their business strategies. While our suppliers are making progress on water and reducing emissions that lead to climate change, there is still room to further improve upon reporting behavior as well as their strategic and tangible environmental initiatives. Together with our suppliers, we continue to seek ways to partner to minimize the environmental impacts of our collective value chain. THE U.S. MATERIALS MARKETPLACE During 2015, GM co-championed with Nike to form the U.S. Materials Marketplace, a new joint pilot project led by the Corporate Eco Forum, the U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). The project, which brings together 20 companies, is intended to help participating companies identify ways to reuse or exchange undervalued materials via an online database and establish new circular supply chains. Participating companies are expected to benefit from: • Lower operational costs due to cheaper feedstock and reduced waste disposal costs. • Reduced carbon emissions as a result of the increased reuse and recycling of commodities. • Reduced environmental footprint by avoiding waste disposal and raw material purchase. • Enhanced social and economic impact through new business opportunities and jobs. • A collaborative and dynamic business network allowing for exploration of new pathways for materials with like-minded colleagues. Lessons learned from the pilot will be used to scale up materials reuse projects worldwide, notably through WBCSD’s Global Network of business councils. The U.S. Marketplace received the Digital Disruptor award at the 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 108 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CHINA GREEN SUPPLY CHAIN PROJECT During 2015, GM China initiated a green supply chain project in which 10 suppliers are committed to reducing their energy (Right) impact while growing their businesses. Recyclates may even be superior to new plastic products, as they are less prone to warp and The year-long program aims to realize a expand or contract. 10 percent improvement in energy use (Below Left) through supplier training, third-party Uwe Ruster, Opel Lead Engineer Recycled/ energy audits and implementation of Sustainable Materials, presents a water deflector made from recycled plastics. conservation projects recommended by an external consultant. This green supply (Below Right) Vauxhall uses 170 components made of recycled chain project models a successful program materials in Opel's ADAM, a city car. implemented by GM at two of its joint ventures with 400 suppliers between 2008 and 2013. VAUXHALL RECYCLATES Vauxhall has been working for more than two decades with recyclable materials – known as “secondary raw materials, or recyclates” – to save primary raw materials and energy. Today, more than 200 recyclates are used across the Vauxhall portfolio as part of Vauxhall’s compliance with the EU End-of-Life Vehicle directive, requiring that 95 percent of every new vehicle be recycled. Current U.K. legislation also requires that all OEMs and vehicle importers of new cars in the U.K. take back vehicles from last owners or keepers at the end of the vehicle’s life to ensure that disposal is done in an environmentally responsible manner. Vauxhall works with Autogreen Ltd, which manages free take-back of Vauxhall vehicles through a Rewarding Recycling program. To date, more than 1.25 million vehicles have been collected for scrap reuse. OTHER 2015 ACTIVITIES Our operations around the world seek out opportunities to enhance supply chain governance processes and minimize impacts. Some examples from 2015 include: • GM Ecuador collaborated with Suzuki to reduce metal scrap waste generated by nonreturnable steel shipping boxes. Working together, we designed new reusable boxes that can make at least 10 trips across the Pacific to avoid approximately 300,000 kg of metal scrap annually. • GM Korea started the Cooperation-Coexistence Program for Environment & Safety to evaluate suppliers’ work conditions regarding the environment and human rights. A committee evaluated 23 suppliers and recognized those best protecting against industrial accidents and ensuring basic human rights for their employees. • GM India worked with the Logistics Service Providers to organize a training and recognition day for logistics drivers. 109 Impacts > Supply Chain GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLOSER LOOK Partners in Progress When we set out to create the Chevrolet Bolt EV, we put aside traditional vehicle development and turned to an unprecedented supplier relationship with LG. 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EV (pre-production model shown) T he partnership combined LG’s expertise in infotainment, battery systems and component development with GM’s proven inhouse capabilities in electric motor design, battery control, system LG Electronics has invested more than $250 million in an engineering and manufacturing facility in Incheon, South Korea, to support the component development and manufacturing for Bolt EV components. validation and vehicle body-system integration. GM’s relationship with LG began in 2007 when LG Electronics was GM and LG engineers considered different vehicle architectures, electric tasked with supplying the vehicle communications module for driving ranges and performance options for the Bolt EV before deciding OnStar, GM’s exclusive telematics system. Another LG-owned the vehicle must be affordable and deliver 200-plus miles of all-electric company, LG Chem, and GM have a long-standing relationship: driving with spirited performance. LG supplied an array of new The company was chosen as the sole supplier of battery cells for components and systems for the Chevrolet Bolt EV, including: the first-generation Chevrolet Volt, which launched in 2010. • Electric drive motor (built from GM design) After delivering exceptional quality for the more than 23 million • Power invertor module (converts DC power to AC for the drive unit) cells with fewer than two problems per million cells produced for • On-board charger the first-generation Chevrolet Volt, GM turned to the LG Corp. to • Electric climate control system compressor bring forward new expertise from LG Electronics and other LG • Battery cells and pack companies. The agreements encompassed supplying components • High power distribution module (manages the flow of high for the Bolt EV and marked the first time that GM integrated a full voltage to various components) EV component supplier so early in vehicle development. • Battery heater GM’s component strategy is centered on three options: build, buy • Accessory power module (maintains low-voltage power and partner. Where it makes economic and strategic sense, GM will delivery to accessories) build some of its own components. Others will be purchased directly • Power line communication module (manages communication from suppliers with the most expertise in a particular discipline. between vehicle and a DC charging station) And, as in the case of LG, GM will partner with a supplier to leverage • Instrument cluster its own engineering with the supplier to develop unique strategic • Infotainment system systems and components. 110 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Chevrolet delivers One World Futbols and educational books to Baan Huay Ku Village, Chiang Rai. Community PROGRESS Impact • Announced $7.8 billion in capital investments around the world during 2015 that will support automotive jobs and enhance local economic development. Serving and improving the • Spearheaded the formation of In Charge for the Next Generation to address the problem of communities in which we live youth unemployment in Europe. and work • Supported dozens of educational programs and partnerships around the world to address the strategic business concern gaps in STEM education; two programs alone, A World in Motion and FIRST® Robotics Competitions, impacted more than 35,000 students. • Surpassed the 50,000 mark in our global tree-planting initiative. • Partnered with the National Wildlife Federation and the Federation of Environmental Education network to drive hands-on environmental education in schools. • Secured wildlife habitat certifications or equivalent for half of our manufacturing sites, putting us halfway to our 2020 goal. PRIORITIES • Establish accurate and meaningful metrics to measure our community impact on a global scale. • Create a global community relations strategy that can be leveraged around the world to meet local needs. • Continue to engage, empower and recognize our employees for their efforts to help our global communities. CHALLENGES • Measuring our impact across hundreds of local community projects and initiatives executed annually. • Finding more ways to address STEM education initiatives at the kindergarten through grade 12 level. • Scaling our STEM and other education initiatives on a global basis in a more coordinated and collaborative manner. 111 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH T he long-term success of our company and that of the communities where we operate are interdependent. GM and the communities where we operate share many of the same natural resources, depend on a local workforce of talented individuals, and look to attract new talent to the area. Our business viability has both direct and indirect impacts on local economic vitality in the form of providing jobs and contributing to the local tax base. For all these reasons and more, one of our corporate purposes is to serve and improve the communities in which we live and work. While it is often difficult to define the business case for community engagement, and equally difficult to quantify its social impact, we know we do well by doing good. This is why we work to ensure that community programs are embedded in our decision-making and business processes around the world. ECONOMIC IMPACT A textbook example of how our business translates into local economic investment can be found in Flint, Michigan, the site of our oldest assembly plant in North America. We employ nearly 7,000 people in the Flint area, where our operations also include a metal center, an engine operations center, our North American Tooling Center, the headquarters of our Customer Care and Aftersales and a related processing center. This employment base infused $677 million in wages into the local Flint economy in 2014. During 2015, we announced plans to invest $877 million to build a new body shop for the assembly plant, locating it closer to the Flint Metal Center, which supplies sheet metal and other parts used in the Chevrolet and GMC full-size pick-up trucks that are produced by the assembly plant. The investment will also cover improvements to the general assembly area inside Flint Assembly, as well as retooling and the installation of new equipment at the plant. Since 2011, GM has announced investments topping $1.8 billion for Flint (Top) Assembly alone and more than $2.5 billion in GM will invest $877 million to build an the greater Flint area. These investments have improved the competitiveness and quality of 883,000-square-foot body shop at Flint Assembly. the products manufactured in the area, retained manufacturing jobs and created hundreds of (Left) construction jobs and other economic boosts for the community. A GM Flint Assembly employee attaches the grille to the front of a GMC Sierra 2500 HD truck. Our business investments have been accompanied by thousands of dollars of support for (Right) community initiatives over the years. Last year, the GM Foundation made community grants GM Flint Assembly workers react as GM Vice of $130,000 to 11 organizations, including the United Way of Genesee County, the Food Bank President North America Manufacturing and Labor Cathy Clegg announces GM plans to of Eastern Michigan and the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Flint. invest $877 million at Flint Assembly. Additionally, GM and the GM Foundation made a $4 million contribution in 2015 to Kettering University in Flint, formerly known as General Motors Institute. GM’s $2 million investment has converted an existing campus laboratory into an advanced powertrain research center, while the GM Foundation’s $2 million contribution is transforming a 19-acre campus parcel into a proving ground facility and community outdoor laboratory space. 112 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Taking Charge of Youth Unemployment There are more than 5 million In Charge set a goal of getting 100 unemployed young people in the companies to offer 100 opportunities, European Union, while at the same each within a 12-month period. The first time there are thousands of entry level In Charge event was held in Zaragoza, positions that are unfilled due to lack Spain, where Opel has a manufacturing of qualified candidates. To bridge these plant. This “Coaching Day” brought two problems, GM Europe President together the Spanish Employment Dr. Karl-Thomas Neumann conceived Agency and approximately 20 German In Charge for the Next Generation and Spanish companies. Out of 800 by bringing together leaders applicants, 450 youths were selected from 22 companies to fight youth to attend the event, where they heard unemployment. The mission is not speakers, attended workshops, toured one of job creation, but rather helping the Opel plant and practiced interview young people find a job by increasing skills. Additional coaching events are their motivation, providing vocational slated to take place in Portugal, Italy, guidance and, when necessary, Hungary and Poland through 2016. strengthening their qualifications. King Felipe VI of Spain visits with employees at our plant in Zaragoza, Spain, during the first In Though we strive to have a positive impact where we do business, the cyclical nature of Charge event. the automotive industry can impact a community in the opposite manner. When business downsizing or plant closures are necessary, we work diligently with local governments and other entities to minimize economic and social disruption. Bochum, Germany, for example, was the site of a major Opel manufacturing facility for six decades. When the plant closed at the end of 2014, we worked closely with key stakeholders, in particular labor and local government officials, to help mitigate the disruption to the community. Our actions in Bocham were centered around three areas: • Focusing on the long-term economic viability of the region, including site redevelopment and technology innovation, to attract new business to the city. These efforts resulted in the creation of “Bochum Perspective 2022,” a local, nonprofit development agency that engages local leaders and innovators in new concepts for economic development. • Investing 60 million euros in the region to ensure the continued operation of a warehouse with 700 employees; the warehouse ensures a continued Opel presence in the area. • Assisting approximately 3,000 plant employees with retraining and transition to new career opportunities, including arranging screenings and interviews with other automotive companies in the region. Similarly, in Australia, where engineering operations are downsizing and vehicle manufacturing will be discontinued by the end of 2017, we are contributing AUD15 million to a reskilling and training program to assist staff leaving Holden. We also have established transition centers at each of Holden’s sites to offer a suite of support services, training and ongoing career guidance for departing employees. 113 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMUNITY SAFETY GM is committed to helping create safer environments in our communities, as well as in our products and operations. Programs that increase awareness of safe practices and encourage responsible driving are a natural and strategic fit for GM in markets around the world. A 19-year partnership with Safe Kids Worldwide is one of our most important community safety outreach initiatives. In total, GM, the GM Foundation, Chevrolet and OnStar have provided nearly $72 million to Safe Kids to help educate parents and caregivers on the importance of passenger safety. Over the course of this partnership, the Safe Kids Buckle Up program has reached more than 28 million families. With the support of the GM Foundation, Safe Kids-certified child passenger safety technicians have inspected more than 1.8 million child safety seats for proper fit and installation, and more than 650,000 car seats have been donated to families in need. This partnership has been extended to China, our largest automotive market, with the launch of the Safe Kids Safe Ride. The program includes classes on the use of child safety seats, safe driving habits, NEEDS PHOTO promotional programs and interactive activities related to increasing children’s road safety knowledge. After a successful launch in 2014, the Safe Kids program is increasing its outreach through a training program that is targeting 1,000 kindergarten teachers in seven cities, as well (Left) as recruiting GM employees and other GM employee volunteer to teach child safety. volunteers to reach children in schools. These efforts benefited more than 15,000 children (Right) during 2015. GM Korea also partners with the Safe Kids organization through a campaign to With more teens dying in motor vehicle crashes than from any other cause, a new Safe Kids prevent childhood injuries that may occur as a result of vehicle blind spots. Worldwide report, funded by the GM Foundation, identifies strategies to drive down this statistic In other parts of the world, our safe community initiatives are aimed at educating and emphasize the importance of buckling up every ride, every time. children and youth about road safety. In Argentina, we work in partnership with the Junior Achievement Foundation on a volunteer program to generate awareness of road safety issues for beginning drivers, while in Canada, we provide funds to teach road safety – ranging from bike riding to street crossing – to local children. STEM EDUCATION Driven largely by a sea change in technological innovation, the automotive industry is changing at a rapid pace. It is critical that education – in particular science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) – keep pace with these changes so that new generations of talent are prepared to seamlessly take their place in the industry. Today, we are concerned about the talent gap – both in the number of students and student proficiency – that exists in STEM-related fields. This gap is the result of too few students, both at the K-12 grade and college levels, interested in pursuing STEM-related degrees, as well as a relatively high dropout rate for those who do choose a STEM path. We also are concerned about how well training programs adequately prepare students to successfully fill entry-level engineering positions today. 114 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 7 5 3 4 10 1 6 8 9 How GM Advances STEM Education and Training Around the World 1. MEXICO 5. EUROPE As a founding member of the FIRST® Robotics Competition, Opel plants hold outreach activities at least once a year to we support 866 teams in North America with more than help students increase awareness of environmental issues, 600 volunteer employee mentors engaging about 10,000 especially those related to automotive manufacturing. students in 2015 alone. In Mexico, where GM employees 6. COLOMBIA mentor eight teams, GM sponsors part of the competition Pacto Motors provides job training to low-income individuals. in which all Mexican teams participate. 7. UNITED KINGDOM 2. U.S. & CANADA Vauxhall regularly hosts apprenticeship career events in which GM partners with the Department of Energy and the Argonne students can attend workshops, presentations and interview National Laboratory to sponsor EcoCAR, an advanced vehicle sessions to learn more about automotive engineering careers. competition. The current EcoCAR 3 competition, which runs through 2018, calls for college students at 16 universities to 8. ECUADOR enhance the latest model Chevrolet Camaro to further reduce The Chevrolet Apprentice program is aligned with the country’s a vehicle’s environmental impact. national strategy to strengthen technical education. From a pool of more than 1,600 applicants, 25 are chosen to participate 3. U.S. in a five-month intensive training program and upon graduation The GM Foundation announced $1 million in grants during are offered full-time positions with Chevrolet dealers. 2015 to fund STEM education initiatives with 19 leading Hispanic groups. The grants will help increase the number 9. ARGENTINA of Latino STEM graduates and empower them to join the In Argentina, 2015 marked the tenth anniversary of workforce of the future. “Businessmen of the Future,” in partnership with the Junior Achievement Foundation. The program seeks to develop an 4. SOUTH KOREA entrepreneurial culture among local high school students GM Korea and the South Korean Ministry of Education sponsor who are exposed to areas such as business administration and the Korea Auto Science Camp. The annual four-day activity for product sales. sixth-graders is designed to nurture interest in the South Korean automotive industry. 10. CHINA In support of PACE, GM has donated equipment worth $800 million to Chinese learning institutions since 2002. 115 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Given the strategic importance of STEM education to the long-term sustainability of our business, GM and our employees are involved in hundreds of STEM education initiatives around the world annually. This involvement ranges from monetary support for activities such as curriculum development, academic competitions, scholarships and internships to hands-on volunteer activities by GM employees, such as serving as mentors. One of our most strategic areas of support is Partners for the Advancement of Collaborative Engineering Education (PACE). We were a founding partner of PACE in the mid-1990s, when we discovered that students entering the workforce had not learned new skills, such as Product Lifecycle Management used in the automotive and other product development industries or enterprise-level engineering design software tools, as part of their secondary education. As a result, it often took more than 14 months of training to bring new hires up to a sufficient level of productivity. Xu Yudong, a body structure engineer at GM’s Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center (PATAC) PACE was founded to address these gaps by bringing advanced computer-aided design automotive engineering and design joint and engineering tools into universities around the globe. The goal is to give the next venture with SAIC in Shanghai, has benefited generation of automotive engineers and designers a head start on using digital tools and from the PACE program since he was a student at Shanghai’s Tongji University. to help schools produce graduates with real-world expertise in design, engineering and manufacturing. When we recruit engineers and designers from PACE universities – we’ve hired more than 1,300 graduates around the world – we find that these recruits can make real contributions from day one on the job. Today PACE supports all disciplines in design and engineering, including creative design, product engineering, simulation, managed development environment, manufacturing engineering operations and powertrain engineering. GM partners with 25 other leading high-tech companies to bring PACE to 65 academic institutions in 12 countries. Together this partnership forms a state-of-the-art infrastructure that is helping to shape top talent into the automotive design, engineering and manufacturing teams of the future. Successfully addressing the STEM gap involves addressing the entire STEM pipeline – from early childhood through college and career readiness. We’re helping to nurture the K-8 part of that pipeline as a founding partner of A World in Motion (AWIM) in the U.S, a teacheradministered, industry volunteer­–assisted program that brings STEM education to life in the classroom. Today, more than 1,700 GM volunteers work in 967 classrooms across eight states to impact approximately 23,000 students. Volunteer projects range from serving as classroom mentors and role models, to coaching teams in AWIM competitions, to providing Our Detroit-Hamtramck Assembly Plant partnered with a local nonprofit to turn tours in GM facilities, to assisting with instruction and even producing videos that explain byproducts from our facilities into art rather concepts such as mass and momentum. than having them go to a recycling facility. GM support of K-12 STEM education in the U.S. also includes a nearly $1 million, three-year grant for educator training to Project Lead the Way, the nation’s leading nonprofit provider of STEM curricula for middle and high schools throughout the United Sates. Unlike traditional math and science courses, Project Lead the Way’s engineering and biomedical sciences curricula bring together the application of math and science principles in a real-world context, helping students develop strong critical thinking and problem-solving skills that will help prepare them for college and careers. 116 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION & EDUCATION At GM facilities around the world, best practices in energy and water conservation, waste management and habitat preservation are an intrinsic part of our operations and culture. Extending our focus on environmental stewardship into surrounding communities is a natural fit for our employees. Initiatives in this area range from formal programs funded at the corporate level to grassroots initiatives targeted to meet local needs. One of our nine 2020 manufacturing commitments calls upon every manufacturing facility to promote and engage in community outreach on an environmental or energy issue each year. At our facility in Talegaon, India, for example, employees observed World Ozone Day at a nearby college by presenting an awareness program on ozone conservation and by planting 30 mango trees on the campus. This is but one example of our larger global tree-planting initiative that has identified multiple educational, seeding, planting and reforestation community As GM’s biodiversity program has expanded, events. Through 2015, our employees have supported the planting of more than 50,000 trees we have started to align local site projects to and saplings surrounding GM facilities and communities. biodiversity goals that have been identified by each country, working with the United Nations. Another significant part of our educational outreach is GM Global Rivers Environmental This alignment, where locally appropriate, helps support the overarching issues in the ecoregion. Education Network (GREEN), implemented in partnership with the nonprofit Earth Force. For example, in Rayong, Thailand, the GM sites This is the longest-running conservation education program by any automaker; it has have worked with the local school and the federal government to replant mangroves that influenced 150,000 young people in the U.S. and Canada through hands-on learning since will help to prevent shoreline erosion. its inception in 1989. Through this STEM program, GM helps youth better understand their impact on local watersheds by matching approximately 16,000 students each year with GM mentors at 50 sites – including every manufacturing site in the U.S. and Canada. These volunteers assist students with tasks such as gathering scientific data, tracking the health of their local watersheds and even developing a community project addressing an identified water concern. The program is considered an excellent model for how the public and private sectors can come together to make a meaningful impact on the environment and communities. Building on the success of GM GREEN, GM has partnered recently with the National Wildlife Federation in the U.S. and the Federation of Environmental Education network of Eco Schools globally to drive hands-on environmental education for children around the world. The goal is to build upon our watershed education model to foster and connect a global network of K-12 Eco School programs with GM facilities, suppliers and dealers. Employee volunteers will mentor, share best practices and connect with their local K-12 schools, helping them prepare young students for future careers in STEM-related professions. Through collaborative efforts within their communities, employees and students develop goals and action plans. The result: “on-the-ground” school and community activities that contribute to a healthy and sustainable future. Our global scale also gives us an opportunity to enhance diverse ecosystems in the communities where we live and work, from wetlands and deserts to woodlands and prairies. Companies like GM play a key role in supporting the goals of a global cooperative effort to protect and conserve natural resources. 117 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Caring for the Land in Australia In Australia, Holden has partnered with Landcare Australia • An initiative that encourages Holden dealers to support for 13 years to support environmental projects. Landcare is a environmental repair projects in their communities. national network of thousands of locally based community • A vehicle loan program to support the work of community groups who care for the natural resources in Australia. The groups. partnership has five focus areas: • An employee program for volunteer participation at sponsored project sites. • A corporate program to restore and protect the natural environment in the vicinity of Holden’s major facilities. In the past two years, Holden has provided more than $80,000 in • A partnership to rebuild native habitats affected by funding to Landcare, plus the use of eight vehicles. natural disasters. Through a long-standing partnership with the Wildlife Habitat Council, a nonprofit that promotes and certifies habitat conservation and management on corporate lands, teams of GM employees manage more than 4,700 acres of habitat at 46 sites in eight countries. We are halfway toward our goal of securing wildlife habitat certification at each of our manufacturing sites by 2020. In 2015, we earned seven new certifications, including our plant in Gunsan, South Korea, which became the first manufacturing site in Asia to earn certification. Some common features of GM habitats include walking trails, native tree plantings, butterfly gardens, rain gardens to control stormwater runoff, restored prairie and wetlands and wildlife nesting boxes. These habitat sites not only provide sanctuary to native flora and fauna, but they also serve as outdoor classrooms to engage communities on conservation. We work with local schools, During 2015, seven GM sites received new NGOs, nonprofits and environmental groups to enhance onsite habitats and increase Wildlife Habitat Council certifications, and 12 others were recertified. New certifications community awareness about wildlife preservation. included GM’s Gunsan plant in South Korea, our first manufacturing site in Asia to earn the GM makes a concerted effort to align biodiversity initiatives with regional priorities, whether certification. The two-acre habitat includes it be mitigating habitat loss from urbanization or encouraging community action and native plants like the royal azalea and rescued trees from surrounding construction sites environmental stewardship. Globally, regionally and locally, we are on a journey to advance that first sprouted more than a century ago. sustainability for customers, our communities and wildlife. Learn more about GM wildlife habitats at http://www.generalmotors.green/product/ public/us/en/GMGreen/home.detail. CHARITABLE GIVING & PHILANTHROPY html/content/Pages/news/us/en/gm_ Charitable giving is an intrinsic part of our heritage and culture and makes an impact in green/2015/1117-wildlife-world-tour.html. communities beyond what we do through our operations, our products and corporate partnerships. Overall, in 2015, the GM Foundation donated nearly $32 million to support communities and nonprofit organizations across the U.S. In the U.S., the GM Foundation’s Plant City grant program empowers GM operations across the country to give back to nonprofit organizations that provide critical resources in 47 plant cities where GM employees live and work. In 2015, 225 grants totaling $1.8 million were awarded in U.S. plant cities to a wide variety of organizations that families rely on to provide much-needed services, improve education and impact the quality of life within their respective communities. 118 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At the forefront of its efforts, the GM Foundation is committed to making education more accessible from birth through college and beyond. Since 2010, the GM Foundation pledged its largest grant ever – $27.1 million – to United Way for Southeastern Michigan to establish a “Network of Excellence” to boost graduation rates in seven Detroit-area high schools. The grant has provided resources with a goal of increasing graduation rates from roughly 50 to 80 percent by the end of the 2015-2016 academic year. The United Way grant also helps sustain Early Learning Centers across Detroit to ensure that children in the area start kindergarten ready to learn. In addition, GM employees volunteered more than 1,000 hours in these Detroit schools during 2015. Our GM Student Corps program provides high school students with paid internships and the opportunity to give back to their neighborhoods through community improvement projects they plan and complete. The program unites people of all ages and backgrounds toward a common goal of improving underserved and deeply distressed communities while helping students develop valuable skills. In 2015, 55 GM retirees were joined by 14 college interns and countless GM volunteers to mentor 130 students. In support of GM’s strategic business focus, the GM Foundation invests in programs that encourage students to study STEM subjects. The Buick Achievers Scholarship Program, funded by the GM Foundation, annually awards renewable scholarships of up to $25,000 per year to students pursuing careers in the areas of STEM. In five years since the program’s inception, Buick Achievers has awarded more than $28 million in scholarships to 3,450 high school seniors and undergraduate students. During 2015, Scholarship America honored the From packing boxes at food banks to delivering GM Foundation with its Social Responsibility award for making a college education more gifts to children’s hospitals and cleaning accessible and affordable through the Buick Achievers program. up neighborhoods, more than 1,900 GM employee volunteers participated in nearly An important factor in building stronger families and communities is the stability of a 100 communityservice projects across the U.S. as part of the company’s fourth annual permanent home. Since 2013, the GM Foundation has donated more than $3 million to “teamGM Cares Week.” Habitat for Humanity International, which has helped 159 partner families realize the dream of homeownership and revitalize 29 neighborhoods across the country. The GM Foundation also has a legacy of responding to natural disasters. Following the devastating earthquake in Nepal during 2015, a total of $150,000 was donated to the Red Cross in support of relief efforts. Outside the U.S., GM has four foundations, including the GM Korea Employee Foundation, the GM South Africa Childlife Foundation, the GM Institute in Brazil and the Chevrolet Foundation in Colombia. These foundations primarily support education, health care and community development programs, as well as addressing select local market needs. 119 Impacts > Community Impact GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLOSER LOOK Leveraging the Power of Play Play. What is it good for? Q uite a lot, actually. It strengthens bodies and lightens hearts. It creates new friendships and fortifies old ones. It builds resilience and instills confidence. It sparks creativity and enhances By the end of 2018, it is expected that some 2 million balls will have been distributed worldwide – from desolate inner city neighborhoods to refugee camps to rural villages. understanding across languages, cultures and genders. Most of all, it Chevrolet’s tagline, “Find New Roads,” is a marketing slogan and builds connections that empower people. more. It serves as a call to action and a rallying point for the entire For youth everywhere, play is not optional to their physical and organization to enable people around the globe to turn possibilities emotional well-being – it is essential. Yet millions of children into realities and fulfill their dreams. It’s also a promise that aligns worldwide, especially those impacted by poverty, war, natural perfectly with the mission of the One World Play Project. disaster or displacement, lack access to necessary resources and safe A game ball is essential for boys and girls everywhere, but so, too, places to play. is access to a safe place to play. In 2015 GM India stepped forward There’s an innovative solution for that challenge, through an in a new way – supplementing its donation of nearly 30,000 One organization that is leveraging the power of play, that has reached World Futbols in the country by rebuilding a pitch at the Rebecca more than 45 million youth in more than 175 countries. One World Belilious Sports Ground in Kolkata, India. The pitch was revitalized Play Project was launched in 2010 with a mission to support, enable for Slum Soccer, an organization that uses football to transcend race, and expand the transformative power of play in all its forms – religion, language and gender to help bring about change in the life anywhere and everywhere. Chevrolet became the organization’s of a city’s youth. According to Dr. Abhijeet Barse, CEO of Slum Soccer, founding sponsor in 2012 and renewed its commitment in 2015, “With this pitch we will be reaching out to the most underserved becoming an official sponsor of One World Play Project. youth of Kolkata. We have seen the positive change football and play can make on a child, and our partnership with Chevrolet will bring The One World Futbol is itself an innovation – an ultra-durable new possibilities to the community.” Besides India, six other pitches soccer ball made of closed cell foam that never needs a pump have been built as part of Chevrolet’s involvement in the project. or goes flat, even when punctured. It’s designed to outlast a traditional inflated ball, enabling sustainable play in any By leveraging the power of play and providing access to conditions. By mid-2015, One World Play Project had distributed underserved youth worldwide, Chevrolet is doing its part to help 1.5 million of the Chevrolet-branded soccer balls, providing tens of millions of young people find new roads of their own – access to play to 45 million children in more than 70 countries. roads that lead to more promising futures. 120 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Maven provides personal mobility solutions. Innovation PROGRESS • Announced strategic investment in Lyft to create an integrated network of on-demand Innovating technologies autonomous vehicles in the U.S. that translate into cleaner, • Launched new carand ride-sharing brand, Maven, giving customers access to personalized, safer and more connected on-demand mobility services. transportation options for • Continued development of vehicle-sharing programs in North America, Europe and China, our customers combining multiple programs under the Maven brand. • Passed the 1 billionth customer connectivity interaction through OnStar. • Continued the industry’s largest and only global deployment of 4G LTE connectivity and introduced integration of third-party technologies such as Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. • Introduced the next-generation 2016 Chevrolet Volt with extended EV range. • Announced plans to begin production of the Chevrolet Bolt EV in late 2016 and the addition of a Plug-in Hybrid Electric (PHEV) propulsion system to the Cadillac CT6 Sedan in China and U.S. PRIORITIES • Redefine personal mobility through new, innovative, shared-use business models for vehicles that complement private ownership models. • Ensure ongoing connectivity advances are seamless, integrated and relevant to our customers. • Continue to develop competitive cost structures for advanced technologies. CHALLENGES • Evolving internal and external perceptions of GM from an automotive OEM to a global mobility solutions provider. • Gaining widespread consumer acceptance of advanced technologies, such as electrification. • Ensuring complementary policies and investment in infrastructure, such as EV charging stations or V2V and V2I communication, to support the commercialization of advanced technologies. 121 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPROACH We are in the midst of one of the most disruptive periods in the history of the automotive industry. The convergence of rapidly improving technology and changing consumer preferences is creating an inflection point for the transportation industry not seen in decades. We believe the automotive industry will change more in the next five years than it has in the past 50 years. On a societal level, continued population growth and increased urbanization are leading to congested cities, while growing pressure on natural resources – energy, water, land and materials – is creating scarcity issues. Amidst this change, our business imperative is to provide personal mobility solutions for our customers that are more integrated into their daily lives than ever before, while addressing problems such as air pollution, traffic accidents and congestion, and enabling personal mobility and transportation services for all customer segments across all communities. Innovation is a GM core competency that spans our entire value chain and crosses multiple functional areas. Accordingly, innovation manifests itself in a wide variety of ways – from technological advances in vehicle connectivity and propulsion systems, to process improvements in manufacturing capabilities and innovative recycling methods. We have established a cross-organization innovation management process led by an Innovation Quorum (IQ) that represents more than a dozen functions across the company, ranging from product design and manufacturing to finance and legal to corporate development and our Urban Active Solutions team. IQ seeks to create significant positive GM’s new car-sharing service, Maven, will change for the customer through a framework that includes connectivity, autonomous, provide customers access to highly personalized, on-demand mobility services. sustainability, safety/security and urban mobility. Further, IQ looks for integration across the domains and through the lens of women, global youth and the aging population. We believe this perspective will lead to unique innovations that generate significant positive change for customers. URBAN MOBILITY Rapid population growth and urbanization are causing congestion and pollution issues in many of the world’s cities – problems that will only become worse when more than 60 percent of the world’s population, or about 5 billion people, live in cities by 2030, as projected. This scenario creates both risks and opportunities for us. Governments are simultaneously looking for air quality, climate change, congestion and sustainable community development solutions, and we want to be active participants in this process. Some examples today include: • London, where a toll/payment-based system for vehicles traveling in congested areas is reducing the flow of traffic into and around the city center. • Helsinki, Finland; Hamburg, Germany; and Oslo, Norway, all of which are exploring ways to ban all vehicles within their city centers within the next two decades. • China, where six major cities already have implemented policies to curb the rate of vehicle ownership, and many more are considering similar measures. • California is implementing their Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund by investing more than $2 billion each year in clean and alternative transportation and sustainable community development. 122 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In the context of this backdrop, we want to positively and proactively address the evolving personal mobility needs of our customers who live in dynamic urban and congested environments. Our customers are already engaging in alternative transportation options and ownership models beyond and complementary to traditional vehicle ownership. This requires evolving our view of the customer, who is no longer confined to someone who purchases a vehicle at a dealership. Rather, in many markets, our customer becomes someone who needs to move efficiently from point A to point B. That customer may end up purchasing a product and/or a service from us. In the process of meeting these needs, we aim to broaden the perception of GM from an automaker to a global mobility solutions provider. Our “product” moves beyond the vehicle to become a means of accessing shared modes of transportation. GM’s strength in this area lies in using the power of our underlying infrastructure and connectivity to create integrated service solutions in the most comprehensive and seamless manner possible. GM Executive Vice President, Global Product Development, Purchasing and Supply Chain Dan Ammann (center) with Lyft Inc. co-founders John In early 2016, GM made one of its most significant shared-use-investments to date when Zimmer (right) and Logan Green (left) we announced a long-term strategic alliance with Lyft to create an integrated network of on-demand autonomous vehicles in the U.S. The $500 million investment enables rapid growth of Lyft’s successful ride-sharing service. The GM and Lyft strategic alliance is focused specifically on: • Joint development of a network of on-demand autonomous vehicles that will leverage GM’s deep knowledge of autonomous technology and Lyft’s capabilities in providing a broad choice of ride-sharing services. GM’s pending acquisition of Cruise Automation will further accelerate the development of autonomous vehicle technology. • GM's becoming a preferred provider of short-term-use vehicles to Lyft drivers through rental hubs in various cities in the U.S. • Access to GM’s wide portfolio of cars and OnStar services for Lyft drivers and customers to create a richer ride-sharing experience for both driver and passenger. • Joint mobility offerings, including personalized services, for both GM and Lyft customers. CAR-SHARING PROGRAMS AROUND THE WORLD GM took the next step in redefining personal mobility with a new carand ride-sharing service, Maven, which combines and expands the company’s multiple programs under one brand. Maven leverages the expertise of professionals from the connected car industry Maven customers use its app to search for and reserve a vehicle by location or car type and as well as the technology of Apple CarPlay, Android Auto, OnStar, SiriusXM and 4G LTE unlock the vehicle with their smartphone. The wireless to personalize the shared car experience. Maven customers experience seamless app also enables remote functions such as starting, heating or cooling and more. smartphone and keyless integration with the vehicle and can use the Maven app to search for and reserve a vehicle by location or car type. Maven was first offered to more than 100,000 people in Ann Arbor, Michigan, with GM vehicles available initially at 21 parking spots across the city. Additional city-based programs will launch in major U.S. metropolitan areas later this year. 123 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Maven+ is a seamless residential car-sharing program available exclusively to residents of an apartment building in midtown Manhattan, where car ownership is often inconvenient and expensive. Using a GM-developed smartphone app, residents can choose, locate and reserve a GM vehicle. If needed, parking can be accessed in one of 200 garages throughout Manhattan. Through their apartment lease payments, residents receive electronic credits valid for free rental hours each month. After that, users pay an hourly or daily rate to meet their mobility needs. GM and its partners, who are companies in real estate and parking lot operation, have already broadened the program after the success of an initial phase in which residents completed more than 100 trips and drove nearly 20,000 miles in the tri-state region for purpose-minded trips, such as big box store visits, grocery shopping and weekend outings. Maven+ will launch a residential car-sharing service for Chicago residents in the first quarter of 2016. Together, the programs will offer services to more than 5,000 residents. Maven+ is GM's latest move to deliver unique residential car-sharing options Also in North America, our car-sharing program in the Detroit area continues with in major U.S. cities. approximately two dozen vehicles among multiple GM campus locations in Warren and Detroit. Since its launch in 2014, more than 3,000 trips have been completed. This car-sharing program exists alongside a bike-sharing program at our Technical Center in Warren, Michigan. Through a partnership with Zagster, we now have 78 bikes at 17 stations that facilitate more than 2,800 employee registered users’ commutes among 61 buildings in the complex. Nearly two years into the broader program, employees already have traveled an equivalent distance of that between Los Angeles and New York City. Meanwhile, on the other side of the world, a sharing program based on our urban concept vehicle is growing in usage among staff and students at Jiao Tong University in China, a leading technical institution at the forefront of mobility innovation. The EN-V 2.0 concept vehicles are integrated into a multimodal transportation system at the university’s campus alongside bicycles, cars and shuttle buses. Peer-to-peer car sharing, where private owners make their vehicles available for use to someone else, is the model for CarUnity, an Opel program in Germany. Members use an intuitive mobile app to quickly and easily rent a car or offer their own car for rent. Since CarUnity launched in mid-2015, its membership has grown to nearly 7,500 people and 2,000 active vehicles. With a goal of rolling out the service across Germany, CarUnity focuses Combining forces: Opel CMO Tina Müller on driving greater usage and development of new customer-facing technology innovations. (left) and campaign ambassador Bettina Zimmermann present the new CarUnity app. Opel also has announced closer cooperation with the ride-sharing platform flinc, which will provide a technical platform to allow ride-sharing via its car-sharing mobile app. Though based on three different continents, all of these programs seek to capitalize on the dynamics of a sharing economy, our relationships with our existing customers and our extensive reach and infrastructure. Together, these platforms will provide GM with long-term strategic benefits while contributing solutions to larger societal issues. Car-sharing, for example, can bring personal mobility options to consumers who find it inconvenient or unnecessary to own a vehicle full time, or who might not be able to afford vehicle ownership or who might require different types of vehicle models for certain periods of time and purposes. 124 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT VEHICLE CONNECTIVITY Connectivity is fundamental to the rapidly accelerating pace of change in the automotive industry today. Connectivity – both vehicle connectivity and personal connectivity through a smartphone – is a building block for a host of other technological advances and experiences we can provide to our customers. In the process, connectivity not only integrates our customers’ digital lives into their vehicles, but also enables a new generation of intelligent vehicles that provide societal benefits such as: • Improving safety by reducing the likelihood of vehicle crashes through new technology, such as autonomous driving and vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) connectivity. • Relieving congestion by using existing vehicle fleets more efficiently with carand ride-sharing and multimodal transportation systems applications, as well as GPSnavigation apps. OnStar assistance is ready at the touch of • Encouraging electric vehicle and advanced technology adoption by consumers through a button. applications that increase the ease and convenience, for example, of EV charging. • Improving fuel economy through environmental route optimization that allows for shorter travel time, less engine idling or fewer elevation changes – especially valuable to EV drivers. In this emerging world of connected mobility, GM has established a unique leadership position that draws upon nearly two decades of experience through OnStar, our in-vehicle safety, security, diagnostic, navigation and connectivity service. During 2015, OnStar surpassed 1.2 billion customer interactions through connectivity. This scale and scope have allowed us to continually introduce new advances, such as Automatic Crash Notification, Read more about GM’s Advanced Diagnostics, Stolen Vehicle Slowdown and mobile app access, while developing leadership in connectivity capabilities and managing the risks and responsibilities associated with connectivity, such through applications in as data security. autonomous and vehicleto-vehicle technologies Equally as important, OnStar has provided us with an understanding and appreciation that on page 123. offering a vehicle with the latest technology is only meaningful when it is seamlessly integrated, and consistent and relevant to our customers. This is why we continue to build upon our own core capabilities in this space, where we have nearly 750 patents, balanced with the integration of third-party technologies such as Apple CarPlay and Android Auto. These lessons have served us well. Since 2014, we have rolled out OnStar 4G LTE connectivity in more than 2.5 million vehicles across North America, China and Europe. This is the largest 4G LTE global deployment in the industry to date. We’ve elected to provide this technology across all GM brands, segments and models, as opposed to other deployments that have largely been reserved for luxury models. Our logic is simple – connectivity is a need that spans our entire customer base. Furthermore, the true promise of connectivity to transform transportation relies upon mass deployment and adoption. By 2020, we estimate more than 75 percent of the vehicles GM sells globally will have connected services. As an example of how 4G LTE connectivity can benefit our customers and personal mobility, OnStar is preparing to roll out an industry-leading prognostic technology that can predict and notify drivers when certain components need attention – in many cases before vehicle performance is impacted. This predictive technology will be initially focused on the battery, starter motor and fuel pump, which are all critical to starting and keeping a vehicle running efficiently, and additional components will be added in future model years. 125 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT These Proactive Alerts rely on OnStar 4G LTE to provide data streams from sensors within the vehicle. When a customer enrolls a properly equipped vehicle in this service, the data is sent to OnStar’s secure servers where proprietary algorithms are applied to assess whether certain conditions could impact vehicle performance. If indicated, notifications are sent to the customer via email, text message or in-vehicle alerts. This predictive intelligence can be used to optimize vehicle operational efficiency, such as fuel economy, and help extend product life. VEHICLE ELECTRIFICATION We have long seen vehicle electrification as a pillar in the future of automotive transportation. Our investments into hybrid electric vehicles, plug-in electric vehicles and fuel-cell vehicles go back several decades and continue today. Since 2010, when the Chevrolet Volt was introduced, we have invested more than $2 billion in capital toward vehicle electrification and manufacturing. These investments not only have expanded our product portfolio, but also chipped away at the challenges of mainstreaming electric propulsion. Today, we remain a leader in market-enabling programs and policies, while continuing to work toward remaining hurdles: the development of a long-term plan for EV charging infrastructure, customer acceptance, EV affordability and technological challenges, such as EV range. The introduction of the next-generation 2016 Chevrolet Volt demonstrates the technological progress that can be made in range. Much of this progress is the result of the significant investments in our internal development and manufacturing capabilities PHOTO TO COME for electric batteries, motors and power controls, as well as strategic partnerships. These investments also are helping us to lower the cost of building, owning and operating an EV. Today, we are among the industry leaders in battery cell cost per kilowatt hour and believe that incremental progress will continue to be made through the remainder of this decade. The All-Electric 2017 Chevrolet Bolt EV (pre-production model shown) The all-electric Chevrolet Bolt EV represents our next electrification chapter, one that seeks to make electrification an attainable, rather than exclusive, technology for customers. The Bolt EV is designed to meet the daily driving needs of consumers with more than 200 miles of range and a price as low as $30,000 after U.S. Federal tax credit. We anticipate marketing the vehicle in all 50 states and many global markets over time. Drivers will be able to select Read more about the 2016 operating modes designed around preferred driving styles such as daily commuting and Chevrolet Volt on page 55. weekend cruising, and the vehicle will incorporate DC fast charging capability. Production of the Bolt EV is slated to begin at our Orion Township, Michigan, assembly plant in late 2016. 126 Impacts > Innovation GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FUEL-CELL TECHNOLOGY Our approach to electrification is a multifaceted one that also encompasses fuel-cell electric technology. Fuel-cell vehicles offer the potential for faster refueling and longer range than battery electric, but face significant challenges. A major hurdle remains the lack of welldeveloped, commercial refueling infrastructure. We are encouraged to see a few regions, such as California, where progress is being made toward installing a nascent refueling network that can support initial commercialization efforts. While we have been actively supporting these planning efforts and applaud progress, further network development will require broader financial commitments from the public sector in additional regions. Nevertheless, the long-term potential of this technology as a clean and efficient alternative fuel is compelling enough to support ongoing investment. We are a leader in fuel-cell vehicles, having driven more than 3 million real-world miles in a fleet of fuelcell powered Chevrolet Equinox SUVs and having achieved significant fuel-cell cost improvements. Today, we have a successful partnership with Honda, also a leader in the space, for ongoing development of fuel-cell technology. We are also co-testing fuel-cell propulsion with the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research, Development & Engineering Center (TARDEC). A Chevrolet Colorado midsize pick-up has been modified to run on a commercial hydrogen fuel cell propulsion system for testing under the extremes of daily military use for 12 months. Stakeholder coordination and implementation can be equally important to the successful GM’s fleet of hydrogen-powered Chevrolet Equinox Fuel Cell vehicles, launched in 2007 as deployment and market integration of advanced vehicle technologies. These collaborations part of Project Driveway, has accumulated more enable complementary programs and business models that can be key to consumer than 3 million miles of real-world driving with a fleet of 119 vehicles. adoption. Today, for example, GM has accepted governor-appointed leadership positions in public-private partnerships in Massachusetts and Maryland to support plug-in electric vehicle deployments. We also are a founding member of the Workplace Charging Challenge, which seeks to persuade employers to commit to provide EV charging access to employees through partnership, advocacy and promotion. We lead by example and today count more than 500 EV charging stations at our U.S. production and business facilities, spurring the growing adoption of EVs by our enthusiastic employees. These conversations set the stage for market alignment among business, technical and regulatory interests and offer additional market opportunities such as vehicle-grid integration. With multiple opportunities and challenges ahead, GM is steadfastly committed to the continued development of advanced propulsion technologies and the necessary complementary programs and policies to enable their adoption. This commitment not only enables us to offer cutting-edge technology to our customers, but also provides opportunities to leverage that technology by adapting it for more mainstream applications and broader impact. From a longer-term perspective, these technologies are an intrinsic part of our mission to transform transportation in order to meet the evolving mobility needs of our customers, while helping solve some of the world’s most complex challenges. 127 Reporting GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORTING IN THIS SECTION About 129 GRI Content Index 132 UNGC Index 142 128 Reporting > About GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Opel Adam Reporting O ne of the strategic pillars of our global sustainability function is transparency. In this spirit, we are committed to public reporting on an annual basis of our progress, Practices discussing the opportunities and challenges that we encounter as we work to enhance our sustainability performance, and conducting our business in the most responsible Communicating with manner possible. The reporting process not only helps us to manage our progress, but also transparency and helps to inform and engage both internal and external stakeholders around the world. accountability SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Our last report covered calendar year 2014 and was published in May 2015. The editorial content of this report, the 2015 Sustainability Report, generally covers subject matter for 2015 and is limited to operations owned and/or operated by GM. In some instances, data has been included for operations in which GM’s interest is through a joint venture. Such data is noted in this report. All metrics in the report refer to the calendar year ended Dec. 31, 2015. This report has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Core guidelines, pending some data to be updated in June 2016. ASSURANCE For 2015, GHD conducted an independent review for limited assurance on waste, water, carbon and energy data for global facilities. See page 152 for GHD's full statement of assurance. Due to limited assurance on most material data streams within the report, neither the GM Board of Directors nor senior management is involved in seeking assurance for the report. 129 Reporting > About GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Materiality Our most recent materiality assessment was conducted in 2014 to inform both our sustainability strategy development and report content. A third party, Sustainalytics, conducted the assessment based on a four-step process outlined in the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Technical Protocol: IDENTIFY VALIDATE Desk-based research was used to identify a list of potentially Survey results were compiled to determine an impact score for material issues, which were compiled from various sources each issue. These results were validated through a peer and including the GRI automotive sector supplement (draft), peer meta-analysis that compared them with automotive industry group sustainability reports and investment research reports. and sustainability issues. Sustainalytics’ automotive analysts, From this research, a list of 17 issues and more than 100 subwho track 44 companies in the sector, reviewed and prioritized issues was compiled. the validated list from an industry perspective. PRIORITIZE REVIEW A survey was developed for the purpose of better understanding Our reporting team reviewed the final results of the materiality and prioritizing the issues most relevant to General Motors’ assessment and grouped the most material issues into nine focus business. The survey was distributed to internal and external areas for the purpose of reporting. These focus areas encompass GM stakeholders. Employees were asked to what degree the our 10 most material issues as defined by both internal and management of an issue impacted GM’s long-term success, external stakeholders. Within these focus areas, we also have while external stakeholders were asked to rank the importance of included discussion of several more specific issues, such as water GM’s management of a given issue. Respondents, who included and waste management, that we believe are important to our 795 GM employees and 72 external stakeholders, also were invited long-term success. to suggest additional issues. Material Issue Report Location 1. Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction 2. Product Safety Vehicle Safety 3. Vehicle Efficiency & Emissions Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions 4. Employee Relations GM People 5. Operational Energy & Emissions Operational Impact 6. Human RIghts Supply Chain; Ethics 7. Employee Equal Opportunity & Diversity Diversity & Inclusion 8. Supply Chain Supply Chain 9. Local Communities Community Impact 10. Eco-Innovation Innovation 130 Reporting > About GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GM Materiality Results – All Issues GM Materiality Results – All Issues 100 High 95 IMPACT ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 90 85 2 Product Safety 80 3 Vehicle Efficiency & Emissions 4 Labor Relations 75 1 Customer Satisfaction 5 Operational Energy & Emissions 70 6 Human Rights 8 Supply Chain 65 10 Eco-Innovation Low 9 Local 7 Employee Equal Opportunity & Diversity Communities 60 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 Low High RISK/OPPORTUNITY TO GM CDP REPORTING General Motors began its association with CDP in 2010, when we began tracking carbon emissions and reduction activities through the CDP Climate Change Program. Our first results were released in 2012. In 2013, we expanded our carbon reporting to include all 15 categories of Scope 3 emissions, achieving our goal one year ahead of our original plan. We are proud to have received an “A” rating for the past three years and to have scored a 100 on the program’s transparency scale. In addition to the CDP Climate Change Program, we have voluntarily participated in the CDP Water program since 2011. For the past three years, we also have participated in the CDP Supply Chain program, a voluntary initiative to help increase engagement with suppliers on environmental performance and disclosure, particularly around reducing CO2 emissions. Read more about the results of our CDP supplier survey in the Supply Chain section of this report. We continue to use the information gained from the program to more accurately measure our indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water impact, as well as to help prioritize our climate change risk management within the GM supply chain. 131 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures PROFILE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE/RESPONSE DISCLOSURE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to G4-1 CEO Message the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Feribus dolorempel ist, samusan G4-3 Name of the organization. Profile; 10-K page 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Profile G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Detroit, Michigan Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has G4-6 Profile; 10-K pages 2, 18 significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. General Motors is a publicly held corporation incorporated in G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. the state of Delaware. Our shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange. Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors G4-8 Profile; 10-K pages 2-3 served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Scale of the organization. Profile; 10-K page 54 A. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. B. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. C. Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Profile; Diversity & Inclusion – Workforce At-A-Glance D. Total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 The majority of our workforce is comprised of GM E. Whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work employees. There are no significant variations in is performed by workers who are legally recognized as employment numbers. self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. F. Any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Percentage of total employees covered by collective G4-11 GM People – Labor Relations bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of supply chain. Supply Chain – Approach Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding There have been no significant changes during the reporting G4-13 the organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain. period. Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is GM does not follow the precautionary approach, but has a G4-14 addressed by the organization. comprehensive risk management plan in place. 132 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • CDP Externally developed economic, environmental and social • Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy G4-15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the (BICEP) Coalition organization subscribes or which it endorses. • United Nations Global Compact • U.S. Business for Climate Action We work with automotive industry groups in many countries in which we operate, including, but not limited to, AAM (Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers), ACEA (European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association), and the Federal Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) G4-16 Chamber of Automotive Industries (FCAI) in Australia. and national or international advocacy. Examples of other associations we work with include the Engine Manufacturers Association, Diesel Technology Forum, Electric Drive Transportation Association, Battery Electric Vehicle Coalition, and the Fuel Cell and Energy Association. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES A. All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 B. Whether any entity included in the organization’s 10-K page 1 consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. A. The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. G4-18 Reporting Practices B. How the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. All the material aspects identified in the process for defining G4-19 Reporting Practices report content. For each material aspect, the aspect boundary within the G4-20 Reporting Practices organization. For each material aspect, the aspect boundary outside of G4-21 Reporting Practices the organization. Issue Internal External Boundary GRI Aspect(s) Customer X Global Economic Performance, Customer Health & Safety, Customer Satisfaction Privacy, Compliance Fuel Efficiency & X X Global & Regional Economic Performance, Emissions, Energy, Products & CO2 Emissions (with respect to Services, Product Responsibility – Compliance product and manufacturing commitments) GM People X Global Employment, Labor & Management Relations, Occupational Health & Safety, Training & Education, Grievance Mechanisms, Freedom of Association, Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor Vehicle Safety X X Global Customer Health & Safety, Compliance Diversity & Inclusion X X Global Diversity & Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration for Women & Men Operational Impact X Global & Regional Economic Performance, Energy, Emissions, Effluents & Waste Supply Chain X Tier I Suppliers Procurement Practices, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining, Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Supplier Human Rights Assessment Community Impact X Global Economic Performance, Indirect Economic Impacts, Training & Education, Local Communities Innovation X X Global Economic Performance, Products & Services, Customer Health & Safety 133 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The effect of any restatements of information provided in Any restatements, and reasons for such, are footnoted as G4-22 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. part of the data presentation within the body of the report. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the G4-23 Changes have been noted in footnotes where applicable. scope and aspect boundaries. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement whom to engage. Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 indication of whether any of the engagement was Stakeholder Engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including Stakeholder Engagement through its reporting. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) G4-28 Reporting Practices for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Reporting Practices G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Reporting Practices Contact point for questions regarding the report G4-31 gm.sustainability@gm.com or its contents. A. ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen. B. GRI content index for the chosen option. G4-32 Reporting Practices C. Reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been externally assured. A. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 Reporting Practices C. Relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. D. Whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body; committees G4-34 Governance responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as G4-56 Ethics; Profile–Purpose codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 134 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Specific Standard Disclosures PROFILE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE/RESPONSE DISCLOSURE ECONOMIC Economic Annual Report pages 5-13 DMA Performance Innovation; Customer Satisfaction G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Annual Report pages 29-55 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions; Operational Impact; G4-EC2 the organization’s activities due to climate change. 10-K page 8 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan G4-EC3 10-K page 77 obligations. GM did not receive any significant financial assistance from G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. any government this year. Indirect Economic DMA Community Impact Impacts Examples of the significant identified positive and negative G4-EC8 Community Impact indirect economic impacts the organization has. Procurement DMA Supply Chain Practices Supply Chain – Approach Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-EC9 The term “local suppliers” refers to suppliers operating in the locations of operation. country where a GM plant is located. ENVIRONMENTAL/ENERGY Energy DMA Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions; Operational Impact Energy GJ Comment Consumption Total fuel 70,923,513 Includes all facility consumption from energy – electric nonrenewable and heat sources Total fuel 1,924,318 Includes electric solar, consumption from PPAs in Brazil and U.S. renewable sources landfill gas Total electricity 28,729,331 All fuels minus consumption purchased steam and delivered heat included in electric and heat G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Heating 38,900,745 Included in electric and consumption heat (all fuels) Cooling consumption — Steam consumption 1,794,894 Purchased steam and delivered heat (hot water) Electricity sold 257,262,412 Heating sold 0 Cooling sold 0 Steam sold 0 Total Energy 72,847,831 Consumption 135 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2.09 MWh per vehicle produced. G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Energy Intensity was calculated based on the production of 9,689,043 vehicles and included all energy within the organization, both manufacturing and nonmanufacturing. 4,387,279 GJ All types of facility energy were included in the reductions. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. The basis for calculation is absolute reduction from activities in 2015. Standards, methodologies and assumptions used were good engineering practices. Reductions in energy requirements of products G4-EN7 Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions; CDP Report and services. Emissions DMA Fuel Efficiency and CO2 Emissions; Operational Impact Metric tons CO2 Gross direct GHG emissions 2,054,543 Biogenic CO2 emissions 0 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Baseline year is 2010, which was the first full year of operation as the new General Motors Corporation, and includes facilities under GM operational control. Calculation includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3. Reporting is based on GHG Protocol, and the source of emission factors is regulatory or IPCC Good Practice Guidelines. Metric tons CO2 Gross indirect GHG emissions 5,483,117 Baseline year is 2010, which was the first full year of operation G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). as the new General Motors Corporation, and includes facilities under GM operational control. Calculation includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3. Reporting is based on GHG Protocol, and the source of emission factors is regulatory or IPCC. Metric tons CO2 Gross other indirect GHG emissions 351,844,003 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). Calculation includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 and NF3. Reporting is based on GHG Protocol, and the source of emission factors is regulatory or IPCC. 0.78 metric tons CO2e/vehicle G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Calculated on the basis of 9,689,043 production vehicles; includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions and all GHG gases. 388,708 metric tons CO2 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Calculated using GHG Protocol on the basis of vehicle emission reduction targets since 2011; includes all GHG gases in Scope 3 emissions. 1.3 metric tons Calculation includes R-11, R-12, R-22, R-123, R-141B, R-500, R-401A, R-402A and R409A. Figure represents actual emissions; if actual emission data were not available, an emission factor of G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). 8.5 percent of the total equipment charge by refrigerant was used to estimate emissions. The 8.5 percent rate is based on the median range of leakage rate estimates provided by the IPCC Good Practice Guidelines and Uncertainty Management in National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2000). VOC (k-tons) NOx (metric tons) SOx (metric tons) 28.9 1,654 42 VOC emissions are composed of the following emission units: G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. ELPO, Primer, Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, which are considered the major sources of VOC emissions from typical paint shops. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, sealers, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. 136 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Effluents and DMA Operational Impact Waste In k-tons to the nearest whole Disposal Method number Reuse 41 Recycling 1,991 Composting 4 Recovery, including energy 154 recovery Incineration (mass burn) 13 Deep well injection — G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Landfill 268 On-site storage Minimal Other (includes microwaving, 20 enclaves, plasma processing and other treatments) Includes hazardous and nonhazardous waste from manufacturing operations and some nonmanufacturing and JV facilities, excluding event waste from construction, demolition and remediation. Event waste is recycled to the greatest extent possible and tracked separately. Waste figures may also include vendor tooling used to produce proprietary GM parts. Products and DMA Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions; Innovation Services Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of G4-EN27 Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions – Product Commitments products and services. Supplier Environmental DMA Supply Chain Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-EN32 100% environmental criteria. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment DMA Pending Data Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Pending Data significant locations of operation. Management DMA GM People Relations Nearly all of our labor agreements call for regular meetings Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, between top union officials and local GM management. We G4-LA4 including whether these are specific in collective agreements. also have formal processes in place to notify all workers of work stoppages. 137 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Occupational Health DMA GM People – Safety and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint G4-LA5 management – worker health and safety committees that help 100 percent, GM People monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Training & GM People – Career Development; DMA Education Community Impact – Approach Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that G4-LA10 support the continued employability of employees and assist Community Impact – Approach them in managing their career endings. Diversity and Equal DMA Diversity & Inclusion Opportunity Diversity & Inclusion – Workforce At-A-Glance (Board makeup pending shareholder approval at June, 2016 annual meeting) Board of Directors – Gender Male Female 6 6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Board of Directors – Age Group employees per employee category according to gender, G4-LA12 age group, minority group membership, and other Under 30 Years 30-50 Years 50+ Years indicators of diversity. 0 0 12 Board of Directors – Diversity White AfricanHispanic Other American 10 1 1 0 Equal Remuneration DMA Diversity & Inclusion for Woman and Men Salary information is based on annual salaries for the U.S. salaried workforce. Executive Level (base salary only): Female to Male ratio Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by is 95.7 percent G4-LA13 employee category, by significant locations of operation. Management Level (base salary only): Female to Male ratio is 96.1 percent Non-Management Level (base salary only): Female to Male ratio is 94.3 percent Supplier Assessment for DMA Supply Chain – Governance Labor Practices 100 percent of Tier I suppliers have expectations for Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor G4-LA14 labor practices outlined in our purchase contract terms practices criteria. and conditions. 138 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Grievance DMA GM People Mechanisms US Only by rates Current annual rate of open grievances: 18.16 per 100 employees Current monthly rate of open grievances: 15.7 per Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed G4-LA16 100 employees and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Current annual rate of filed grievances: 2.39 per 100 employees Current monthly rate of filed grievances: 2.3 per 100 employees HUMAN RIGHTS Freedom of Association and GM People – Labor Relations; DMA Collective Supply Chain – Governance Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining We have not identified any GM operations or Tier 1 suppliers G4-HR4 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to for risks of this nature. support these rights. GM People – Labor Relations; Child Labor DMA Supply Chain – Governance Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk We have not identified any GM operations or Tier 1 suppliers G4-HR5 for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute for risks of this nature. to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or GM People – Labor Relations; Compulsory DMA Labor Supply Chain – Governance Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures to We have not identified any GM operations or Tier 1 suppliers G4-HR6 contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or for risks of this nature. compulsory labor. Security DMA Ethics Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s G4-HR7 human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to Ethics operations. Supplier Human Rights DMA Supply Chain – Governance Assessment Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 100 percent of Tier I suppliers have expectations for human G4-HR10 human rights criteria. rights outlined in our purchase contract terms and conditions. Supply Chain – Governance Significant actual and potential negative human rights G4-HR11 We have not identified any Tier 1 suppliers for risks of impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. this nature. 139 Reporting > GRI Content Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOCIETY Local DMA Community Impact; Stakeholder Engagement Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local Community Impact – Approach; G4-SO1 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Commitments – Community Outreach Operations with significant actual and potential negative G4-SO2 Community Impact – Approach impacts on local communities. 100 percent of Tier 1 suppliers have expectations for Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using responsible business practices outlined in our purchase G4-SO9 contract terms and conditions. criteria for impacts on society. Supply Chain – Governance PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and DMA Customer Satisfaction – Approach; Vehicle Safety Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for 100 percent of our vehicles are assessed for health and G4-PR1 which health and safety impacts are assessed for safety impacts. improvement. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and G4-PR2 10-K pages 25, 85-89 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcome. Customer DMA Customer Satisfaction – Customer Privacy and Cybersecurity Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches G4-PR8 GM received no material complaints during 2015. of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Customer Satisfaction – Approach, Product Quality, Compliance DMA Customer Experience; Vehicle Safety – Approach, Safety Organization Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with G4-PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 10-K pages 25, 85-89 products and services. 140 Reporting > UNGC Index GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UNGC Index In 2015 General Motors joined the United Nations Global Compact, which endorses a framework of principles in the areas of human rights, labor and the environment. We are committed to these principles and are actively implementing them as detailed in this report. Human Rights UNGC Principle Report Links Stakeholder Engagement 1. B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Supply Chain human rights. GM People – Labor Relations Ethics Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chain 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics GM People – Labor Relations Labor Standards UNGC Principle Report Links 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of GM People – Labor Relations the right to collective bargaining. 4. B usinesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Supply Chain 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Supply Chain 6. B usinesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Supply Chain and occupation. Diversity & Inclusion Environment UNGC Principle Report Links Environmental Principles & Management 7. B usinesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Governance Environmental Principles & Management 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions responsibility. Operational Impact Fuel Efficiency & CO2 Emissions 9. B usinesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Operational Impact friendly technologies. Innovation Anti-Corruption UNGC Principle Report Links 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Ethics bribery. Supply Chain 141 Data GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DATA IN THIS SECTION Financial 143 Vehicle 144 Environmental 145 Social 146 Regional 147 Statements of Assurance 151 Footnotes 162 142 Data > Financial GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Financial Worldwide Net Sales Net Income Attributable to Diluted Earnings & Revenue Common Shareholders Per Share (in billions) (in billions) $156 $152 $9.7 $5.91 $2.8 $1.65 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Total Available Debt R&D Expenditure Automotive Liquidity (in millions) (in billions) (in millions) $25.2 $9.4 $7.4 $7.5 $8.8 $20.3 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 143 Data > Vehicle GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Vehicle U.S. Sales as a Percentage of Industry 30% 41% 29% Cars Trucks Crossovers Total Sales Sales by Region Authorized Dealerships (millions of units) (in millions) by Region 9.7 9.9 9.9+ 2013 2014 2015 North America 60.5% North America 4,886 Europe 19.2% Europe 6,330 International 10.0% International 7,755 South America 10.3% South America 1,281 *Wholesale vehicle sales We met the local sales and service needs of both individual consumers and fleet customers through our global network of independent dealers. Our Market Share Around the World # 1 # 1 # 7 # 2 # 1 North America South America Europe Asia, Middle China East, Africa Product Commitments U.S. ELECTRIFICATION* MOBILE EMISSIONS U.S. FUEL ECONOMY 196,861 180,834 9 153,034 U.S. Europe China 6 5 Goal 15.0% 27.0% 28.0% 2015 7.4% 5.7% 4.3%** 2013 2014 2015 Base 2013 2014 2015 *Includes all eAssist, two-mode hybrid, extended-range **The 2015 number for China is based on an internal electric vehicle and electric vehicle models since model preliminary assessment of GM data; the confirmed final year 2010. number will be available later in 2016. 144 Data > Environmental GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Energy Intensity* Carbon Intensity* Installed Renewable Energy Capacity* 125.0 105.2 106.6 metric tons CO2e/vehicle 2.44 2.37 2.30 0.92 0.90 73.0 2.22 2.20 0.88 66.2 2.09 0.87 0.84 55.0 62.3 MWh/vehicle 1.97 0.78 0.74 MW 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Baseline Goal *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline and are working toward 2020 goals. and are working toward 2020 goals. and are working toward 2020 goals. Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facility Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing CO2e Renewable energy generation for solar power, landfill gas energy use, normalized by vehicle production (correlates to emissions reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and hydro-generated electricity may be estimated based on the CO2 scopes). These data include data from some GM JVs. Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized by vehicle production. technology capacity factors where actual data is not available. These data include data from some GM JVs. Capacity factors are obtained through the National Energy Laboratory, a division of the U.S. Department of Energy. VOC Emissions from Global Water Intensity* Waste* Assembly Painting* 4.77 310 303 3.7 4.69 287 4.62 263 3.5 3.5 246 243 3.4 4.39 3.3 4.31 4.31 186 m3/vehicle 3.1 kg/vehicle kg/vehicle 3.0 4.09 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2020 Baseline Goal Baseline Goal Baseline Goal *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline *All manufacturing commitments use 2010 as a baseline and are working toward 2020 goals. and are working toward 2020 goals. and are working toward 2020 goals. The previous 2010 baseline of 3.8 kg VOC/Vehicle has been Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facility Total waste includes all byproducts that are generated as a updated to account for VOC destroyed by abatement, resulting water consumption (municipal, surface, well), normalized by result of daily manufacturing operations. This definition in a decrease of 0.1 kg VOC/Vehicle for a new baseline of vehicle production. These data include data from some GM JVs. includes metal scrap and foundry sand, and excludes reused 3.7 kg VOC/Vehicle. VOC emissions are composed of the waste, construction, demolition and remediation debris. For following emission units: ELPO, Primer, Topcoat, Final Repair 2012, a comprehensive global review of waste management and Cleaning Solvents, which are considered the major classifications identified some instances where closed-looped sources of VOC emissions from typical paint shops. Excluded recycling and other forms of recycling were misidentified as are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance reuse, resulting in an adjustment of previously reported data. painting, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. Landfill-Free Sites Community Wildlife Habitats 131 46 111 122 40 100% 26 Participation in 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The term “landfill-free” means that all byproducts (wastes) Our goal is to promote and engage community Co-located sites, such as an assembly plant, stamping plant that come from operations are managed by any other method outreach on environmental and energy issues by and engine plant all located at the same complex, are treated except placement in a landfill. This includes periodic byproducts, completing on outreach activity at all plants on an as a single site. such as pit cleanouts. Byproduct material residues that have annual basis. been sent to an off-site recycling center and subsequently landfilled by the processing and/or recycling center must not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the GM facility’s annual total waste production volume. The ash generated from GM waste materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. Individual plants, i.e., assembly, stamping, foundry, engine or transmission plants; parts distribution, proving grounds and technical centers, are treated as “facilities” or “sites.” These data include data from some GM JVs. 145 Data > Social GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Employees by Type Employees by Region Hourly 61% North America 115,000 Salaried 39% Europe 36,000 International 32,000 South America 24,000 GM Financial 8,000 2015 Total Employees Supplier Diversity Spend Total Dollars (in billions) 215,000 X.X 3.75 3.77 3.80 2013 2014 2015 146 Data > Regional > North America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regional – North America Net Sales & Revenue Vehicle Sales Authorized Dealerships Employees ($ in millions) (in thousands) (in thousands) 4,946 4908 4,886 106,622 3,612 115 95,099 101,199 3,234 3,413 109 110 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Energy Intensity* Carbon Intensity* VOC Emissions* Water Intensity (MWh/vehicle) (m tons/vehicle) (kg/vehicle) (M3/vehicle) 3.87 1.50 2.9 3.80 1.37 2.8 5.66 5.49 3.64 2.7 5.35 1.26 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2010 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Includes all manufacturing and *Includes all manufacturing and *VOC emissions are composed of the nonmanufacturing facility energy nonmanufacturing CO2e emissions following emission units: ELPO, Primer, use, normalized by vehicle production reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, (correlates to the CO2 Scopes). These (CDP) Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized which are considered the major sources of data include data from some GM JVs. by vehicle production. These data include VOC emissions from typical paint shops. data from some GM JVs. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, sealers, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. Waste* Landfill-Free Sites* GM U.S. CO2e Fleet (kg/vehicle) Emissions Reduction (grams/km) 436 66 395 55 204.5 195.2 384 50 187.7 197.0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Total waste includes all byproducts that are *The term “landfill-free” means that all Includes all U.S. light-duty vehicle performance. generated as a result of daily manufacturing byproducts (wastes) that come from operations. This definition includes metal operations are managed by any other scrap and foundry sand, and excludes reused method except placement in a landfill. wastes, construction, demolition and Byproduct material residues that have remediation debris. been sent to an off-site recycling center and subsequently landfilled by the processing and/or recycling center must not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the GM facility’s annual total waste production volume. Ash generated from GM waste materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. 147 Data > Regional > South America GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regional – South America Net Sales & Revenue Vehicle Sales Authorized Dealerships Employees ($ in millions) (in thousands) (in thousands) 1,037 31 16,478 1,201 1,272 1,281 29 878 13,115 24 645 7,820 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Energy Intensity* Carbon Intensity* VOC Emissions* Water Intensity (MWh/vehicle) (m tons/vehicle) (kg/vehicle) (M3/vehicle) 4.3 3.74 3.64 3.94 0.32 4.1 4.1 1.65 0.28 1.39 0.23 1.25 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Includes all manufacturing and *Includes all manufacturing and *VOC emissions are composed of the nonmanufacturing facility energy nonmanufacturing CO2e emissions following emission units: ELPO, Primer, use, normalized by vehicle production reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, (correlates to the CO2 Scopes). These (CDP) Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized which are considered the major sources of data include data from some GM JVs. by vehicle production. These data include VOC emissions from typical paint shops. data from some GM JVs. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, sealers, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. Waste* Landfill-Free Sites* (kg/vehicle) 8 8 224 219 238 6 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Total waste includes all byproducts that are *The term “landfill-free” means that all generated as a result of daily manufacturing byproducts (wastes) that come from operations. This definition includes metal operations are managed by any other scrap and foundry sand, and excludes reused method except placement in a landfill. wastes, construction, demolition and Byproduct material residues that have remediation debris. been sent to an off-site recycling center and subsequently landfilled by the processing and/or recycling center must not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the GM facility’s annual total waste production volume. Ash generated from GM waste materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. 148 Data > Regional > Europe GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regional – Europe Net Sales & Revenue Vehicle Sales Authorized Dealerships Employees ($ in millions) (in thousands) (in thousands) 21,962 22,235 1,393 7,087 37 37 1,256 6,633 36 1,176 6,330 18,704 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Energy Intensity* Carbon Intensity* VOC Emissions* Water Intensity (MWh/vehicle) (m tons/vehicle) (kg/vehicle) (M3/vehicle) 3.22 0.95 0.93 3.2 3.3 5.51 5.52 5.48 2.97 2.9 2.41 0.71 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Includes all manufacturing and *Includes all manufacturing and *VOC emissions are composed of the nonmanufacturing facility energy nonmanufacturing CO2e emissions following emission units: ELPO, Primer, use, normalized by vehicle production reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, (correlates to the CO2 Scopes). These (CDP) Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized which are considered the major sources of data include data from some GM JVs. by vehicle production. These data include VOC emissions from typical paint shops. data from some GM JVs. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, sealers, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. Waste* Landfill-Free Sites* GM Europe CO2e Fleet (kg/vehicle) Emissions Reduction* (grams/km) 277** 22 23 134.6 132.6 263 272 21 130.3 127.0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2012 Baseline Year. *Total waste includes all byproducts that are *The term “landfill-free” means that all *EU member states are obliged to annually generated as a result of daily manufacturing byproducts (wastes) that come from report CO2 emission data of new cars and vans operations. This definition includes metal operations are managed by any other under EU Regulation (EC) 1014/2010. Prior-year scrap and foundry sand, and excludes method except placement in a landfill. data have been adjusted to reflect the current reused wastes, construction, demolition Byproduct material residues that have GM fleet in Europe, which includes vehicles and remediation debris. been sent to an off-site recycling center manufactured by Opel/Vauxhall, GM Korea and subsequently landfilled by the and GM North America. **2013 was originally reported as 267; processing and/or recycling center must realignment of plants between regions not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the GM is the primary reason for the difference; facility’s annual total waste production corrections to the data were also made volume. Ash generated from GM waste at one plant. materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. 149 Data > Regional > International GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Regional – International (Includes China) Net Sales & Revenue Vehicle Sales Authorized Dealerships Employees ($ in millions) (in thousands) (in thousands) 18,411 4,378 4,525 7,472 7,699 7,755 36 4,050 33 32 14,392 12,626 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Energy Intensity* Carbon Intensity* VOC Emissions* Water Intensity (MWh/vehicle) (m tons/vehicle) (kg/vehicle) (M3/vehicle) 3.44 3.32 3.37 1.07 0.53 0.54 3.6 1.00 0.50 0.96 3.1 3.1 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Includes all manufacturing and *Includes all manufacturing and *VOC emissions are composed of the nonmanufacturing facility energy nonmanufacturing CO2e emissions following emission units: ELPO, Primer, use, normalized by vehicle production reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, (correlates to the CO2 Scopes). These (CDP) Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized which are considered the major sources of data include data from some GM JVs. by vehicle production. VOC emissions from typical paint shops. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, sealers, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. Waste* Landfill-Free Sites* (kg/vehicle) 142** 138 37 132 35 35 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 Baseline Year. 2011 Baseline Year. *Total waste includes all byproducts that are *The term “landfill-free” means that all generated as a result of daily manufacturing byproducts (wastes) that come from operations. This definition includes metal operations are managed by any other scrap and foundry sand, and excludes method except placement in a landfill. reused wastes, construction, demolition Byproduct material residues that have and remediation debris. been sent to an off-site recycling center and subsequently landfilled by the **2013 was originally reported as 137; processing and/or recycling center must realignment of plants between regions not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the is the primary reason for the difference; GM facility’s annual total waste production corrections to the data were also made volume. Ash generated from GM waste at one plant. materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. 150 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 151 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 152 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 153 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 154 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 155 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 156 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 157 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 158 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 159 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 160 Statement of Assurance GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 161 Footnotes GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Footnotes for Our Commitment Data ENERGY INTENSITY Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facility energy use, normalized by vehicle production (correlates to the CO2 Scopes). These data include data from some GM JVs. CARBON INTENSITY Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing CO2e emissions reported in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Scope 1 & 2 categories, normalized by vehicle production. These data include data from some GM JVs. GLOBAL WATER INTENSITY Includes all manufacturing and nonmanufacturing facility water consumption (municipal, surface, well), normalized by vehicle production. These data include data from some GM JVs. LANDFILL-FREE SITES The term “landfill-free” means that all byproducts (waste) that come from operations are managed by any other method except placement in a landfill. This includes periodic byproducts, such as pit cleanouts. Byproduct material residues that have been sent to an off-site recycling center and subsequently landfilled by the processing and/or recycling center must not exceed 1 percent, by weight, of the GM facility’s annual total waste production volume. The ash generated from GM waste materials at off-site energy recovery facilities is exempt. Individual plants, i.e., assembly, stamping, foundry, engine or transmission plants; parts distribution, proving grounds and technical centers, are treated as “facilities” or “sites.” These data include data from some GM JVs. VOC EMISSIONS FROM ASSEMBLY PAINTING (MEASURED IN KG VOC/VEHICLE) The previous 2010 baseline of 3.8 kg VOC/Vehicle has been updated to account for VOC destroyed by abatement, resulting in a decrease of 0.1 kg VOC/Vehicle for a new baseline of 3.7 kg VOC/Vehicle. VOC emissions are composed of the following emission units: ELPO, Primer, Topcoat, Final Repair and Cleaning Solvents, which are considered the major sources of VOC emissions from typical paint shops. Excluded are minor sources of VOC emissions, such as maintenance painting, etc. These data include data from some GM JVs. WILDLIFE HABITATS Co-located sites, such as an assembly plant, stamping plant and engine plant all located at the same complex, are treated as a single site. TOTAL WASTE Total waste includes all byproducts that are generated as a result of daily manufacturing operations. This definition includes metal scrap and foundry sand, and excludes reused waste, construction, demolition and remediation debris. RENEWABLE ENERGY Renewable energy generation for solar power, landfill gas and hydro-generated electricity may be estimated based on technology capacity factors where actual data is not available. Capacity factors are obtained through the National Energy Laboratory, a division of the U.S. Department of Energy. Footnotes for page 7 1. Requires a compatible mobile device, active OnStar service and data plan. 4G LTE service available in select markets. Visit onstar.com for coverage map, details and system limitations. 2. MyLink functionality varies by model. Full functionality requires compatible Bluetooth and smartphone, and USB connectivity for some devices. 3. Vehicle user interface is a product of Apple and its terms and privacy statements apply. Requires compatible smartphone and data plan rates apply. Apple CarPlay is a trademark of Apple Inc. iPhone is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. 4. Vehicle user interface is a product of Google and its terms and privacy statements apply. Requires compatible smartphone and data plan rates apply. Android Auto is not currently available on 2016 Malibu with optional 8-inch diagonal MyLink display. 162 Forward-Looking Statements GM 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Forward Looking Statements In this 2015 Sustainability Report, and in reports we subsequently file and have previously filed with the SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and file or furnish on Form 8-K, and in related comments by our management, we use words like “anticipate,” “appears,” “approximately,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “designed,” “effect,” “estimate,” “evaluate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “initiative,” “intend,” “may,” “objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “potential,” “priorities,” “project,” “pursue,” “seek,” “will,” “should,” “target,” “when,” “would,” or the negative of any of those words or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. In making these statements we rely on assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances. We believe these judgments are reasonable, but these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results, and our actual results may differ materially due to a variety of important factors, both positive and negative. These factors, which may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on SEC Forms 10-Q and 8-K, include, among others: (1) our ability to maintain profitability over the long-term, including our ability to fund and introduce new and improved vehicle models that are able to attract a sufficient number of consumers; (2) the success of our full-size pick-up trucks and SUVs; (3) global automobile market sales volume, which can be volatile; (4) the results of our joint ventures, which we cannot operate solely for our benefit and over which we may have limited control; (5) our ability to realize production efficiencies and to achieve reductions in costs as we implement operating effectiveness initiatives throughout our automotive operations; (6) our ability to maintain quality control over our vehicles and avoid material vehicle recalls and the cost and effect on our reputation and products; (7) our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and financing sources including as required to fund our new technology; (8) our ability to realize successful vehicle applications of new technology and our ability to deliver new products, services and customer experiences in response to new participants in the automotive industry; (9) volatility in the price of oil; (10) the ability of our suppliers to deliver parts, systems and components without disruption and at such times to allow us to meet production schedules; (11) risks associated with our manufacturing facilities around the world; (12) our ability to manage the distribution channels for our products; (13) our ability to successfully restructure our operations in various countries; (14) the continued availability of wholesale and retail financing in markets in which we operate to support the sale of our vehicles, which is dependent on those entities’ ability to obtain funding and their continued willingness to provide financing; (15) changes in economic conditions, commodity prices, housing prices, foreign currency exchange rates or political stability in the markets in which we operate; (16) significant changes in the competitive environment, including the effect of competition and excess manufacturing capacity in our markets, on our pricing policies or use of incentives and the introduction of new and improved vehicle models by our competitors; (17) significant changes in economic, political, regulatory environment and market conditions in China, including the effect of competition from new market entrants, on our vehicle sales and market position in China; (18) changes in existing, or the adoption of new, laws, regulations, policies or other activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations, particularly laws, regulations and policies relating to vehicle safety including recalls, and including such actions that may affect the production, licensing, distribution or sale of our products, the cost thereof or applicable tax rates; (19) stricter or novel interpretations and consequent enforcement of existing laws, regulations and policies; (20) costs and risks associated with litigation and government investigations including the potential imposition of damages, substantial fines, civil lawsuits and criminal penalties, interruptions of business, modification of business practices, equitable remedies and other sanctions against us in connection with various legal proceedings and investigations relating to our various recalls; (21) our ability to comply with the terms of the DPA; (22) our ability to manage risks related to security breaches and other disruptions to our vehicles, information technology networks and systems; (23) significant increases in our pension expense or projected pension contributions resulting from changes in the value of plan assets, the discount rate applied to value the pension liabilities or mortality or other assumption changes; (24) our continued ability to develop captive financing capability through GM Financial; and (25) changes in accounting principles, or their application or interpretation, and our ability to make estimates and the assumptions underlying the estimates, which could have an effect on earnings. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or other factors that affect the subject of these statements, except where we are expressly required to do so by law. 163
