Annual Report 2015 Ascom is an international solutions provider with comprehensive know-how in healthcare workflows and telecommunications. The company is active in Wireless Solutions (an international market leader for high-value, customer-specific on-site communication solutions and workflow optimization) and Network Testing (a global market leader in testing, monitoring, post-processing, and performance optimi­ zation for mobile networks). Key figures ASCOM Group Share information 2015 2014 Share price at 31.12. in CHF 15.90 15.25 Market capitalization at 31.12. in CHFm 572.40 549.00 Nominal value per share in CHF 0.50 0.50 Performance in CHF Share price in CHF 22 19 16 13 10 Jan 15 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 15 Summary of key figures in CHFm 450.4 437.7 412.5 410.8 116.7 107.9 2015/14 2015/14 2015/14 Incoming order Net revenue Shareholders’ equity 64.8 43.8 37.5 37.3 27.1 24.3 2015/14 2015/14 2015/14 EBITDA Group profit Net cash / (net debt) 2015 was a strategically ­important year for Ascom. We have em­barked to t­ransform Ascom into a company focusing on IT and communication ­tech­nology primarily in the healthcare industry by 2020. Already today, we see A ­ scom well ­positioned as a provider of i­ntegrated workflow Annual Report 2015 ­solutions mainly in health1 Key figures Ascom Group Letter to Shareholders care and the m ­ arket 6 12 Ascom Wireless Solutions Ascom Network Testing offers us attractive and 16 Sustainability profitable growth opportu­ 18 Corporate Governance Corporate structure and shareholders nities on a global level. 20 22 Capital structure Members of the Board of Directors 28 Members of the Executive Board 31 Shareholders’ participation rights 32 Change of control and defensive measures 32 Auditors 33 Information policy Remuneration Report 34 Ascom Remuneration Policy 39 Remuneration in fiscal year 2015 44 Share ownership 44 Long-term incentive plans Financial statements 2015 49 Table of contents 50 Group 89 Holding 98 Worldwide contacts 99 Dates and contacts Declaration of forward-looking statements Publishing details ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 1 Letter to Share­holders Juhani Anttila, Chairman (l.), Fritz Mumenthaler, CEO (r.) Dear Shareholders Network Testing suffered from difficult market 2015 was a strategically important year for Ascom. conditions, mainly towards the end of the year, and As announced in January 2015, we have embarked recorded a revenue decline of 4.5% at constant curto transform Ascom into a company focusing on rencies. Excluding the restructuring costs of around IT and communication technology primarily in the CHF 4 million, the EBITDA margin for the division healthcare industry by 2020. Already today, we see amounted to 2.7%. The testing business (excluding Ascom well-positioned as a provider of integrated the ­Systems & Solutions business unit divested in workflow solutions mainly in healthcare, and the Decem­ber 2015) achieved an EBITDA margin of 6% market offers us attractive and profitable growth before restructuring costs. ­opportunities on a global level. During 2015, we As announced, Ascom is actively pursuing on­ accelerated investments into solutions, software going discussions of potential strategic options for and professional services and expanded Sales, MarNetwork Testing with various interested parties, keting and Technology capabilities. ­representing both strategic and financial investors. Thanks to the Wireless Solutions Division, ­Ascom reported an increase in revenues at constant Ascom switches from IFRS to Swiss GAAP FER currencies in 2015 of 1.5% at Group level and The consolidated financial statements in this Annual achieved an EBITDA margin of 11.6% (excluding Report have been prepared in accordance with Swiss ­additional restructuring costs of around CHF 4 milGAAP FER accounting standards for the first time. The lion for the Network Testing Division) compared to Board of Directors has decided to change the account14.8% in 2014. ing standards for the preparation of the consolidated As of 31 December 2015, the Group has a net financial statements of the Ascom Group from IFRS cash position of CHF 37.3 million (2014: CHF 27.1 to Swiss GAAP FER, valid as of financial year 2015. million) and an equity ratio of 40.7% (2014: 34.4%). For reasons of comparability, the 2014 figures were reIn 2015, Ascom generated a Group profit of stated to reflect a Swiss GAAP FER comparison for CHF 24.3 million (2014: CHF 37.5 million) and the both financial years. Board of Directors proposes an unchanged dividend of CHF 0.45 per share to the Annual General MeetSolid result for Wireless Solutions ing, offering a dividend yield of about 3%. Supported by the successful launch of Ascom Myco, a Wireless Solutions, which contributes 74% to purpose-built smart device for the healthcare industry the Group’s business, made further progress with its leading to important hospital lighthouse project wins, transformation into a leading provider of healthcare Wireless Solutions was able to further strengthen its ICT solutions. The division once again proved to be leading market position in healthcare ICT. The division a solid business with good profitability and recorded executed the investment program launched in January revenue growth of 3.7% year-on-year at constant 2015, thereby accelerating investments into workflow currencies. Despite additional expenditure of around solutions, software and professional services. CHF 6 million as part of the investment program Wireless Solutions established in 2015 an impor­ announced in January 2015, Wireless Solutions tant strategic alliance with Tyco SimplexGrinnell for inachieved an EBITDA margin of 15.0%. tegrated healthcare communication solutions in the 2 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS United States and Canada. This alliance is a beneficial the EBITDA margin for fiscal year 2015 was at 2.7%. expansion of Ascom’s distribution channels to further The division’s testing business, excluding the divested strengthen brand recognition, open up new markets, Systems & Solutions business unit, posted an EBITDA enhance sales growth and increase market share.­ margin of 6% before restructuring costs. Another important step towards becoming a leading In addition to restructuring measures undertaken provider of healthcare ICT solutions was the acquisito improve Network Testing’s profitability, growth initiation of the Italian medical software company UMS tives have been launched, including a partnering with ­(United Medical Software), announced in December Ranplan, a British mobile network planning and design 2015. This acquisition accelerates Ascom’s developinnovator, that opens up new market opportunities in ment roadmap for software integration and gives a the field of in-building networks. geographic footprint in Italy. In 2015, Wireless Solutions experienced a good Unchanged dividend of CHF 0.45 per share performance in important key regions. In North AmeriIn fiscal year 2015, Ascom generated revenues of ca, Wireless Solutions was able to gain market share, CHF 410.8 million (2014: CHF 437.7 million), thus achievdelivering an excellent performance, posting doubleing growth at Group level of 1.5% at constant currendigit growth in both incoming orders and revenues. cies. The revenue split was 74% for Wireless Solutions In Europe, a positive development was achieved in and 26% for Network Testing. EBITDA on Group level particular in Germany and Switzerland. While most amounted to CHF 43.8 million (2014: CHF 64.8 million), other regions and the OEM business performed including restructuring costs of CHF 4 million for the ­according to the ­expectations, the business in the UK Network Testing Division. Excluding these restructursuffered from a challenging market environment. ing costs, Ascom posted an EBITDA margin of 11.6% for Overall, the division recorded revenue growth of fiscal year 2015 (2014: 14.8%). 3.7% year-on-year at constant currencies, posting Ascom closed the year with a Group profit of ­revenues of CHF 304.2 million (2014: CHF 318.9 ­million). CHF 24.3 million (2014: CHF 37.5 million). The Board Growth in the acute care segment was clearly aboveof Directors proposes an unchanged dividend of average. Despite additional expenditure of around CHF 0.45 per share to the Annual General Meeting in CHF 6 million as part of the accelerated investment acknowledgement of the continued solid business ­ program, the division achieved a solid EBITDA margin performance of the Wireless Solutions Division, offerof 15.0% (2014: 17.5%). ing a dividend yield of about 3% and an increased ­payout ratio of 66.7% (2014: 43.2%). The Ascom Group Difficult market environment for Network Testing has as of 31 December 2015 a net cash position of In the second half-year 2015, Network Testing faced an CHF 37.3 million (2014: CHF 27.1 million) and a solid increasingly challenging market environment due to ­equity ratio of 40.7% (2014: 34.4%). substantial changes in the North American Telecom sector. One major North American operator postponed Outlook significant network investments, resulting in a revenue In 2015, Ascom continued gaining access to global topdecline of USD 8 million for Network Testing in 2015. notch hospitals such as Humber River in Toronto or The negative impact was partly offset by otherwise Nya Karolinska Solna near Stockholm. Ascom has the good results in North America. ambition to be present in every tier-one hospital in the In 2015, the business bounced back in Asia ­Pacific, world by 2020. Wireless Solutions will continue its reporting positive developments in particular in China, transformation towards becoming a leading provider of India and Middle East. While the business grew in Latin healthcare ICT solutions. Wireless Solutions aims for America as well, the market environment was challengsustainable growth both organically as well as through ing in Europe and Africa. Moreover, the business unit strategic partnerships or further targeted acquisitions, Systems & Solutions (which was sold as of December while maintaining and increasing its level of profitability. 2015) suffered from a declining demand. Overall, Ascom confirms its guidance for Wireless Solutions for ­Network Testing generated in financial year 2015 net 2016 and 2017, targeting revenue growth of 5–10% at revenues of CHF 107.0 million, a decline by 4.5% at constant currencies with an EBITDA margin of 14–18%. ­constant ­currencies (2014: CHF 119.0 million). Due to the seasonality of the business, the second The lower revenues compared to the previous half-year is expected to be stronger than the first one. year and additional restructuring costs resulted in a Network Testing already implemented the redecline in profitability. The Division Management structuring program announced in December 2015 ­already initiated in December 2015 structural changes and has the objective to return to growth combined and cost measures to align the testing business to the with a significant improvement in profitability. The partnew market realities and to improve its profitability. nering with Ranplan will support Network Testing to ­E xcluding restructuring costs of around CHF 4 million, enter a new growth market for in-building and metroASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 3 politan networks. In addition, Ascom is actively pursuing on-going discussions of potential strategic options for Network Testing with various interested parties, representing both strategic and financial investors. Annual General Meeting 2016 The shareholders approved at the Annual General Meeting 2015 with a majority of over 98% the revised Articles of Association, which reflect the implementation of the Swiss Ordinance against Excessive Compensation (“OaEC”). All proposals with regard to the In 2015, Wireless Solutions compensation of the Board of Directors and the Execuwas able to gain market share tive Board are based on our revised Articles of Association. in the important key region The Board of Directors proposes Dr Valentin North America, delivering Chapero Rueda to be elected as an additional member of the Board of Directors. As a former CEO of a puban excellent performance licly listed company and long-standing successful ­posting double-digit growth. leader, Valentin Chapero has a solid track record in the implementation of growth strategies in IT, telecom and health industries. Ascom Group 2015 2014 A word of thanks On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and the Net Revenue in CHFm 410.8 437.7 ­E xecutive Board, we would like to thank our customers EBITDA in CHFm 43.8 64.8 and business partners for the confidence in our prodGroup profit in CHFm 24.3 37.5 ucts, solutions and services. We sincerely thank our Earnings per share (EPS) in CHF 0.69 1.07 employees for their commitment and dedication to Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 1,658 1,696 ­A scom. Finally, we also extend our thanks to you, our valued shareholders, for your trust and the confidence you have given to us and that you continue to share Wireless Solutions and strongly support our vision to transform Ascom CHFm 2015 2014 into a leading provider of healthcare ICT solutions. Incoming orders 311.8 333.3 Net Revenue 304.2 318.9 EBITDA 45.5 55.8 Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 1,237 1,196 Juhani Anttila Fritz Mumenthaler Chairman CEO Network Testing CHFm 2015 2014 Incoming orders 101.1 117.3 Net Revenue 107.0 119.0 EBITDA (1.1) 10.6 Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 407 485 Wireless Solutions has the ambition to be present in every tier-one hospital in the world by 2020. 6 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM WIRELESS SOLUTIONS Solid result for Ascom expansion of Ascom’s distribution channels to grow brand recognition, open up new markets, enhance Wireless Solutions sales growth and increase market share. Another important milestone towards becoming a leading provider of healthcare ICT solutions was the acquisition of the Italian medical software company UMS (United Medical Software), announced in December 2015. With this acquisition, Ascom gains not only access to new software and medical device integrations capabilities, but also an important geographic footprint in Italy and Southern Europe. This acquisition accelerated ­A scom’s development roadmap for software integration and was an important step in building and strengthening the leading position of Wireless Solutions in the global healthcare ICT market. UMS fits perfectly into the ­Company’s strategy “Ascom 2020”. Solid operating results in 2015 The Wireless Solutions Division (accounting for about Wireless Solutions closed the financial year 2015 with 75% of Group revenue) once again demonstrated good operating results. In 2015, the division grew its stability in performance. The division recorded ­ revenue by 3.7% at constant currencies. As a conse­ revenue growth of 3.7% year-on-year at constant quence of the strong appreciation of the Swiss franc ­currencies posting revenues of CHF 304.2 million compared to the previous year, Wireless Solutions re(2014: CHF 318.9 million), with negative translational corded revenue of CHF 304.2 million (2014: CHF 318.9 ­ currency effects of 8.3% due to the Swiss franc million). The negative translational currency effects ­appreciation in 2015. Despite additional expenditure amounted to 8.3%. During financial year 2015, the diviof around CHF 6 million as part of the investment sion increased incoming orders by 1.7% at constant cur­program announced in January 2015, the division rencies to CHF 311.8 million (2014: CHF 333.3 ­million), achieved an EBITDA margin of 15.0%. and the book-to-bill ratio was at 1.02. All key regions contributed to the positive busiIn 2015, Ascom was able to further strengthen its leadness development. In North America, Wireless Soluing market position in healthcare information and tions was able to gain market share, delivering a very ­communication technology (ICT). Supported by the strong performance posting double-digit growth in launch of Ascom Myco, one of Wireless Solution’s both incoming orders and revenue. After two years of greatest innovations, leading to important hospital prioritized hospital investments according to the relighthouse project wins, the division made good progquirements of the U.S. Affordable Care Act, Ascom’s ress in executing its investment program launched in North American business rebounded strongly, as January 2015, thereby accelerating investments into U.S. healthcare investments shifted towards mobility workflow solutions, software and professional servic­solutions. In Europe, a positive development was es. During the year under review, the division pushed achieved in Germany and Switzerland. Wireless its efforts forward to evolve into a leading provider of ­Solutions’ largest market, the Netherlands, as well as healthcare ICT solutions, also progressing with strateits business with OEM partners developed in line with gic partnerships and targeted acquisitions – all in line expectations. On the other hand, the retail and healthwith the “Ascom 2020” strategy. care business in the UK faced a challenging market environment and performed below expectations. Vision “Ascom 2020” in clear focus While Wireless Solutions benefited from good Wireless Solutions has the clear vision and the ambi­development in the healthcare segment, especially tion to be present in every tier-one hospital in the world driven by its North America business, performance in by 2020. In 2015, the division continued gaining ­access the other market segments remained stable compared to global top-notch hospitals, such as Humber River to the previous year. (Toronto), Nya Karolinska (Stockholm), Erasmus (RotterAscom Myco, the purpose-built smart device for dam) and Victorian Comprehensive Cancer Center the healthcare industry, has been attracting great inter(Melbourne). Moreover, Ascom established an imporest among customers in all regions. However, sales tant strategic alliance with Tyco SimplexGrinnell for incycles in the more complex solutions business tend to tegrated healthcare communication solutions in the be longer compared to the pure product business. United States and Canada. This alliance is a beneficial While the implementation of Ascom Myco has a strong ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM WIRELESS SOLUTIONS 7 value-adding impact on the workflow in hospitals, it Revenue by region takes time to adopt and to build into integrated communication and information solutions, as specific inteMiddle East and Africa 1% Europe 76% grations and ICT investment planning is needed to Asia Pacific 4% Switzerland 8% reap the full benefits of a smart device. First Ascom Belgium 3% Myco units were shipped in April 2015 according to France 8% Germany 12% plan, and during full financial year 2015, Wireless SoluNetherlands 19% tions won a number of important reference projects in Scandinavia 17% United Kingdom 7% several regions and continued to grow its software revRest of Europe 2% enue at low double-digit levels. One of the largest ­A scom Myco order wins was in North America, where over 500 Ascom Myco units combined with Ascom Americas 19% Unite software are installed in a digital hospital. Overall, Ascom Myco was well received and the division expects an increasing number of installations in 2016. Good level of profitability in spite of investments In terms of profitability, Wireless Solutions closed the financial year 2015 with good results. The gross margin remained stable at 50.5% (2014: 51.2%). In line with the investment program announced in January 2015, the division accelerated investments of about CHF 6 million (including a workforce increase of about 3.5% comRevenue by segment pared to prior year) into R&D, solutions development and enhanced sales and service capabilities. With Hospitals (healthcare) 43% these investments and after a negative impact of forOthers 12% eign currency movements in the range of mid-single digit millions, Wireless Solutions recorded an EBITDA of CHF 45.5 million (2014: CHF 55.8 million), and an OEM 10% EBITDA margin of 15.0% (2014: 17.5%). Secure establishments 3% Value through innovation Innovation is one of the most important growth drivers Industry 10% and a vital differentiating factor for Wireless Solutions. The investment into Ascom Myco, the world’s first Hotel & Retail 5% smart device purpose-built for healthcare, represents a key strategic milestone for the division and an important shortand mid-term business catalyst. During the Elderly care (healthcare) 17% financial year 2015, Wireless Solutions invested about 9% of the division’s revenue in R&D with a clear focus on more comprehensive solutions offerings for integrated workflow intelligence in healthcare. In addition, the division continued its focus on the evolution of Unite solutions, and on constantly improving the­ quality of patient systems including the planned and ongoing development of a next-generation nurse call platform. Outlook In 2016, Wireless Solutions will continue its transformation towards becoming a leading provider of healthcare ICT solutions. In addition to increasing sustainWireless Solutions expects to achieve revenue growth able, organic growth and maintaining a high level of of 5–10% at constant currencies and an EBITDA margin profitability, Wireless Solutions aims to grow its busiin the range of 14–18%. Due to the seasonality of the ness also inorganically through further targeted acquibusiness, the second half-year is expected to be stronsitions with excellent strategic fit. In 2016 and 2017, ger than the first one. 8 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM WIRELESS SOLUTIONS Healthcare drives many challenges. Ascom has a unique portfolio of hardware, software and services, ranging from the Wireless Solutions nurse call at the patient’s bedside, to various mobile devices for frontline staff at the point of care, to smart market opportunity software solutions for intelligent alarm handling, mobilization of information and optimization of clinical workflows. Simply put, Ascom solutions ensure the right Ascom Wireless Solutions is a leading specialist in ­information reaches the right person at the right place ­integrated workflow intelligence based on on-site at the right time. communication solutions. The division’s main focus is healthcare, which includes acute care such as hospiKey solution areas tals, long-term care such as elderly care facilities and Ascom is focusing its healthcare efforts in six areas: independent living. The systems, solutions and ■■ Intelligent alert handling – Helps reduce alarm fa­services provided by Wireless Solutions optimize tigue, and increases staff efficiency. Helps minimize ­customers’ business processes also in sectors such as the noise and number of alarms and alerts by filtering retail, manufacturing and secure establishments. Our and sending the right alarm/alert to the right person. solutions are designed for mission-critical communica■■ Staff communication and collaboration – Facilitates tions and information to improve workflow efficiency. staff collaboration by providing role-based communiOur customers’ business processes are complex and cation support, staff availability status and efficient therefore our solutions have a high degree of custommeans of collaborating around a patient. ization, integrated with legacy and third party systems. ■■ Point of care support – Helps increase the time Being a successful business partner to our customers ­nurses can spend with their patient. Provides patient requires extensive technical and process skills. It also data to nurses on the go, thus moving workflows to calls for a profound comprehension of our customers’ patients’ bedsides. evolving business challenges in order to develop ■■ Continuity of care – Helps optimize patient pathways ­value-adding solutions in response – this deep underby providing communication and workflow solutions standing differentiates Ascom. for hospital teams across shifts, departments and integrated with service providers such as porters or Market trends and strategic focus in healthcare radiology. Healthcare drives Wireless Solutions’ market opportu■■ Empowering of patients – Helps patients feel safe nities. The healthcare industry in the European Union and informed by enabling efficient, timely and contentaccounts in average for 10.1% of GDP and the global rich communication between patients and caregivers. healthcare IT spend is expected to grow at a CAGR of ■■ Workflow analysis – Provides statistics and data 9% over a period from 2015 to 2019. In 2015, Wireless analysis to help management improve workflows, enSolutions generated about 60% of its division’s revehance patient safety and optimize cost controls. nue from healthcare. The hospital segment grew by 9% compared to 2014 and stands for 43% of the revenue. Ascom Wireless Solutions has moved from a product Our goal is to increase the healthcare share of Wireless house for dedicated on-site mobility with traditional Solutions’ revenue to 75% by 2020. devices, technological features, and a strong EuropeAging population worldwide is increasing the dean presence into the healthcare ICT market evolving mand for overall care. At the same time, the healthcare into a solutions provider for point of care workflow sector faces a growing shortage of qualified care-­ ­optimization in healthcare with a global presence. givers. Ever-increasing regulatory requirements – ­Today and going forward, Wireless Solutions’ address­coupled with demands for patient and resident safety able market includes both, the workflow solutions marand satisfaction – pose additional challenges, which ket and the market for healthcare ICT services, repreare complicating the healthcare industry’s processes senting a combined addressable market of more than and workflows and lead to cost pressure. Hospitals and USD 7 billion. Given Ascom’s knowledge of our cuscare facilities are therefore seeking more sophisticated tomers’ needs, Wireless Solutions is well placed to ICT solutions to address these challenges and also the capitalize on the tremendous potential in healthcare. impact of technology change across all sectors, following the convergence of IT and telecommunications. Innovation and transformation Lighthouse projects in state-of-the art hospitals around Ascom in every tier-one hospital in the world – that is the world lead the way. our vision “Ascom 2020”. The constantly evolving softWith more than 100,000 installed systems across ware and hardware, increasing requirements for smart, all sectors worldwide, Ascom is a trusted brand and certified solutions, combined with our unrivalled unideally positioned to help healthcare overcome its derstanding of the customers’ challenges and our adASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM WIRELESS SOLUTIONS 9 vanced technical and process skills, will take us there. Ascom is well on its way towards becoming the leading global provider of integrated workflow intelligence ­solutions for healthcare. Ascom will continue to invest in technology-­ agnostic solutions based on cellular, VoWiFi, IP-DECT, nurse call, and narrow-band paging technologies, smartly integrated into enterprise systems via Ascom’s Unite middleware platform. Ascom will further develop and strengthen the software offering. In 2015, Ascom established a new global solutions unit. This unit is focused on meeting key healthcare goals: increase patient satisfaction and outcomes, enhance caregiver experience, and improve efficiency as well as financial performance, risk management and regulatory compliance. To best leverage the use of its solutions and to enhance the application of its leading smart device ­A scom Myco, Ascom has established an eco­system of partners in healthcare worldwide, which is constantly growing. The objective is to further increase the numOur focused M&A strategy complements our ber of healthcare technology, applications and solu­ rganic growth initiatives. Ascom’s strategy is to gain o tions partners going forward to enable better integraadditional healthcare competencies, market access tion with the multitude of existing and emerging and scale in the areas of software, ICT solutions and medical devices and applications systems integration. Network Testing wants to enter a new growth market for ­in-building and metropolitan ­networks. 12 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM NETWORK TESTING Difficult market was partly offset by otherwise good results, limiting the revenue decline in North America to a low single digit environment for percentage. The business in the Asia Pacific region, including Network Testing China, performed very well, posting double-digit growth rates in both revenue and incoming orders during the financial year 2015. One of the world’s largest network operators in China selected Network Testing as the only non-Chinese vendor for Test & Measurement products and signed a contract for TEMS VoLTE technology. In addition, business in the Middle East and in India continued to perform strongly, whereas revenues in Africa declined, as operators in Africa were adversely impacted by macroeconomic developments and the impact of the Ebola epidemic. Otherwise, ­Network Testing was able to gain market share in Asia and Middle East. In Latin America, where Network ­Testing had focused on expanding its business, the During 2015, the Network Testing Division suffered ­division achieved double-digit growth rates as well. from difficult market conditions mainly in its key In Europe, revenues declined due to a difficult North American market, and reported a revenue market environment impacting in particular the busi­decline of 4.5% at constant currencies to CHF 107.0 ness unit Systems & Solutions. In the testing business, million (2014: CHF 119.0 million). To align the testing incoming orders strengthened towards the end of the business to the new market realities, the Network year, resulting in a positive book-to-bill ratio for the Testing Division initiated structural changes and cost ­region. measures to substantially improve its profitability. Due to the temporary disruption in operator Moreover, the business unit Systems & Solutions spending in North America, the Test & Measurement was divested in December 2015. product unit posted a revenue decline in 2015 comExcluding restructuring costs of around pared to the ­previous year. The Benchmarking & MoniCHF 4 million, the EBITDA margin for the division in toring product unit on the other hand delivered solid fiscal year 2015 amounted to 2.7%. The division’s growth driven by market success in the service assurtesting business (excluding the result of the Systems & ance area served by the TEMS Monitor Master suite. Solutions business unit sold at the end of 2015) postThe development in the Reporting & Analysis product ed an EBITDA margin of 6.0% excluding restructuring unit was in line with the previous year. costs on revenues of CHF 93.9 million. The restructuring announced in December 2015 Business activities adapted to new market situation was largely implemented in January 2016. In addiThe structural changes and cost measures announced tion, various growth initiatives have been launched, in December 2015 amounted to about CHF 4 million including a partnering with Ranplan to offer solutions and have been initiated to align the testing business of for in-building and metropolitan networks. This coopNetwork Testing to the new market situation in order to eration will support Network Testing to enter a new improve the division’s profitability substantially. The growth market. ­restructuring was largely implemented in January 2016 and encompasses product consolidation in the benchNetwork Testing hit by harsh market environment marking area, centralization of supply operations and In the second half-year 2015, Network Testing faced an further measures to improve efficiencies. The resulting increasingly challenging market environment due to savings will lead to a significant reduction in the substantial changes in the North American telecom ­division’s cost basis and to a sustainable improvement sector. Mobile operators are facing stringent cost presin the EBITDA margin in fiscal year 2016. sure, which resulted in late autumn 2015 in several anThe business unit Systems & Solutions performed nouncements by some of the largest customers of Netbelow expectations and reported a revenue decline work Testing of major restructurings impacting their of about 25% for fiscal year 2015. As of 31 December network-related spending patterns. One major North 2015, Ascom sold the Systems & Solutions business American operator postponed significant network inunit to Axino Solutions GmbH in Germany and achieved vestments with infrastructure and service providers a book gain of CHF 2.6 million. This transaction was the into 2016, resulting in a revenue decline of USD 8 milfirst result from Ascom’s review of strategic options for lion for Network Testing in 2015. The negative impact the Network Testing Division. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM NETWORK TESTING 13 Performance review 2015 Revenue by region The 2015 operating results of the division were not only affected by the disappointing business developMiddle East and Africa 20% Europe 30% ment in North America, but also by the significant Switzerland 3% appreciation of the Swiss franc. Germany 10% Overall, the Network Testing Division recorded Scandinavia 3% United Kingdom 3% revenue of CHF 107.0 million in 2015 (2014: CHF 119.0 Rest of Europe 11% million) representing a decline of 4.5% at constant currencies and reflecting negative currency translation effects of 5.6%. The testing business of the division (excluding the divested Systems & Solutions business unit) generated revenue of CHF 93.9 million (2014: CHF 101.3 million), yielding a decline of 2.2% at constant Asia Pacific 13% ­currencies. In 2015, the Network Testing Division reached incoming orders of CHF 101.1 million (2014: CHF 117.3 milAmericas 37% lion). Adjusted for the divestment of the Systems ­& ­ Solutions business unit, Network Testing reported for its core testing business incoming orders of CHF 92.9 million (2014: CHF 102.1 million), representing a decline of 3.9% at constant currencies. Revenue by product group In terms of profitability, the Network Testing Division closed the financial year 2015 with an EBITDA of Systems & Solutions 12% Test & Measurement 44% CHF 2.9 million (2014: CHF 10.6 million) before restructuring costs, representing an EBITDA margin of 2.7% Reporting & Analysis 12% (2014: 8.9%). Including restructuring costs, the division reported a loss of CHF 1.1 million at EBITDA level for fiscal year 2015. The testing business of the division (excluding the divested business unit Systems & Solutions) reached an EBITDA margin of 6.0% before reBenchmarking & Monitoring 32% structuring costs. Innovation and focus on customer needs All product lines of Network Testing launched new releases in 2015 in order to fulfill customer needs for the support of new network technologies, new devices as well as efficiency and workflow enhancing features and functionality. Network Testing has a strong ­product pipeline in all areas of investment. In the ­workflow efficiency area, important enhancements ­include streamlined fleet management functionality for both Test & Measurement as well as Benchmarking & Mon­itoring. Outlook In January 2016, Network Testing announced a In the current year and beyond, the demand for operapartnering with Ranplan, a British mobile network plantional efficiency including service offerings, in-buildning and design innovator, to offer solutions that ing/indoor-outdoor environment focused solutions; ­reduce the cost of deploying mobile coverages and service assurance and analytics based solutions will capacity in dense indoor-outdoor environments such be the most important business drivers for Network as buildings and metropolitan areas. The partnering Testing. The partnering with Ranplan will support Netwill expand the division’s leading TEMS portfolio by work Testing to enter a new growth market for in-buildadding new planning and workflow management soluing and metropolitan networks. tions to Network Testing’s existing deployment and In 2016, the division has the objective to return to analytics tools, offering customers an end-to-end growth combined with a significant improvement in workflow in a single product suite from a single vendor. profitability. In addition, Ascom is actively pursuing With this step, Network Testing expands into an above­ongoing discussions of potential strategic options for industry average growth market segment. the division’s business with various interested parties. 14 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM NETWORK TESTING Network Testing Mobile operators continue to be challenged with high data consumption by their customers and the is evolving in a fast ­necessary investments into the networks, indoor and outdoor. Although the demand increase is relentless, changing industry the average revenue per user is under pressure due to strong market competition. The standard service ­bundling (typically voice, text messaging and data serAscom Network Testing is an industry leader in mobile vices) of the mobile operators is hardly a sufficient banetwork testing with a global sales presence and an sis for competitive differentiation, with new operator innovative, integrated product portfolio. Uniquely posiservices being displaced by over-the-top (OTT) tioned as the mobile industry’s independent authority ­providers. for validating network performance and customer exOperators are forced down a route of continuous perience across disparate network infrastructures, investing in converged networks and technology infratechnologies, and devices, Ascom offers expertise and structure to reduce cost, improve delivery and support solutions that enable wireless operators to expand flexible development of new potential offerings. The ­network capacity, improve operational efficiency and vendor landscape, including Radio Access Network deliver premium customer experiences. Our software engineering, faces changing requirements and is shiftsolutions require extensive knowledge of our customing from hardware solutions to a broader set of softers’ business challenges and of their highly complex ware solutions and value-added services. network infrastructure and business processes. Within this environment of changing operator The division develops mobile network testing, ­capital and operating spending patterns, increasing monitoring and post-processing solutions that have business opportunities emerge for Network Testing, been trusted by mobile operators for decades under including: the TEMS brand. These solutions enable field testing ■■ Continued growth in “new” or “accelerating” testing (drive, in-building, autonomous) of mobile networks, and analytics areas such as in-building. automated post-processing and visualization of data ■■ Further shift from products to services and from collected via these and other third-party products, product near services (installation, commissioning OSS-based network troubleshooting and optimization, and maintenance) to full outsourcing of ongoing testand application testing and monitoring. ing activities. Network Testing ensures closeness to customers – mobile network operators, network infrastructure Network Testing transformation vendors and their service partners as well as telecom towards Vision 2020 regulatory authorities – through our direct sales orgaNetwork Testing’s large installed customer base, trustnization with representation in all regions of the world, ed TEMS brand and its successfully evolving service coupled with an extensive network of distributors. This business provide for an excellent platform to expand enables Network Testing to meet the demand and into a full solutions-oriented future portfolio with a needs of customers in more than 180 countries. ­higher degree of service content. Strong indications from our customers support this direction, with conMarket trends and strategic focus tinually expanding requests for complete solutions that The most important growth drivers in wireless telecomprovide not only tools, data and information, but also munications continue to be technologies that cater to intelligent answers and continuing service. the subscriber demand for increased network capacity. Network Testing is already in possession of key Currently such technologies include LTE, Voice over strategic advantages that make this transformation of LTE (VoLTE), and Voice over WiFi and technologies that the business both feasible and attractive in order to enable densification of networks (HetNets). Looking drive growth and increase profitability: ahead, we expect the next major step in technology ■■ The TEMS brand is well known by virtually everyone with investments in 5G, the fifth generation of wireless in the industry knowledgeable about the network communication. The need for 5G networks, which pro­aspect of mobile operators. vide even faster data download and sending, is driven ■■ Our customer base spans the entire globe. Almost all by an increasing demand for mobile data and the emeroperators are already customers of Network Testing. gence of a more connected world, e.g. the Internet of Our relationships with tier-one operators are deep Things (IoT) for example seamless communication and unparalleled. among autonomous cars. As a member of the 5G ■■ Our TEMS-branded product portfolio is globally ­Innovation Center, Guildford, UK, Network Testing is known, market leading, technically highly complex actively engaged in the development of these future and suitable to solve a multitude of use-cases. mobile network technologies. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ASCOM NETWORK TESTING 15 Amidst challenging market conditions, Network Testing continues its relentless and successful pursuit of its vision into 2016 through focused execution of the ­business and operating model alignment activities ­announced in December 2015, with parallel investing and customer delivery activities including: ■■ Expanded provisioning and offering of product-near and value-added services, with a clear target to grow where we can utilize product advantages to secure robust higher margin levels. ■■ Expand the offering to include full solutions for indoor/HetNet deployment activities to capture the higher-than-average growth in this area. Network Testing already participates in this market with Test & Measurement and Analytics products. In January nity as these solutions target specific ongoing chal2016 , the division announced a partnering with Ranlenges for operators. plan, an innovative UK-based technology company ■■ Continued development in analytics, a multi-year specialized on software tools for outdoor/indoor growth story for Network Testing. Although results in wireless network planning. This partnering will com2015 were below expectations, influenced by the plement and complete the solution and enable our aforementioned temporary disruptions in operator customers to procure the full planning, testing and spending, the purchasing trend of operators is clear: workflow management solution from one vendor. Analytics-based solutions are taking share of wallet ■■ Continue to build on the significant success and from data collection tools, and operators are looking growth in service assurance experienced in 2015. to these solutions to increase efficiencies through We see an ongoing and longer-term growth opportuimproved workflows and reduced costs. 16 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Our operations are guided by our Code of Ethical Business Conduct, which lays down core legal and Innovative products ethical standards for all Ascom employees throughout the world. Our commitment towards the Ten Principles together with socially of the UN Global Compact forms an integral part of the Code. According to Ascom‘s three-part approach to and environmentally compliance – educate, examine and enforce – every manager has to ensure that the standards of the Code conscious behavior are implemented, communicated to employees and lived by on a daily basis. for the benefit of Additionally, compliance issues are a recurring topic at the annual kick-off meeting for the Top 40 all our stakeholders ­Management of the Group. The Company Secretary, who also holds the position of Compliance Officer, held working groups about compliance revolving around practical cases from the business. The cases served as starting points for matter-of-fact discussions about ­A scom’s responsibilities and own rules. As an international technology Group, Ascom takes Another compliance session was held as a part of the business, environmental and social responsibilithe Group’s finance conference bringing together all ties seriously. A responsible approach means deliverfinance managers of Ascom. Finally, specific compliing our products and services in an environmentally ance trainings for both divisions with local managers friendly, secure and reliable manner while remaining took place in Germany and France. committed to business success. During 2015, one incident was reported through our whistleblower channel regarding a data security In 2010, Ascom became a member of the UN Global issue: In a transition phase confidential data was left Compact, and we remain fully committed to promoting unprotected. This potential leak could be closed within and communicating about the ten principles. a day and without any data being compromised. In our business activities, we focus on sustainable growth and value creation based on innovation and Value-adding products, solutions and services quality management, both of which rely on a diverse, Ascom’s two divisions are committed to helping skilled, trained and engaged workforce as well as on a ­customers increase their operational efficiency through respectful and tolerant workplace culture. trailblazing hardware, software and accompanying Ascom’s sustainability management is based on ­services. Wireless Solutions supports its customers to the company’s materiality matrix, which identified the optimize the workflow of qualified staff mainly in healthmost relevant sustainability issues for Ascom and its care institutions, with potential positive impacts on key stakeholders. Derived from this matrix, the Execuboth quality and reliability of healthcare services. tive Board defined four key work streams signifying The two main aspects of Wireless Solution’s Ascom’s four major stakeholder groups: products, ­environmental impact are power consumption during ­employees, supply chain, and investors. use and materials used in its products and solutions. Our sustainability working group, headed by the They account for close to 80% of the division’s carbon CEO and consisting of decision makers from Wireless footprint. Consequently, the division continued to Solutions and Network Testing, gathers on a regular ­address the energy-efficiency of its products and sobasis to review the actions carried out in the four work lutions on several fronts. During 2015, an indepenstreams. In addition, first discussions were held about dent life cycle analysis (LCA) on Ascom Myco, the the EU Directive 2014/95 regarding the disclosure of purpose-built smartphone solution for healthcare, non-financial and diversity information and its impact was conducted. According to this analysis, Myco proon Ascom. duces between 52 and 73 kg in CO2e across its full life cycle (light vs. heavy usage). In comparison to comCompliance at the center of doing business mercial smartphones, sold on the consumer market, Laws have been tightened in recent years to provide Myco’s devices consume slightly less energy. Howmore transparency in publicly listed companies, to preever, the study also showed that the solution’s length vent fraud, to ensure the independence of auditors and of life and the source of the electricity that powers it to prohibit bribery. There is a broad consensus that a have a huge impact on the overall carbon footprint. general commitment to good behavior and integrity is Evidently, customers’ choices play an important role essential for every publicly listed company. in terms of reducing the overall environmental impact. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY 17 The division will continue to sensitize its customers accordingly. Moreover, the division also adopted new guidelines for product development: Developers are required to determine potential efficiency gains and to come up with feasible ways to achieve them. As a positive example, the new device from the IP DECT range will use 3% less power than its previous model. As far as our key suppliers are concerned, Ascom engages with them on a weekly or at minimum monthly basis. In the case of Wireless Solutions, the key ­suppliers are the four manufacturers of Ascom’s hardware such as our new Ascom Myco. Overall, our ­supplier contracts and vendor agreements encompass a clause referring to Ascom’s sustainability and UN Global Compact commitments. Network Testing is basically a software company and its products and services have only limited environmental impact. Nevertheless, the division includes environmental check-offs in the development process “Our strategy implementation for next generation products and services in order also means further embedding to further reduce resource-intensity and energy-consumption during usage. sustainability into our organization.” Engaged employees To attract, develop and retain the best people, Ascom The road of our further business development is builds on four pillars: fostering a culture of diversity, paved with challenges and opportunities from offering career opportunities, creating healthy and safe a sustainability point of view. In order to achieve working environments, and continuously improving sustainable higher returns we need to keep an eye employees’ engagement levels. on the social and environmental value we create. As a global company with about 1,600 employees, Primarily, we focus on our biggest levers: our prodAscom has a very diverse workforce. While the great maucts, solutions and services. They have a direct jority of people at Wireless Solutions works in European positive impact on the efficiency and reliability of countries, Network Testing has one-third of its workprocesses and workflows at our customers’ force each in Europe, the Americas and AMEA. Diversi­operations and they indirectly benefit the lives of ty, particularly in gender, ethnicity, and age, is a core countless caregivers and patients in an increasvalue in all our recruiting, promotion and development ingly digitalized and wireless-dependent economy. activities and the principle of non-discrimination is laid down in the Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct. Fritz Mumenthaler, CEO Ascom In 2015, many employees had personal development plans in line with business requirements and therefore completed specific vocational and productrelated trainings. Moreover, both divisions have leadership programs and/or development plans for first or second line managers in place. At Network Testing, 45 leaders and top talents ­attended an Ascom custom designed four-day program at the Darden School of Business, which focused on customer centric innovation. At Wireless Solutions, 154 managers took part in sixteen so-called Leadership Boot Camps, each lasting for three days. Additionally, the division successfully piloted of a new Leadership Development Program, an eight-day training for all newly recruited or promoted managers. Every other year, a group-wide employee survey to stay attuned to our employee’s needs is conducted. 18 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Market capitalization as of 31 December 2015 was CHF 572.4 million. Governance Unlisted Group companies The following companies belong to the Ascom Holding AG scope of consolidation (see table on page 19). Shareholders Registered shareholders As of 31 December 2015, there were 4,412 shareholders registered in the share register of Ascom Holding AG. Share ownership as of 31 December 2015 Number of shares Number of shareholders 1 to 100 935 101 to 1,000 2,346 1. CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1,001 to 5,000 895 AND SHAREHOLDERS 5,001 to 10,000 99 More than 10,000 137 Operating corporate structure Total 4,412 (as of 1 January 2016) Board of Directors Changes subject to disclosure requirements during the 2015 financial year CEO In an announcement dated 10 February 2015, pubFritz Mumenthaler* lished in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock Exchange CFO General Counsel Act (SESTA), BlackRock Inc., New York, USA, disclosed Bianka Wilson* Dr Judith Bischof that it held Ascom securities representing 6.01% of the Head of Strategy & Company Secretary/ voting rights. Business Development Communications In an announcement dated 14 March 2015, pubFrancis Schmeer* Dr Daniel Lack lished in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock Exchange Wireless Solutions Network Testing Act (SESTA), JP Morgan Chase & Co., New York, USA, Claes Ödman* Rikard Lundqvist* disclosed that it held Ascom securities representing * Member of the Executive Board. 3.032% of the voting rights. In an announcement dated 6 May 2015, published Ascom is fully committed to good Corporate Goverin compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock Exchange nance. The information published in the Corporate Act (SESTA), JP Morgan Chase & Co., New York, USA, Governance report follows the SIX Swiss Exchange ­disclosed that it held Ascom securities representing directives on standards relating to Corporate Gover5.026% of the voting rights. nance. All information within this Corporate GoverIn an announcement dated 2 August 2015, pubnance report refers to rules and regulations that were lished in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock Exchange in effect as of 31 December 2015. Act (SESTA), Sterling Strategic Value Ltd., Tortola, British Virgin Islands, disclosed that it held Ascom seListed corporation: Ascom Holding AG curities representing 3.06% of the voting rights. Ascom Holding AG (Ascom Holding SA, Ascom Holding In an announcement dated 11 December 2015, Ltd.) is a joint-stock Company headquartered in Baar, published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock Switzerland. It has a share capital of CHF 18,000,000, ­E xchange Act (SESTA), JP Morgan Chase & Co., New divided into 36,000,000 registered shares with a par York, USA, disclosed that it held Ascom securities value of CHF 0.50 per share. r­epresenting 7.026% of the voting rights. The Company’s registered shares are traded on In an announcement dated 11 December 2015, the SIX Swiss Exchange Swiss Reporting Standard published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock ­under ISIN CH0011339204, symbol ascn. Ticker symbols: ­E xchange Act (SESTA), Schroders plc., London, UK, ■■ Bloomberg: ASCN SW disclosed that it held Ascom securities representing ■■ Reuters: ASCN.S 5.068% of the voting rights. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 Unlisted Group companies: Ascom Holding AG (as of 31 December 2015) Country Company Registered Office Share Capital Parent Company Group’s Interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Chippendale AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Brussels EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Brazil Ascom Soluções em Telefonia São Paulo BRL 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Móvel Limitada China Ascom (Beijing) Network Beijing CNY 17,000,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Testing Service Co., Ltd. Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Miratel Oy Turku EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom Holding SA Nanterre EUR 80,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (France) SA Nanterre EUR 2,000,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 100% Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH 94% Mocsa AG in Liquidation 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a. M. EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% India Ascom Network Testing Private Mumbai INR 64,929,938 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Limited Malaysia Ascom Network Testing Sdn Bhd Subang Jaya MYR 500,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Ampang MYR 750,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV Utrecht EUR 1,361,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom Tateco BV Utrecht EUR 18,151 Ascom (Nederland) BV 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo NOK 1,250,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Poland Ascom Poland Sp. z o.o. Warsaw PLN 2,405,200 Ascom Holding AG 100% South Africa Ascom Network Testing (PTY) Ltd. Durban ZAR 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB Gothenburg SEK 70,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Network Testing AB Skellefteå SEK 100,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Switzerland Ascom Management Ltd. Baar CHF 200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Kingdom Ascom Network Testing Ltd. Elstead GBP 2 Ascom UK Group Ltd. 100% Ascom (UK) Ltd. Birmingham GBP 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom UK Group Ltd. Birmingham GBP 600,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% UAE Ascom MEA FZ-LLC Dubai AED 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% USA Ascom Holding Inc. Rockaway NJ USD 10 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC USD 1 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom Network Testing Inc. Reston VA USD 1 Ascom Holding AG 100% In an announcement dated 12 December 2015, ­ xchange Act (SESTA), Lombard Odier Asset ManageE published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock ment (Switzerland) SA, Petit-Lancy GE, disclosed that ­E xchange Act (SESTA), JP Morgan Chase & Co., New its share of voting rights in Ascom had fallen below 3%. York, USA, disclosed that it held Ascom securities In an announcement dated 22 December 2015, ­representing 6.021% of the voting rights. published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock In an announcement dated 12 December 2015, ­E xchange Act (SESTA), JP Morgan Chase & Co., New published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock York, USA, disclosed that it held Ascom securities ­E xchange Act (SESTA), UBS Fund Management (Swit­representing 5.481% of the voting rights. zerland) AG, Basel, disclosed that it held Ascom secu­ rities representing 4.99% of the voting rights. In an announcement dated 21 December 2015, published in compliance with Art. 20 of the Stock 20 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Significant shareholders Cross-shareholdings The following significant shareholders exceeding a The Ascom Group has not entered into cross-sharethreshold of 3% of voting rights were ­recorded in the holdings with other companies in terms of capital or share register as of 31 December 2015: voting rights. ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: 3.80% 2. CAPITAL STRUCTURE This does not cover shares, which are not registered Ordinary share capital in the share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares Since 6 April 2006, the share capital has amounted to ­amounted to 43.39% as of 31 December 2015. CHF 18,000,000, divided into 36,000,000 registered shares with a par value of CHF 0.50 per share. The In accordance with the disclosure announcements share capital is fully paid up. made according to the Stock Exchange Act (SESTA), At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 April the following parties with voting rights exceeding a 2006, the Company’s share capital was reduced from threshold of 3% are regarded as significant share-­ CHF 198,000,000 to CHF 18,000,000 (par value holders in Ascom: ­reduced to CHF 0.50). Par value of CHF 5 per regis■■ BlackRock Inc., New York, USA: Ascom securities tered share was repaid on 28 June 2006. representing 6.01% of the voting rights (announceAt the Extraordinary General Meeting held on ment dated 10 February 2015) 4 December 2003, the share capital was reduced in ■■ JP Morgan Chase & Co., New York, USA: Ascom two stages from CHF 225,000,000 to CHF 123,750,000 ­securities representing 5.481% of the voting rights (par value reduced to CHF 5.50) and subsequently (announcement dated 22 December 2015) ­increased by CHF 74,250,000 to CHF 198,000,000 ■■ Schroders plc, London, UK: Ascom securities reprethrough the issue of 13,500,000 new shares with a par senting 5.068% of the voting rights (announcement value of CHF 5.50 per share. In a resolution passed on dated 11 December 2015) 22 December 2003, the Board of Directors noted that ■■ UBS Fund Management (Switzerland) AG, Basel: the capital increase had been implemented. ­A scom securities representing 4.99% of the voting rights (announcement dated 12 December 2015) Share structure ■■ Bank Julius Bär & Co. Ltd., Zurich: Ascom securities 31.12.15 31.12.14 representing 3.74% of voting rights as well as sale Number (CHFm) Number (CHFm) positions with voting rights conferred of 4.99% (anRegistered 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 nouncement dated 20 February 2008) shares par value ■■ Norges Bank, Oslo, Norway: Ascom securities repreCHF 0.50 senting 3.16% of the voting rights (announcement Registered 4,412 5,006 dated 30 April 2014) shareholders ■■ Sterling Strategic Value Ltd., Tortola, British Virgin ­Islands: Ascom securities representing 3.06% of the voting rights (announcement dated 2 August 2015) Bonus certificates Ascom Holding AG has not issued any bonus certifiDetails about disclosure of shareholdings may be downcates. loaded from the disclosure platform of the SIX Swiss Exchange at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/ Authorized share capital/conditional share capital en/home/publications/significant-shareholders.html The Company has no authorized or conditional share capital. The free float of the shares of Ascom Holding AG is 100% since 1 November 2013. As of the balance sheet date, the Company held 220,894 treasury shares, representing 0.61% of voting rights. The Company only held own shares to back the ongoing ­long-­term incentive plans (stock option plans, share matching plans). There are no known shareholders’ agreements. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 Changes in equity Options/convertible bonds The equity of Ascom Holding AG has changed as ­follows: Options/share matching plans Ascom stock option plans as well as the share matchCHF 1,000 2015 2014 1 2013 2012 ing plan are listed in the Remuneration Report on ­pages 34 to 46. Share 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 capital Legal 6,523 6,523 17,577 34,477 Convertible bonds reserves Ascom Holding AG has not issued any convertible Retained 469,538 432,053 384,232 354,770 bonds. earnings Treasury (2,345) (9,206) n/a n/a Management transactions shares The listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange stipulate a Total 491,716 447,370 419,809 407,247 disclosure obligation in respect of management trans1 The figures have been adjusted to the new Swiss accounting legislation actions, including exercise of options, acquisitions and of the Swiss Code of Obligations. sales of Ascom shares. To ensure compliance with these provisions, the Board of Directors has issued an Limitations on transferability and Annex to the Organization Regulations. Members of nominee registrations the Board of Directors and ­the Executive Board as well ■■ In principle, the Articles of Association of Ascom as the Company Secretary are required to make a Holding AG contain no limitations on transferability ­disclosure to the company. In 2015, 16 individual dis­ and no statutory privileges. closures (see table) were submitted as follows: ■■ The share registration guidelines are published on the Company’s website (http://www.ascom.com/en/ Transaction Number of Type of Amount shares transaction in CHF share-registration-guidelines.pdf). 21.08.2015 15,000 Sale 27,000 ■■ Every person recorded in the share register is 25.08.2015 65,000 Sale 103,297 ­regarded as a shareholder or beneficiary vis-à-vis 26.08.2015 27,000 1 Sale 41,850 the Company. ■■ For registered shares, a share register is maintained 27.08.2015 7,000 Sale 56,000 in which the names and addresses of the owners and 02.09.2015 8,109 Sale 64,872 beneficiaries are entered. Changes must be reported 03.09.2015 891 Sale 7,128 to the Company. 10.09.2015 18,000 Acquisition 157,500 ■■ Entry in the share register requires proof of acquisi11.09.2015 7,000 1 Sale 62,300 tion of title to the shares or of beneficiary status. A 15.09.2015 7,305 2 Acquisition 129,298 purchaser of registered shares is entered in the share 15.09.2015 7,000 Sale 61,643 register upon request as a voting shareholder if he/ 15.09.2015 10,000 1 Sale 87,000 she expressly declares that he/she acquired the reg16.09.2015 10,000 1 Sale 88,500 istered shares in his/her own name and on his/her 18.09.2015 550 Acquisition 9,762 own account. If the purchaser is not prepared to 28.09.2015 7,000 Sale 61,250 make such a declaration, the Board of Directors may 07.10.2015 6,000 Sale 53,925 refuse registration as a voting shareholder. ■■ After consulting the party involved, the Company 21.10.2015 10,000 Sale 181,000 may delete entries in the share register if such entries 1 Cash-settled options. ­occurred in consequence of false statements by the 2 Phantom shares. purchaser. The purchaser must be informed immediately of the deletion. All management transactions of the members of the ■■ Admission of nominees is decided by the Board of Executive Board were related to long-term Incentive Directors. No applications in this regard were submitplans. ted in 2015. 22 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Members of the Board of Directors 30 years of executive leadership, Global market and technology 13 years as Partner/Vice Presiincluding 9 years as CEO in strategist. 25 years executive dent in global Consulting com­ two listed companies. 20 years leadership in technology, sales panies with international roles. Chairman or board member in and as CEO. Over 10 years 25 years of management and listed compa­nies in Switzerland Chairman or board member consulting expe­rience in the and abroad. Global technology in listed companies. entire healthcare industry. business expert including over Extensive knowledge in strategy 100 M&A transactions. and digitalization programs. Juhani Anttila Dr J.T. Bergqvist Dr Harald Deutsch Chairman Nationality: Finland | Born 1954 | Nationality: Finland | Born 1957 | Nationality: Germany | Born 1962 | Place of residence: Zug, Switzerland | Place of residence: Helsinki, Finland | Place of residence: Schwalbach am Taunus, Member since 2001 | Chair­man Member since 2005 | Elected until Germany | Member since 2014 | Elected since 2002 | Elected until AGM in 2016 AGM in 2016 ­until AGM in 2016 Studied law at the University of Helsinki, 1981 Master of Science, Helsinki University 1987 Graduation as physician. Medical exam, Finland (1976 Bachelor’s degree, 1978 of Technology; 1987 Doctorate in Computer University of Cologne; 1988 Appro­bation, Master’s degree); moved to Switzerland Science, Helsinki University of Technology; and member of German Medical Asso­ciation; in 1978; 1981 – 1985 Managing Partner 1980 – 1987 Software specialist and Project 1988 Graduation as Master of Science (MSc) ­ A Corporate Advisers, Zurich; 1985 at C Manager at Nokia; 1988 Assistant Professor ­ ologne; 1989 Proin Physics, University of C Appointed Managing Director of Nokia at Helsinki School of Economics; 1988 – 1995 motion to Medical Doctor (MD), University GmbH, Zurich, and responsible for various Area General Manager, Nokia Networks; of Cologne; 1988 – 1989 Bundeswehr activities for the Nokia Group; 1990 – 1995 1995 Vice President, Cellular Transmission, (Germany Armed Forces): Military Surgeon; Chairman of the Executive Board of Nokia Networks; 1997 Senior Vice President, 1990 – 1998 Behring­werke AG, Marburg, Nokia (Deutschland) GmbH, Pforzheim; Radio Access Systems, Nokia Networks; Germany: Software Direc­tor; 1998 – 2003 1996 – 2002 CEO of the Swisslog Group; 2000 – 2005 Senior/Exec­utive Vice PresiBooz Allen & Hamilton, Frankfurt/M.: since 14 May 2002 Chairman of the dent & General Manager, Global Business Principal and Member of the German Board; Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG; Units, Nokia Networks; 2002 – 2005 2003 – 2008 Accenture, Kronberg, Germany: 1 January 2003 – 31 May 2004 also Member of the Group Executive Board, Executive Partner and Managing Director; CEO of the Ascom Group; Since 2004 Nokia Corporation; 2009 – 2012 CEO (and 2008 – 2012 CSC Computer Sciences Managing Partner of Valcrea AG, Zug later Chariman) of K. Hartwall Oy AB, Corporation, Aldershot, UK, and Wiesbaden, Söderkulla, Finland; Since 2014 Chairman Germany: Vice Presi­dent healthcare EMEA; and CEO of Huurre Group, Vantaa, Finland 2012–2015 BearingPoint GmbH, Frankfurt/M. and Amsterdam: Partner and Industry Lead healthcare; Since 2015 Independent Consultant ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 23 Profound expertise as CFO in Profound consulting expertise 20 years executive leadership several listed and internationally in M&A, Strategy and Operational in global industrial businesses. active Swiss companies. 25 years Excellence. 20 years of manageStrategy execution/value creation executive leadership in globally ment experience across various in private equity environment. operating businesses. Strategy industries. Considerable Strong experience in emerging development and execution in ­knowledge of Asian markets markets including M&A. technology companies. and healthcare industry. Urs Leinhäuser Christina Stercken Andreas Umbach Nationality: Switzerland | Born 1959 | Nationality: Germany | Born 1958 | Place Nationality: Switzerland/Germany | Place of residence: Winterthur, of residence: Munich, Germany | Member Born 1963 | Place o­ f residence: Zug, Switzerland | Member since 2015 | since 2014 | Elected until AGM in 2016 Switzerland | Member since 2010 | Elected until AGM in 2016 Elected until AGM in 2016 1982 Master in Economics, University of 1983 Degree in Business Administration, Bonn; 1983 – 1984 BMW Pty Ltd., Isando, 1989 Master in Mechanical Engineering, Zurich University of Applied Sciences; South Africa: Marketing Consultant; 1985 – Technische Universität Berlin; 1991 Master of 1983– 1986 Cantonal Tax Department 1987 Siemens AG, Munich: Consultant Business Administration (MBA), Univer­sity Schaffhausen: Tax Inspector; 1986 – 1988 Strategic Planning and Marketing for Commuof Texas, Austin TX; 1991 – 1995 Management Refidar Moore Stephens, Zurich: Tax nication and Information Technology Group; Audit, Corporate Planning and Developing Consultant, Deputy Head Tax Consultancy 1988 – 1989 Siemens AG, Munich: Consultant Department, Siemens AG, Munich; Department; 1988– 1994 Cerberus AG, Management Tools and Training, Corporate 1995 – 1999 Commercial Manager, Business Männedorf: Group Controller; 1992 Also Development & Strategy; 1989 –1994 Siemens Unit Pilot and Sensing Devices, Drives and Managing Director Cerberus Denmark; AG, Munich: Senior Consultant Corporate Automation Group, Siemens AG, Erlangen; 1998 IMD Lausanne (SSE); 1995 –1999 Projects (Inhouse Consulting) Corporate De1999 – 2002 General Manager, subsequently Georg Fischer AG, Schaffhausen: Head of velopment & Strategy; 1994 –1995 Siemens division President of Metering, Power TransCorporate Controlling; later Head of Finance AG, Munich: Head of Regional Strategy, Cormission and Distri­bution Group, Siemens and Controlling Piping Systems Division; porate Development & Strategy; 1995 – 1997 Metering AG, Zug; Since 2002 President 1999 – 2003 Mövenpick Holding, Adliswil: Siemens Ltd. China, Beijing: Head of Task & COO/CEO, Landis+Gyr Group, Zug CFO, Group Executive Committee; Force China; 1998 – 2000 Siemens Business 2003 – 2011 Rieter Holding AG, Services GmbH & OHG, Munich: Head of BusiWinterthur: CFO and Head Corporate ness Unit Public Sector; 2000 – 2006 Siemens Center, Group Executive Committee; 2011– AG, Munich: Managing Director Corporate 2014 Autoneum Holding AG, Winterthur: Finance, Mergers & Acquisitions; Since 2006 CFO and Deputy CEO, Group Executive EAC – Euro Asia Consulting PartG, Munich, Board; Since 2014 Entrepreneur Shanghai, Mumbai, and Moscow: Partner 24 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS ■■ The majority of the members of the Board of Directors shall be independent members. Primary tasks of the Board of Directors ■■ Members of the Board of Directors retire from the The Board of Directors holds ultimate decision-making Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting of authority and determines the strategic, organizational the respective year when they complete their 70th and financial planning guidelines for the Group as well year of age. as the Company objectives. The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall direction as well as the The Board of Directors aims for a balanced profession­supervision and control of the management. It sets al expertise and diversity of its members when proposguidelines for business policies and ensures that it is ing them for election to the Annual General Meeting. regularly informed on the course of business. The selection process is regardless of origin, nationalThe primary tasks of the Board of Directors under ity, culture, religion, or gender. the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Articles of ­A ssociation of Ascom Holding AG are: At the Annual General Meeting of Ascom Holding ■■ Overall management of the Company and the Group, AG held on 15 April 2015, the shareholders elected the including setting the strategic direction as well as ­following members of the Board of Directors indivi­issuing directives as required dually and for a term of one year until the Annual Gen■■ Defining the organization and management structure eral Meeting 2016: ■■ Laying out the forms of accounting and financial control as well as financial planning Member since Elected until AGM ■■ Appointing and discharging persons entrusted with Juhani Anttila, Chairman 2001 2016 the management and representation of the Company Dr J.T. Bergqvist 2005 2016 and determining who is entitled to sign on behalf of Dr Harald Deutsch 2014 2016 the Company ■■ Ultimate supervision of business activities Urs Leinhäuser 2015 2016 ■■ Drawing up the Annual Report and the Remuneration Christina Stercken 2014 2016 Report as well as preparing the Annual General Andreas Umbach 2010 2016 Meeting and carrying out its resolutions ■■ Informing the courts in the event of excessive indebtedness The shareholders re-elected Juhani Anttila as a Chair■■ Passing resolutions on the financing of business, man of the Board for a term of one year. and in particular deciding on capital increases and The shareholders elected as members of the IPOs and the consequent changes to the Articles Compensation Committee Andreas Umbach, Dr J.T. of Association Bergqvist, and Dr Harald Deutsch for a term of one ■■ Passing resolutions on participations of major/stra­ year. tegic significance All members of the Board of Directors are non■■ Determining the compensation for members of the executive members. No member of the Board of Board of Directors and the Executive Board subject ­Di­rectors has any significant business relationship to the approval of the Annual General Meeting with Ascom Holding AG or its subsidiaries. Election and composition of the Board of Directors Secretary of the Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG Dr Daniel Lack has served as Secretary of the Board of The Articles of Association define the election of the Directors since May 2001. Board of Directors of Ascom Holding AG as follows: ■■ The Board of Directors consists of at least three and Changes to the Board of Directors not more than seven members. Cornelia Gehrig decided not to stand for re-election ■■ The General Meeting elects the members and the and stepped down from the Board of Directors as of Chairman of the Board of Directors individually. the Annual General Meeting 2015. ■■ The terms of office of the members of the Board of Urs Leinhäuser was elected as new member to Directors as well as the term of office of the Chairman the Board of Directors at the Annual General Meeting of the Board of Directors shall end no later than at the 2015 for a term of one year. closing of the ordinary General Meeting following their election. Re-election is permitted. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 25 Internal organization Mandates outside Mandates outside ■■ Except for the election of the Chairman of the Board the Ascom Group the Ascom Group (profit-oriented) (non-profit-oriented) and the members of the Compensation Committee, Juhani Anttila, Actelion Ltd., Allschwil 1 Diamond Circle the Board of Directors is self-constituting and desigChairman Foundation, Zug Agrifutura Oy, Eura nates its other committees and the Secretary. The (Finland) latter needs not be a member of the Board. Valcrea AG, Zug ■■ The Board of Directors is quorate when the majority Anttila & Co. Advisors, Zug of members are present. In the event of capital inDr J.T. Bergqvist Huurre Group Oy, None Vantaa (Finland) creases, such a quorum is not required for decisions Innofactor Oyj, Espoo concerning definition of the capital increase, amend(Finland) 1 ments to the Articles of Association or resolutions Redla Industriförvaltning Ab, regarding the capital increase report. Helsinki (Finland) ■■ The Board of Directors passes its resolutions by a J.T. Bergqvist Oy, Helsinki (Finland) majority of the votes cast. The Chairman holds the Dr Harald Deutsch None None casting vote. Urs Leinhäuser Burckhardt Compression Universität ■■ Resolutions may also be adopted by written consent Holding AG, Winterthur 1 St. Gallen, to a proposal circulated by the Chairman among all (including 1 mandate in Institut IFF, members and passed by a majority of all members of affiliated Group company) St. Gallen Liechtensteinische the Board of Directors. ­Landesbank AG, Vaduz, ■■ Minutes are kept of deliberations and resolutions, Liechtenstein 1 and are signed by the Chairman and the Secretary. Ammann Group Holding AG, ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may exercise a Berne (including 1 mandate in consulting mandate for the Ascom Group alongside affiliated Group company) their activity on the Board, subject to the unanimous Christina Stercken EAC – Euro Asia Consulting Amara consent of the Board of Directors. There were no PartG, Munich (Germany) Foundation e.V., (including 3 mandates in Munich (Germany) such consulting mandates as of the balance sheet affiliated Group companies) date. Andreas Umbach Landis + Gyr AG, Zug Stiftung Talentia, (including 1 mandate in Zug affiliated Group company) Mandates outside the Ascom Group of Wasserwerke Zug AG, Zug 1 members of the Board of Directors Lichtblick SE, Hamburg Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the ­(Germany) mandates outside the Ascom Group: (including 1 mandate in affiliated Group company) ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise four additional positions against compensa1 Publicly listed companies. tion in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the Juhani Anttila also acted as CEO of the Ascom Group commercial register or a comparable foreign register concurrently from 1 January 2003 to 31 May 2004. The and that are neither controlled by nor that control the combination of the Chairman and CEO function was an Company. absolute exception due to existential problems of the ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may Company. occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in None of the other members of the Board of Directhe highest managing or supervising body of such tors previously worked for the Ascom Group, nor does entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensaany member of the Board of Directors perform any tion. ­permanent management or consultancy functions for ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise important Swiss or foreign interest groups or hold any a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded official positions or political offices. companies. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the Instructions of the Company. 26 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Mode of operation of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors attended seven As a rule, the Board of Directors meets on a monthly meetings of the Audit Committee, while the CEO basis. Additional meetings or conference calls are held ­attended five meetings. The CFO attended all meetas and when necessary. In general, the CEO and CFO ings. The Secretary of the Board of Directors prepares attend all ordinary meetings of the Board of Directors. the meetings and records minutes. The full Board of In addition, executive sessions are held. Other memDirectors is kept informed of the Audit Committee’s bers of the Executive Board as well as external experts ­activities following each meeting, and receives a copy are invited to attend meetings to address specific topof the minutes. ics if necessary. 19 meetings (including both physical meetings The Audit Committee’s main activities are: and conference calls) were held in 2015. Board atten■■ Internal control dance was 94.7%. The ordinary meetings of the Board ■■ Financial reporting of Directors last one full day and strategy meetings last ■■ Finance management two days. ■■ Risk management ■■ Tax management Self-evaluation of the Board of Directors ■■ External auditing Since 2005, the Board of Directors has carried out a ■■ Compliance self-evaluation at year-end on the basis of a standard■■ Litigation matters ized ­process using a comprehensive questionnaire. The results are discussed in the first quarter in the next Compensation Committee year, and any measures necessary for improvements Members: Andreas Umbach (Chairman), are agreed and implemented as required. Dr J.T. Bergqvist and Dr Harald Deutsch According to the Articles of Association, the General Committees of the Board of Directors Meeting elects the members of the Compensation To support the efficient and effective organization of its Committee individually for a term of office of one year duties, the Board of Directors has set up a structure until the closing of the ordinary General Meeting with two permanent committees whose primary role is ­following the election. The Compensation Committee to prepare materials as a basis for decisions by the consists of at least two and not more than three Board of Directors in specialized areas. The two per­members of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of manent committees are the Audit Committee and the the Compensation Committee has to be independent. Compensation Committee. The authority to make deciHe is elected by the Board of Directors. In the event sions lies with the Board of Directors. All members of that the Compensation Committee has fewer members the Board are entitled to attend any meetings of these than the number of members elected by the last committees. ­General Meeting and is therefore not fully stuffed, the The nomination of candidates for election to the Board of Directors elects the missing members for the Board of Directors and the selection of candidates for remaining term. appointment to the Executive Board and as Head of The Compensation Committee is composed of Corporate Functions are done by the entire Board. three non-executive members of the Board of Directors and is convened by the Chairperson as often as Audit Committee business requires. Five meetings were held in 2015, Members: Urs Leinhäuser (Chairman) generally lasting several hours. Committee attendance and Christina Stercken was 100%. The Chairman of the Board attended all The Board of Directors elects the members and the meetings in 2015. The CEO attended the meetings as chairman of the Audit Committee for a term of office of and when required. The Secretary of the Board of one year until the closing of the ordinary General Meet­Directors prepares the meetings and records the ing following the election. ­minutes. The full Board of Directors is kept informed of The Audit Committee is composed of two nonthe Compensation Committee’s activities following executive members of the Board of Directors and each meeting, and receives a copy of the minutes. ­generally meets four times a year (at least one meeting A major task of the Compensation Committee is per quarter), although the Chairperson may convene to prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors conmeetings as often as business requires. Eight Audit cerning the compensation of the members of the Board Committee meetings were held in 2015, generally of Directors and the members of the Executive Board ­lasting several hours, whereof the external auditors to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. To ­fulfill ­attended four. Committee attendance was 100%. The its duties, the Compensation Committee may consult other persons and external consultants for support. In 2015, no external consultants were brought in. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 27 Other main fields of work of the Compensation Full financial consolidation (including cash flow Committee shall consist of making recommendations statement) in compliance with the regulation and acto the Board in relation to counting standards is performed on a quarterly basis. ■■ Ascom Group remuneration policies Financial reports are submitted to the Board of ■■ Fixing compensation models for the Board of DirecDirectors on a monthly basis. Additional management tors and the Top Management instruments for monitoring management processes ■■ Implementation and monitoring of long-term incen­include strategic medium-term planning (MTP), annual tive plans planning and quarterly forecasts. A quarterly report on pending law suits is submitAreas of responsibility ted to the Audit Committee. As part of Business Risk The Board of Directors has delegated the operational and ­Opportunity Management (BROM), an updated risk management of the Company and the entire Ascom map for the Group and the individual divisions is Group to the CEO unless otherwise required by the ­submitted to the Board of Directors on a semi-annual law, the Articles of Association or the Organization basis. The meetings of the Board of Directors and the Regulations. The CEO, together with the Executive Audit Committee are attended by the CEO and CFO Board, is responsible for the overall management of as well as, whenever necessary, by other members of the Ascom Group. Management. The Board of Directors explicitly reserves the power to decide on the following matters: Internal audit ■■ Authorizing important acquisitions and divestments The Group does not have an in-house internal audit ■■ Appointing and discharging members of the Execufunction. The Board of Directors empowered the Audit tive Board and the Heads of Corporate Functions Committee to mandate an external audit firm to carry ■■ Defining compensation models for members of the out special focus audits, as needed. Accordingly, such Board of Directors and the Executive Board (subject internal audits are conducted from time to time as to the approval of the Annual General Meeting), and ­mandated by the Audit Committee. During 2015, one the Head of Corporate Functions special focus audit has been commissioned to EY.­ ■■ Approving the budget Internal audit fees are based on the scope of services ■■ Arranging public bonds and important framework rendered. Fees incurred in 2015 were CHF 80,000 credit agreements (2014: CHF 62,550). ■■ Substantial investments ■■ Issuing the Organization Regulations and their Risk management ­Annexes As an internationally active group, Ascom is exposed ■■ Defining the internal audit and submitting the proto a variety of risks arising from its operations in the posal to the Annual General Meeting for election of normal course of business. Risk management is therethe auditors fore an integral part of Group management and hence ■■ Submitting proposals on dividends to the Annual part of the business processes. Group Treasury cenGeneral Meeting trally monitors financial risks (liquidity, foreign currency, ■■ Issuing and implementing long-term incentive plans interest rate, credit risks) in accordance with written guidelines. Capital risk is also monitored using defined Information and control instruments in respect of thresholds for the debt ratio and the equity ratio. the Executive Board/management instruments Further information on risk management can be The Ascom Group’s management information system found in note 28 to the financial statements of the (MIS) consists of management reporting and financial ­A scom Group on page 80 of this Annual Report. consolidation. Each month, the balance sheet, income stateInternal Control System (ICS) ment, incoming orders, order backlog and employee A Board directive of 11 December 2008 and the ICS headcount for the individual companies are entered in manual govern the Internal Control System (ICS). The the management reporting system. This information is ICS ensures the implementation of appropriate procebased on the regulation and accounting standards and dures and measures for the purpose of identifying and consolidated for the various divisions and for the Group monitoring the main financial risks to which the Comas a whole, and compared against the previous year’s pany is exposed. In particular, the aim of the ICS is to figures and the current budget. The Executive Board ensure the integrity and completeness of accounting, discusses the results in detail on a monthly basis and to provide timely and reliable financial reporting, and to decides on actions to be taken. prevent, minimize and identify errors and irregularities in the financial statements. 28 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Members of the Executive Board Fritz Mumenthaler Bianka Wilson Francis Schmeer Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Head of Strategy & Business Development Nationality: Switzerland | Born 1958 Nationality: Switzerland/Germany | Nationality: USA | Born 1972 1985 Master of Economics (major) & Law Born 1967 1994 Bachelor of Marketing Georgetown (minor) from the University of Berne (lic. rer. 1993 Bachelor of Business Administration University, Washington DC (USA); 1994– pol.); 1985 Manager HR, Credit Suisse; Zurich; from Cameron University, Lawton OK (USA); 1999 Goldman Sachs, Associate New York/ 1988 MBA from INSEAD, Fontaine­bleau 1994 Master of Professional Accounting London; 2001 Master of Business Adminis(France); 1989 Assistant Director, Swiss­ from University of Texas, Austin TX (USA); tration, London Business School; 2001 – phone Telecommunications, Samstagern ZH; 1995 – 2000 Audit Manager KPMG, Houston 2003 Samsung Group, Global Strategist, 1992 Project Manager Corporate DevelopTX (USA); 1997 US Certified Public AccounSeoul; 2003 – 2005 T-Mobile International, ment, Landis & Gyr, Zug; 1994 Marketing tant; 2000 – 2007 Senior Manager KPMG International Marketing Head of SMS and Manager, subsequently Head of Marketing (Transaction Services, International AccountIP Messaging London/Bonn; 2005 – 2006 Europe Landis & Gyr Building Control/ ing & Reporting), Zurich; 2007 Executive Empower Interactive, Chief Marketing Officer, Landis & Stäfa, Zug; 2000 Executive VP, MBA, KPMG EMBA Program, ENPC School of London/Singapore; 2006 – 2009 Sony EricsHead of Global Marketing, member of the International Management, ­Paris/University son Mobile Communications, Vice President Executive Board S ­ iemens Building Tech­ of Edinburgh (UK); 2007 – 2013 Partner & Global Head of Strategy and Corporate nologies, Building A ­ utomation division, Zug; of KPMG (Advisory), Zurich; Since 1 October Development, London/Lund (Sweden); 2002 Executive VP, Head of Zone Europe, 2013 CFO and member of the Executive 2010 – 2013 OC Oerlikon Group Executive member of the Executive Board Siemens Board of the Ascom Group Vice President & Head of Group Business Building Technologies, Building Automation Development, Member of Executive Divi­sion, Zug; 1 June 2005 General Manager ­Leadership Team, Pfäffikon (Switzerland); Wireless Solutions and member of the Since 1 September 2014 Head of Strategy ­E xecutive Board of the Ascom Group; &­Business Development and member From 20 August 2007 also Deputy CEO; of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group Since 1 April 2011 CEO of the Ascom Group ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29 LTR: Claes Ödman, Rikard Lundqvist, Fritz Mumenthaler, Francis Schmeer, Bianka Wilson Claes Ödman Rikard Lundqvist General Manager General Manager Wireless Solutions Network Testing Nationality: Sweden | Born 1965 Nationality: Sweden/USA | Born 1967 1990 Master of Science in Engineering 1991 – 1994 Software Engineer TEMS, Physics and Master of Business Adminis­ ­Skellefteå (Sweden); 1992 Master of Science tration (Chalmers University Gothenburg); in Computer Science and Engineering 1990 – 1994 Area Manager Saab Marine (University of Luleå, Sweden); 1994 – 1996 Electronics AB, Gothenburg; 1994 – 1998 Manager Product Market Strategies TEMS, Area Manager Ericsson Radio Systems, Skellefteå (Sweden); 1996 – 1999 Regional Stockholm; 1998 – 2001 Vice President Sales Manager TEMS, Dallas TX (USA); ­Ericsson Taiwan Ltd., Taipei (Taiwan); 1999 – 2005 Director Global Product 2001 – 2005 President & Country Manager ­Management TEMS, Reston VA (USA); Ericsson Telecom PTE Ltd., Singapore; 2005 – 2006 Chief Technology Officer 2005 – 2011 Vice President Ericsson AB, TEMS, R ­ eston VA (USA); 2006 – 2008 Head Stockholm 2005 – 2008: Multimedia of Strategy and Business Development ­Solutions; 2008 – 2009: Head of Sales and Advise Group, Ericsson Global Services, Marketing; 2010: Head of Region Project; Reston VA (USA); 2008 – 2009 Vice Presi2010 – 2011: Engagement Practices dent and G ­ eneral Manager TEMS, Reston Region Northern Europe and Central Asia; VA (USA); Since 1 January 2010, General Since 14 June 2011 General Manager Manager Network Testing and member ­Wireless Solutions and member of the of the Executive Board of the Ascom Group ­E xecutive Board of the Ascom Group 30 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continuation of page 27 ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may In order to achieve these targets, Group compa­occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions nies in scope are determined annually. Hereby, it is in the highest managing or supervising body of such ensured that at least 80% of the revenue and of total entities, whereby expense recovery is no compen­ assets of the Group are covered. The external audit sation. confirms the existence of the ICS in connection with ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise the year-end audit. Additionally, external audit submits a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded improvement suggestions on a yearly basis, which are companies. implemented in the following year. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the ­E xecutive Board may occupy or exercise not more 4. EXECUTIVE BOARD than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that The Executive Board of the Ascom Group are held based on the instructions of the Company. The Board of Directors has delegated the operational management of the Company and the entire Ascom Mandates outside Mandates outside the Ascom Group the Ascom Group Group to the CEO unless otherwise required by the against compensation without compensation law, the Articles of Association or the Organization Fritz Mumenthaler None None Regulations. As members of the Executive Board are Bianka Wilson None Ascaro considered the CEO and each further person who is Vorsorgestiftung, Berne 2 explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors. As a rule, members of the Board of Directors shall not Rikard Lundqvist None None be on the Executive Board. Claes Ödman Sensys Gatso Group AB, None Stockholm (Sweden) 1 Francis Schmeer None None Composition of the Ascom Executive Board The Ascom Group Executive Board comprised the 1 Publicly listed company. 2 Position held based on the instructions of the Company. ­following members as of 31 December 2015: Executive Board Heads of Corporate Functions member since The Heads of Corporate Functions are invited as perFritz Mumenthaler CEO 01.06.2005 (CEO since manent guests to the meetings of the Executive Board. 01.04.2011) Bianka Wilson CFO 01.10.2013 In this function since Rikard Lundqvist General Manager 01.01.2010 Network Testing Dr Daniel Lack Company Secretary & Chief 01.01.2003 Communications Officer Claes Ödman General Manager 14.06.2011 Wireless Solutions Dr Judith Bischof General Counsel 01.09.2011 Francis Schmeer Head of Strategy & 01.09.2014 Business Development Mode of operation of the Executive Board As a rule, a halfor full-day meeting of the Executive Changes in the Executive Board Board is held on a monthly basis. The meeting is subNone. divided in a general part including guests and a closed session for the members of the Executive Board. Mandates outside the Ascom Group of members ­Additional meetings or conference calls are held as of the Executive Board and when necessary. Twelve meetings were held in Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the 2015. mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or Management contracts ­exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of There are no management contracts within the Ascom Directors – one additional position against compenGroup. sation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into Business relationships with closely the commercial register or a comparable foreign related companies and persons ­register and that are neither controlled by nor that No significant business transactions exist with closely control the Company. ­related companies or persons. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 31 5. COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS The shareholders elected at the Annual General AND LOANS Meeting 2015 Franz Müller, Berne, as Independent Representative for a term of one year until the compleAll details of compensation, shareholdings and loans tion of the Annual General Meeting 2016, and Dr Gian are listed in the Remuneration Report on pages 34 to Sandro Genna, Berne, as his representative. Franz Mül46 to this Annual Report. ler and Dr Gian Sandro Genna are independent and have no further mandates for the Ascom Group. 6. SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION RIGHTS All shareholders have the possibility to register on the Sherpany platform and to give on-line instrucVoting rights and protective rights tions to the Independent Representative (www.ascom. Shareholders in Swiss public listed companies have com/en/index /investor-relations/annual-generalextensive participation and protective rights governed meeting.htm). Details of the electronic proxies and in principle by the Swiss Code of Obligations (OR) and voting instructions to the Independent Representative supplemented by the respective Company’s Articles of are explained in the invitation to the Annual General Association. Meeting. Annual General Meeting Resolutions and elections The General Meeting is capable of passing resolutions Voting rights and representation regardless of the number of shares represented. Each share entitles the holder to one vote represented Unless the law or the Articles of Association reat the Annual General Meeting. There are no voting quire otherwise, the General Meeting shall pass resoright restrictions. lutions and elections with an absolute majority of the Each shareholder may be represented at the votes validly cast, whereby abstentions, blank votes ­Annual General Meeting by a third person who is and invalid votes shall not count as votes cast. ­authorized as proxy in writing or by the Independent The Board of Directors shall define the voting proRepresentative. cedure. Shareholders representing registered shares Sole proprietor companies, partnerships and with a nominal value of CHF 100,000 may request a ­legal entities may be represented persons with written secret ballot. This threshold corresponds to 0.5% of authorization to act on their behalf. the votes. The Board of Directors makes the requisite ­arrangements to determine voting rights and to estabConvocation of the General Meeting lish the results of votes and elections. The General Meeting is convened by the Board of ­Directors or, if needed, by the auditors. Independent Representative Convocation is effected no later than 30 days According to the Articles of Association, the General ­before the date of the meeting by a single announceMeeting elects an Independent Representative. The ment in the Company’s publication of record (the Swiss term of office of the Independent Representative ends Official Gazette of Commerce – SOGC) and by letter to with the closing of the ordinary General Meeting folthe shareholders. lowing the election of the Independent Representative. Re-election is admissible. If the Company has no Agenda Independent Representative, the Board of Directors In accordance with Art. 699 para. 3 of the Swiss Code designates an Independent Representative for the of Obligations, requests to place an item on the agennext General Meeting. da must be submitted to the Board of Directors no later The Independent Representative is obliged to than 45 days before the date of the General Meeting. vote the shares for which he or she received proxies in The party submitting such request must represent accordance with the instructions given. If he or she has shares of at least CHF 100,000 par value. not received any instructions with respect to votes, he The invitation to submit agenda items is published or she abstains from voting the respective shares. The in a single announcement in the Company’s publicageneral instruction for motions contained and/or not tion organ (the SOGC). contained in the invitation to vote in line with the ­motion of the Board of Directors qualifies as a valid instruction for the exercise of the voting right. 32 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Registration in the share register Auditing fee All shareholders recorded in the share register as PricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid compensation ­voting shareholders 10 days before the date of the of CHF 681,400 (previous year: CHF 901,800) for ser­General Meeting are admitted to the meeting and envices in connection with auditing the annual financial titled to vote. statements of Ascom Holding AG and the Group comThe Board of Directors is empowered to strike panies as well as the consolidated statements of the ­entries from the share register with retroactive effect Ascom Group for the year ended 31 December 2015. to the registration date if, after consulting the parties involved, it determines that such entries have been Additional fees made based on false information on the part of the PricewaterhouseCoopers AG was paid the following ­acquirer. additional fees in 2015: Shareholders who dispose of their shares before the General Meeting are no longer entitled to vote. Tax consulting CHF 17,000 (previous year: CHF 396,700) Miscellaneous CHF 147,000 (previous year: CHF 11,300) 7. CHANGE OF CONTROL AND Total CHF 164,000 (previous year: CHF 408,000) DEFENSIVE MEASURES Obligation to submit a purchase offer The level of the non-audit fees of Pricewaterhouse­ The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG conCoopers AG amounting to CHF 164,000 corresponds tain neither an opting-out nor an opting-up clause. Any to 24.1% of the total audit fees of CHF 681,400. party who acquires one-third (33 1/3%) of share capital in Ascom Holding AG is obliged under the Stock Monitoring and control instruments ­E xchange Act (Art. 32, SESTA) to submit a public As a committee of the Board of Directors, the Audit ­purchase offer for the remaining shares. Committee evaluates the performance, fees and independence of the external auditors each year. Change of control clauses The external auditors prepare a detailed audit Contracts of employment with members of the Execu­report at least once a year and report in detail to the tive Board, the Head of Corporate Functions or other Audit Committee. The main findings and recommendamembers of the senior management provide for no tions contained in the audit reports of the external special severance payment. ­auditors are then discussed in detail with the CFO. The period of notice for members of the Executive In 2015, the external auditors drew up two ­detailed Board is maximal 12 months. management reports (for the Half-Year Report and the In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the ­Annual Report). The external auditors attended four of Company, the participants of the Ascom share matchthe Audit Committee meetings held in 2015. ing plans shall receive the same number of matching Each year, the Board of Directors reviews the shares as they hold investment shares at the date of ­selection of auditors in order to propose them to sharethe publication of the delisting. holders for appointment at the Annual General Meeting. The aim is to ensure the general independence of 8. AUDITORS the auditors as well as the personal independence of the auditor-in-charge and determine their understandAuditors ing of Ascom’s business activities and the specific The auditors are appointed by the Annual General ­business risks relevant for Ascom, the nature of colMeeting for a term of one year. Pricewaterhouse­ laboration between the external auditors and the Audit Coopers AG, Zurich (formerly STG-Coopers & Lybrand Committee, and the manner in which support is Ltd), have acted as auditors since 1987. According to ­provided for implementation of the legal provisions as the Swiss Code of Obligations, the lead auditor has to well as requirements from regulation and accounting be rotated at least every seven years. Thomas Wallmer standards (Swiss GAAP FER). is auditor-in-charge since 2015. The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the auditors in compliance with the legal provisions in Switzerland. The Board of Directors bases the ­rotation cycle for the auditor-in-charge on the relevant ­provisions of the Swiss Code of Obligations, according to which the auditor-in-charge may perform this mandate for no more than seven years. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 33 The Audit Committee also examines the ratio Online communication ­ etween the fee for the annual audit and fees for b The website www.ascom.com provides a comprehen­additional services performed by the auditors, in order sive overview of the Company’s structure and activito ensure that the auditors’ independence is not ties and the offerings of the individual business units. ­impaired. For the 2015 reporting year, the Board of All media releases and presentations at media ­Directors concluded that the auditors’ independence conferences can be downloaded from the website at was fully assured. http://www.ascom.com/en/index/latest-news-corporate. htm and http://www.ascom.com/en/index/investor-­ 9. INFORMATION POLICY relations/ir-reports-presentations.htm. Media releases may also be received by e-mail by subscribing to the The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have News Service on the website. ­undertaken to align their organizational structure with The Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG, the latest corporate governance standards. the Organization Regulations, a current extract from Ascom’s information policy is based on committhe Commercial Register, the Code of Business Conment to a high degree of transparency and equal treatduct and the share registration guidelines can also ment of all stakeholder groups. Corporate Communicabe downloaded from the website under “Corporate tions come under the remit of the Company Secretary. ­Governance” (http://www.ascom.com/en/index/corpoAscom provides a wide range of communication tools rate-governance/articles-of-association.htm). The minto keep its shareholders, the media, analysts and other utes of past Annual General Meetings are available at stakeholder groups informed: http://www.ascom.com/en/index/investor-relations/­ financial-calendar/annual-general-meeting.htm. Publications ■■ Annual Report Implementation of publication requirements ■■ Half-Year Report under stock exchange regulations ■■ The official publication organ is the Swiss Official The Board of Directors has issued an Annex to the ­Gazette of Commerce (SOGC) ­Organization Regulations entitled “Corporate Policy and Procedure on Insider Trading”, which in particular Events prohibits Ascom employees and governing bodies of ■■ Annual Media Conference and Half-Year Media Ascom from engaging in insider trading. An absolute Conference for media representatives and analysts ban on trading applies during a period of four weeks ■■ Ad hoc media conferences prior to the publication of the annual results and half■■ Analyst & Investor Day year results. ■■ Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Information on management transactions is pub■■ Road shows for institutional investors lished at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/ en/home/publications/management-transactions.html. Media releases Detailed information on disclosure announcements In accordance with the provisions of the SIX Swiss can be viewed at https://www.six-exchange-regula­E xchange, Ascom publishes information on an ad hoc tion.com/en/home/publications/significant-shareholdand regular basis. Furthermore, Ascom publishes ers.html. ­A scom media releases on significant business activities and on important product and service innovations. Dates and contacts A list of important dates in 2016 and Corporate ComDonations/Sponsoring munications and Investor Relations contacts is pro­ The main focus of the donation policy of the Group is vided on page 99 of this Annual Report. on UNICEF in order to support children all over the world. Moreover, Ascom is sponsoring together with other reputable Swiss companies the project “venture” to support innovation in Swiss industry and young ­entrepreneurs in founding a company. 34 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report Note PricewaterhouseCoopers AG as statutory auditors have audited the Remuneration Report ­according to Clause 17 of the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation (“OaEC”). The audit was limited to the information contained in the sections II/1 lit.a , II/2 (Table “Compensation Executive Board 2015”), II/2 lit.g and II/2 lit.h; all marked as “audited information”. I. ASCOM REMUNERATION POLICY 1. Corporate Governance as basis of the remuneration policy Remuneration is a part of Corporate Governance (see also p. 18 to 33 of the Annual Report) and Corporate Governance is a key topic for Ascom. Both the Board of Directors and Management are committed to good Corporate Governance in order to ensure sustainable ­development of the Company. According to the Articles of Association, it is a major task of the Compensation Committee to prepare the resolution of the Board of Directors concerning the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and the members of the Executive Board to be approved by the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting 2015 approved with a majority of over 98% the revised Articles of Association, which reflect the implementation of the Swiss Ordinance against Excessive Compensation (“OaEC”). Basic rules and regulations to be followed are set out in: ■■ Swiss Code of Obligations ■■ Ordinance against Excessive Compensation with respect to stock exchange listed companies (“OaEC”) ■■ Listing Rules of SIX Swiss Exchange ■■ Articles of Association of Ascom Holding AG ■■ Organizational Regulations of Ascom Holding AG ■■ Ascom Code of Ethical Business Conduct ■■ Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance 2. Remuneration principles for the Board of Directors a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors shall be adequate, competitive and performance-oriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. b) Compensation structure Members of the Board of Directors receive a fee in accordance with the Remuneration Regulations (Annex to the Organization Regulations). The members of the Board of Directors receive a fixed fee without a variable component, and this fee is paid in cash. No other remuneration is paid. Members of the Board of Directors receive no severance payment. The fees for members of the Board of Directors are reviewed on an annual basis and are set by the full Board of Directors subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting. The assessment of the fees is based on external (e.g. benchmark to other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) and internal criteria (e.g. workload, request of availability). Committee work, additional meetings or special projects are not compensated with an additional fee and no attendance fees are paid out either. The mandate of the Chairman corresponds to about 40% of his working time, and the mandate of the other Board members to about 10% of their working time. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 35 According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Board of Directors for all necessary ­expense, also in form of lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. c) Mandates outside the Ascom Group Article 20d of the Articles of Association defines the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise four additional positions against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise five uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. ■■ The Chairman of the Board of Directors may exercise a total of up to three positions in other publicly traded companies. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Board of Directors may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the Instructions of the Company. The members of the Board of Directors comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 25). 3. Remuneration principles for the Executive Board a) Legal background According to Article 20b of the Articles of Association, the compensation of the members of the Executive Board shall be adequate, competitive and performance-oriented and shall be set in line with the operative and strategic goals, the success of the Company, as well as the long-term interests of the shareholders. The Company may pay to the members of the Executive Board in addition to a fixed compensation a performance-related compensation in cash. The amount of such compensation is dependent on the qualitative and quantitative goals and parameters determined by the Board of Directors, in particular the overall result of the Company and the individual contribution of the respective member. The amount of the performance-related compensation of a member of the Executive Board (excluding any possible allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) cannot exceed the fixed compensation of such member. Beside a cash compensation, the Company may also allocate equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying to the members of the Executive Board as part of their total compensation (“long-term incentive”). In case of an allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying, the amount of the compensation is equal to the value of the securities or, respectively, the rights allocated, determined as at the time of the allocation (grant) in accordance with the accounting standards applied by the Company for its consolidated accounts. The total value of the long-term incentive for a member of the Executive Board cannot exceed 50% of his fixed compensation. b) Appointment of members of the Executive Board As members of the Executive Board are considered the CEO and each further person who is explicitly appointed as such by the Board of Directors. In 2015, the Executive Board consisted of five members: CEO, CFO, General Manager Wireless Solutions Division, General Manager Network Testing Division, and Head of Strategy & Business Development. 36 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT c) Determination of the remuneration of the Executive Board members The remuneration package of the members of the Executive Board consists of three parts: ■■ Base salary (fixed compensation in cash) including social benefits: according to market benchmarks of the peer group (other international stock-listed technology companies with similar market capitalization) ■■ Performance-related variable compensation (in cash): dependent on the quantitative goals and parameters such as net revenue, EBIT or EBITDA, NWC as determined by the Board of Directors. The goals shall be in line with the yearly budgets of the Company. Performancerelated variable compensation cannot exceed the fixed compensation. ■■ Long-term incentive (share matching plan): The Board of Directors decided to introduce a share matching plan as a long-term incentive instead of options. The long-term incentive consists of a retention part and a performance-related part. During a defined subscription period, the members of the Executive Board as beneficiaries have the opportunity to buy Company shares at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performancebased criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. The beneficiaries receive a certain percentage of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point of time. Moreover, the beneficiaries may get – up to a certain percentage of the number of their investment shares – matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performance-related part”). As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, expense recovery is no compensation. The Company reimburses the members of the Executive Board for all necessary expense, also in form of car allowances and other lump sum expense recoveries within the amount accepted by the tax authorities. d) System of CEO Compensation Salary part Target salary CEO Long-term incentive (share matching plan) Opportunity to invest investment shares up to a maximum of CHF 325,000 Variable compensation (performance-related) Minimal variable salary: CHF 0 Target variable salary: CHF 325,000 Maximal variable salary: CHF 650,000 Fixed compensation (base salary) CHF 650,000 e) Number of external mandates and functions Article 20d of the Articles of Association define the mandates outside the Ascom Group: ■■ Members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise – subject to the approval of the Board of Directors – one additional position against compensation in the highest managing or supervising body of other entities that are obliged to be entered into the commercial register or a comparable foreign register and that are neither controlled by nor that control the Company. ■■ In addition, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise three uncompensated positions in the highest managing or supervising body of such entities, whereby expense recovery is no compensation. ■■ In addition to these mandates, members of the Executive Board may occupy or exercise not more than five positions in several different companies that form the same group of companies or positions that are held based on the Instructions of the Company. The members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. The mandates outside the Ascom Group are listed in the Corporate Governance part (p. 30). ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 37 f) Employment agreements with members of the Executive Board According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, employment agreements with members of the Executive Board that form the basis of the compensation for the respective members are entered into for a fixed term of not more than one year or an indefinite term with a termination period of not more than twelve months as per the end of each calendar month. All members of the Executive Board comply with this regulation. g) Pension payments According to Article 20c of the Articles of Association, the members of the Executive Board receive pension payments from the occupational pension scheme in accordance with the ­domestic or foreign occupational welfare law or pension regulations applicable to them, including possible supplementary benefits. Pension payments outside the occupational pension scheme to a member of the Executive Board by the Company, an affiliate of the Company or any third party are admissible to the extent of not more than 25% of the annual total compensation of the person concerned, as far as the respective person is not affiliated to a Swiss or foreign benefit institution. 4. Approval Mechanism a) Statutory approval mechanism According to Article 20e of the Articles of Association, the General Meeting votes annually, separately and in a binding manner on the maximum total amounts proposed by the Board of Directors for: ■■ The compensation of the Board of Directors for the year of office following the ordinary ­General Meeting until the next ordinary General Meeting ■■ The fixed compensation of the Executive Board for the next fiscal year (1 January–31 December) following the ordinary General Meeting ■■ The variable and other compensation of the Executive Board (including the allocation of equity securities, conversion rights, option rights or other rights with equity securities as underlying) for the same approval period In addition, the Board of Directors submits the remuneration report for the business year prior to the Annual General Meeting for a consultative vote. Ascom Compensation Approval Mechanism 1.1.2016 1.1.2017 1.1.2018 Consultative vote about AGM 2016 AGM 2017 Prospective binding vote remuneration report 2015 April 2016 April 2017 Compensation for “Maximum Total the Board of Directors Compensation Budget” Fixed compensation for the Board for fixed compensation of Directors until next year’s AGM of the Board of Directors Compensation for “Maximum Total the Executive Board Compensation Budget” Fixed compensation for the Execufor fixed compensation tive Board for the fiscal year 2017 and performance-based compensation based on realized performance Performance-based compensation as well as for the longbased on the realized performance term incentive (LTI) of the fiscal year 2017 38 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT b) Level of decision authority Type of compensation Compensation Committee Full Board of Directors Annual General Meeting Compensation Board of Directors Maximum compensation for the Board of Directors Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval for the period until the next Annual General Meeting General Meeting 1 Individual compensation for the members Proposal Approval 1 – of the Board of Directors in the reporting year Compensation Executive Board Maximum compensation for the members Recommendation Proposal to the Annual Approval of the Executive Board (fixed compensation, General Meeting variable compensation, long-term incentive) for the fiscal year following the Annual General Meeting Individual compensation for the CEO Review, Approval – (fixed compensation, variable compensation, recommendation long-term incentive) in the reporting year Individual compensation (fixed compensation, variable Review at the request Approval – compensation, long-term incentive) for the members of the CEO, of the Executive Board (without CEO) in the reporting year recommendation 1 In any case of potential conflict of interest the respective member of the Board of Directors shall abstain from voting. c) Approvals of the Annual General Meeting 2015 The shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2015: ■■ Board of Directors: maximal amount of CHF 900,000 for the period from the Annual ­General Meeting 2015 until the Annual General Meeting 2016 ■■ Executive Board: maximal amount of CHF 2,500,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social benefits) for the business year 2016. In addition, a maximal amount of CHF 1,900,000 as variable compensation and a maximal amount of CHF 900,000 as long-term incentive both for the business year 2016 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 39 II. REMUNERATION IN FISCAL YEAR 2015 1. Board of Directors a) Remuneration in fiscal year 2015 (audited information) Members of the Board of Directors were paid a gross remuneration totaling CHF 900,000 in fiscal year 2015 (2014: CHF 915,000). 2015 1 2015 2014 1 2014 1 Gross remuneration includEmployer contributions Gross remuneration includEmployer contributions ing e ­ mployee contributions to the Swiss social ing e ­ mployee contributions to the Swiss social to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) insurances insurances Juhani Anttila, Chairman 300,000 17,706 300,000 17,706 Dr J.T. Bergqvist 120,000 7,500 120,000 7,500 Andreas Umbach 120,000 7,500 120,000 7,500 Dr Harald Deutsch 2 120,000 – 90,000 – Christina Stercken 2 120,000 – 90,000 – Urs Leinhäuser 3 85,000 5,312 – – Cornelia Gehrig 4 35,000 2,187 120,000 7,500 Paul E. Otth 5 – – 45,000 2,550 Kenth-Ake Jönsson 5 – – 30,000 1,875 Total 900,000 40,205 915,000 44,631 1 including employee contributions to the Swiss social insurances (AHV/IV/ALV). 2 since Annual General Meeting 2014. 3 since Annual General Meeting 2015. 4 until Annual General Meeting 2015. 5 until Annual General Meeting 2014. The fees for the members of the Board remained unchanged since 1 January 2011. An ordinary member of the Board of Directors receives an annual gross remuneration of CHF 120,000, while the Chairman is compensated with a gross remuneration of CHF 300,000 per annum. According to Swiss law, the Company paid Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Board. These payments do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. No member of the Board of Directors received any additional remuneration as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations. No remuneration was made to parties closely related to the Board of Directors. No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties were granted any loans by the Company nor do such loans exist. b) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2014 According to the previous Articles of Association, the shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2014: CHF 900,000 for the Board of Directors for the period from the Annual General Meeting 2014 until the ­Annual General Meeting 2015. The remuneration amounting to CHF 900,000 paid to the members of the Board of Directors in the period between the Annual General Meeting 2014 and the Annual General Meeting 2015 is in line with the approval of the Annual General Meeting 2014. 40 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 2. Executive Board a) Members of the Executive Board In 2015, the Executive Board consisted of the following members: ■■ Fritz Mumenthaler, CEO ■■ Bianka Wilson, CFO ■■ Claes Ödman, General Manager Wireless Solutions ■■ Rikard Lundqvist, General Manager Network Testing ■■ Francis Schmeer, Head of Strategy & Business Development Compensation Executive Board 2015 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous Pension LTI 6 Total component contributions CEO 650,000 1 164,125 1 3,180 4 88,672 276,534 1,182,511 CFO 325,000 1 65,650 1 – 37,036 – 427,686 GM Wireless Solutions 276,000 2 93,840 1,115 4 82,190 – 453,145 GM Network Testing 352,590 3 9,167 84,151 5 10,239 112,227 568,374 Head of Strategy & Business 320,000 1 64,640 1 – 30,176 8,449 423,265 Development Total Executive Board 1,923,590 397,422 88,446 248,313 397,210 3,054,982 1 Including the statutory employer contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,400,000. 3 = USD 365,000. 4 Contributions to medical benefit plans and special premiums. 5 Contributions to medical benefit plans and pay-out of holiday accruals. 6 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 15.363). Compensation Executive Board 2014 (audited information) in CHF Basic salary Variable salary Miscellaneous 4 Pension LTI 5 Total component contributions CEO 650,000 1 188,668 1 – 86,679 164,140 1,089,487 CFO 325,000 1 75,467 1 15,000 28,834 7,714 452,015 GM Wireless Solutions 320,160 2 108,493 6,670 95,600 9,766 540,689 GM Network Testing 334,815 3 5,302 17,868 10,343 – 368,328 Head of Strategy & Business 118,224 1 47,290 1 – 8,245 – 173,759 Development (since 1.9.2014) Total Executive Board 1,748,199 425,220 39,538 229,701 181,620 2,624,278 1 Including the statutory employer contributions paid to the Swiss social insurance. 2 = SEK 2,400,000. 3 = USD 365,000. 4 Contributions to medical benefit plans and special premiums. 5 Weighted average fair value of the matching shares at grant (1 investment share = CHF 16.414). According to Swiss law, the Company paid the following Swiss social insurance (AHV/IV/ALV) employer contributions for the members of the Executive Board: in CHF Employer contributions to the Swiss s­ ocial insurances (AHV/IV/ALV) 2015 2014 CEO 63,056 61,317 CFO 23,383 22,467 GM Wireless Solutions – – GM Network Testing – – Head of Strategy & Business D ­ evelopment (since 1.9.2014) 21,548 6,959 Total 107,987 90,743 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 41 These Swiss social insurance employer contributions do not represent an additional remuneration for the members of the Executive Board as they do neither constitute nor increase Swiss social insurance pension benefits due to the actuarial cap. The Company paid for the General Manager of Wireless Solutions employer contributions of CHF 62,406 (2014: CHF 44,814) to the Swedish social insurances. These contributions do neither constitute nor increase the pension benefits of the employee. b) Fixed compensation The basic salaries (including social benefits) paid to the five members of the Executive Board in the 2015 financial year totaled CHF 1,923,590 (2014: CHF 1,748,199 – at which the Head of Strategy & Business Development only started as of 1 September 2014). c) Performance-related variable compensation ■■ Principles Targets are defined at the beginning of each year in alignment with the budget targets by the full Board of Directors. If all defined targets are achieved in full, the respective member of the Executive Board receives a predetermined percentage of his basic salary as a variable component (performance-related part). If the results fall short, no variable salary component is paid. The CEO receives a variable salary component of 50% of his basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the CEO is paid a higher variable salary component (performance-related part) up to 100% of his basic salary. The other members of the Executive Board receive a variable salary component of 40% of their basic salary on fully achieving all targets. In cases where the targets set are exceeded, the General Managers are paid a variable salary component (performance-related part) up to a maximum of 80% of their basic salaries. Performance-related variable compensation cannot exceed the fixed compensation of a Member of the Executive Board. ■■ Performance-related targets 2015 The Board of Directors set the performance targets for 2015 with the aim to incentivize profitable growth of the Group and to assure financial stability. The performance-related variable compensation for the CEO, the CFO, and the Head of Strategy & Business Development in 2015 was linked to the achievement of the following measurable quantitative targets (incl. weighting): ■■ Net revenue: 30% ■■ EBITDA: 40% ■■ Net working capital: 30% In agreement with the budget, the targets were defined as follows: ■■ Net revenue Group: CHF 425.1 million ■■ EBITDA Group: CHF 56.2 million ■■ Net working capital Group: 17.7% The CEO, the CFO and the Head of Strategy & Business Development overall achieved 50.5% of the performance-related targets set for 2015. Thus, the CEO receives a performance-related variable compensation of CHF 164,125 corresponding to 25.3% of his basic salary whilst the CFO receives a performance-related variable compensation of CHF 65,650 and the Head of Strategy & Business Development a performance-related variable compensation of CHF 64,640, for both corresponding to 20.2% of their basic salary. The performance-related variable compensation for the Divisional General Managers for 2015 was linked to the achievement of the following measurable quantitative ­targets (incl. weighting): ■■ EBITDA Group: 20% ■■ Net revenue division 45% ■■ EBITDA division: 25% ■■ Net working capital division: 10% 42 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT In agreement with the budget, the targets were defined as follows: ■■ EBITDA Group: CHF 56.2 million ■■ Net revenue division: Wireless Solutions: CHF 301.0 million; Network Testing: CHF 121.3 million ■■ EBITDA division: Wireless Solutions: CHF 45.0 million; Network Testing: CHF 12.7 million ■■ Net working capital division: Wireless Solutions 13.5%; Network Testing: 28.3% In 2015, the General Manager Wireless Solutions achieved 85.0% of the targets set. Thus, he receives a performance-related variable compensation of CHF 93,840 corresponding to 34.0% of his basis salary. The General Manager Network Testing achieved 6.5% of the targets set due to the partial achievement of a half-year target. Thus, he receives a performance-related variable compensation of CHF 9,167 corresponding to 2.6% of his basis salary. The variable salary component was slightly below the previous year, amounting to CHF 397,422 in 2015 (2014: CHF 425,220). The variable salary component will be paid in April 2016 following the approval of the 2015 financial statements at the Annual General Meeting. In 2015, the variable salary component (performance-related part) corresponds to 25.3% of the basic salary of the CEO (2014: 29%) and on average to 18.3% of the basic salary in the case of the other four Executive Board members (2014: 22%). d) Long-term incentive The Board of Directors decided to introduce the Ascom share matching plan 2015. The beneficiaries get 35% of the number of their ­investment shares as matching shares after a threeyear vesting period for free (“retention part”), if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at that point in time. In addition, the beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved (“performance-related part”). The Board of Directors linked the mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2017. In order to receive additional matching shares, the Ascom core business must achieve at least an EBITDA margin of 14.0% in 2017. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of ­additional investment shares in case that the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business in 2017 amounts to 18.0% or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. The CEO invested 18,000 investment shares and the other members of the Executive Board in total invested 7,855 investment shares. The fair value of a matching share at grant amounts to CHF 15.363 (weighted average fair value). Thus, the fair value of all matching shares allocated to the Executive Board amounts to CHF 397,210 whereof an amount of CHF 276,534 for the matching shares is allocated to the CEO, assuming full achievement of all performance targets. e) Total compensation of the members of the Executive Board The total compensation for all five members of the Executive Board amounted to CHF 3,054,982 (2014: CHF 2,624,278). In 2014, one member of the Executive Board only started on 1 September 2014. f) Highest compensation The highest total remuneration within the Ascom Group was paid to the CEO. The total remuneration for the CEO in 2015, consisting of the basic salary and variable salary component including a special premium, amounted to CHF 817,305 (2014: CHF 838,668). The employers’ pension contributions amounted to CHF 88,672 (2014: CHF 86,679). The value of the matching shares allocated to the CEO are valued at a total of CHF 276,534 (2014: CHF 164,140), based on the value at the time they were granted and assuming all performance targets will be achieved. Thus, the total CEO remuneration amounted to CHF 1,182,511 (2014: CHF 1,089,487). ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 43 g) Additional payments (audited information) No members of the Executive Board received any additional payments as defined by Art. 663bbis of the Swiss Code of Obligations, nor were any payments made to parties closely related to the Executive Board. The Company granted no members of the Executive Board or closely related parties any loans nor do such loans exist. h) Severance payments (audited information) Contracts of employment with members of the Executive Board provide for no special severance payment. The period of notice for members of the Executive Board is maximal 12 months. In the event of a takeover and a delisting of the Company, the participants of the Ascom share matching plans shall receive the same number of matching shares as they hold investment shares at the date of the publication of the delisting. i) Compliance with the decisions of the Annual General Meeting 2014 According to the previous Articles of Association, the shareholders approved the following maximum amounts for future compensations at the Annual General Meeting 2014 for the then 4 members of the Executive Board for fiscal year 2015: ■■ CHF 2,300,000 as fixed compensation (including contributions to pension funds and other social b­ enefits) ■■ CHF 1,700,000 as variable compensation ■■ CHF 800,000 as long-term incentive Reported compensation of the Executive Board during fiscal year 2015 compared to the amount approved by shareholders In CHF Executive Board Maximum amount Amount within the amount compensation earned during approved by shareholders approved by shareholders FY 2015 at the 2014 AGM at the 2014 AGM and (5 members) (4 members) compensation ratio Fixed compensation 2,171,903 2,300,000 Yes (including contribution 94.4% to pension funds and other social benefits) Variable compensation 397,422 1,700,000 Yes 23.4% Long-term incentive (LTI) 392,210 800,000 Yes 49.0% Total compensation 3,054,982 4,800.000 Yes Executive Board 63.6% The overall amount of CHF 3,054,982 paid out to 5 members of the Executive Board in fiscal year 2015 is in line with the approved amount of CHF 4,800,000 for 4 members of the Executive Board by the Annual General Meeting 2014. The corresponding reporting of the Executive Board compensation 2016 approved by the Annual General Meeting 2015 as well as the reporting of the compensation ratio will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report 2016. 3. Former members of the Executive Board No former members of the Executive Board or parties closely related to them received any payments or loans from the Company in 2015. 44 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT III. SHARE OWNERSHIP Number of shares and options held in Ascom Holding AG as of 31 December 2015: 1. Board of Directors All members of the Board of Directors and closely ­related parties, in total: 135,750 shares. Shares 1 Juhani Anttila, Chairman 90,000 Dr J.T. Bergqvist 10,000 Dr Harald Deutsch 2,000 Urs Leinhäuser – Christina Stercken – Andreas Umbach 33,750 Total Board of Directors 135,750 1 Acquired by the Board members from the market. No members of the Board of Directors or closely related parties hold any conversion or option rights. 2. Executive Board All members of the Executive Board and closely related parties, in total: 70,920 shares and 32,000 options (all employee options). Shares 1 Options Employee options (exercisable) 3 Fritz Mumenthaler, CEO 58,000 – 32,000 Bianka Wilson, CFO 4,470 – – Claes Ödman, GM WS 595 – – Rikard Lundqvist, GM NT 7,305 2 – – Francis Schmeer, Head of Strategy & Business Dev. 550 – – Total Executive Board 70,920 – 32,000 1 Acquired by the members of the Executive Board from the market. 2 Phantom shares. 3 According to the provisions of the Ascom stock option plan 2012. Ratio 1:1. 3. Share allotment in 2015 Ascom Holding AG allotted no shares in 2015. IV. LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLANS 1. Ascom stock option plan 2011 In accordance with the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2011, a total of 491,000 options were issued to 42 members of Ascom’s senior management on 13 April 2011, each option entitling the holder to purchase one share with a par value of CHF 0.50 (cashsettled options allocated to US residents entitle the holder to receive the difference between exercise and strike price in cash). The strike price is CHF 15.00. The options have a term of five years and are subject to a fixed vesting period of three years (one participant is entitled under the terms of his contract of employment to exercise one third of the options after one year) and an exercise hurdle (the share price must be at least CHF 16.50 at the time of exercising the option, and must have outperformed the SMI index within any given 12-month period). ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT 45 325,177 of the remaining 385,177 options outstanding at the beginning of the year were exercised in 2015, and 21,000 options were forfeited. Thus, 39,000 options are still outstanding. 2. Ascom stock option plan 2012 In accordance with the resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 18 April 2012, a total of 486,000 options were issued to 36 members of Ascom’s senior management on 18 April 2012, each option entitling the holder to purchase one share with a par value of CHF 0.50 (cashsettled options allocated to US residents entitle the holder to receive the difference between exercise and strike price in cash). The strike price is CHF 9.00. The options have a term of five years and are subject to a fixed vesting period of three years (one participant is entitled under the terms of his contract of employment to exercise one third of the options after one year) and an exercise hurdle (the share price must have outperformed the SMI index within any given 12-month period). 357,000 of the remaining 422,000 options outstanding at the beginning of the year were exercised in 2015 and 6,000 options were forfeited. Thus, 59,000 options are still outstanding. 3. Ascom share matching plan 2013 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 14 August 2013 to introduce a share matching plan 2013 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive instead of options. With this new long-term incentive plan, the Board of Directors would like to encourage the management to become investors in Ascom in order to ensure an alignment with the interests of the long-term shareholders. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. They get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. In addition, the beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets are achieved. The Board of Directors linked the ­mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2015. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the benefi­ciaries, the Ascom Group must achieve at least an EBITDA margin of 16% in 2015. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of the Ascom Group in 2015 amounts to 18% or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. 13 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they invested in total 61,720 investment shares. 1,000 of the outstanding 60,720 investment shares were forfeited in 2015. Thus, 59,720 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. 4. Ascom share matching plan 2014 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of ­31 March 2014 to introduce a share matching plan 2014 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of ­Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. They get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. In addition, the beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability ­targets are achieved. 46 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT The Board of Directors linked the ­mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2016. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the benefi­ciaries, the Ascom core business must achieve at least an EBITDA margin of 15.7% in 2016. Every participant will ­receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business in 2016 amounts to 17.2% or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. 36 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they invested in total 36,427 investment shares. 2,125 investment shares were forfeited in 2015. Thus, 34,302 investment shares still may qualify for matching shares. 5. Ascom share matching plan 2015 The Board of Directors decided in its Board Meeting of 21 August 2015 to introduce a share matching plan 2015 for the Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive. The beneficiaries had the opportunity to buy Company shares during a defined subscription period at market price as investment shares up to a certain number of shares as determined by the Board of Directors. The Company will match the investment shares with additional shares based on the fulfillment of defined employment-based and performance-based criteria. Beneficiaries have to keep the investment shares for a period of three years in order to benefit from the plan. They get 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-years vesting period for free, if their employment contract with Ascom has not been terminated at this point in time. In addition, the beneficiaries may get up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability ­targets are achieved. The Board of Directors linked the ­mid-term profitability targets to the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business achieved in fiscal year 2017. In order to distribute additional matching shares to the benefi­ciaries, the Ascom core business must achieve at least an EBITDA margin of 14.0% in 2017. Every participant will receive the maximum of 65% of additional investment shares in case the EBITDA margin of the Ascom core business in 2017 amounts to 18.0% or higher. As a maximum, the Company will honor each investment share with one matching share. 42 members of the Ascom senior management decided to participate and they invested in total 60,550 investment shares. 6. Options held of 31 December 2015 SOP Duration Strike price Issued Exercised Expired Retained in years in CHF options options options options 2011 5 15.00 491,000 416,000 36,000 39,000 2012 5 9.00 486,000 394,000 33,000 59,000 7. Investment shares held of 31 December 2015 Share matching plan Matching date Underlying yearly Lower perfor­Upper perfor­Number of result mance hurdle mance hurdle ­outstanding invest(EBITDA margin) (EBITDA margin) ment shares 2013 30.06.2016 2015 16.0% 18.0% 59,720 2014 30.06.2017 2016 15.7% 17.2% 34,302 2015 30.06.2018 2017 14.0% 18.0% 60,550 As of 31 December 2015, 154,572 investment shares were outstanding. Each investment share may entitle the holder to a maximum of one matching share. The 98,000 shares subject to exercise of issued and outstanding options as of 31 December 2015, together with the 154,572 outstanding matching shares, correspond in total to 0.70% of the total share capital of the Company. ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL MEETING ON THE REMUNERATION REPORT 2014 47 To the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting We have audited the information marked as “Audited information” in the accompanying remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the ­remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the information marked as “Audited information” in the remuneration report of Ascom Holding AG for the year ended 31 December 2015 complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Blaženka Kovács-Vujević Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 19 February 2016 Financial statements 2015 Ascom Group 50 Consolidated balance sheet 51 Consolidated income statement 52 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 53 Consolidated statement of cash flows 54 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 86 Report of the statutory auditors on the consolidated financial statements 88 Summary of key financial data Ascom Holding AG 89 Balance sheet 90 Income statement 91 Notes to the annual financial statements 93 Comments on the financial statements 94 Proposals for the appropriation of retained earnings and reserves from capital contribution 2015 95 Report of the statutory auditors on the financial statements 97 Key financial data on the share capital 50 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Assets CHFm Note 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Cash and cash equivalents 57.4 50.2 Trade receivables 5 101.8 110.5 Other short-term receivables 6 12.6 15.7 Inventories and work in progress 7 22.6 24.8 Prepayments and accrued income 10.3 21.2 Current assets 204.7 222.4 Property, plant and equipment 8 14.4 15.2 Intangible assets 9 40.7 48.5 Financial assets 10 26.6 27.3 Non-current assets 81.7 91.0 Total assets 286.4 313.4 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHFm Note 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Borrowings 11 20.0 – Trade payables 29.4 32.9 Other liabilities 12 21.1 32.3 Provisions 13 6.7 7.1 Customer prepayments and deferred revenue 15 29.4 40.6 Accrued liabilities 16 33.0 37.2 Current liabilities 139.6 150.1 Borrowings 11 0.1 23.1 Other liabilities 0.4 0.5 Provisions 13, 14, 24 29.6 31.8 Non-current liabilities 30.1 55.4 Total liabilities 169.7 205.5 Share capital 17 18.0 18.0 Capital reserves 14.6 12.6 Own shares 17 (2.3) (9.2) Retained earnings 86.4 86.5 Shareholders’ equity 116.7 107.9 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 286.4 313.4 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER since the beginning of 2015. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly (refer to note 1 of the consolidated financial statements). The notes on pages 54 to 85 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 51 Consolidated income statement CHFm Note 2015 2014 Net revenue 18 410.8 437.7 Cost of goods sold 19, 23 (204.1) (210.4) Gross profit 206.7 227.3 Marketing and sales 19, 23 (98.6) (98.9) Research and development 19, 23 (43.1) (40.5) Administration 19, 23 (31.7) (31.2) Other operating income 20 2.8 2.2 Other operating expenses 20 (8.8) (11.3) Operating result (EBIT) 27.3 47.6 Financial income 21 6.4 1.1 Financial expenses 21 (2.0) (3.0) Ordinary result 31.7 45.7 Non-operating result 22 0.4 3.1 Profit before income tax 32.1 48.8 Income tax 24 (7.8) (11.3) Group profit for the period 1 24.3 37.5 1 Attributable to the owners of the parent. EBITDA 43.8 64.8 EBITDA before restructuring costs 47.8 64.8 Earnings per share in CHF CHFm Note 2015 2014 Basic 25 0.69 1.07 Diluted 25 0.68 1.06 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER since the beginning of 2015. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly (refer to note 1 of the consolidated financial statements). The notes on pages 54 to 85 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 52 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of the parent Capital reserves Retained earnings CHFm Share Own Share Other Currency Goodwill Other Total capital 1 shares 1 premium capital translation offset retained share­holders’ reserves adjustments earnings equity Balance at 31.12.2013 (IFRS) 2 18.0 (11.1) 1.1 10.2 (36.7) – 264.9 246.4 Adjustments Swiss GAAP FER conversion 2 – – – – 36.7 (168.5) (23.2) (155.0) Balance at 1.1.2014 (Swiss GAAP FER) 2 18.0 (11.1) 1.1 10.2 – (168.5) 241.7 91.4 Group profit for the period – – – – – – 37.5 37.5 Currency translation adjustments – – – – (3.1) – – (3.1) Goodwill offset with equity – – – – – (7.1) – (7.1) Share-based payments – – – 0.4 – – – 0.4 Purchase of own shares – (0.1) – – – – – (0.1) Disposal of own shares – 2.0 – 0.9 – – – 2.9 Dividend paid – – – – – – (14.0) (14.0) Balance at 31.12.2014 18.0 (9.2) 1.1 11.5 (3.1) (175.6) 265.2 107.9 Group profit for the period – – – – – – 24.3 24.3 Currency translation adjustments – – – – (8.6) – – (8.6) Goodwill offset with equity – – – – – – – – Share-based payments – – – 0.2 – – – 0.2 Purchase of own shares – (0.2) – – – – – (0.2) Disposal of own shares – 7.1 – 1.8 – – – 8.9 Dividends paid – – – – – – (15.8) (15.8) Balance at 31.12.2015 18.0 (2.3) 1.1 13.5 (11.7) (175.6) 273.7 116.7 1 Refer to note 17. 2 Refer to note 1.4. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER since the beginning of 2015. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly (refer to note 1 of the consolidated financial statements). Non-distributable statutory and legal reserves of Ascom Holding AG; CHF 3.6 million (previous year: CHF 3.6 million). The notes on pages 54 to 85 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 53 Consolidated statement of cash flows CHFm Note 2015 2014 Group profit for the period 24.3 37.5 + Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8 3.6 3.7 + Amortization of intangible assets 9 12.8 13.9 + (Profit)/loss from impairment/reversal of impairment 8, 9 0.4 – +/− (Profit)/loss from disposal of property, plant and equipment 22 – (4.8) +/− (Profit)/loss from divestment of a subsidiary or business 3 (2.6) – +/− (Profit)/loss from disposal of investments in third parties 22 – (0.9) + Share-based payments 0.3 0.4 +/− Addition/(release) of provisions 5.6 (0.2) +/− Adjustment for non-cash items (0.4) 1.1 +/− Change in inventory and work in progress (0.9) 0.2 +/− Change in trade receivables 2.2 (14.0) +/− Change in trade payables (1.5) 9.0 +/− Change in other receivables and prepayments 11.3 (6.3) +/− Change in accrued and other short-term liabilities and deferred income (19.2) 1.1 − Interest income 21 (0.2) (0.6) + Interest expenses 21 0.9 1.8 + Interest received 0.2 0.4 − Interest paid (0.2) (0.5) + Income tax expenses 24 7.8 11.3 − Income tax paid (10.1) (6.7) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on intra-group positions (1.0) 0.1 Cash flow from operating activities 33.3 46.5 − Purchase of property, plant and equipment 8 (4.3) (4.3) + Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – 5.2 − Purchase of intangible assets 9 (9.0) (9.2) − Acquisition of a subsidiary or business (1.8) (0.4) + Proceeds from divestment of a subsidiary or business 3 0.7 – + Proceeds from disposal of investments in third parties 22 – 1.8 +/− Change in financial assets and other non-current assets 1.1 3.9 Cash flow from investing activities (13.3) (3.0) +/− Proceeds from/(repayment of) short-term borrowings 30.0 20.2 +/− Proceeds from/(repayment of) long-term borrowings (33.0) (60.1) + Proceeds from disposal of own shares 8.9 2.9 − Purchase of own shares 17 (0.2) (0.1) − Dividends paid (15.8) (14.0) Cash flow from financing activities (10.1) (51.1) +/− Foreign currency translation differences on cash and cash equivalents (2.7) (0.4) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 7.2 (8.0) + Cash and cash equivalents at 1.1. 50.2 58.2 Cash and cash equivalents at 31.12. 57.4 50.2 The notes on pages 54 to 85 are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 54 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. GENERAL INFORMATION 1.1 Description of the business Ascom is an international solutions provider with comprehensive know-how in healthcare workflow intelligence and telecommunications. The company focuses on two businesses, Wireless Solutions (an international leader in high-value, wireless and customer-specific on-site communication and workflow optimization solutions and services, primarily for healthcare, but also for industrial, retail and secure establishment) and Network Testing (a global leader in mobile network testing, benchmarking, monitoring, post-processing analysis and per­formance optimization solutions and services). 1.2 The parent company of the Group Ascom Holding AG, the parent company of the Group, is a public limited company and is domiciled in Baar (Switzerland). Ascom registered shares (symbol ASCN) are listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland). 1.3 Adjustments as a result of changes in accounting principles Until 30 June 2015, Ascom Group had prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards). With the media release as per 8 October 2015, Ascom announced the decision of its Board of Directors to change the accounting principles of the Group from IFRS to Swiss GAAP FER as of the 2015 business year. The main reason for changing from IFRS to Swiss GAAP FER is the growing complexity and intricacy of the detailed rules and disclosure requirements of IFRS. It is expected that this development will continue to intensify and thus the cost-benefit ratio will become increasingly unfavorable. By focusing on the essentials, Swiss GAAP FER is less complex and more prac­ ticable in use for Groups the size of Ascom. Management is convinced that Swiss GAAP FER, as a true and fair view principles based accounting framework, represents a comprehensive and solid alternative to IFRS for Ascom, while permitting the Group to maintain a high standard of transparency and disclosure of relevant financial information. The accounting principles applied in the preparation and presentation of the 2015 consolidated financial statements deviate in the following essential points from the consolidated annual financial statements for 2014 prepared according to IFRS: a) Goodwill from acquisitions Goodwill from acquisitions are directly offset, as at the acquisition date, against retained earnings in equity in accordance with the allowed treatment under Swiss GAAP FER 30 “Consolidated Financial Statements”. Under IFRS, goodwill was capitalized and its recoverable value tested annually. Under Swiss GAAP FER, transaction costs incurred in connection with acquisitions are treated as part of acquisition costs. b) Employee benefit obligations In accordance with Swiss GAAP FER 16 “Pension Benefit Obligations”, the economic obligation or benefit to the employer from Swiss pension schemes is determined from the schemes’ financial statements prepared on the basis of Swiss GAAP FER 26 “Accounting of Pension Plans”. The accounting for pensions plans of foreign subsidiaries which are not organized as independent legal entity are determined based on the local valuation methods in effect. Under IFRS, defined benefit plans were calculated in accordance with the projected unit credit method and recognized in accordance with IAS 19. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 c) Deferred income taxes The above-mentioned valuation and balance sheet adjustments have consequences for deferred income taxes in the balance sheet and income statement. d) Translation differences As a result of the switch to Swiss GAAP FER, accumulated translation differences recorded under IFRS amounting to CHF 36.7 million are offset against retained earnings as per the conversion date. Under Swiss GAAP FER, foreign exchange translation differences that have occurred after 1 January 2014 are reflected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity. 1.4 Presentation and structure The presentation and structure of the balance sheet, income statement, statement of changes in equity, and cash flow statement were adjusted to meet the requirements of Swiss GAAP FER. The prior-year period has been restated in order to ensure comparability with the presentation of the current year. The effects of the above-mentioned adjustments on equity and group profit are shown in the following table: CHFm 31.12.2014 01.01.2014 Adjustments equity Shareholders’ equity according to IFRS 242.9 246.4 Removal of goodwill (169.0) (168.5) Adjustment of pension liabilities 29.6 3.8 Adjustment of other liabilities (0.2) – Adjustment deferred tax assets/liabilities 4.6 9.7 Shareholders’ equity according to Swiss GAAP FER 107.9 91.4 CHFm 2014 Adjustments group profit for the period Group profit for the period according to IFRS 38.5 Adjustment pension expenses (0.9) Adjustment other operating expenses (0.2) Adjustment deferred tax expenses 0.1 Group profit for the period according to Swiss GAAP FER 37.5 2. SUMMARY OF THE GENERAL GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES 2.1 Basis of preparation The functional and presentation currency of Ascom Holding AG is Swiss francs (CHF). Ascom’s consolidated financial statements are prepared based on the individual financial statements of each Group company. These are based on historical costs, except for the revaluation of certain financial assets at fair value, and are prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER, including the valuation and accounting policies described below. The accounting policies have been applied consistently by Group companies. Furthermore, applied accounting and disclosure policies comply with the provisions of the listing rules of the SIX Swiss Exchange and the Swiss company law. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the entire existing guidelines of Swiss GAAP FER (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles FER/FER = Fachempfehlung zur Rechnungslegung = Accounting and reporting recommendations) requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 2.3. The closing date for the Group and the individual Group companies is 31 December. 56 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.2 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures Ascom early adopted all Swiss GAAP FER standards changes, which were published by the end of 2015, including standards changes which are binding after 31 December 2015, and where early adoption is permitted. The early adoption had only minor impact on the consolidated ­financial statements. 2.3 Use of judgments and estimates In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Group’s accounting policies and the ­reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognized prospectively. Information about judgments made in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effects on the amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements and information about uncertainties related to assumptions and estimates that have the potential risk of resulting in a significant adjustment in the year ending 31 December 2015 are included in the following notes: ■■ Note 9 – recognition of internally generated intangible assets: whether the Group has met the criteria for recognition of internally generated development costs relating to the design and testing of new or improved products. ■■ Note 9 – measurement of intangibles: key assumptions and estimates underlying valuation and recoverability of intangible assets from acquisitions initially capitalized at their fair value at acquisition date as well as of capitalized internally generated intangible assets, including achievement of the forecasted cash flows as used in the initial business plan. ■■ Note 14 – measurement of pension liabilities related to certain pension plans: key actuarial assumptions, including discount rate, future salary or pension increases and average life expectancy, as well as plan assets performance and funded status. ■■ Notes 13 and 30 – recognition and measurement of provisions and contingencies: key ­assumptions about the likelihood and magnitude of net future outflow of cash related to ­onerous lease contracts, including cash flow forecasts, discount rates and likelihood of finding tenants for vacant space in the foreseeable future. ■■ Note 24 – recognition and measurement of the worldwide provision for income tax and recognition of deferred income tax assets: availability of qualified future taxable profit against which tax loss carry-forwards can be used. 2.4 Consolidation The consolidated financial statements cover Ascom Holding AG and all subsidiaries over which the Group has control. Ascom controls a subsidiary when Ascom is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. Profits or losses from disposal of subsidiaries are recorded in profit or loss, including the effect of recycling of any goodwill previously offset against equity. The list of the consolidated Group companies is included in note 35. Percentages of the Group’s interest in share capital correspond to percentages in voting rights held. Group companies are included in the consolidated financial statements in their entirety. The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are capitalized and allocated to Goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent ­liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair value at the acquisition date. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Unrealized losses are also eliminated. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 2.5 Foreign currency translation The consolidated financial statements are presented in Swiss francs (CHF), which is the Group’s reporting currency. All assets and liabilities of foreign entities are translated into the Group’s reporting currency at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. Income, expenses and cash flows of foreign entities are translated at average exchange rates for the year. Exchange differences arising from the reconversion of the net investment in subsidiaries in foreign functional currencies are recorded as currency translation adjustments in equity. Upon disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated currency translation adjustments are recognized in the income statement. Foreign currency translation CHFm ISO code Unit 31.12.2015 Average 2015 31.12.2014 Average 2014 Euro EUR 1 1.084 1.075 1.203 1.214 Pound sterling GBP 1 1.476 1.476 1.538 1.507 Swedish krona SEK 1 0.118 0.115 0.127 0.133 US dollar USD 1 0.995 0.966 0.989 0.917 Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (“the functional currency”). Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing on the acquisition date. Transactions in foreign currencies are accounted for at the average exchange rates of the prior month, as an approximation of the exchange rate at the transaction date. Gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the conversion of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss. Such balances are converted into the functional currency of the foreign entity at the exchange rates prevailing on 31 December. 2.6 Revenue recognition Net revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Net revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. a) Sales of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods as well as the authority to dispose of the property have passed to the buyer, usually on delivery of the goods. Goods include hardware and software sold to customers in the two core divisions of the Group. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the returns. In certain cases, an assignment of rights for a non-refundable amount under a non-cancellable software license contract permits the customer to use those rights freely, and Ascom has no remaining obligations to perform. In these cases, the license sale is recognized on delivery or when the general revenue recognition conditions for the sale of goods are also met. 58 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b) Rendering of services Revenue from fixed-price contracts for delivery of services or service components of multielement transaction contracts are generally recognized in the period the services are provided, using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Such revenue could also be recognized based on the services performed to date as a percentage of the total services to be performed, if more appropriate. The basis for the allocation of the total revenue arising from multi-element transactions is the fair value of the separable components, which is normally the price regularly charged for such a component when sold separately. c) Contracts under PoC Revenue from significant customer projects is determined based on the stage of completion using the percentage-of-completion method (PoC) if the stage of completion and expected outcome can be measured reliably. The respective calculation is based either on the units completed compared to the total number of contracted units, or if this approach is not applicable, on the costs incurred compared to the total costs to complete. 2.7 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are recorded at acquisition or production cost (i.e. historical cost) less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the items acquired. Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group holds the risks and rewards incident to ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased property or the present value of the lease payments (see note 2.19). Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the useful life of the asset. Land is valued at cost and is not depreciated. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful life as shown in the following table: Useful life in years Buildings 20–40 Installations 7–10 Production equipment, measuring and test equipment, IT hardware, furniture 3–5 Tools and demo equipment 3 Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss during the financial period in which they incur. Items of property, plant and equipment are eliminated from the balance sheet from their date of disposal. All gains or losses arising from the disposal of such items are included in profit or loss. 2.8 Intangible assets Intangible assets other than goodwill are recorded at acquisition or production cost less accumulated amortization. The amortization charge is calculated on a straight-line basis over the period of its estimated useful e ­ conomic life as shown in the following table: Useful life in years Customer relations 10 Technology 5–7 Internally generated intangibles 3–5 Other (trademarks, licenses and software) 3–5 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 Intangible assets not ready to use are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill resulting from acquisitions (the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities or equity interests) is offset in equity against retained earnings at the date of acquisition. The consequences of a theoretical capitalization and amortization of goodwill are explained in note 9. If the purchase price contains contingent elements that are dependent on future results (e.g. earn-out), a liability is recognized in the balance sheet at the date of acquisition based on an estimate of the earn-out payment expected to be paid at the agreed future date. Changes in this estimate during the earn-out period or differences between the recorded liability and the final settlement are recorded in the income statement. On the disposal of an entity, the goodwill previously offset in equity is transferred to the income statement (recycling). All research costs are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Costs incurred on development projects (relating to the design, development and testing of major new products, products’ improvements or software platforms) are recognized as intangible assets, when specific criteria are fulfilled regarding technical feasibility, commitment of resources and recoverability through future economic benefits. Development costs that cannot be capitalized are charged to profit or loss in the period in which they occur. 2.9 Financial assets and liabilities a) Financial assets Financial assets mainly comprise loans to third parties, non-controlling interests of less than 20% held over the longer term, and pension assets. Loans are stated at acquisition cost less valuation adjustments. Non-controlling interests are stated at their actual value or at their historical cost less any impairment if there is no actual value available. b) Financial liabilities Financial liabilities comprise bank loans, mortgages, convertible, and other bonds. They are carried at nominal value. Borrowing costs are recognized in the income statement, with the exception of borrowing costs that can be allocated directly to the development or purchase of a qualifying asset. These borrowing costs are capitalized as part of the cost of this asset. 2.10 Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value at the trade date. The method of recognizing the gain or loss from subsequent revaluations depends on the purpose for the hedging and the underlying transaction. Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange gains or losses arise from transactions as well as from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (mainly EUR, USD, SEK and GBP) if these are not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing group-wide foreign exchange transaction risk on an ongoing basis. The Group may hedge expected future foreign currency cash flows by executing forward contracts. Where such forward contracts are linked to specific projected transactions and cash flows, the hedging is deemed to be effective and documented accordingly, with changes in the fair value of the cash flow hedges recognized in equity. The gain or loss relating to fair value changes of other forward contracts is recognized immediately in the income statement as part of the financial result, as these contracts are deemed ineffective hedges. Gains or losses related to fair value changes of foreign currency forward contracts, which have been recognized in equity, are recycled in the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects gain or loss. The gain or loss from ineffective cash flow hedges related to flow of goods is recorded in the income statement under cost of goods sold. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement. 60 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.11 Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of purchase costs/manufacturing costs or net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated selling costs. Manufacturing costs include direct material and production costs as well as material and production overheads. The costs are determined using the weighted-average method. Purchase discounts are treated as a purchase price reductions. Value adjustments are made for obsolete and slow-moving items. Construction contracts are recognized according to the stage of completion of the contract (percentage-of-completion method), and the respective effect is recognized in profit or loss. Provisions are made to cover all anticipated losses as soon as these are identified. 2.12 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognized at their nominal value less any provision for doubtful debts. A provision for doubtful debts is recognized when it becomes obvious that the receivable is not fully realizable. The amount of the provision is the receivable recognized at nominal value less the amount of the expected realization. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of a provision account and the loss is recorded in marketing and sales e ­ xpenses. When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the provision account. Sub­ sequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against marketing and sales expenses. 2.13 Other current assets Other short-term receivables, prepayments and accrued income are stated at nominal value less impairment, if any. 2.14 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. 2.15 Equity Registered shares are classified as equity. Own shares, expenses for equity-settled sharebased payments, realized gains or losses from disposals of own shares as well as costs relating to capital increases and decreases are recorded in equity. Dividends are charged to equity in the period in which they are approved. The share premium represents the excess of the issued share capital over its nominal value. 2.16 Borrowings Liabilities are classified as current if they are settled within 12 months or if there is no unconditional right to extend the settlement to at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Initial recognition is at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Liabilities are recognized at the value of the consideration received, as agreed in exchange for the transfer of the liability. As a rule, this value remains unchanged up to the settlement of the liability. In certain cases (e.g. provisions or earn-outs), liabilities are recognized in the amount expected to be paid to settle the liability in the ordinary course of business. 2.17 Pension and other post-employment benefits a) Pension obligations Various employee benefit plans exist within the Group, which are individually tailored to suit the ­local conditions in their respective countries. The actual economic effects of pension schemes on the Group are calculated at balance sheet date. An economic obligation is recognized as a liability if the requirements for the recognition of a provision are met under Swiss GAAP FER. An economic benefit is capitalized provided that the Company is entitled to such benefit in the future, for example, to offset future Group pension expenses. Freely available employer contribution reserves are capitalized. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Employees of Swiss Group companies are insured as part of the Ascaro pension foundation, which is a multi-employer, independent separate legal entity under Swiss Law (“Gemeinschaftsstiftung”) financed by contributions from both employers and employees. Surpluses or deficits are calculated based on the pension fund’s financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER 26. The Group’s pension costs include the employer contributions accrued in the period as legally required to be made by Ascom for active plan participants under the terms of the benefit plan, as well as any economic effects from the excess/shortfall related to the Group’s active employee participants and the change in employer contribution reserves. Ascom also sponsors post-retirement/pension schemes in several other countries. Some Group companies operate fully financed pension funds. These funds are accounted for in the same way as the Swiss plan, i.e. Ascom employer contributions are recorded as expenses. In some countries, Ascom sponsors or participates in pension plans that do not have their own assets, whereby the corresponding benefit provisions are recognized directly in the balance sheet, with changes recognized in the income statement, using the projected unit credit method. b) Other post-employment benefits A small number of Group companies provide post-retirement medical care benefits to their employees. The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment. c) Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated in advance of the terms of the contract, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes such benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without the possibility of withdrawal, or providing benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to present value. 2.18 Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions are made when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If an outflow of resources to settle an obligation is not probable, a contingent liability is disclosed. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation in the future. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as interest expense. For costs that are ­expected to arise in connection with site closures, the disposal of companies or business units and restructuring, provisions are made at the time of the decision of approved measures. For onerous contracts, provisions are provided if the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligation exceed the economic benefit to be received. Contingent liabilities and other off-balance sheet commitments are evaluated at each reporting date and valued at the estimated amount of the future unilateral contributions to be made and costs to be incurred. Any guaranteed considerations from other parties (e.g. insurance coverage) must be taken into account. If contingent liabilities and other off-balance sheet commitments are expected to lead to an outflow of funds without a simultaneous usable inflow of funds and the outflow of funds is probable and estimable, a corresponding provision is ­required. 62 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.19 Leases A lease is an agreement whereby the lessor conveys to the lessee in return for a payment, or series of payments, the right to use an asset for an agreed period of time. a) Lessee accounting Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred from the lessor to the lessee are classified as finance leases. The leased assets are carried at cost not higher than the minimal lease payments and depreciated along with other property, plant and equipment (see note 2.7). The corresponding leasing obligations are shown as liabilities. Leasing payments are allocated accordingly as either capital repayments or interest expenses. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. b) Lessor accounting When assets are leased out under a finance lease, the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as a receivable under financial assets. The difference between the gross receivable (gross investment in leases) and the present value of the net minimum lease payments is recognized as unearned interest income. Each lease installment is allocated between the receivable and interest income. When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the balance sheet based on the nature of the asset. Operating lease income is recognized in profit or loss over the term of the lease on a straight-line basis. 2.20 Share-based payments Selected members of Ascom’s senior management receive remuneration in the form of sharebased payment transactions pursuant to share matching and stock option plans, whereby employees render services as consideration for such equity instruments (equity-settled instruments). Employees, who are residents of the USA, are granted share appreciation rights, which can only be settled in cash (cash-settled instruments). For share matching plans, the costs of matching shares are measured initially at fair value at grant date, taking into consideration a deduction for the dividend yield as well as expected fluctuation of the plan participants. For stock option plans, the costs of options are measured initially at fair value at the grant date using a binomial model, further details of which are given in note 26. The initial fair value is recognized as expense over the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in other capital reserves in equity for equity-settled instruments or with a corresponding liability included in other provision for cash-settled instruments. To the extent the vesting conditions in the plans are tied to market conditions (such as the price of Ascom’s shares), they are taken into consideration in determining the fair value of the plans. If the plans contain non-market-vesting conditions (such as the company’s EBITDA margin), Ascom revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to vest, based on the best available estimate regarding the outcome of the non-market-vesting conditions at the end of each reporting period, up to and including the settlement date, with changes recognized as personnel expenses. 2.21 Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the material acquisition, development or production of an internally generated asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale (i.e. qualifying asset) are capitalized as part of the cost of the respective asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 2.22 Income tax Income tax is recorded based on the period to which it properly relates. Deferred income tax is recorded in full using the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities arise on temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for Group purposes and their related tax values. These temporary differences arise mainly from depreciation of property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible assets, revaluation of certain noncurrent assets (e.g. employee benefit obligations) and tax loss carry-forwards, and, in the case of acquisitions, the difference between the fair value of the net assets acquired and their tax base. The tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date are used to determine deferred income tax. Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary deductible differences can be offset. Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries. Exceptions are temporary differences for which the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets result from tax loss carry-forwards, tax credits as well as temporary valuation differences of assets and liabilities. They are recognized to the extent that realization through future taxable profits is probable. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax relates to the same tax authority. 2.23 Depreciation and impairment of assets All assets are to be tested as to whether indicators exist that the carrying amount of the asset might exceed its recoverable amount. If impairment exists, the carrying amount is to be reduced to the recoverable amount, whereas the impairment loss is charged to the result of the period. Depreciation and impairment of assets are to be determined and recognized in the financial statements according to economic principles. Depreciation is determined on the basis of ­expected economic useful life or similar criteria. The depreciation value is based on the acquisition cost or production cost of an asset less its residual value, systematically distributed over the asset’s estimated useful life. The assets’ residual value and useful life are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. If there is any indication that an asset may be impaired, an impairment test is carried out. Where the carrying amount of an asset is higher than the recoverable amount, the asset is impaired to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Intangible assets not yet available for use are not subject to amortization and are tested for impairment at least once a year. Each cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units to which intangible assets not yet available for use are allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which such assets are evaluated for recoverability. 2.24 Definition of non-GAAP measures Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) correspond to the operating result. Earnings before interest, income tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) as a subtotal ­includes EBIT before deduction of depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment as well as amortization and impairment of intangible assets. Earnings before interest, income tax, depreciation and amortization and corporate charges (EBITDA before corporate charges) as a subtotal ­includes EBITDA before corporate charges. As defined, EBIT, EBITDA and EBITDA before corporate charges do not include the impact of non-operating or extraordinary results. 64 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3. SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS AND OPERATIONAL CHANGES Disposal of System & Solutions business unit (2015) On 31 December 2015, Ascom disposed of its Aachen-based (Germany) business unit Systems & Solutions to Axino Solutions GmbH. The Systems & Solutions business unit has been part of the Network Testing Division. Systems & Solutions plans and implements comprehensive IT solution in the field of operations support systems for companies in the telecommunications, automotive, energy and retail industries, mainly in Germany and Switzerland. Systems & Solutions generated revenue of CHF 13.1 million in 2015 (previous year: CHF 17.7 million) and an operating loss of CHF 2.8 million in 2015 (previous year: operating loss of CHF 0.1 million). The disposal gain amounts to CHF 2.6 million. Under the asset deal agreement, Axino Solutions GmbH will take over the Systems & Solutions business from Ascom (Deutschland) GmbH and Ascom Solutions AG. The net purchase price was settled in cash. An additional contingent purchase price of up to EUR 1.7 million has not been recognized, as this earn-out component ­depends on the achievements of certain incoming orders and revenue targets in 2016 and 2017. Acquisition of Integrated Wireless (2014) On 2 January 2014, Ascom acquired all the shares of GTM Resources Pty. Ltd., which holds all the shares of Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. and Integrated Wireless Software Pty. Ltd. Integrated Wireless is a specialist provider of wireless communication systems in Australia and New Zealand and is headquartered in Sydney with additional offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Auckland. All 62 employees were taken over at their existing locations. Prior to closing the acquisition, Integrated Wireless was the exclusive distributor of Ascom Wireless products in Australia and New Zealand. This acquisition gives Ascom Wireless Solutions direct access to the Australian and New Zealand markets and creates opportunities to combine the business activities of Integrated Wireless with its existing portfolio. Moreover, Ascom gains a foothold to further develop its position in the Asia Pacific market. The purchase price of CHF 12.0 million was allocated as follow: CHFm Book value Fair value Goodwill Goodwill/ adjustments fair value Goodwill – – 6.3 6.3 Intangible assets from acquisition – 2.1 – 2.1 Trade receivables 2.1 – – 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2.1 – – 2.1 Other current and non-current assets 3.4 – – 3.4 Total assets 7.6 2.1 6.3 16.0 Total liabilities 3.4 0.6 0.0 4.0 Total purchase price 12.0 Offset by Cash 11.1 Contingent consideration 0.9 The goodwill of CHF 6.3 million is attributable to the acquired workforce, additional growth potential in the Asia Pacific markets and other product portfolio synergies. The contingent consideration of CHF 0.9 million, originally payable one year after closing, was not paid as related revenue and profitability targets were not met during the earn-out period. Acquisition of Scanditronic (M) Sdn Bhd (2014) On 4 August 2014, Ascom Wireless Solutions acquired the Malaysian distributor Scanditronic (M) Sdn Bhd, a privately held specialist provider of wireless end-to-end communication solutions for increased workflow efficiency. Scanditronic (M) Sdn Bhd is headquartered in Kuala Lumpur, and all eight of the company’s employees were taken over. The cash purchase price of CHF 1.5 million included goodwill of CHF 0.8 million, attributable to acquired workforce, additional growth potential in the Asia Pacific markets and other product portfolio synergies. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 4. SEGMENT INFORMATION Key figures by segment CHFm Wireless Network Corporate Consolidation Total Ascom Solutions Testing and other 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Incoming orders 311.8 333.3 101.1 117.3 – – (0.4) (0.2) 412.5 450.4 Order backlog 117.5 117.7 17.7 32.7 – – – – 135.2 150.4 Net revenue 304.2 318.9 107.0 119.0 – 0.2 (0.4) (0.4) 410.8 437.7 of which with other segments 0.4 0.3 – – – – (0.4) (0.3) – – Cost of goods sold (150.6) (155.5) (53.4) (54.4) (0.2) – 0.1 (0.5) (204.1) (210.4) Gross profit/(loss) 153.6 163.4 53.6 64.6 (0.2) 0.2 (0.3) (0.9) 206.7 227.3 as % of revenue 50.5% 51.2% 50.1% 54.3% n/a 100.0% n/a n/a 50.3% 51.9% Marketing and sales (70.3) (73.9) (27.7) (25.0) (0.6) (0.7) – 0.7 (98.6) (98.9) Research and development (24.0) (21.2) (19.1) (19.3) – – – – (43.1) (40.5) Administration (12.3) (12.3) (8.6) (8.4) (11.1) (10.6) 0.3 0.1 (31.7) (31.2) Other operating income – 1.7 2.6 – 11.3 9.7 (11.1) (9.2) 2.8 2.2 Other operating expenses (8.2) (7.0) (11.7) (13.2) – (0.3) 11.1 9.2 (8.8) (11.3) Operating result (EBIT) 38.8 50.7 (10.9) (1.3) (0.6) (1.7) – (0.1) 27.3 47.6 as % of revenue 12.8% 15.9% n/a n/a n/a n/a 0.0% n/a 6.6% 10.9% Financial income/(expenses), net 4.4 (1.9) Non-operating result 0.4 3.1 Profit before income tax 32.1 48.8 Income tax (7.8) (11.3) Group profit for the period 24.3 37.5 Additional information EBITDA 45.5 55.8 (1.1) 10.6 (0.5) (1.5) (0.1) (0.1) 43.8 64.8 as % of revenue 15.0% 17.5% n/a 8.9% n/a n/a n/a n/a 10.7% 14.8% Corporate charges 7.2 5.8 4.0 3.3 (11.2) (9.1) – – – – EBITDA before corporate charges 52.7 61.6 2.9 13.9 (11.7) (10.6) (0.1) (0.1) 43.8 64.8 as % of revenue 17.3% 19.3% 2.7% 11.7% n/a n/a n/a n/a 10.7% 14.8% Restructuring costs – – 4.0 – – – – – 4.0 – EBITDA before restructuring costs 45.5 55.8 2.9 10.6 (0.5) (1.5) (0.1) (0.1) 47.8 64.8 as % of revenue 15.0% 17.5% 2.7% 8.9% n/a n/a n/a n/a 11.6% 14.8% Capital expenditures 10.9 11.4 2.1 1.8 0.2 0.4 – – 13.2 13.6 Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 1,237 1,196 407 485 14 15 – – 1,658 1,696 Reportable segments’ assets 120.2 132.1 74.8 92.9 12.1 15.4 (3.1) (2.3) 204.0 238.1 Deferred income tax assets 19.8 19.7 Financial assets 3.8 2.9 Income tax receivables 1.4 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents 57.4 50.2 Total assets at 31.12. 286.4 313.4 66 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Operating segments reflect the Group’s management structure and the way financial information is regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive ­Officer (CEO). Ascom’s operating and reportable segments are the two divisions: Wireless Solutions and Network Testing (refer to business description in note 1.1). Corporate includes Group activities that are not assigned ­directly to the operating segments, primarily corporate headquarters activities. Non-core activities related to businesses disposed in prior years, mainly leasing and facility management of industrial properties, represent non-operating activities that do not qualify as an operating segment and are shown in the consolidated income statement on a net basis as non-operating result. Transactions between Ascom’s operating segments are priced comparable to external customers. Intersegment revenues are eliminated on consolidation. Key figures by region CHFm Europe Americas Asia Pacific Middle East Total Ascom and Africa 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Incoming orders 266.5 311.0 97.3 86.8 25.9 25.3 22.8 27.3 412.5 450.4 Revenue 263.2 297.5 98.5 88.3 25.6 22.7 23.5 29.2 410.8 437.7 Non-current assets at 31.12. 1 48.2 56.8 3.3 4.2 2.6 3.2 1.2 0.4 55.3 64.6 Employees (FTE) at 31.12. 1,174 1,253 284 261 157 153 43 29 1,658 1,696 1 This line item exclusively contains property, plant and equipment, intangible assets as well as other non-current assets. The incoming orders and revenue information above is based on the location of the customers. CHF 47.8 million of the total revenue is attributable to Germany (previous year: CHF 57.0 million), CHF 59.2 million to the Netherlands (previous year: CHF 65.0 million) and CHF 88.6 million to the US (previous year: CHF 80.1 million). Of the non-current assets disclosed in the table above, CHF 39.6 million are attributable to Sweden (previous year: CHF 46.1 million), CHF 4.7 million to Germany (previous year: CHF 5.6 million) and CHF 3.3 million to the US (previous year: CHF 4.2 million). ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 5. TRADE RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Receivables from third parties 1 104.8 113.3 Less provision for doubtful debts (3.0) (2.8) Total 101.8 110.5 1 This line item inlcudes CHF 2.5 million (previous year: CHF 1.7 million) of trade receivables arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. The fair value of trade receivables equals the carrying amounts at year-end. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount. Trade receivables that are less than three months past due are not considered impaired and represent 20.6% (previous year: 24.3%) of total before provision for doubtful debt. These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default. Individually impaired receivables relate to customers which are in unexpectedly difficult economic situations. Amounts are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering the cash. The Group does not hold any collateral as security for trade receivables. 6. OTHER SHORT-TERM RECEIVABLES CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Income tax and other tax receivables 5.2 10.3 Other receivables 5.6 3.7 Finance leases 0.6 0.5 Derivative financial instruments 1.2 0.1 Other short-term receivables – 1.1 Total other short-term receivables 12.6 15.7 7. INVENTORIES AND WORK IN PROGRESS CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Raw materials and components 3.8 5.3 Work in progress 1 6.0 7.4 Finished goods and goods for resale 20.5 19.3 Inventory provision (7.7) (7.2) Total 22.6 24.8 1 This line item includes CHF 2.0 million (previous year: CHF 0.7 million) of work in progress arising from customer projects using the percentage-of-completion method. 68 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CHFm Land and Machines, Equipment Other Total buildings installations under and construction equipment Cost Balance at 1.1.2014 30.5 50.0 0.2 22.0 102.7 Additions 0.4 2.0 1.2 0.7 4.3 Disposals (0.5) (9.8) – (4.3) (14.6) Acquisition of a subsidiary or business 0.5 – – 0.2 0.7 Reclassifications – 0.1 (0.2) 0.1 – Currency translation adjustments (0.5) (1.4) (0.1) (1.1) (3.1) Balance at 31.12.2014 30.4 40.9 1.1 17.6 90.0 Additions 0.2 1.5 0.9 1.7 4.3 Disposals (10.0) (13.1) – (0.9) (24.0) Disposal of a subsidiary or business – (0.7) – (0.1) (0.8) Reclassifications 0.1 0.4 (1.1) 0.6 – Currency translation adjustments (1.9) (2.2) (0.1) (1.2) (5.4) Balance at 31.12.2015 18.8 26.8 0.8 17.7 64.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance at 1.1.2014 (22.4) (45.3) – (20.4) (88.1) Depreciation charge (0.6) (2.3) – (0.8) (3.7) Disposals 0.1 9.8 – 4.3 14.2 Currency translation adjustments 0.3 1.3 – 1.2 2.8 Balance at 31.12.2014 (22.6) (36.5) – (15.7) (74.8) Depreciation charge (0.5) (2.0) – (1.1) (3.6) Disposals 10.0 13.1 – 0.9 24.0 Disposal of a subsidiary or business – 0.6 – 0.1 0.7 Currency translation adjustments 1.1 1.9 – 1.0 4.0 Balance at 31.12.2015 (12.0) (22.9) – (14.8) (49.7) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2014 7.8 4.4 1.1 1.9 15.2 Thereof non-operating 1 5.4 – – – 5.4 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2015 6.8 3.9 0.8 2.9 14.4 Thereof non-operating 1 4.7 – – – 4.7 1 Held exclusively for investment purposes (not for use) At the balance sheet date, there were no assets under finance leases included in property, ­plant and equipment (previous year: nil). As at 31 Decem­ber 2015, there were no contractual commitments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment (previous year: nil). ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS CHFm Customer Technology Internally Other Total relations generated intangibles Cost Balance at 1.1.2014 38.0 42.9 12.1 29.3 122.3 Additions – – 8.2 1.0 9.2 Acquisition of a subsidiary or business 2.3 0.1 – – 2.4 Currency translation adjustments (2.3) (3.0) (1.4) (2.2) (8.9) Balance at 31.12.2014 38.0 40.0 18.9 28.1 125.0 Additions – – 4.7 4.3 9.0 Disposals – – – (0.2) (0.2) Disposal of a subsidiary or business – – – (0.2) (0.2) Currency translation adjustments (2.5) (2.8) (1.2) (1.8) (8.3) Balance at 31.12.2015 35.5 37.2 22.4 30.2 125.3 Accumulated amortization and impairment Balance at 1.1.2014 (16.4) (22.8) (6.8) (22.1) (68.1) Amortization charge (3.9) (6.0) (0.2) (3.8) (13.9) Currency translation adjustments 1.3 2.0 0.5 1.7 5.5 Balance at 31.12.2014 (19.0) (26.8) (6.5) (24.2) (76.5) Amortization charge (3.5) (5.2) (2.0) (2.1) (12.8) Impairment – – (0.4) – (0.4) Disposals – – – 0.2 0.2 Disposal of a subsidiary or business – – – 0.2 0.2 Currency translation adjustments 1.1 1.8 0.4 1.4 4.7 Balance at 31.12.2015 (21.4) (30.2) (8.5) (24.5) (84.6) Net carrying amount at 31.12.2014 19.0 13.2 12.4 3.9 48.5 Thereof acquired 19.0 13.2 – 3.9 36.1 Thereof generated internally – – 12.4 – 12.4 Net carrying amount at 31.12.2015 14.1 7.0 13.9 5.7 40.7 Thereof acquired 14.1 7.0 – 5.7 26.8 Thereof generated internally – – 13.9 – 13.9 As at 31 December 2015, there were no contractual commitments for acquisition of intangible assets (previous year: nil). Customer relations are capitalized using the excess-earning method for valuation of the existing customers at acquisition date. Technology and trademarks are capitalized using the relief from royalty method for valuation. Development costs in the amount of CHF 4.7 million (previous year: CHF 8.2 million) were capitalized as internally generated intangibles, and research and development expenses in the amount of CHF 43.1 million (previous year: CHF 40.5 million) were charged to profit ­or loss. Other intangibles comprize aquired trademarks, licences and softwares. 70 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Goodwill from acquisitions is offset against the Company’s equity at the acquisition date. The theoretical amortization is based on the straight-line method over a useful life of five years. The theoretical capitalization of the goodwill would affect the result of the consolidated financial statements as follows: CHFm 2015 2014 Acquisition cost As of 1 January 169.0 168.5 Additions from acquisitions – 7.1 Translation adjustment (9.7) (6.6) As of 31 December 159.3 169.0 Accumulated amortization As of 1 January (154.9) (147.4) Additions (4.8) (14.7) Translation adjustment 8.7 7.2 As of 31 December (151.0) (154.9) Theoretical book values, net As of 1 January 14.1 21.1 As of 31 December 8.3 14.1 Effect on income statement CHFm 2015 2014 Operating result 27.3 47.6 Amortization goodwill (4.8) (14.7) Theoretical operating result incl. amortization goodwill 22.5 32.9 Group profit for the period 24.3 37.5 Amortization goodwill (4.8) (14.7) Theoretical group profit for the period incl. amortization goodwill 19.5 22.8 Effect on balance sheet CHFm 2015 2014 Equity according to balance sheet 116.7 107.9 Theoretical capitalization net book value goodwill 8.3 14.1 Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill 125.0 122.0 Equity as % of balance sheet total 40.7% 34.4% Theoretical equity incl. net book value goodwill as % of balance sheet total 42.4% 37.3% (incl. goodwill) ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 10. FINANCIAL ASSETS CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Deferred income tax assets 19.8 19.7 Assets from pension institutions 4.5 5.5 Finance leases 1.6 0.7 Other financial assets 0.7 1.4 Total non-current portion 26.6 27.3 Detailed information related to deferred income tax assets and assets from pension institutions are provided in notes 24 and 14. Other financial assets comprise mainly a loan granted in connection with the sale in previous years of real estate in Switzerland. Future minimum lease payments under finance lease contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are as follows: CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2015 Gross investment in leases 0.7 1.5 0.4 2.6 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.4) Present value of the net minimum lease payments 0.6 1.3 0.3 2.2 CHFm Within Between Later Total 12 months 1 and 5 years 31.12.2014 Gross investment in leases 0.6 0.8 – 1.4 Unearned interest income (0.1) (0.1) – (0.2) Present value of the net minimum lease payments 0.5 0.7 – 1.2 11. BORROWINGS At 31 December 2015, the Group’s total credit facilities comprised cash lines of CHF 140.0 million and guarantee lines of CHF 46.9 million available from financial institutions and banks worldwide (­previous year: cash lines of CHF 143.8 million and guarantee lines of CHF 47.2 million). At 31 December 2015, Ascom used the cash lines as shown in the table below: CHFm Current portion Total 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Non-current loans from financial – – 0.1 23.1 institutions and banks Current loans from financial 20.0 – 20.0 – institutions and banks Total 20.0 – 20.1 23.1 The total borrowings consist mainly of one revolving multi-currency credit facility in an aggregate amount equal to CHF 140.0 million with a bank consortium at variable interest rates (LIBOR + 0.8%), with an option to fix the interest rate monthly for a maximum period of 12 months. The final maturity date of the credit facility is 24 May 2016. The credit facility includes financial covenants such as debt service ratio (calculated as the ratio of net debt and outstanding bank guarantees to EBITDA), net interest coverage (calculated as the ratio of interest expenses to EBITDA) and equity ratio (calculated as the ratio of shareholders’ equity to total assets). The financial covenants are fully complied with. At 31 December 2015, current loans of CHF 20.0 million are denominated in CHF (previous year: CHF 17.8 million were denominated in USD and CHF 5.0 million in CHF). The fair value of the borrowings is equal to the carrying amount. 72 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12. OTHER LIABILITIES (CURRENT) CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Income tax liabilities 4.3 7.9 VAT and other tax liabilities 6.3 9.8 Personnel-related liabilities 9.0 10.4 Derivative financial instruments 0.8 1.4 Other liabilities 0.7 2.8 Total 21.1 32.3 13. PROVISIONS CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Balance at 1.1.2014 0.6 9.9 18.4 17.7 46.6 Additions – 0.4 2.7 3.5 6.6 Increase in present value – – 1.0 0.3 1.3 Payments (0.2) – (1.1) (6.8) (8.1) Release of unused amounts – (4.7) (0.1) (2.0) (6.8) Acquisition of a subsidiary or business – 0.7 0.2 0.1 1.0 Currency translation adjustments – (0.5) (1.2) – (1.7) Balance at 31.12.2014 0.4 5.8 19.9 12.8 38.9 Additions 2.7 0.4 0.8 3.8 7.7 Increase in present value – – 0.6 0.1 0.7 Payments (0.1) – (1.0) (5.5) (6.6) Release of unused amounts – (0.9) – (1.2) (2.1) Disposal of a subsidiary or business – – (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) Currency translation adjustments – (0.3) (1.5) (0.3) (2.1) Balance at 31.12.2015 3.0 5.0 18.7 9.6 36.3 Expected payment CHFm Restructuring Deferred tax Employee Other Total provisions benefit provisions obligation Within 12 months 0.3 – – 6.8 7.1 Later 0.1 5.8 19.9 6.0 31.8 Balance at 31.12.2014 0.4 5.8 19.9 12.8 38.9 Within 12 months 2.8 – – 3.9 6.7 Later 0.2 5.0 18.7 5.7 29.6 Balance at 31.12.2015 3.0 5.0 18.7 9.6 36.3 On 21 December 2015, management decided the restructuring of the Network Testing business in response to unexpected shifts in the capital investment and spending patterns of large telecommunications network operators, in particular in North America, which led to the decision to discontinue a product line and the need to restructure the global supply chain and service functions. Total restructuring costs amounted to CHF 4.0 million (refer to note 23). Other provisions comprise mainly obligations arising from claims or disputes in the normal course of Ascom’s business operations, provisions for warranties, provisions for environmental costs relating to non-operating premises and obligations arising from cash-settled share-based payments. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 Provisions for employee benefit obligation include the economical obligation (as disclosed in note 14) as well as provisions for other long-term employee benefits. The discount rate used for the calculation for certain foreign pension plans is the most important parameter and any changes can strongly impact the valuation of the pension liability. In 2015, the range of the ­applied discount rate varies between 2.0% and 3.8% (previous year: 1.7%–3.8%), which corresponds to local market conditions. 14. PENSIONS Employer contribution reserves (ECR) CHFm Result from ECR in Result from ECR in personnel expense interests expense Nominal Renounced Balance AccumuCTA Balance 2015 2014 2015 2014 value use sheet lation (+) / 2015 sheet 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 usage (−) 31.12.2014 2015 Patronage funds/ 1.4 – 1.4 – – 1.4 – (0.4) – – patronage pension institutions Pension plans 3.1 – 3.1 (1.0) – 4.1 – – – (0.1) Total 4.5 – 4.5 (1.0) – 5.5 – (0.4) – (0.1) Economical benefit/economical obligation and pension benefit expenses CHFm Economical part Pension benefit Pension benefit of the organization expenses within expenses within personnel interests expenses expenses Surplus (−) / 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Change to CTA Contri­ 2015 2014 2015 2014 deficit (+) prior-year 2015 butions 31.12.2015 period or concerning ­recognized in the the current business result of the period period Pension plans without n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a (14.0) 14.0 14.3 – – surplus/deficit Pension plans with deficit 3.4 3.4 3.8 (0.4) (0.2) (0.6) 0.3 1.4 0.1 0.2 Pension plans without own assets 14.6 14.6 15.2 (0.6) (1.2) (0.5) 0.6 1.2 0.5 0.8 Total 18.0 18.0 19.0 (1.0) (1.4) (15.1) 14.9 16.9 0.6 1.0 74 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15. CUSTOMER PREPAYMENTS AND DEFERRED REVENUE CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Customer prepayments 1 18.0 31.3 Deferred revenue 11.4 9.3 Total 29.4 40.6 1 This line item includes no customer prepayments (previous year: CHF 11.1 million) arising from customer projects using the percentage-ofcompletion method. 16. ACCRUED LIABILITIES CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Personnel-related accruals 19.8 19.6 Accrued liabilities arising from long-term contracts (PoC) 2.2 3.1 Other accrued expenses 11.0 14.5 Total 33.0 37.2 17. SHARE CAPITAL AND OWN SHARES Composition of share capital CHFm Number Amount Number Amount 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 31.12.2014 Registered shares nom. CHF 0.50 36,000,000 18.0 36,000,000 18.0 Number of registered shareholders 4,412 5,006 The total authorized number of ordinary shares is 36,000,000 of which 35,779,106 are outstanding at 31 December 2015 (previous year: 35,109,106). Each share grants the owner one vote at the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders. All shares issued by the company were fully paid in. Own shares CHFm Number 2015 Amount 2015 Average Number 2014 Amount 2014 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 890,894 9.2 10.33 1,073,169 11.1 10.30 Additions 13,185 0.2 17.72 4,730 0.1 16.57 Disposals (683,185) (7.1) 10.41 (187,005) (2.0) 10.30 Balance at 31.12. 220,894 2.3 10.62 890,894 9.2 10.33 The holdings of own shares stated under the changes in equity correspond to these registered shares. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 18. NET REVENUE CHFm 2015 2014 Sale of goods 292.5 316.8 Rendering of services 117.2 118.4 Other revenue 1.1 2.5 Total 410.8 437.7 Sale of goods comprises sale of hardware and software. Rendering of services comprises professional and maintenance services. The table below provides additional information for long-term contracts applying the percentage-of-completion method: CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Contract revenue recognized in the reporting period 22.5 29.8 Aggregate amount of costs incurred, to date 7.3 11.3 Aggregate amount of recognized profits (less recognized losses), to date 4.3 7.5 Aggregate revenue for contract work, to date 11.6 18.8 Aggregate progress billings, to date (10.3) (6.6) Net accrual for contract work 1.3 12.2 19. PERSONNEL EXPENSES The following personnel expenses are included in cost of goods sold, marketing and sales, research and development as well as administration expenses: CHFm 2015 2014 Wages and salaries (135.3) (135.9) Social security costs (15.7) (16.6) Pension costs (14.9) (16.9) Share-based payments (0.5) (0.6) Other personnel expenses (12.5) (13.1) Total (178.9) (183.1) 20. OTHER OPERATING INCOME/(EXPENSES) CHFm 2015 2014 Increase of acquisition-related contingent consideration 2 – (0.5) Amortization of intangible assets from acquisition 1 (8.8) (10.6) Other operating expenses – (0.2) Total other operating expenses (8.8) (11.3) Release of acquisition-related contingent consideration 2 – 0.9 Disposal of a business unit 2.6 – Other operating income 0.2 1.3 Total other operating income 2.8 2.2 1 This line item exclusively contains amortization of intangible assets initially capitalized due to a purchase price allocation at acquisition date. 2 P  rior-year number refers to last year’s acquisition of Integrated Wireless (release of CHF 0.9 million) and the acquisition of the technologyrelated business of Veelong Corp. in 2012 (increase of CHF 0.5 million). 76 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES CHFm 2015 2014 Financial income Interest income 0.2 0.6 Net foreign exchange gains 6.1 0.5 Other financial income 0.1 – Total 6.4 1.1 Financial expenses Interest expenses (0.9) (1.8) Other financial expenses (1.1) (1.2) Total (2.0) (3.0) Financial income/(expenses), net 4.4 (1.9) 22. NON-OPERATING RESULT CHFm 2015 2014 Non-operating income 3.5 16.8 Non-operating expense (3.1) (13.7) Total 0.4 3.1 In 2015, non-operating income and expenses relate exclusively to non-core legacy real estate activities. In 2014, real estate activities generated an income of CHF 11.1 million with related costs amounting to CHF 13.7 million. In the prior year, non-operating income also included CHF 5.7 million attributable to the disposal of non-core properties in Switzerland and of the minority stake in CSEM AG, Neuchâtel. 23. RESTRUCTURING COSTS CHFm 2015 2014 Restructuring included in cost of goods sold (2.6) – Restructuring included in functional costs (1.4) – Total (4.0) – Restructuring expenses of CHF 4.0 million (previous year: nil) relate to the restructuring of the Network Testing business in response to unexpected shifts in the capital investment and spending patterns of large telecommunications network operators, in particular in North America, which led to the decision to discontinue a product line and to align the global supply chain and service function. The CHF 4.0 million charge comprises CHF 2.5 million of personnel related restructuring charges and exceptional inventory write-offs of CHF 1.5 million. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 24. INCOME TAX CHFm 2015 2014 Current income tax charge (8.7) (14.9) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years – 0.4 Deferred income tax 0.9 3.2 Total income tax (7.8) (11.3) The following reconciliation explains the difference between the expected and the actual income tax charge: Analysis of income tax rate CHFm 2015 2014 Ordinary result 31.7 45.7 Weighted average expected income tax rate 24.6% 26.6% Non-operating result 0.4 3.1 Weighted average expected income tax rate 23.4% 20.1% Profit before income tax 32.1 48.8 Weighted average expected income tax rate 24.6% 26.2% Expected income tax (7.9) (12.8) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 1.6 3.9 Effect from recognition of previous years tax losses 1.0 2.9 Effect from first-time recognition of previous years temporary differences – 0.2 Effect of non-recognized current-year tax losses (0.9) (0.8) Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years – 0.4 Effect of income/(expenses) taxed with a different rate or not taxed (0.3) (4.5) Effect of expiry/impairment of capitalized tax losses/tax credits (1.3) (0.6) Total income tax (7.8) (11.3) The total weighted average expected income tax rate of 24.6% (previous year: 26.2%) is calculated using the expected tax rates, based on earnings before income tax of the individual Group companies in each jurisdiction. These rates vary significantly. The increase in the weighted average expected ­income tax rate is mainly due to the different contributions of individual Group companies to the total earnings before income tax of the Group. The deferred income tax assets and liabilities pertain to the following line items of the balance sheet: CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Intangible assets 3.8 4.0 Inventories and work in progress 1.8 2.3 Tax loss carry-forwards and tax credits 5.8 5.6 Other assets and liabilites 3.4 2.0 Total 14.8 13.9 Recognized as deferred income tax assets 19.8 19.7 Recognized as deferred income tax liabilities (5.0) (5.8) 78 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tax losses amounting to CHF 2.3 million (previous year: nil) are recognized for Group companies which incurred losses in 2015 or 2014 (previous year: 2014 or 2013) supported by increased future profitability and synergies as a result of restructuring. Tax loss carry-forwards which are not recognized amount to CHF 328.8 million (previous year: CHF 368.1 million) and expire in the following years: CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 2016 (2015) 0.6 1.2 2017–2021 (2016–2020) 3.3 5.1 Later 324.9 361.8 25. EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the Group profit for the period attributable to ­owners of the parent by the time-weighted number of shares outstanding during the financial year. Own shares are not considered as outstanding shares. 2015 2014 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 24.3 37.5 Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,422,077 35,058,294 Earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.69 1.07 For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the weighted-average number of ordinary shares is adjusted by the weighted-average number of ordinary shares which would be issued on the conversion of all potential dilutive share options into ordinary shares. 2015 2014 Group profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent (CHFm) 24.3 37.5 Weighted-average number of outstanding shares 35,422,077 35,058,294 Adjustment for the dilutive number of outstanding share options 137,269 161,409 Weighted-average number of diluted shares 35,559,346 35,219,703 Diluted earnings per share from Group profit (CHF) 0.68 1.06 26. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS In 2013, the Board of Directors decided to introduce a share matching plan for Ascom senior management as a long-term incentive instead of options plans. The beneficiaries get the opportunity to buy company shares (or phantom shares in the case of residents of the USA) at market price as investment shares up to a certain amount. They have to keep the investment shares over a defined period in order to benefit from the plan. Beneficiaries receive 35% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares after a three-year vesting period for free if they are still employed with Ascom at this point of time. As a performance-related part, the beneficiaries may receive up to 65% of the number of their investment shares as matching shares in ­addition, provided that defined mid-term profitability targets will be achieved. As a maximum, the company will honor each investment share with one matching share. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 In the following table, the development of outstanding matching shares is presented: Number of Number of Number of matching shares matching shares ­matching shares 2015 2014 2013 Matching shares outstanding at 1.1. 97,147 61,720 – Granted 60,550 36,427 61,720 Forfeited (3,125) (1,000) – Matching shares outstanding at 31.12. 154,572 97,147 61,720 2015 2014 2013 Resolution passed by the Board of Directors on 21.08. 31.03. 14.08. Number members of Ascom senior management who decided to participate 42 36 13 Vesting period (years) 2.79 3.25 2.87 Remaining contractual life of the matching shares outstanding at 31.12. (years) 1 1.00 1.90 2.50 Fair value of the matching shares granted during the year (CHF) 1 15.36 14.18 11.34 Personnel expenses for equity-settled matching shares recognized (0.2) (0.1) – as other reserves (equity) (CHFm) 1 At weighted average. Ascom Stock Option Plans 2011 and 2012 At 31 December 2015, options from the Ascom Stock Option Plans 2011 and 2012 were still outstanding. In the following table, the development of outstanding options is presented: Number Exercise Number Exercise of options price (CHF) 1 of options price (CHF) 1 2015 2015 2014 2014 Options outstanding at 1.1. 807,177 11.86 1,004,000 12.03 Exercised (682,177) 11.86 (166,823) 13.22 Forfeited (27,000) 13.67 (21,000) 9.00 Expired – – (9,000) 11.40 Options outstanding at 31.12. 98,000 11.39 807,177 11.86 Options exercisable at 31.12. 98,000 11.39 406,177 14.69 1 At weighted average. 2015 2014 Range of exercise prices of the options outstanding at 31.12. (CHF) 9.00–15.00 9.00–15.00 Remaining contractual life of the options outstanding at 31.12. (years) 1 0.89 1.81 Share price of the options exercised during the year (CHF) 1 17.16 16.97 Personnel expenses for equity-settled options recognized as (0.1) (0.3) other reserves (equity) (CHFm) Personnel expenses for cash-settled options recognized as liability (CHFm) (0.2) (0.2) 1 At weighted average. 80 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES A legally independent fund provides for Swiss pensions (see note 2.17). In 2015 and 2014, no lease payments were disbursed to the Swiss pension fund for premises occupied by the Group and no administrative and facility management services (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) were charged to the Swiss pension fund in the year under review. The Swiss pension fund did not own any Ascom shares in 2015 (previous year: nil). In 2015, there was no other transaction with related parties (previous year: nil). 28. RISK MANAGEMENT As an international company, Ascom is exposed to a variety of financial and non-financial risks that are directly associated with the Group’s business operations. The Group’s risk exposure is addressed in accordance with the principle of risk limitation. Our overall risk management is an integral part of corporate management and the long-term corporate strategy, and it is correspondingly incorporated in the framework of our business processes and procedures. The Board of Directors of Ascom reviews the Group-wide risk assessment annually and determines suitable measures to address the risks. Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury and is ensured by the rele­vant written principles and guidelines laid down by management and approved by the Board of Directors. The Group’s financial risk capacity and appetite for the various financial risk factors are defined in the treasury strategy. The treasury strategy specifies the limit architecture and thereby defines the extent to which risk exposures will be hedged, and the instruments and time frame for implementation. The treasury strategy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee. Transactions without underlying core business and all forms of speculation are prohibited. Risk management also involves centrally securing comprehensive and efficient insurance protection for the Group. 28.1 Liquidity risk The objective of liquidity risk management is to ensure that sufficient financial resources are available at any point in time in order to be able to completely and timely fulfill all payment obligations of the Group. As part of its integral budgeting and forecasting process, Group Treasury monitors the planned liquidity position and centrally manages the procurement of loans for the Group. A description of available credit facilities and outstanding borrowings can be found in note 11. Local regulatory limitations related to the transfer of funds exist in a number of countries where Ascom operates, including Brazil, China, India, and South Africa. As a consequence, these funds are not available within Group Treasury operations to meet short-term cash obligations outside the respective country. These funds are reported as cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet and amounted to CHF 1.7 million at 31 December 2015 (previous year: CHF 1.9 million). 28.2 Foreign currency risk Due to the global nature of its activities, the Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk. Foreign exchange gains or losses arise from transactions as well as from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies (mainly EUR, USD, SEK and GBP) if these are not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing group-wide foreign exchange transaction risk on an ongoing basis. Analyses of past and expected future cash flows in foreign currencies are regularly carried out which is the basis for hedging transactions. Respective forward contracts are stated at fair value. All hedging activities are carried out centrally by Group Treasury. The Group has certain investments in foreign operations whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. These types of translation risk are currently not hedged. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 The currency-related sensitivity of the Group at year-end is shown in the following table: CHFm Reasonable Impact Impact Reasonable Impact Impact shift on net result on equity shift on net result on equity 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 31.12.2014 31.12.2014 EUR/CHF +/− 15% −/+ 3.2 −/+ 6.5 +/− 15% −/+ 4.5 −/+ 6.7 GBP/CHF +/− 15% +/− 0.2 +/− 0.7 +/− 15% +/− 0.2 +/− 0.2 SEK/CHF +/− 15% +/− 6.5 +/− 15.5 +/− 15% +/− 4.5 +/− 4.7 USD/CHF +/− 15% +/− 1.7 +/− 2.4 +/− 15% −/+ 0.1 +/− 0 EUR/SEK +/− 15% +/− 1.4 +/− 1.4 +/− 15% +/− 1.8 +/− 1.8 USD/SEK +/− 15% +/− 2.8 +/− 2.8 +/− 15% +/− 2.8 +/− 2.8 28.3 Interest rate risk Every interest position is subject to either a cash flow interest risk (associated with floating ­rate positions) or a market value risk (from fixed interest positions). The revolving multi-currency loan ­facility of the Group (see note 11) is the main interest rate risk position in the balance sheet of Ascom. This risk is currently offset with cash surpluses. Accordingly, interest rate risk is currently not hedged. Financing and related interest are managed centrally by Group Treasury. 28.4 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposure to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. Credit risk may result in a financial loss if one party in a transaction is unable or unwilling to meet its obligations. It is Ascom’s objective to limit the impact of a default. Credit risk of financial counterparties is managed centrally by Group Treasury. Each Group company is responsible for analyzing the credit risk for each of their new customers and managing the quality of their trade receivables on an ongoing basis. 28.5 Capital risk The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for the shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimally leveraged capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. Ascom aims to maintain a stable investment grade rating as perceived by bank partners and debt investors. For its capital management, the Group monitors the following ratios: CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Net debt/(cash) including outstanding bank guarantees 1 (37.3) (15.9) EBITDA 43.8 64.8 Debt service ratio (0.9) (0.2) Total assets 286.4 313.4 Shareholders’ equity 116.7 107.9 Equity ratio 40.7% 34.4% 1 Borrowings and outstanding bank guarantees less cash and cash equivalents. The Group targets a debt service ratio not exceeding 3.0 and aims to sustain an equity ratio at or above 30% midto long-term while observing its dividend policy with a payout ratio of 35% to 50% of the respective prior-year Group profit. 82 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29. UNSETTLED DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments Foreign currencies are purchased and forward contracts are entered into at Group level as an economic hedge against foreign currency risk. The open contracts comprise the following forward contracts in various currencies: CHFm 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Contract volume 55.4 50.8 Positive fair value 1.2 0.1 Negative fair value 0.8 1.3 Breakdown by currency (CHFm) 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 EUR/SEK – 31.7 EUR/CHF 21.5 2.7 SEK/CHF 27.1 16.4 USD/CHF 6.8 – Total 55.4 50.8 The Group periodically reassesses its net foreign currency risk, evaluating the extent of natural foreign currency hedging achieved through ongoing development of Ascom’s businesses. ­Accordingly, Group Treasury may propose to adapt the Group’s hedging approach. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is included under current financial assets or other current liabilities. The changes in value are recognized in profit or loss under financial income or expenses. 30. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES a) Lease commitments – Group as lessee The future minimum payments under non-cancellable lease obligations fall due as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Within 12 months 6.7 11.9 Between 1 and 5 years 11.5 17.1 Later 1.8 3.6 Total 20.0 32.6 b) Lease commitments – Group as lessor The future minimum lease receivables under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: CHFm Operating leases 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Within 12 months 0.4 3.0 Between 1 and 5 years 0.5 0.6 Later – – Total 0.9 3.6 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 c) Contingencies As an internationally active company, Ascom is exposed to a multitude of legal risks in the normal course of business. These relate particularly to risks associated with product liability, patent law, tax law, and competition law. Some Group companies are involved in legal proceedings. The results of currently pending and threatened law suits cannot be predicted with certainty which means that decisions of courts or other authorities can cause expenses that have significant consequences for the business and on future results. Wherever a reliable estimate of the financial consequences of a past event is possible and an outflow of resources is more likely than not, a corresponding provision is made. At 31 December 2015, contingent liabilities amount to CHF 52.6 million (previous year: CHF 56.3 million), mainly related to holding company guarantees. There is no indication that these liabilities will lead to fulfillment payments. The Company has indemnified certain purchasers of divested businesses for potential claims arising from the operations of the divested businesses. There are currently no ongoing proceedings in relation to indemnification. 31. PLEDGED ASSETS At 31 December 2015, intangible assets with a total carrying amount of CHF 0.1 million (previous year: CHF 0.2 million), property, plant and equipment with a total carrying amount of CHF 2.9 million (previous year: CHF 0.6 million), and cash and cash equivalents with a total carrying amount of CHF 0.2 million (previous year: CHF 0.2 million) were pledged. 32. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Acquisition of UMS On 12 January 2016, Ascom acquired all the shares of the privately held, Florence, Italy-based software company UMS (United Medical Software), which provides integrations for medical devices and supplies digital medical records software solutions for life-critical patient care. With this acquisition, Ascom gains access to new software and competence for global integrated workflow solutions in Healthcare ICT in perfect alignment with Ascom’s Vision 2020. Moreover, Ascom will improve its market position in Italy significantly thanks to the acquired installed base. UMS solutions help clinicians treat patients facing life-critical outcomes, while filing the gaps in digital medical records technology. UMS offers more than 200 medical device integrations and 1,000 different EMR forms and integrations and also has products ready for international deployment and installations in Europe. The company’s customers include large university hospitals, private specialty clinics, and healthcare government entities. All 27 employees will be taken over at their existing location. UMS generated net revenues of around EUR 3 million in 2015, with an EBITDA margin comparable to the Wireless Solutions Division. The purchase price of EUR 8.6 million includes a contingent consideration of up to EUR 2.6 million, payable two years after closing, upon achievement of agreed revenue targets and retention of key employees. Group re-financing The Group is in the process of finalizing suitable refinancing and expects to execute new cash and guarantee lines in advance of the expiration date of the existing credit facilities. Since the balance sheet date, no other subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2015 consolidated financial statements. 84 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33. PROPOSAL OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the year ended 31 December 2015, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting on 13 April 2016 a dividend of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends. This represents a total distribution up to CHF 16.2 million. In 2015, a total dividend of CHF 16.2 million was distributed to the shareholders of Ascom Holding AG. 34. TIME OF RELEASE FOR PUBLICATION The Board of Directors approved the 2015 consolidated financial statements on 19 February 2016 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 9 March 2016. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 35. CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Country Company Registered office Business Share capital Parent company Group’s activities interest Australia GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. Chippendale ● AUD 3 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Chippendale ■ AUD 3,000,000 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Integrated Wireless Software Pty. Ltd. 1 Chippendale _ AUD 120 GTM Resources Pty. Ltd. 100% Belgium Ascom (Belgium) NV Brussels ■ EUR 1,424,181 Ascom Holding AG 100% Brazil Ascom Soluções em Telefonia São Paulo ■ BRL 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Móvel Limitada China Ascom (Beijing) Network Testing Beijing ■★ CNY 17,000,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Service Co., Ltd. Denmark Ascom Danmark A/S Glostrup ■ DKK 1,200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Finland Ascom Miratel Oy Turku ■ EUR 33,638 Ascom Holding AG 100% France Ascom Holding SA Nanterre _ EUR 80,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (France) SA Nanterre ■ EUR 2,000,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Germany Ascom Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ■ EUR 2,137,200 Ascom Unternehmensholding 100% GmbH Technologiepark Teningen GmbH Emmendingen ☐ EUR 6,136,000 Ascom Unternehmensholding 94% GmbH Mocsa AG in Liquidation 6% Ascom Unternehmensholding GmbH Frankfurt a.M. ● EUR 5,113,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% India Ascom Network Testing Private Limited Mumbai ■ INR 64,929,938 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Malaysia Ascom Network Testing Sdn Bhd Subang Jaya ■★ MYR 500,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Ampang ■ MYR 750,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Netherlands Ascom (Nederland) BV Utrecht ■ EUR 1,361,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom Tateco BV Utrecht ■ EUR 18,151 Ascom (Nederland) BV 100% Norway Ascom (Norway) A/S Oslo ■ NOK 1,250,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Poland Ascom Poland Sp. z o.o. Warsaw _ PLN 2,405,200 Ascom Holding AG 100% South Africa Ascom Network Testing (PTY) Ltd. Durban ■ ZAR 1,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Sweden Ascom (Sweden) AB Gothenburg ■★ SEK 96,154,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB Gothenburg ● SEK 70,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Network Testing AB Skellefteå ♦■★ SEK 100,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% Switzerland Ascom Holding AG Baar ● CHF 18,000,000 n/a 100% Ascom Management Ltd. Baar ● CHF 200,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Mocsa AG in Liquidation Berne _ CHF 100,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom Solutions Ltd. Mägenwil ■ CHF 10,000,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% United Ascom Network Testing Ltd. Elstead ■★ GBP 2 Ascom UK Group Ltd. 100% Kingdom Ascom (UK) Ltd. Birmingham ■ GBP 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom UK Group Ltd. Birmingham ● GBP 600,000 Ascom Holding AG 100% UAE Ascom MEA FZ-LLC Dubai ■ AED 50,000 Ascom (Sweden) Holding AB 100% USA Ascom Holding Inc. Rockaway NJ _ USD 10 Ascom Holding AG 100% Ascom (US) Inc. Morrisville NC ■★ USD 1 Ascom (Sweden) AB 100% Ascom Network Testing Inc. Reston VA ♦■★ USD 1 Ascom Holding AG 100% 1 Integrated Wireless Software Pty. Ltd. was liquidated in January 2015. The following describe the various types of entities within the Group: ● Holding/Finance: This entity is a holding company and/or performs finance functions and provides management services. ■ Sales: This entity performs sales, installation, maintenance and marketing activities. ♦ Production: This entity performs manufacturing and/or production activities. ★ Research and Development: This entity performs research and development activities. ☐ Real estate: This entity performs real estate activities. – Other: This entity is dormant or in liquidation. 86 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the General Meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report of the statutory auditor on the consolidated financial statements As statutory auditor, we have audited the consolidated financial statements of Ascom Holding AG, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and notes to the consolidated financial statements (pages 50 to 85), for the year ended 31 December 2015. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and the requirements of Swiss law. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining an internal control system relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 give a true and fair view of the financial position, the results of operations and the cash flows in ­accordance with Swiss GAAP FER and comply with Swiss law. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 Report on other legal requirements We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA) and independence (article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with our independence. In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Blaženka Kovács-Vujević Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 19 February 2016 88 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 GROUP SUMMARY OF KEY FINANCIAL DATA Summary of key financial data CHFm 2015 2014 2013 1 2012 1 2011 1 Incoming orders 412.5 450.4 478.0 436.4 451.4 Order backlog 2 135.2 150.4 137.3 122.0 136.2 Net revenue 410.8 437.7 459.7 449.8 437.5 EBITDA 43.8 64.8 67.6 49.0 59.8 Earnings before interest and income tax (EBIT) 27.3 47.6 47.6 26.5 40.6 Personnel expenses (178.9) (183.1) (190.0) (195.4) (207.4) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (16.5) (17.2) (20.0) (22.5) (19.2) Profit for the period 24.3 37.5 36.9 21.8 30.6 Net cash flow from operating activities 33.3 46.5 63.3 5.4 12.3 Capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment 4.2 4.4 2.8 3.2 4.4 Capital expenditures on intangible assets 9.0 9.2 5.8 3.4 3.9 Research and development expenditures 3 (43.1) (40.5) 46.4 49.8 47.1 Balance sheet total 2 286.4 313.4 477.8 521.5 506.8 Shareholders’ equity 2 116.7 107.9 246.4 166.8 203.8 Shareholders’ equity in % of balance sheet total 2 40.7 34.4 51.6 32.0 40.2 Net cash/(net debt) 2, 4 37.3 27.1 (2.9) (41.3) 55.8 Gearing in % 5 17.2 21.4 24.8 62.6 8.6 Dividends paid/distribution of share premium 15.8 14.0 12.2 8.6 8.6 Number of employees (FTE) 2 1,658 1,696 1,586 1,771 1,801 1 Key figures according IFRS based on income, expenses or cash flows are derived from continuing operations. 2 At 31 December. 3 Contains research and development expenditures either charged to profit or loss or recognized as intangible assets. 4 Cash and cash equivalents less borrowings. 5 Borrowings/shareholders’ equity. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG BALANCE SHEET 89 Balance sheet Assets CHF 1,000 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Cash and cash equivalents 10,606 5,827 Other current receivables Group companies 1,953 2,160 Third parties 488 91 Prepaid expenses 12 12 Total current assets 13,059 8,090 Financial assets Group companies 79,393 74,115 Third parties 144 489 Investments in Group companies 454,692 494,157 Total non-current assets 534,229 568,761 Total assets 547,288 576,851 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity CHF 1,000 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 Current interest-bearing liabilities Third parties 20,000 – Other current liabilities Group companies 693 1,315 Third parties 170 1,348 Accrued expenses 587 2,264 Total current liabilities 21,450 4,927 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Group companies 32,748 101,655 Third parties – 22,804 Non-current provisions 1,374 95 Total non-current liabilities 34,122 124,554 Share capital 18,000 18,000 Legal reserve from capital contribution 1,123 1,123 Other legal reserve 5,400 5,400 Retained earnings available for distribution at the end of the year Retained earnings 416,220 381,290 Profit of the period 53,318 50,763 Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (2,345) (9,206) Total shareholders’ equity 491,716 447,370 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 547,288 576,851 90 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG INCOME STATEMENT Income statement CHF 1,000 2015 2014 Investment income from Group companies 51,048 27,726 Other income 4,116 5,273 Total ordinary income 55,164 32,999 Administration expenses (5,944) (6,236) Value adjustments on investments and loans (1,413) 28,899 Total operating income 47,807 55,662 Financial expenses (1,095) (5,437) Financial income 7,173 2,642 Earnings before tax 53,885 52,867 Income taxes (567) (2,104) Profit for the period 53,318 50,763 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 Notes to the annual financial statements 1. General Ascom Holding AG, Baar, which is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Zurich (Switzerland), is the holding company of the Ascom Group. The financial statements comply with the requirements of the new Swiss accounting legislation of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO). This legislation became effective on 1 January 2013 and required implementation in 2015. In accordance with the SCO, Ascom Holding AG adjusted the 2014 financial statements to be comparable with the 2015 presentation. This resulted in changes to the presentation of the income statement and balance sheet and the reclassification of treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG from current assets to equity. This reclassification reduced the 2014 previously reported total current assets as well as total shareholders’ equity by CHF 9.2 million. Ascom Holding AG is presenting consolidated financial statements according to Swiss GAAP FER. As a result, these financial statements and notes do not include additional disclosures and cash flow statement. 2. Accounting policies Non-current assets: Investments and financial assets are recognized at cost less necessary value adjustments. Currency differences resulting from the revaluation of loans in foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are recorded for unrealized net currency gains. The valuation of investments in Group companies is performed according a group assessment at divisional level as opposed to at individual Group company level. Current assets are valued at nominal value less necessary value adjustments. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. Effects from foreign currencies are charged to the income statement. Provisions are made to cover general business risks of the Group. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging purposes. These instruments are valued at fair value. Treasury shares are initially recognized at cost, deducted from equity and are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains or losses related the disposal of treasury shares are recorded in the income statement. Investment income consists mainly of dividend paid by Group companies and is recognized on approval’s date of the Annual General Meeting. 3. Contingent liabilities Outstanding parent guarantees in respect of third parties total CHF 52.0 million (previous year: CHF 55.2 million). 4. Investments Direct and indirect investments are listed in note 35 of the consolidated financial statements. 5. Pledged assets At 31 December 2015, no directly held assets are pledged (previous year: nil). 6. Foreign currencies The exchange rates used for balance sheet items are the rates prevailing on 31 December; the exchange rates used for transactions conducted during the course of the year and for items in the profit and loss statement are average rates for the 2015 financial year. 7. Number of full-time equivalents The number of full-time equivalents did not exceed 10 on an annual average basis. 92 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Ascom Holding AG (Swiss Code of Obligations Art. 659) have developed as follows: CHFm Number 2015 Amount 2015 Average Number 2014 Amount 2014 Average transaction price transaction price Balance at 1.1. 890,894 9.2 10.33 1,073,169 11.1 10.30 Additions 13,185 0.2 17.72 4,730 0.1 16.57 Disposals (683,185) (7.1) 10.41 (187,005) (2.0) 10.30 Balance at 31.12. 220,894 2.3 10.62 890,894 9.2 10.33 9. Significant shareholders No significant shareholders holding 5% or more of voting rights, as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations, were recorded in the share register at 3 ­ 1 December 2015. This does not cover shares, which are not registered in the share register (dispo shares). Dispo shares amounted to 43.39% as of 31 December 2015 (previous year: 34.26%). In accordance with the disclosure announcements made, the following parties are regarded as significant shareholders as defined by Art. 663c of the Swiss Code of Obligations: Announcement date Shareholder % of voting rights held in Ascom securities 10.02.2015 BlackRock Inc., New York, USA 6.01% 22.12.2015 JP Morgan Chase & Co., New York, USA 5.481% 11.12.2015 Schroders plc, London, UK 5.068% There are no known shareholders’ agreements. Additional details are disclosed in the first chapter of the Corporate Governance Report (refer to pages 18 to 20). 10. Participations The number of participations which were held by members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board, including parties closely related to them are disclosed in section III of the Remuneration Report (refer to page 44). 11. Events after the balance sheet date Since the balance sheet date, no subsequent adjusting events have occurred that impact the 2015 financial statements. 12. Time of release for publication The Board of Directors approved the 2015 statutory financial statements on 19 February 2016 and authorized them for publication at the media conference on 9 March 2016. ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG COMMENTS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 Comments on the financial statements Assets Investments include shares in Group companies amounting to CHF 454.7 million (previous year: CHF 494.2 million). The decrease of CHF 39.5 million in investments is due to the reduction of share capital and a repaid capital contributions of a Group entity in the amount of CHF 38.1 million, and a value adjustments on investments in Group companies in the amount of CHF 1.4 million. In 2014, value adjustments on investments and loans consisted of reversals of value adjustments on investments in Group companies in the amounts of CHF 1.6 million and reversals of value adjustments on Group loans in the amount of CHF 27.3 million. In the year under review, loans to Group companies increased by CHF 5.3 million. The loans are mainly denominated in CHF, EUR, USD and SEK. Other current receivables from Group companies consist mainly of short-term receivables denominated in CHF, EUR, USD and SEK. Liabilities and equity In the year under review, total loans from Group companies decreased by CHF 68.9 million. Bank loans comprise amounts drawn under a revolving multicurrency loan facility in an aggregate amount of CHF 140.0 mil­lion denominated in CHF. The final maturity date of the loan facility is 24 May 2016. Accrued expenses are mainly related to current income tax. Income statement Investment income represents ordinary dividend payments from Group companies. Financial income consists mainly of interest income from loans to Group companies of CHF 1.4 million (previous years: CHF 1.7 million), profit from sale of treasury shares of CHF 1.8 million (previous year: CHF 0.9 million) and foreign exchange gains on Group loans and other current receivables of CHF 3.9 million (previous year: foreign exchange losses of CHF 4.1 million). In the year under review, value adjustments on investments in Group companies amounted to CHF 1.4 million. Other income comprises trademark fees charged to Group companies of CHF 4.1 million ­(previous year: CHF 4.4 million). Financial expenses mainly consist of interest paid to banks and Group companies, as well as bank charges of CHF 1.1 million (previous year: CHF 1.3 million). Administration expenses include CHF 2.0 million (previous year: CHF 1.4 million) of personnel-related costs. Profit for the period In 2015, Ascom Holding AG records a net profit of CHF 53.3 million (previous year: CHF 50.8 million), while Ascom Group records a consolidated net profit of CHF 24.3 million (previous year: CHF 37.5 ­million). 94 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS & RESERVES FROM CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION 2015 Proposal for the appropriation of retained earnings 2015 CHF 2015 Retained earnings from previous year 432,052,802 Distribution of dividends (15,832,477) Profit for the period 53,318,041 Retained earnings at 31.12.2015 469,538,366 Distribution of CHF 0.45 per share entitled to dividends (16,200,000) Balance to be carried forward 453,338,366 Proposal for the appropriation of reserves from capital contribution 2015 CHF 2015 Distributable reserves from capital contribution from previous year 1,123,243 Distribution of reserves from capital contribution – Distributable reserves from capital contribution at 31.12.2015 1,123,243 Balance to be carried forward 1,123,243 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 To the general meeting of Ascom Holding AG, Baar Report of the statutory auditors on the financial statements As statutory auditor, we have audited the financial statements of Ascom Holding AG, which comprise the balance sheet, income statement and notes (pages 89 to 93), for the year ended 31 December 2015. Board of Directors’ Responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the requirements of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining an internal control system relevant to the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is further responsible for selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers the internal control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control system. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. 96 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report on other legal requirements We confirm that we meet the legal requirements on licensing according to the Auditor Oversight Act (AOA) and independence (article 728 CO and article 11 AOA) and that there are no circumstances incompatible with our independence. In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Thomas Wallmer Blaženka Kovács-Vujević Audit expert Audit expert Auditor in charge Zurich, 19 February 2016 ASCOM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ASCOM HOLDING AG KEY FINANCIAL DATA ON THE SHARE CAPITAL 97 Key financial data on the share capital CHF 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Dividend/distribution per share Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.25 0.25 Equity per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 3.20 2.96 7.12 3 4.48 3 5.90 3 Earnings per share 1, 2 Registered shares CHF 0.50 0.69 1.07 1.07 3 0.64 3 0.67 3 Share price (high/low of the period under review) Registered shares CHF 0.50 20.75/12.80 18.29/11.85 15.00/8.60 9.60/6.60 15.10/7.67 Taxable values 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 15.90 15.25 15.00 8.86 8.40 Number of shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 36,000,000 Of which own shares 1 Registered shares CHF 0.50 220,894 890,894 1,073,169 1,568,202 1,430,040 1 At 31 December. 2 Based on the consolidated financial statements (excluding own shares). 3 Based on the consolidated financial statements according IFRS. 98 ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 WORLDWIDE CONTACTS Worldwide contacts Australia/New Zealand, Sydney France, Nanterre South Africa, Johannesburg United Arab Emirates, Dubai Ascom Integrated Wireless Pty. Ltd. Ascom (France) S.A. Ascom Network Testing (Pty) Ltd. Ascom MEA FZ-LLC au-sales@ascom.com fr-info@ascom.com tems.sales.amea@ascom.com tems.sales.amea@ascom.com Austria, Vienna Germany, Frankfurt a. M. Spain, Madrid United Arab Emirates, Dubai Ascom Network Testing AB Ascom Deutschland GmbH Ascom Network Testing AB Ascom Solutions AG Zweigniederlassung Österreich info.ws-de@ascom.com Sucursal España Branch Dubai tems.sales.europe@ascom.com tems.sales.europe@ascom.com info.mea@ascom.com India, Bangalore Belgium, Bruxelles Ascom Network Testing Sweden, Gothenburg United Kingdom, Birmingham Ascom (Belgium) NV Private Limited Ascom (Sweden) AB Ascom (UK) Ltd. info.be@ascom.com tems.sales.amea@ascom.com info.se@ascom.com uksales@ascom.com Brazil, São Paulo Italy, San Casciano Val di Pesa Sweden, Skellefteå United Kingdom, Elstead Ascom Soluções em Telefonia Ascom UMS S.r.l. Ascom Network Testing AB Ascom Network Testing Ltd. Movél Limitada info.it@ascom.com customercare.tems@ascom.com tems.sales.europe@ascom.com tems.sales.americas@ascom.com Malaysia, Ampang Switzerland, Baar USA, Morrisville NC China, Beijing Ascom (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Ascom Holding AG Ascom (US) Inc. Ascom (Beijing) Network sales-my@ascom.com investor@ascom.com info.us@ascom.com Testing Service Co., Ltd. tems.sales.amea@ascom.com Malaysia, Subang Jaya Switzerland, Baar USA, Reston VA Ascom Network Testing Sdn Bhd Ascom Management AG Ascom Network Testing Inc. Denmark, Glostrup tems.sales.amea@ascom.com info@ascom.com tems.sales.americas@ascom.com Ascom Danmark A/S info.dk@ascom.com Netherlands, Utrecht Switzerland, Mägenwil Ascom (Nederland) B.V. Ascom Solutions AG Finland, Turku info.nl@ascom.com info.ws-de@ascom.com Ascom Miratel Oy myynti@ascom.com Norway, Oslo Switzerland, Solothurn Ascom (Norway) A/S Ascom Solutions AG firmapost@ascom.com tems.sales.europe@ascom.com ASCOM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DATES AND CONTACTS 99 Dates and contacts Important dates 13 April 2016 Annual General Meeting Theater Casino Zug, Zug 17 August 2016 Presentation of half-year results 2016 SIX Swiss Exchange, Zurich Contact addresses Ascom Group Communications Ascom Holding AG Daniel Lack, Company Secretary & CCO Zugerstrasse 32 | CH-6340 Baar +41 41 544 78 00 | Fax 41 761 97 25 info@ascom.com Ascom Investor Relations Ascom Holding AG Bianka Wilson, CFO Zugerstrasse 32 | CH-6340 Baar +41 41 544 78 00 | Fax 41 761 97 25 investor@ascom.com Declaration of forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements relating to Ascom. Because these forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, the reader is cautioned that actual future results may differ from those expressed in or implied by the statements, which constitute projections of possible developments. All forward-looking statements are based only on data available to Ascom at the time of preparing the Annual Report. The complete 2015 Annual Report of the Ascom Group is available in English only and can be viewed online at: www.ascom.com/report-en Publishing details Publisher Ascom Holding AG, Baar Financial Statements Ascom Group Finance, Baar Editorial Tolxdorff & Eicher Consulting, Horgen Translation CLS Communication AG, Zurich Photos Severin Jakob, Zurich, Screenshots p. 9, Medanets Oy, Finland Location Hirslanden Klinik Im Park, Zurich: cover, pp. 3, 9 Models Street models Concept, Design & Realization Linkgroup AG, Zurich © Ascom Holding AG 2016 WWW.ASCOM.COM
