FROM DREAM TO HOME Integrated Annual Report 2015 WE MAKE DREAMS COME TRUE We are driven by a desire to realise dreams and simplify everyday life for the many people. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS With fortitude and innovation we surprise the market with new solutions. QUICK AND EASY We offer different and innovative customer oriented s­ olutions with leading edge digitalisation. SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS SWEDEN’S BEST RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES Our business idea is to apply innovation and consideration to offer loans and ­savings products to private individuals, tenant-owner associations and property companies in Sweden. Loans and savings to private individuals We offer loans and savings products to private individuals. Residential mortgages are our core product. Residential mortgages are supplemented by consumer loans, ­savings accounts for deposits and insurance mediation in the form of home and loan insurance products. Our retail customers are primarily located in areas around Stockholm, ­Gothenburg, Malmö and other ­university cities and growth markets. Savings and loans to tenant-owner ­associations and property companies We offer savings and housing financing to property companies and tenant-owner associations. We primarily focus on customers located south of the Dalälven River. Number of residential mortgage customers 254,000 Owner Our business was founded in 1985, and is wholly-owned by the ­Swedish state. We have been a bank since 2011, SBAB Bank AB (publ) (“SBAB”). Organisation Total deposits SBAB has two business areas: Retail and ­Corporate Clients & Tenant-­ 76.6 owner Associations. Stockholm is the main location of our IT unit and central functions. Customer Centre and Operations are located in ­Karlstad. In Gothenburg and Malmö, there are local key account managSEK billion ers serving corporate clients and tenant-owner associations. The Retail business area offers residential mortgages, consumer loans, deposits and insurance, both under our own brand and through partners in the Total lending form of residential mortgage brokers. The Corporate Clients and Tenant-­ 297.0 owner Associations business area offers savings and housing financing to ­property companies and tenant-owner associations. SEK billion 6 About SBAB THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB INTRODUCTION 06 About SBAB 08 The year in brief 06 14 10 CEO statement 12 Chairman’s statement OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 14 SBAB, global affairs & the housing market 16 Housing prices and household indebtedness 22 18 What affects property prices? 20 Our stakeholders and their confidence in us CHOSEN PATH AND STRATEGY 429 employees – 4 offices 22 Where, What and How 30 SBAB has a total of 26 How we create value 429 employees 1) 28 Our objectives, targets and results in four offices • 181 in Stockholm THREE FOCUS AREAS • 234 in Karlstad • 7 in Gothenburg 30 Sound finances • 7 in Malmö 36 Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as a creditor 49 40 – Our responsibility as an employer 1) Number of active employees as at 46 Sustainable housing 31 December 2015, expressed in terms of full-time equivalents, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence (FTE). OUR CUSTOMER OFFERING 49 Our value proposition 50 Retail 58 55 Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations SWEDEN’S MOST SATISFIED FUNDING, RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE CUSTOMERS 58 Funding 60 Risk Management For the second consecutive year, SBAB had Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers, according to 62 Corporate Governance Report 73 Sveriges Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index, SKI). 68 Board of Directors nöjdaste r We believe the results serve as clear evidence that 70 Executive Management and auditor nde bolåneku we are living in line with our mission – to contribute to better housing and improved housing finances. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES READ MORE ON PAGE 13. 73 Financial statements   77 Financial notes This is SBAB’s first Integrated Annual Report. The Annual Report 126 Sustainability notes is submitted by the Board of Directors and has a clear, integrated 129 GRI/COP index approach, integrating sustainability and financial information. The 132 Overview of earnings Integrated Annual Report has been inspired by the International Inte133 Five-year overview grated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) framework and in accordance with 134 Appropriation of profits the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Core guidelines. It also con134 Signatures of the Board of Directors stitutes SBAB’s Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global 135 Audit report Compact. For additional information about the Integrated Annual 136 Auditor’s review report Report and the reporting ­principles, see page 137. 137 Information about the accounts THE ANNUAL REPORT HAS BEEN AUDITED 138 Contact us 139 Addresses THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS The table of contents has been colour-coded to show which pages have been audited and While every care has been taken in the translation of this annual report, readers are which pages have been reviewed by the auditors. The Corporate Governance Report has reminded that the original annual report, signed by the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. been subject to a statutory review by the Company’s auditor. 7 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS 2015 THE YEAR IN BRIEF Operating profit, SEK million Sveriges Sweden’s Growing nöjdaste most satisfied market 1,492 residential shares bolånekunder mortgage READ MORE   customers 2014: SEK 1,644 million ON PAGE 30. READ MORE READ MORE ON PAGE 13. ON PAGE 52. We have Sweden’s most satisfied residential Our market share of residential mortgages mortgage customers according to Svenskt to private individuals grew over the year, Net interest income, SEK million ­Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index, SKI), from 7.30 percent to 7.86 percent. 2,442 for the second consecutive year. Intensified SBAB’s 2014: SEK 2,111 million READ MORE ON PAGE 30. cooperation housing with Stockeconomists holms Stadare now in Cost/income ratio smission place (excluding NIEF and restructuring costs) READ MORE READ MORE 34% ON PAGE 32. ON PAGE 38. SBAB supports Stockholms Stadsmission Our housing economists joined us in in its aim to reduce homelessness in the the autumn 2015. City of Stockholm by half by 2018. READ MORE 2014: 41% ON PAGE 31. SBAB Increased acquires deposits Return on equity Booli 10.2% 2014: 12.1% READ MORE ON PAGE 31. READ MORE ON PAGE 53. In December 2015, SBAB entered into READ MORE ON PAGE 30. During the year, SBAB’s deposits from the public an agreement to acquire Booli. rose from SEK 60.6 billion to a total of SEK 76.6 billion. 8 The year in brief THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB ONE OF SWEDEN’S MOST POPULAR FINANCE APPS VÄRDEGUIDEN Our Värdeguiden app (the value guide) is a quick, easy and free indicator of house and apartment values throughout Sweden. In 2015, Värdeguiden topped the list of Sweden’s most used finance apps, which makes us extremely proud. Easy, intuitive and quick Enter an address Enter the size and monthly fee Värdeguiden provides an indication of the value of the ­property and indicates the certainty of the valuation This is Värdeguiden Värdeguiden is a quick, easy and free indicator of house and apartment values throughout Sweden. Värdeguiden offers the opportunity to apply for a loan and a loan ­commitment directly in the app, prior to viewing or bidding on a home. Värdeguiden allows users to take photos and notes during a property viewing and to save them linked to the property or address. The service also provides useful information about the neighbourhood. Approximately 140,000 NUMBER OF DOWNLOADS IN 2015 Download Download for iPhone for Android 9 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS FROM DREAM TO HOME CEO STATEMENT As a bank, we fulfil an important role in society. We are part of a financial ­infrastructure that enables private individuals to purchase their own home and ­companies to finance residential properties. 2 015 was a successful year for SBAB customers are what truly matters most to Developing our customer offering with with increasing customer satisfacus. Satisfied customers lead to more cushousing services tion and strong profitability, and tomers – more customers lead to greater It is our mission to contribute to better we implemented our strategy to fully focus volumes – greater volumes lead to better housing and improved housing finances. on residential mortgages and housing profitability – better profitability gives us We help make dreams come true – dreams financing. Lending volume increased by the opportunity to invest and improve our of a home. To differentiate SBAB in the approximately 13 percent over the year, to customer offering – a better customer housing and residential mortgage marnearly SEK 300 billion, which corresponds offering leads to more customers, and the kets we constantly strive to develop our to almost double the market growth rate. circle is closed. This is where we find ourcustomer offering in a considerate and Our finances and capital adequacy are selves now. After a successful year, we have innovative manner, which also entails digsolid. We continued to show excellent closed the circle, and are now investing in italisation. Examples include the launch of growth on the deposit side, and our market developing our customer offering further the app Värdeguiden (property valuation) funding was met by strong demand on with digital housing and property services. and the web service Bytabostadsguiden terms that were favorable to us. Mortgage At year-end we had well over a million users (a guide for selling and buying a home). margins increased during the year, and we and customers in the Group at sbab.se and Another example is how we through the met our profitability objective of at least booli.se, of which 254,000 were residential acquisition of Booli – one of Sweden’s a 10 percent return on equity set by our mortgage customers. Within residential largest housing websites with home-related owner, the Swedish Government. We enter mortgages our market share increased by search services – are increasing our invest2016 in a position to carry out strategic 0.56 percent over the year to 7.86 perments in our customer offering. investments that will allow us to build SBAB cent, which makes us Sweden’s fifth largest We are also increasingly focusing on our to be strong, competitive and profitable in residential mortgage bank. own brands. We are prioritising growth in the long-term. We also have very satisfied business services and in lending where we can add customers. We have the second most satisthe most customer value and achieve the Sweden’s most satisfied residential fied property company and tenant-owner strongest customer relationships – which ­mortgage customers association customers according to Svenskt is under SBAB’s own brand. For this reaIn December 2015, it was made ­public that Kvalitetsindex, a mere 0.1 percent from son, we terminated some of our mortgage we have Sweden’s most satisfied ­residential the top ranking. Within financing of multi-­ mediation white label partnerships during mortgage customers for the second con­ family dwellings, we had lent SEK 83.0 the year. Our residential mortgage partsecutive year, according to Svenskt Kvalitets­ billion to tenant-owner associations and nerships with ICA Banken, Ikano Bank and index (Swedish Quality Index, SKI). Natproperty companies at year-end, which is Sparbanken Syd remain in place. urally, this makes us very proud. Satisfied an increase of 6.1 percent over the year. 10 CEO statement THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Our responsibility goes beyond offering competitive rates on mortgages As a bank, we fulfil an important function in society. We are part of a financial infrastructure that makes it possible for private individuals to purchase their own home and for companies to finance residential properties. In our deposit operations, we manage funds entrusted to SBAB by the public. This requires us to take responsibility and act with a long-term perspective. We build trusting relationships based on good business ethics, both with our customers and the society in which we operate. We also aspire to assume social responsibility within the scope of our mission. As an example I would like to mention our commitment to decrease homelessness through our partnerships with the NGOs Stockholms Stadsmission and Situation Stockholm. We also endeavour to create an offering that is sustainable to our stakeholders. Our sustainability vision is based where the property’s loan-to-value ratio depends on us delivering on our prom­ on environmentally responsible money exceeds 70 percent of the market value. If the ises, having a good business culture and management – including green funding trend in property prices and indebtedness complying with the rules and regulations and green lending. As part of this work in continues at the current unsustainable rate, applicable to the financial market. 2015 2015, we launched a green loan aimed we will make our lending even more stringent. was a intense year for SBAB’s employees at tenant-owner associations. In 2016, we In December 2015 the Swedish Finandue to the change of strategy in the aim to continue our strategic sustainability cial Supervisory Authority specified its proautumn of 2014, combined with our strong work by offering our retail customers green posal for new amortisation requirements, growth. The level of knowledge, expertise, direct loans and an app to help reduce which will come into force June 2016 the professionalism and consideration for our household energy consumption, as well as earliest. These include an amortisation customers that I have seen in our employissuing our first green covered bond. We rate of 2 percent per year for residential ees is impressive, and is also apparent from will also continue to work to simplify our mortgages with a loan-to-value ratio of external customer satisfaction surveys and products, terms and conditions and strive more than 70 percent, and 1 percent per reputation indices where we consistently for openness and transparency within our year down to a loan-to-value ratio of 50 rank among the best in the sector. Thinking sector. We generally prioritise the areas percent. We expect continued regulatory innovatively and generating growth require where we have the greatest opportunity to developments over the coming years. a strong and value-driven corporate culture. influence a positive trend in society. I am Several new rules in the next few years During 2015 our managers participated convinced that we can work together with will entail increased capital requirements in value-driven training programmes to our customers and other collaborative partfor lending. This will affect the growth of promote value based management with ners to create long-term value that benefits our lending, which will need to be lower self-driven employees. Looking ahead, our customers, SBAB and society at large. I in the next few years compared to 2015. I see an even more dynamic SBAB, with am also pleased to confirm SBAB’s support Increased capital requirements could also our corporate culture as a key competitive to the UN Global Compact and its Ten Prinlead to higher lending margins. advantage. Our new head office in Solna ciples, which cover human rights, labour, The combination of additional and with an activity-based working model, is environment and anti-corruption. more stringent rules for credit provision, another step in strengthening our corpoincreased capital requirements affecting rate culture. Increased household debt the growth in credit volume and the fact I would like to thank all my fantastic 2015 was another year of high demand that mortgage interest rates most likely ­colleagues at SBAB for an amazing year. and rising prices for the Swedish housing having reached rock bottom may have a and property markets. negative impact on property prices, even In light of the steep price rises in the though demand for housing will remain Solna, March 2016 housing market and the rapid increase strong in the foreseeable future. of household debt, we introduced more stringent terms and conditions for lending A strong corporate culture and in 2015. During the year, we introduced ­self-driven employees a compulsory maximum debt ceiling of six Running a bank place high demands on times the borrower’s gross income, and the employees at SBAB. The confidence Klas Danielsson stricter amortisation rules for all new loans in SBAB and Swedish banks in general CEO CEO statement 11 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS POSITIONED FOR THE FUTURE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT For both SBAB and its Board of Directors, 2015 was a s­ trategically challenging year. Thanks to our strategic decision to focus fully on residential mortgages and housing financing, SBAB stands stronger than ever and is well positioned for the future. I note with satisfaction that the new the Board of Directors in obtaining the decision to carry out the acquisition of strategy launched in 2014 has begun to necessary information, governing and Booli, which was SBAB’s first corporate generate tangible results for the comcontrolling the operations, and in making acquisition and an important element in pany. By strengthening our focus on resithe necessary decisions on important stratransitioning our brand towards housing. dential mortgages and housing financing, tegic issues. Focus on governance, internal The analysis and evaluation of the effects SBAB has laid an important foundation for control and compliance is fundamental if of new, expected capital requirements are the future. For the second consecutive year, we are to achieve our ambitious objectives another central issue that was discussed we have Sweden’s most satisfied residential and ensure confidence in SBAB among our by the Board of Directors during the year. mortgage customers, and we reported owner, public authorities, investors, cusIn December 2015, the Board of Directors strong volume growth and good profittomers and the general public. adopted a new capital target, which means ability for the 2015 full-year. I am of the The work carried out by the Board of that under normal conditions, the Common opinion that SBAB has found its feet after Directors and myself in 2015 was characEquity Tier 1 capital ratio should exceed the organisational and strategy changes terised by measures considered necessary the internally assessed Common Equity Tier implemented in recent years. for the strengthening of SBAB’s customer 1 capital requirement by approximately offering and long-term profitability. An 1.5 percent of the risk exposure amount. Good corporate governance is not only example of this was the adoption of a new a matter of course; it is also a necessity strategic direction for the partnership busiThe Board of Directors’ view The finance sector has been subject to ness, aimed at increasing our focus on new on sustainability increased regulatory pressure of late. In lending under SBAB’s own brand. Other Today, sustainability is a natural and the same period, residential mortgages examples include the decision to adopt obvious element in most companies. This have become subject to specific regulatory a new brand platform and new IT and HR is also the case at SBAB. Sweden faces developments. Compliance is a matter strategies. These matters have been on the numerous social challenges that are linked of course, but it is becoming increasingly Board of Directors’ agenda, along with the economically, socially and environmentally demanding. This means that the costs for conducting residential mortgage operations have increased, resulting in increasSBAB’s Board of Directors has adopted ing demand for efficiency, compliance and profitability. a policy for ­sustainable business that Good corporate governance is key forms the basis for a common approach to ensuring that SBAB is managed in a qualitative and effective manner. SBAB’s to the Company’s contribution to corporate governance structure supports ­sustainable development in society. 12 Chairman’s statement THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB to housing and the housing stock. SBAB’s Board of Directors has adopted a policy for sustainable business that forms the basis for a common approach to the Company’s contribution to sustainable development in society. The Board of Directors has adopted overarching goals that can be followed up directly, and it follows up and evaluates the Company’s sustainability work on an annual basis. The overarching goals on which SBAB focuses within sustainable business are Sound finances, Responsibility and transparency, and Sustainable housing. The Board and I share the ambition to continue the implemenSveriges tation of environmental and sustainability aspects in all parts of SBAB’s operations. nöjdaste Our complete focus on residential mortbolånekunder gages and housing financing is a strength SBAB has extensive experience and great knowledge of matters related to residential mortgages, housing financing and housing. This is a strength and a competitive advanFOR THE SECOND   tage, given current trends and market CONSECUTIVE YEAR dynamics. Changed customer behaviour and demand, increased digitalisation, merging of sectors and an increased focus on sustainability issues are just some of the SBAB HAS SWEDEN’S MOST issues that SBAB must consider – and proactively create business opportunities around – as a player in the housing and residential mortgage markets. In this respect, our digital business model, which is fully focused on residential mortgages and housing financing, SATISFIED RESIDENTIAL offers us considerable opportunities. In 2016, we intend to continue our MORTGAGE CUSTOMERS strategic transition towards housing, which includes a broadened product and service offering linked to housing and housing finances. We will achieve this by being agile, digital and innovative, both with regard to our own processes and to our customer For the second consecutive year, we have offering. I am of the firm opinion that SBAB ­Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage stands better equipped than ever to work towards our goal and our vision – to offer customers, according to Svenskt Kvalitetsindex Sweden’s best residential mortgages. (Swedish Quality Index, SKI). On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to take this opportunity to For a number of years, SBAB has ranked highly in SKI’s evaluation of banks express our deepest appreciation of SBAB’s offering residential mortgages, based on customer interviews. 1) In the most employees, and I look forward with confirecent survey, we again ranked first. With a customer satisfaction score of dence to an exciting and challenging 2016. 77.5 out of 100, we rank well above the industry average of 69.3. We believe the results serve as clear evidence that we are living in line Solna, March 2016 with our mission – to contribute to better housing and improved housing finances. 1) Every autumn, Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index, SKI) conducts a review of Sweden’s residential mortgage providers. The seven largest providers are named in the survey, which is based on telephone interBo Magnusson views conducted with customers from each bank. The data was collected by EVRY. In total, 1,257 persons Chairman of the Board aged 18–79 years were interviewed. Read more about the survey at www.kvalitetsindex.se. 13 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS SBAB, GLOBAL AFFAIRS & THE HOUSING MARKET As a player in the financial sector, we adapt and respond to a world in constant change. Globally, several ongoing trends and Technology and increased consumer borrowers and savers becoming less loyal development processes affect even a small power create opportunities and more likely to change provider than Swedish bank such as SBAB. The global New developments in technology lead to in the past. Today, very few people are economy remains in slow recovery after the the constant creation of new opportunities customers of a single bank. We see that major financial crisis that struck seven years to improve products and services and make an increasing number of consumers comago. Over the past seven years, we have production and distribution more efficient. pare and choose between various providgrown accustomed to debt problems, weak Many aspects of digitalisation and new ers, which we have welcomed since our growth, low inflation and low interest rates technology create unexpected opportuestablishment as we believe it will benefit in many countries. In Sweden, we have also nities to contribute towards sustainable SBAB as a focused residential mortgage had low inflation and low interest rates but development, including within relatively provider. This mobility needs to increase with stronger growth, and we have experimature sectors such as ours. Having said further in certain customer and service enced soaring house prices and increased that, we also need to manage and prepare segments within banking, and we are household indebtedness. for risks related to the processing of perhappy to promote this development. sonal data, money laundering and data Global challenges breaches, in the future digitalisation of our Sectors merge The geopolitical situation has become operations. Digitalisation creates new opportunities for increasingly complicated, and the numDigitalisation is a factor that contribcompanies and organisations; new business ber of armed conflicts in the world is said utes to increased pressure from consummodels, new products and services and to be higher than in a very long time. ers. We have started to notice a change new markets. It has become more difficult The risk of terror attacks has most likely in consumer behaviour and demand, with to categorise a company or organisation increased, while the number of refugees is at its ­highest since World War II. Sweden is facing major challenges and opportunities linked to the reception and integration of refugees. Natural disasters, environmental scandals and extreme weather have become increasingly commonplace. The climate problems know no borders between countries or players, and as a residential mortgage provider, we need to find our own way to be part of the solution. Like many other creditors, we view environmental and sustainability risks as an economic risk that may result in bad business for the bank. We therefore welcome the fact that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has taken a deeper interest in bank responsibility for environmental and sustainability issues related to their credit granting. 14 Our business environment THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB in a single sector or industry. Most people agree that we are currently experiencing a trend towards offering a wider range of products and services, and that companies are seeking new ways of managing the increased competition caused by digitalisation. This is where we identify considerable opportunities for SBAB, in the form of synergies and coordination gains inherent in offering households and companies a wider range of products and services linked to housing and housing finances. Regulation provides stability, but at a cost Regulation in financial markets has increased considerably in recent years, with the aim of increasing financial stability and avoiding future financial crises. This means that all players in the financial market must spend significant resources on ensuring compliance with a host of Urbanisation has added to the imbalances. new regulations – resources that must be The well-needed population growth caused found somewhere, at a cost. More strinby the arrival of refugees has created even gent regulatory requirements also make greater pressure on the demand for housfunding more expensive for those engaged ing and further increases the need for innoin residential mortgage operations. All in vative solutions in the housing market. all, costs increase and will ultimately affect Politicians and authorities face a major consumers by way of poorer terms and challenge in that the construction of conditions. housing, and the amount of capital used to fund this construction, must increase, The precarious housing market while households remain heavily indebted. For residential mortgage providers and The housing and residential mortgage other housing stakeholders, the situation markets involve players making long-term in the Swedish housing market is complex decisions that often concern the largest and difficult to assess. Low levels of housing transactions they will ever make. The ability construction and low turnover in existing to rely on rules, terms and conditions not housing stocks, combined with strong being subject to drastic changes over time population growth, has led to widespread is important. It is therefore unfortunate that imbalances in the housing market. Comthere is so much uncertainty about the rules bined with extremely low interest rates, that will apply to the residential mortgage this has resulted in soaring prices and a market and the measures that can be rapid increase in household indebtedness. expected. Our business environment 15 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS HOUSING PRICES AND HOUSEHOLD INDEBTEDNESS The global economy has still not recuperated fully from the major financial crisis in 2008–2009. We have had to become used to reports on large government debts, continuously low inflation, unexpectedly weak growth and vigorous interest stimuli. In 2015, developments in the economies of the western world, with the US at the forefront, have been somewhat more stable compared with emerging market countries; most notably, the economic situation in China has become increasingly precarious. Economic development in Sweden For many households, The Swedish economy picked up speed 2015 will likely go in 2015. Domestic demand accelerated, driven primarily by household consumption down in history as the and the increased construction of housbest year ever. ing. Rising employment rates, higher real income, low inflation, low interest rates and Incomes rose, more rising housing prices further contributed people were employed to the improvement of the economic and o ­ scillated around historically low levels. financial situation for households. Exports In general, interest rates on risky, fixed-­ and housing prices of goods remain relatively weak, while interest investments increased relative to soared. At the same exports of services develop strongly. Public interest rates on those considered safe, finances remain very strong, not least in which led to higher risk premiums. time, inflation was comparison with other countries. However, zero and interest rates during the year, focus increased on the The housing and residential mortgage short and long-term economic and political markets were extremely low. stress caused by the influx of refugees. The construction of housing has not kept Inflation remained low in 2015. The up with the demographic development in TOR BORG Head Economist, SBAB tendencies to rising inflation became more Sweden for a very long time. Combined notable, however, and if adjustments are with limited flexibility in the housing market made for the effect of declining energy due to various regulations and tax rules, a prices and interest rates, inflation was not strong underlying demand has built up in far off the two percent target. Low inflathe housing market. Declining residential tionary pressure, low expectations on high mortgage rates and stronger household future inflation, interest-rate reductions finances have therefore contributed to a rise in other countries and a certain upwards in housing prices by approximately 15 perpressure on the Swedish krona contributed cent in 2015. to the Riksbank’s decision to reduce the key In 2015, the residential mortgage interest rate from 0 to a negative 0.35 permarket grew by 8.3 percent to SEK 2,696 cent and purchase government bonds to billion, and the market for loans to tenfurther increase stimulation. Short-term ant-owner associations increased by market rates declined somewhat during 5.5 percent to SEK 388 billion. The market the year, while long-term market rates for the financing of multi-family dwellings 16 Our business environment THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB GROWTH AND INFLATION % 8 6 4 2 0 –2 –4 –6 –8 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 GDP growth Inflation HOUSING PRICES % 300 250 200 150 100 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Tenant-owner rights S  ingle family dwellings INTEREST RATES % 6 5 4 3 is also believed to have expanded rapidly, ratio – a limitation of the size of a loan fuelled by declining interest rates, the compared to income – may also become 2 stable development of household incomes, a reality. Other measures that may curb 1 increased construction of housing and benthe development, such as the abolition of 0 eficial conditions for property transactions. interest-rate deductions or moving-related taxes, the introduction of property taxes, –1 More stringent terms and conditions changed rent control and construction 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 for loans subsidies, have been subject to intensive The Riksbank’s key interest rate Mortgage bond rate, 5 year Rules, terms and conditions for lending discussions. Government bond rate, 10 year have gradually become more stringent MARKET DEVELOPMENT in recent years. In light of the steep price High savings SEK billion rises in the housing market and the rapid At the end of 2015, the financial sector 3,000 increase in household indebtedness, most held SEK 2,815 billion in deposits from banks introduced more stringent terms and Swedish households, companies and 2,500 conditions for lending in 2015. In spite of organisations. The share of retail deposits 2,000 this, household indebtedness has continued was SEK 1,527 billion. Households deposto rise faster than incomes. During the year, ited SEK 1,491 billion with banks, which are 1,500 a requirement for banks to report actual subject to the national deposit guarantee. average interest rates was introduced. The Retail deposits in savings accounts contin1,000 Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s ued to be stimulated by rising incomes and 500 amortisation requirements were postponed a continued careful view of consumption due to legal ambiguities, but will enter and more risky investments, despite low 0 11 12 13 14 15 into force in May 2016. It is also likely interest-rate levels. In 2015, retail deposits Residential mortgages that the capital adequacy regulations will in banks increased by 9.7 percent and Consumer loans be tightened further. A loan-to-income ­corporate deposits rose by 8.8 percent. H  ousehold bank d  eposits Our business environment 17 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS WHAT AFFECTS PROPERTY PRICES? Residential property prices are affected by a number of factors. Construction costs In the short-term, the supply of homes is relatively fixed, which means that demand is the primary factor to affect short-term price development. But from a very long-term perspective, existing homes will become run down and need to be replaced by newer ones. The rate of construction in the existing housing stock will affect long-term supply, and prices will be greatly affected by construction costs over time. These construction costs must take elements such as the cost of land, the cost of building materials and construction worker wages, as well as construction-related taxes and subsidies into account. Demography Everyone must have food to eat and a roof over their heads. It is possible to opt out of many other forms of consumption, but it is almost impossible to avoid the need for housing. Housing demand is therefore largely ­governed by demographic developments. Factors such as population growth, the age distribution of the population, urbanisation, family formation patterns and moving patterns are of major significance to the property market. Household finances and financial position In the same way that demographic factors determine how many homes are required, household economic and financial resources determine what types of homes are in demand. These resources depend on the flow of income and wealth. The employment market is also important. If more people are employed and unemployment rates drop, the demand for housing increases. The same applies if salaries rise, taxes decrease or benefits increase. If savings grow or generate high returns, this can also result in increased demand, as the ability to pay for housing increases. 18 Our business environment THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Household attitudes, expectations and risk aversion A household’s expectations of the future are at least as important as its current financial situation. For many, the purchase of a home is the greatest financial decision of their lives. In general, it is also a reasonably long-term decision. This means that expectations on future housing prices, interest-rate levels, salaries, etc. affect a household’s willingness to take the risk involved in purchasing a home. Transaction costs In all markets, the speed and simplicity of doing business are affected by demand, supply and prices. There are a number of factors in the housing market that make transactions expensive and complex. Consequently, it is relatively complicated to buy or sell a home. Most sellers therefore engage estate agents and buyers want to inspect the property with the help of a surveyor. Together with the cost of moving furniture and various moving-related taxes, the transaction costs related to buying or selling a home can be significant, and may therefore affect property prices. Funding and interest rate expenses Very few households can purchase a home without funding the purchase with a loan. Important parameters that affect housing demand include the ease of obtaining a loan, lender requirements and the scale of the granted loan in relation to the price of the property and the income of the household. Examples of new or stricter requirements in recent years include the loan ceiling that regulates the maximum size of the residential mortgage in relation to the property’s market value, and the amortisation requirement that regulates the scale and rate of household amortisations. Interest-rate levels are another important factor, as the interest often constitutes a major portion of the a household’s expenses. Lower interest rates result in greater demand. Operating expenses The cost of living in a property that you own affects market demand and prices. If electricity and heating costs increase, property taxes are raised or the fee for a tenant-owner apartment increases, this will lead to less demand and lower property prices. As renting is an alternative to owning your home, rent levels interact with price levels so that rising rent levels result in increased demand for owned homes, which can also lead to higher property prices. However, this mechanism is not played out in Sweden as rents are controlled. Instead, the current imbalance in the rental market leads to increased pressure on the property market. Our business environment 19 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND THEIR CONFIDENCE IN US Our ability to contribute Prioritised stakeholders towards sustainable Customers, the owner, employees and investors are SBAB’s prioritised stakeholders. development depends on our stakeholders having CUSTOMERS INVESTORS ­confidence in us. COOPERATION TRADE PARTNERS ASSOCIATIONS SUPPLIERS MEDIA An open dialogue, in which we are EMPLOYEES OWNER attentive to the requirements, needs and wishes of our stakeholders, helps us to develop our business in a manner that generates long-term value and social benefit, and ultimately contributes towards sustainable development. In 2013, we conducted Material aspects 1 Financial performance a stakeholder and materiality analysis Our stakeholders want us to 2 Sustainable products that involved qualitative telephone prioritise our contribution to 2 Ethics interviews with representatives from economic development, our important stakeholder groups such 4 Customer relationships ability to create sustainable as customers, the owner, employees, products and our respon5 Communications investors and trade associations. The sibility to act ethically. The 6 Employees analysis gathered information on summary on the right hand which issues they considered most 7 Social responsibility side shows the result of the important for us to focus on. analysis. 8 Business relationships 9 Environmental responsibility READ MORE ABOUT OUR STAKEHOLDER AND ­MATERIALITY ANALYSIS ON PAGE 126. Customers In many ways, our customers’ confidence CUSTOMER SATISFACTION – in us determines our ability to grow, and RESULTS FROM CONFIDENCE SURVEYS therefore also our ability to take on a Key figures 2015 2014 2013 greater role in society’s development. The SKI Retail market 77.5 76.7 69.5 skills, professionalism and consideration shown by our employees on a daily basis Reputation Index 1) 65.0 62.2 60.9 are apparent from surveys by Svenskt 1) Index figure in Reputation Index (­Anseendebarometern) ­Kvalitetsindex (Swedish Quality Index, SKI) from Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). The index ­measures the popularity, social responsibility and ethics and Nordic Brand Academy (NBA). of Swedish banks, as well as their trustworthiness and expertise. 20 Our business environment THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Three focus areas within sustainable business SBAB’s Board of Directors has adopted three particularly important focus areas within sustainable business, which together form the basis for a common approach to SBAB’s contribution to sustainable development in society. As a bank, SBAB bears a particular responsibility. This involves both contributing to our customers’ financial security and Sound safeguarding long-term sustainable social economics as part finances of the financial system. Sound finances are a prerequisite for our ability to achieve this and to conduct business operations that are sustainable in the long-term. For SBAB, responsibility and transparency involve the proResponsibility motion of responsible lending, marketing and sales. Through openness and transparency, we aspire to improve the repand utation of the banking and financial sectors in general. Our transparency responsibility as an employer is another important element of the focus area. SBAB has extensive experience and knowledge within property financing, and matters related to homes and housing are deeply Sustainable ingrained in the Company’s roots. Sweden faces numerous social housing challenges that are economically, socially or environmentally related to housing. As we are highly committed to sustainable ­housing, we seek to contribute to positive development in society. For every focus area, we have adopted a fixed strategy, overarching objectives and measurable READ MORE ABOUT OUR OBJECTIVES, targets, and determined how the results should be reported. Our policy for sustainable business is TARGETS AND RESULTS ON PAGE 28. available at sbab.se. Investors Employees Owner Investor confidence in us is based on invesSBAB’s employees are the Company’s SBAB is wholly-owned by the Swedish govtors’ interaction with our employees, but most important asset. Motivated and comernment. Corporate governance is exercised also on trust in our business model and our mitted employees are a prerequisite for through the general shareholder meeting, the ability to maintain sustainable economic our success and one of the most important Board of Directors appointed by that meetdevelopment. We note with great pleasdrivers in meeting our adopted objectives. ing, the Articles of Association, the Swedish ure the growing interest in our strategic Our employees’ motivation to create value Government’s ownership policy and continuchoice of direction for sustainable business, through customer and investor relations ous ministerial contacts with the Chairman of which is becoming increasingly relevant as depends on a number of factors, including the Board and the CEO. The Swedish Gova growing number of investors integrate our leadership, skills development and the ernment’s ambition for Swedish state-owned sustainability aspects in their analyses and career opportunities we offer. companies, to set good examples and serve investment decisions. as role models for sustainable development, has inspired us to clarify our role in the sustainable development of society. Our business environment 21 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS WHERE, WHAT AND HOW SBAB’s strength stems from our selfThis section summarises SBAB’s organisational and governance model, which briefly describes where we are driven employees, not from formal going, what we will do to get there, and how we will do it. ­structures or procedures. Achieving a balance between “what” and “how” is a prerequisite for achieving our vision – to offer Sweden’s best ­residential mortgages. WHERE SWEDEN’S BEST RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES BETTER HOUSING AND IMPROVED HOUSING FINANCES READ MORE ON PAGE 25. WHAT HOW AN INNOVATIVE THINKER ATTITUDES AND FOCUSED ON HOUSING VALUES Business Regulatory Inclusive Self-driven Strategy Values idea framework leadership employees READ MORE ON PAGE 26. READ MORE ON PAGE 27. 22 Chosen path and strategy THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB WHERE WHAT HOW VISION MISSION To offer Sweden’s best To contribute to better housing residential mortgages. and improved housing finances. At SBAB, our guiding principle for all our actions is our Our mission governs our actions and our customer offervision. It constantly encourages us to improve. Offering. Everything we do in our operations should directly ing Sweden’s best residential mortgages places high or indirectly lead to better housing and improved housdemands on innovation and consideration. In our opining finances. Better housing includes sustainable housion, we will offer Sweden’s best residential mortgages ing, which means that we must act responsibly and inteif we meet a number of objectives within eight areas: grate sustainability in our customer offering. Improved brand awareness, a differentiated customer offering, housing finances for our customers includes reasonable price, customer satisfaction, an attractive workplace, pricing and appropriate terms and conditions. sustainability, growth and long-term profitability. Chosen path and strategy 23 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS WHERE WHAT HOW WHAT What we do is described in our business idea and our strategy. Business idea Strategy Business model Our business idea is to apply An innovative thinker focused In recent years, banking operations innovation and consideration to on housing. have become increasingly complex and demanding due to rapidly growing offer loans and savings prodIn the coming years, we are to carry out regulatory pressure. At the same time, ucts to private individuals, a major strategic services-, customer residential mortgages have become tenant-owner associations and offeringand brand-related transition subject to specific regulatory developproperty companies in Sweden. towards housing. SBAB’s core product, ments. This means that the fixed costs of the residential mortgage, and our supour operations have increased, which Innovative thinking means continuously plementary products and other services poses increasingly high requirements using change and innovation to develop should all help our customers to better on efficiency and expanding volumes our customer offering, with the clear aim housing and improved housing finances, for long-term profitability. Our business of achieving our vision. Consideration in an innovative manner. We believe we model is based on high efficiency, low means constantly putting our customers can achieve this by becoming even more costs, low and carefully calculated risks, first: good prices, appropriate terms and digital, innovative and sustainable, both competitive market funding and sustainconditions and personal service, every in our internal processes and in our cusable growth in customer volumes. day, in every situation. tomer offering. This involves reflecting on how we work today. To achieve our vision and our mission, we must supplement the efficiency, discipline and good procedures of our operations with creativity, determination and speed. Such an approach requires a behaviour aimed at making changes, trying new things and creating sustainable growth. We have therefore developed four values, which describe how we should be and act to meet our objectives. These are presented on the next page. 24 Chosen path and strategy THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB WHERE WHAT HOW HOW Regulatory framework Attitudes and values Our business is based on our customers, We aspire to offer Sweden’s best residential mortgages. This is our guiding owner, employees, investors, business vision that, together with our business idea and mission, forms the basis of our partners and the general public having corporate culture. Successful companies typically have strong corporate culconfidence in SBAB and the values we tures, which is why we view our own culture as extremely important. We strive represent. Confidence is a result of complito make it as lucid and accessible as possible, for old and new employees alike, ance with the laws and regulations – both through regular workshops and training sessions. external and internal – that govern and influence our work, but it is also a result of SBAB’S CORPORATE CULTURE IS DESCRIBED IN OUR FOUR VALUES: our actions as a company. SBAB ­complies with the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Swedish Companies Act and the Banking and Financing Business Act. We work l I dare to challenge and innovate l I act directly and deal with queries As a bank, we also comply with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulasmart l We try and learn tions, including those related to ­capital and at speed l We make it simple adequacy and money laundering. We have developed a number of governance documents to cover the issues we consider to be so essential to our operations that they need to be determined, formalised and l I think one step ahead regulated. These include SBAB’s code of We take l We make decisions where the issue conduct, policies, directions and instructions. responsibility can be resolved l We are careful with money We safeguard a sound and open corporate culture where every employee is personally – all the way l We act sustainably responsible for complying with the applicable regulations and acting ethically. We also comply with the Global Compact’s ten principles on corporate social responsibility and l I am professional to report this work in our Communication on We are all responsible for our clients Progress (COP). We are proud l l We develop long-term relationships READ MORE ABOUT SBAB’S CODE OF CONDUCT professionals l I am constantly developing my skills AND POLICIES ON PAGES 39 AND 128. l We love to do business l We set targets and celebrate success l I am straightforward and clear We succeed l My knowledge belongs to everyone together l I make a difference and see the bigger picture l I am unpretentious and caring Our values permeate all of our operations. This involves our values being inherent in everything we do – from our customer offering and our treatment of customers to business development, recruitment, leadership training and career development discussions. READ MORE ABOUT SBAB AS A WORKPLACE ON PAGE 40. Chosen path and strategy 25 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS HOW WE CREATE VALUE This section describes our value creation a proConfidence Operations cess whereby we convert different types of capital into various forms of outflows and Our business builds on our stakeholders having confidence in SBAB and the values we represent. SBAB’s societal benefit. trust capital is a prerequisite for the creation of growth, value and benefit to the public. Several other a forms of capital make up the building blocks in the i de establishment of confidence in us as a bank: e ss si n Bu Owner Funding To allow SBAB to conduct banking operations and Investors lend money, we use three different sources of funding: equity from the owner, borrowing in the capital Savers market and deposits from the public. In return, we pay interest and dividends. Therefore, our financial capital is provided by the owner, investors and savers. p Cor Skills ora te ul The collective experience and skills of our employtu c ees, Executive Management and Board of Directors re – our human capital – is a prerequisite for SBAB’s responsible credit provision and long-term value creation. Procedures Our intellectual capital consists of the inherent value creation in SBAB’s refined internal procedures and IT-systems. It also includes the quality and security that has been built into our IT-based business model. Relationships Well-established and trusted cooperation with customers, partners, capital markets and other important stakeholders build our brand and reputation. These daily relations, together with our marketing and communication, constitute our relationship capital. 26 Chosen path and strategy THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Outflows Benefit to the public Our vision Our mission St r at eg ie s To offer Sweden’s best To contribute to residential mortgages better housing and improved housing finances High brand awareness SBAB’s sound finances, long-term profitability and A differentiated customer responsible credit provision offering are ­prerequisites for our ability to invest sustainably in our ce operations, and ultimately lead an Good prices to our positive contribution to p li societal development. ­Sweden Co m faces numerous social chalHigh customer satisfaction lenges that are ­economically, socially and environmentally related to housing and the An attractive workplace housing stock. We endeavour to offer financial products that are sustainable for individuals, as well as for companies, tenant-­owner associations and Sustainable growth ­society at large. Long-term profitability READ MORE ABOUT SBAB’S OPERATIONS ON PAGE 22. Chosen path and strategy 27 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS OUR OBJECTIVES, TARGETS SBAB’s objectives are Focus areas Overarching objectives based on our three focus areas within sustainable SBAB is well-capitalised and invests in achieving its vision – to offer Sweden’s best residential business: Sound mortgages. finances, Responsibility and transparency and Sound Sustainable housing. In finances Long-term profitability addition to these objecallows us to contribute to sustainable development tives, each business in society. A profitable business ensures return on equity. area, department and function has a large ­number of internal busiREAD MORE ON PAGES 30–34. ness objectives, which are regularly followed up and evaluated. Responsibility We are open and transparent in our sales as a creditor and marketing activities as well as in our product terms and conditions. Our customResponsibility ers recommend us as a funding partner. and We accept responsibility in our credit protransparency vision and assist our customers throughout the entire residential mortgage process. We are open and transparent and accept responsibility, both as a creditor and Responsibility SBAB is an attractive workplace that an employer. as an ­values equality and diversity. employer Our employees are considerate, skilled READ MORE ON PAGES 36–44. and proud to work for SBAB. 1) Determined by the Board in December 2014, compared to the previous target of 18–20 percent. 2) SBAB uses NBA, Nordic Brand Academy, as supplier of the underlying information. 3) The target is measured using data from SBAB’s internal An increased market share within the financing employee survey and is therefore not comparable to the result presented in SBAB’s 2014 Sustainability Report. Sustainable of new housing. As of 2016, the target will be measured using data from NBA. The target for 2016 refers to the number of housing employees stating 9–10 in the loyalty measurement Net Promoter Score (NPS) in response to the query “Would We finance sustainable you consider recommending SBAB as an employer?”. housing that results in 4) Refers  to the number of customers consuming a less ­environmental impact ­sustainable product or service from SBAB. and a better home 5) The target for 2014 was 80 percent. 6) The environment.  target was adopted for 2015, so no outcome is available for 2013–2014. We develop products that contribute to a better home 7) The target for 2014 was 50/50 percent. environment, improved housing finances and reduced 8) The target for 2014 was 82 percent. ­environmental impact. 9) The target for 2014 was 5.5 percent. 10) The target was adopted for 2014, so no outcome READ MORE ON PAGES 46–48. is available for 2013. 28 Chosen path and strategy THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB AND RESULTS Targets Results Capital target: SBAB shall be well-capitalised and meet the capital targets set in the capital ­policy. 2015 2014 2013 The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio should amount to 22 percent.1) New target for 2016: Under normal conditions, the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio should exceed the internally assessed common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement with 28.6% 29.8% 23.3% 1) approximately 1.5 percent of the risk exposure amount. Profitability: Return on equity shall at least amount to 10 percent. 10.2% 12.1% 9.5% Risk target: SBAB shall optimise its profitability within the scope of the risk tolerance determined by the Board. YES YES YES Dividends: Ordinary dividends should be at least 40 percent of the annual profit after tax, taking the Group’s capital structure into account. 0% 40% 0% Transparency: The proportion of customers who find that SBAB states their terms and ­conditions in an open and straightforward manner should exceed 85 percent. 2) 88% 88% 5) n/a 10) Customer ambassadors: The proportion of customers recommending SBAB should exceed 80 percent. 2) New target for 2016: Sweden’s most satisfied residential mortgage customers 88% n/a 6) n/a 6) according to SKI (Swedish Quality Index, Svenskt Kvalitetsindex). Equality: The equality between women/men in leading positions should be within the range of 45–55 percent. 44/56% 41/59% 7) n/a 10) An attractive workplace 3): The proportion of employees recommending SBAB as an employer should exceed 80 percent. New target for 2016: The proportion of employees recommending 61% 63% 8) n/a 10) SBAB as an employer should exceed 40 percent (9–10 in the NPS). Financing of new housing: SBAB’s market share within the financing of the number of newly built housing should exceed 6 percent. New target for 2016: SBAB should contribute to the development of new apartments 8% 6% 9) n/a 10) (number): 1,750 Retail: Develop 1 sustainable offer. Product development: New target for 2016: Sustainable offer in the 0 n/a 6) n/a 6) The development of products residential mortgage product (number): 5,000 4) that contribute to a better home ­environment and reduced ­environmental impact. Corporate Client and Tenant-owner Associations: Develop 1 sustainable offer. 1 n/a 6) n/a 6) Chosen path and strategy 29 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT SOUND FINANCES As a bank, we are part of society’s basic infrastructure. Well-functioning banks contribute to societal development and employment. Today, security in the mediation of resiour operations among all our stakeholders. OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS dential mortgages may be more important Sound finances based on long-term profSEK million than ever. We create conditions that itability are a prerequisite for our ability to 2,000 allow private individuals to build up their conduct business in a sustainable manner financial security by saving and borrowing and make sustainable investments in our 1,500 money in the different stages of life, and operations. This is our positive contribution we enable companies to operate, grow to society. We measure profitability through and create value for many different kinds profit and loss accounting in comparison to 1,000 of stakeholders. In this way, our daily work our adopted targets of return on equity and makes a difference for our customers, who Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio. 500 are given the opportunity to realise their dreams and objectives. Earnings It also means that we need to take SBAB’s operations preformed favourably in 0 11 12 13 14 15 responsibility for how we create value for 2015. Our operating profit was SEK 1,492 our customers, and that we do it in a manmillion (1,644) and SEK 1,511 ­million ner that inspires confidence in SBAB and (1,202) excluding restructuring costs PROFIT/LOSS AND BALANCE SHEET ITEMS, SBAB GROUP RETURN ON EQUITY Income statement items, Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Balance sheet items, Jan–Dec Jan–Dec % SEK million 2015 2014 SEK billion 2015 2014 14 Net interest income 2,442 2,111 Lending to the public 297.0 261.4 12 Other operating income 1) –101 510 Other 77.6 77.6 10 Expenses 809 1,008 Total assets 374.6 339.0 8 Loan losses –40 30 Deposits 76.6 60.6 6 Operating profit/loss excluding net income/expense Funding 264.2 243.2 4 from financial instruments and Equity 11.8 11.0 restructuring costs 1,511 1,202 2 Other 22.0 24.2 Operating profit/loss 1,492 1,644 0 Total liabilities and equity 374.6 339.0 11 12 13 14 15 Net profit for the year 1,162 1,256 1) Includes net profit/loss from financial instruments and net ­commission. TARGET – SOUND FINANCES RESULT 2015 2014 Capital target: SBAB shall be well-capitalised and meet the capital targets set in the capital ­policy. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio should amount to 22 percent. 28.6% 29.8% Profitability: Return on equity shall at least amount to 10 percent. 10.2% 12.1% Risk target: SBAB shall optimise its profitability within the scope of the risk YES YES tolerance determined by the Board. Dividends: Ordinary dividends should be at least 40 percent of the annual profit after tax, taking the Group’s capital structure into account. 0% 40% 30 Sound finances THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB and net income/expense from financial Other expenses exclusive of depreciation calculation of expected loan losses. SBAB instruments. Loan losses remained low and amortisation amounted to SEK 402 will implement IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018. and amounted to a negative SEK 40 million (434). The cost reduction excluding In 2016, we will continue working on the million (positive: 30). The cost/income restructuring costs is chiefly explained by project plan and include elements of IFRS ratio excluding restructuring costs and net lower IT and development costs. Deprecia9 Classification and measurement and income/expense from financial instruments tion of property, plant and equipment, and Hedge accounting. declined to 34 percent (41), which is prithe amortisation of intangible fixed assets 1) Without transitional rules, the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, marily explained by increased income. amounted to SEK 31 million (160). including the calculated dividend, amounted to 29.8 percent. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio was 28.6 percent, which was above the Loan losses FOR MORE INFORMATION ON SBAB’S CAPITAL ­ADEQUACY, REFER TO PAGE 94. target of 22 percent. Return on equity was For the full-year of 2015, the outcome for 10.2 percent (12.1), exceeding SBAB’s loan losses was a negative SEK 40 million profitability target of 10 percent. (positive: 30), which corresponds to a loanloss rate of a positive 0.02 percent (negaDIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Income tive: 0.01). For a more detailed account of One way of measuring how we generate economic value for our stakeholders is by presenting information Operating income amounted to SEK the loan-loss trend, refer to Note 11. on how the financial value is distributed. 2,341 million (2,621). Net interest income increased by 16 percent and amounted Capital adequacy to SEK 2,442 (2,111), which was primarily Basel III, a regulatory standard posing capbecause of a sharp increase in volume and ital and liquidity requirements on banks, improved lending margins. Commission was implemented on 1 January 2014. income rose to SEK 61 million (47), largely Compared with the previous regulations, due to increased insurance mediation. the new regulations include requirements Commission income amounted to SEK 163 for increased own funds and higher capital million (157), of which the stability fee requirements. Without consideration for constitutes the largest individual item, cortransitional rules, the Common Equity Tier responding to SEK 129 million (116). The 1 capital ratio amounted to 28.6 percent, Retained economic value SEK 1,234 million net result from financial instruments meascompared with 29.8 percent at the end Salaries and remuneration to employees ured at fair value amounted to an income of the previous year. 1) Profit for the year SEK 371 million Operating costs SEK 367 million of SEK 1 million (620). The greatest factor is included in the calculation of own funds Payments to the public sector SEK 330 million impacting earnings was unrealised market and Tier 1 capital. Dividends calculated Monetary contributions to charity and partnervalue changes on securities and derivative according to SBAB’s dividend policy have ships SEK 1 million instruments in the liquidity portfolio. been deducted. However, considering 34% future capital requirements and the Cost/income Expenses uncertainty regarding these, the Board of ratio 2015 SBAB’s expenses decreased to SEK 809 Directors proposes that no dividends be million (1,008), of which SEK 20 million paid. SBAB has carried out a preliminary (178) were restructuring costs. Personnel study regarding impairment, and we have excluding net income/expense from financial instruments costs amounted to SEK 376 million (414). begun the development of a model for the (NIEF) and restructuring costs OPERATING INCOME EXPENSES AND COST/INCOME RATIO LOAN LOSSES SEK million SEK million % SEK million 3,000 1,400 70 30 2,500 1,200 60 20 1,000 50 10 2,000 800 40 0 1,500 600 30 –10 1,000 400 20 –20 500 200 10 –30 0 0 0 –40 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 Expenses, SEK million Cost/income ratio, % Sound finances 31 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Dividend policy and appropriation of profits We believe that this creates clear conditions Risks and uncertainties The principle established by the owner is that help our employees make objective and We hold an established position in the that ordinary dividends should be at least 40 intelligent business decisions with complete Swedish residential mortgage market and percent of profit for the year after tax, taking focus on the best interests of our customers. in recent years, we have also strengthened the Group’s capital structure into account. There are no differences between the our status in the deposits market. Given the new capital regulations, the Board proposed guidelines for remuneration The economic trend in Sweden is the of Directors proposes that the funds at the and other terms of employment for senior primary risk factor for SBAB’s future earndisposal of the Annual General Meeting be executives to be adopted at the 2016 ings capacity, and the quality of our assets carried forward. The complete proposed Annual General Meeting compared to the is mainly exposed to credit risks in the appropriation of profits is provided on page guidelines that applied in 2015. The most Swedish housing market. The management 134 as an integrated part of the Administrarecently adopted guidelines are provided of interest rate and currency risks also tion Report. in Note 8, page 103. involves some exposure to price risks. Retail In 2015, we prepared a new HR stratdemand is expected to show stable growth Remuneration egy, focusing on the development of a over the next few years, underpinned by We believe in a simple and clear remunerlearning organisation and the promotion low inflation, low interest rates and rising ation structure. We have therefore not paid of long-term skills development. We also stock market and property prices. The any variable remuneration to our employees work according to an explicit equality and Swedish economy is susceptible to global since 2012. Nor do we have any incentive diversity policy that emphasises the value economic developments and conditions programmes. This applies to all ­employees, of employees of different backgrounds. in the international financial markets. The including the Executive Management and READ MORE ABOUT SBAB AS A WORKPLACE strained housing market and high houseother key employees in the Company. ON PAGE 40. hold indebtedness result in the economy STOCKHOLMS STADSMISSION A MORE HUMANE SOCIETY FOR EVERYONE It is important to have ­cooperation partners who understand our operations and our needs. MARIKA MARKOVITS Director, Stockholms Stadsmission W e met Marika Markovits, Director of Stockholms Stadsmission, to discuss our cooperation and see what we can do together to achieve a ­better social housing environment. Marika and Stockholms Stadsmission help people who are homeless or addicts. It gives hope and the courage to face life to vulnerable people who have no home of their own or live in deprived environments. 32 Sound finances THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB being sensitive to changes in interest rates and housing prices. The risks associated with these factors are expected to increase as long as house prices and indebtedness continue to rise faster than incomes. The many regulatory changes relating to the residential mortgage market constitute another uncertainty factor. READ MORE ABOUT SBAB’S RISKS AND RISK ­MANAGEMENT ON PAGES 60 AND 81. “Our vision is a more humane society for “It’s a truly ambitious target, requiring everyone,” explains Marika. an enormous commitment. SBAB made it SBAB’s cooperation with Stockholms very clear that it wanted to help us run this Särskildnyttan Stadsmission was intensified during the project.” SBAB supports Stockholms year, through the funding of a church that According to Marika, the low rate of Stadsmission in its aim to will be used by the organisation in its operhousing construction and increased comreduce the acute homelessness ations. petition for cheap rented apartments often in the City of Stockholm by half “SBAB contributed knowledge and aggravate the situation for the homeless. through the project Särskildnyexpertise within its core business. They are “People who are homeless seldom have ttan. The social responsibility housing financing specialists and underaccess to the regular housing market, so in project works towards our stood our needs. This was incredibly valumany cases, there is a risk that their homemission – to contribute to better able for us and allowed us to focus on what lessness becomes permanent. SBAB plays housing and improved housing we are truly good at – helping people in an important role in the project and confinances. As well as providing deprived situations. It’s important to have tributes with valuable skills and resources.” financial contributions, our cooperation partners who understand our Marika believes that in the future, Stockinvolvement includes allowing operations and our needs.” holms Stadsmission’s cooperation with an SBAB employee to spend 80 percent of their time on second“Our cooperation with SBAB differs SBAB may also involve finding common ment to the project at Stockfrom many of our other corporate partnerways of influencing peoples’ values. holms Stads­mission, as of Januships. When we opened a home for refu“Basically, it’s all about our values. If ary 2016. We will also arrange gees recently due to the conflict in Syria, we want to see a more humane society for workshops and seminars with SBAB helped us arrange the beds and bed everyone, we need to engage and influrepresentatives of the City of linen needed, and they did it all within 24 ence the people around us.” Stockholm and our property hours. This is the type of cooperation that company customers, to discuss we truly need and value.” what we can do together and The cooperation has evolved over time to identify solutions to reduce and now includes a number of other initiahomelessness. tives. Stockholms Stadsmission runs a project called Särskildnyttan, which is aimed at reducing acute homelessness in the City of Stockholm by half by 2018. This means that between 200 and 250 homeless individuals Read more about Stockholms Stadsmission and the should be offered housing within four years. ­organisation’s work at stadsmissionen.se. Sound finances 33 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Future prospects AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer THE PARENT COMPANY’S OPERATING We expect that new regulations for the (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond PROFIT/LOSS capital requirements of banks will be ­Corporation – SCBC) SEK million 600 adopted and come into force in 2016– SCBC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of 500 2019, which means that SBAB will need SBAB whose primary operations comprise to maintain a higher proportion of equity of the issuance of covered bonds to fund 400 in the future. This means that we will need the lending of the SBAB Group. SCBC’s 300 to control and prioritise our growth in operating profit for 2015 amounted to SEK 200 new lending in the next couple of years to 1,543 million (1,064) Net interest income 100 ensure that our total lending portfolio does improved compared with the previous year not grow too large in relation to the new and amounted to SEK 2,280 million (1,775). 0 capital requirements. The higher net interest income was mainly –100 due to a reduction of SCBC’s funding costs. –200 Parent company At year-end, our lending portfolio amounted 11 12 13 14 15 Our operating loss in 2015 was SEK 148 to SEK 215.8 billion (217.6). Net expense million (profit: 560). The change in operfrom financial instruments amounted to SCBC’S OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS ating profit/loss is largely due to the lower SEK 16 million (income: 181) and net comSEK million net income/expense from financial transmission amounted to a negative SEK 106 2,000 actions and a reduced net interest income. million (negative: 92). SCBC’s total oper1,500 Operating income amounted to SEK 713 ating income increased compared with the million (1,459). Net expense from financial previous year to SEK 2,158 million (1,864). 1,000 transactions amounted to SEK 76 million Expenses for the year decreased to SEK 627 (income: 300). Expenses totalled SEK 810 million (826). Of the total expenses, SEK 500 million (900). This reduction of expenses is 625 million (822) are attributable to costs mainly because of lower IT and personnel for operations outsourced to SBAB. Net loan 0 costs. The net effect of loan losses equated losses amounted to an income of SEK 12 milto an expense of SEK 51 million (income: 1) lion (income: 26). SCBC’s Annual Report is –500 The net effect was ­primarily affected by an published on our website: sbab.se. 11 12 13 14 15 increase in ­individual provisions. 34 Sound finances THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB MEET OUR INSOLVENCY TEAM TAKING RESPONSIBILITY – ALL THE WAY Taking responsibility – all the way – is one of our four values. Torbjörn Gustafsson manages SBAB’s insolvency team, which is located in Karlstad. The team assists customers who have problems paying interest and making amortisations. The team puts our ­values into practice in its work, on a daily basis. “We usually say that we work with preventative insolvency management. This means making contact early on if we discover that a customer has payment difficulties. The ambition is to always help the customer before the matter goes too far,” says Torbjörn. “Sickness, unemployment, divorce and the division of joint property are the most common reasons for payment difficulties for our customers. Our work includes preparing payment plans that give the customer a chance to catch up. We usually start by requesting a household budget, which forms the basis for customer discussions on the continued handling of the matter. We are consequently very solution-­ oriented.” SBAB owns the entire insolvency management process. This means that SBAB may be able to help all the way when a customer ­experiences payment difficulties. “It is our ambition to help our customers and to avoid loan losses. If we manage to establish a good dialogue early on, this often leads to a good outcome, both for the customer and for SBAB. If a customer’s home is too expensive, we always advise them to sell it themselves through an estate agent. It is usually better to sell the property through an estate agent, rather than selling it at auction through the Swedish Enforcement Agency.” Torbjörn Gustafsson, Insolvency Team 35 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS A CREDITOR Providing responsible and transparent credit to our customers demands long-term and thorough consideration. Responsibility... The customer’s specific interest rate is Our granting of credit to private individuals We strive to offer financial products that presented as a deviation from the rate. The is based on a thorough credit evaluation are sustainable for individuals, companies, size of the deviation is based on the size of process that decides whether customers tenant-owner associations and society the customer’s residential mortgage and have the financial capacity necessary to in general. A prerequisite for sustainable the loan to value ratio of the commitment. meet their commitments. We base our financial products is sound credit granting. The loan-to-value ratio can be described assessment on information provided by This involves being clear and transparent as the proportion of loan in relation to the the customers themselves and information with terms, conditions and products. As market value of the home. Our customers received from credit rating agencies such a company, we must also ensure that we can make their own calculations to see as UC and the Land Registry. First, the conduct sales, marketing and credit evalwhich interest rate they would receive on customer’s repayment capacity is assessed. uations responsibly. It is important that our different loan amounts and loan-to-value Secondly, any collateral for the loan is customers fully understand the terms and ratios, directly on sbab.se. As a supplement assessed. Loans are not approved if repayconditions when they purchase a product to basic pricing, we occasionally apply ment capacity cannot be ascertained. The or service from us and that they feel secure temporary offers on clearly stated terms. credit evaluation is centred around a calwhen they make important financial deciculation of household costs. sions. We strive to be easily understood and A responsible credit process If this calculation indicates a sufficient transparent throughout the credit process. We continuously monitor developments surplus, the loan can be approved on the Our customers should always feel reasin the property market, both in terms of condition that there are no other reasons sured with SBAB as their creditor. macroeconomic conditions and household that we should not approve the loan. If the finances. Together with analyses of SBAB’s calculation indicates a deficit, the loan is ...and transparency create satisfied lending portfolio, this knowledge forms not approved. For SBAB residential mort­customers the basis for changes and adjustments of gages, collateral is posted in the form of a The transparent and straightforward pricour credit assessment process. We strive mortgage on a property or a participation ing of residential mortgages is appreciated to have a streamlined credit assessment in a tenant-owner association. The loan by our customers. We believe this is a natprocess, which means that we do not offer may be equivalent to a maximum of 85 perural part of an open customer relationship loans in all situations. SBAB will not grant cent of the value of the property. This that is based on mutual trust. Our pricing credit to customers who require major limit or mortgage ceiling was introduced of residential mortgages is based on the ­manual analysis work or for properties that in 2010. In total, 5 percent (7) of SBAB’s current listed rates for each maturity, as are difficult to re-evaluate without a site visit. portfolio consists of loans with a loan-topublished on www.sbab.se. Our credit rules remain the same, regardless value ratio of more than 85 percent – a of whether a customer turns to SBAB directly proportion that is decreasing over time. or to one of our cooperative partners. OBJECTIVE – OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS A CREDITOR RESULT 2015 2014 Transparency: The proportion of customers who find that SBAB states their terms and conditions in an open and straightforward manner should exceed 85 percent. 1) 88% 88% 2) Customer ambassadors: The proportion of customers recommending SBAB should exceed 80 percent. 1) 88% n/a 3) 1) SBAB uses NBA, Nordic Brand Academy, as supplier of the underlying information. 2) The target for 2014 was 80 percent. 3) The  target was adopted for 2015, so no outcome is available for 2014. 36 Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as a creditor THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB CALCULATION OF HOUSING COSTS + Lender’s income 1) – Housing expenses 2) – Living expenses 3) = Surplus (or deficit) 1) The stated income is checked using, among others, credit i­nformation service UC. 2) Amortisation, running costs, monthly fees and stressed ­ interest rates. 3) In accordance with the Swedish Consumer Agency’s ­guidelines – taking the number of minors and adults in the household into account. Our credit assessment of companies and tenant-owner associations is also primarily based on repayment capacity. The process includes, among other things, an analysis of their accounts and a cash flow analysis. The cash flow analysis includes information on future maintenance requirements, and we use a computed rate of interest to set new interest rates for existing loans during SBAB EXPLAINS the calculation period. Amortisation Funding cost and SBAB believes that amortisation conmortgage margin tributes to a sound household economy. Approximately two thirds of our residential When a customer borrows money m ­ ortgages, expected credit losses mortgage customers amortise at least one from the bank to purchase a home, as well as the owner’s profitability of their loans. A new amortisation rule will the bank in turn borrows money in requirements. the capital market. The interest rate Just as a customer that borrows come into force in May 2016 that includes paid by the customer for its residenmoney for a home must make a an amortisation rate of 2 percent per year tial mortgage is called the mortgage down payment, the bank must use for residential mortgages with a loan-torate. The cost paid by the bank for capital as collateral for its loans. value ratio of more than 70 percent, and the customer’s residential mortgage The margin helps us build that 1 percent per year over a loan-to-value is called the funding cost. Put simply, ­capital. It allows the bank to conratio of 50 percent. the funding cost consists of the intertinue growing and conducting its In 2015, we chose to develop our existest ­rate for borrowing money in the operations according to applicable ing amortisation rate for new residential ­capital market. laws and regulations in a safe and mortgage customers. Our new customers The interest rate paid by the bank stable manner. amortise the part of their residential mortwhen it borrows money is based on Our ambition at SBAB is to be a market rate plus an additional as clear and transparent as possible gages with a loan-to-value ratio of over interest rate premium, which varies regarding our funding cost and 70 percent in relation to the market value, depending on the price set by the mortgage margin. We have thereover a period of 7.5 years. This means that market on the risk of lending money. fore chosen to report both our fundcustomers with a loan-to-value ratio of The difference between the ing costs and our mortgage rates 85 percent amortise a little over 2 percent customer’s mortgage rate and for the three most common fixed per year, and those with a loan-to-value the bank’s funding cost is called ­interest periods on our website. ratio approaching 70 percent amortise less mortgage margin. This margin than 2 percent per year. In addition to the should cover all of the bank’s costs minimum level of amortisations, we offer for the administration of residential our customers individual amortisation recommendations. Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as a creditor 37 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Residential Mortgage School Emma and Claudia want to help more people into the housing market. Not least young people. “Rising property prices have increased the size of down payments, and it’s becoming harder for young people to enter the housing market,” says Emma. “Even if you’ve benefitted Emma Persson and Claudia Wörmann, housing economists at SBAB. from rising house prices in recent years, it can be expensive MEET OUR HOUSING ECONOMISTS to help your children onto the property ladder,” says Claudia. KNOWLEDGE ABOUT Emma and Claudia have put together a Residential Mortgage School for people with less expeHOUSING AND HOUSING rience of the housing market. It has been launched in a mini format, where the users can order FINANCES small parts of the course, which are distributed by email once a week. The Residential Mortgage Hi Emma, tell us about yourself Hi Claudia, tell us about yourself School deals with matters such “I’m an economist with extensive expe“I’ve been working with housing matters as how much you can borrow rience of advisory services, banking and and analysing the housing market since and what it means to amortise, private finances. I am passionate about 2001, but I’m still learning. I started as well as the best way to save people making smart financial decisions out as an analyst at Mäklarsamfundet. I for your children’s future homes. concerning their private finances, and joined SBAB from Svensk Nyproduktion, Emma and Claudia have housing is an important part of that. I where I analysed the house building chosen to hold the course in joined the company from Nordea, where market. video format. Short video clips I worked with the private finances of contain materials that are also young customers.” What does a housing economist do? provided as text documents. “I discuss housing and homes with the “Videos have become a What does a housing economist do? media and other interested parties. I popular way of obtaining new “I hope to inspire, inform and maintain a also conduct my own surveys and analyinformation. YouTube tutorials, dialogue with people who, just like me, ses. I find new angles and highlight new for example, are an important have realised that the purchase of aspects of housing matters to increase information channel for young a home is one of the largest and most the understanding of how and why we people,” says Emma. important business decisions of their act as we do in the housing market.” “A social media presence has lives. It is good to do your homework and become a hygiene factor, but it’s be well informed about housing matters Will you only focus on housing matters? also necessary to consider why when owning your home. I will blog, hold “It’s quite a large subject. Few other topand how to best use different lectures and have a presence in tradiics involve such a high degree of interackinds of media. I believe this is tional and social media.” tion between finance, emotions, politics, key to reaching out with inforaesthetics, ethics and psychology. I am mation on housing finances,” Will you only focus on housing matters? extremely passionate about increasing our adds Claudia. “Housing finances involve a lot more understanding of the soft issues related to than just the home. It also includes savthe largest investment in our lives.” ings, budgets and insurance. Questions you need to ask yourself include: Do I need to amortise? How much should I Scan the QR code to read Scan the QR code save every month if I live in a house? Will the housing economist to subscribe to the I need to buy an apartment when I move blog or visit sbab.se/ Residential Mortgage out?” bloggen. School or visit sbab.se. 38 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB CREDIT PORTFOLIO, %, AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 ures to detect and counteract threats in Prevent corruption advance and we regularly check that our It is of the utmost importance for us, as a protective controls are effective. Security company, to take a clear stand against is also always an important element in the corruption. There are many reasons for management and development of products this. Corruption undermines democracy, and services. renders financial growth more difficult, dis2015 was dedicated to refining our torts competition and entails serious legal security controls to ensure that they are and reputational risks. SBAB therefore has relevant considering the threats to banks internal policy on how our operations deal in Sweden. Focus was on IT security, with benefits. During the year, the policy information security, risk and continuity was updated to reflect changes in the 0–50% management, and process development. Code on Gifts, Rewards and other Bene50–75% SBAB’s risk reporting further includes Key fits in Business published by the Swedish 75–85% Security Indicators (KSI) within security, Anti-Corruption Institute. > 85% which increases the Board of Directors’ In 2015, we carried out training proDebt ratio ability to monitor and govern SBAB’s level grammes and risk evaluations within the In recent years, we have noticed an of security. area. All management teams, a total of increase in how much our customers borIn 2015, our operations carried out 47 people, have participated in an anti-­ row in relation to their gross income, which online security training. corruption course – and no incidents of we call debt ratio. This increase is a result Identity theft, spyware, trojans and corruption were reported during the year. of soaring housing prices. The debt ratio other forms of IT-based threats are current gives us a good indication of how sensitive societal problems that affect our responsibilCode of Conduct our customer’s repayment capability is to ity as a creditor and a bank. We inform our In the first quarter of 2015, the Board of changes in interest rate or income levels, customers about what they should watch out Directors adopted a new Code of Conduct, and of the customer’s scope for amortisafor and which measures they should take to which is available to all employees on our tions. The increase in debt levels has lately protect themselves and their computers. intranet. It provides guidance on how we been larger than what SBAB considers to should act and conduct ourselves in various be reasonable, which led us to introduce a Counteracting financial crime situations and on the inherent responsibilinew credit rule in 2015 that limits the debt Money laundering and the financing ties of being a SBAB employee. Employees, ratio to 6 for new loans. of terrorism managers, consultants, members of the Our operations should be conducted in Executive Management and Board MemCustomers in payment difficulties a manner that minimises the risk of the bers are personally responsible for underWe have a responsibility to help customers bank being used for money laundering or standing and complying with our Code of who encounter temporary payment diffithe financing of terrorism. An overall risk Conduct. culties. SBAB has the ambition to establish assessment is carried out at least once a We aim to implement the Code in a dialogue with the customer early on, year that is aimed at identifying and assessour operations in 2016, through training whereby we try to help them find a way ing the risks to our operations in these courses for managers and employees alike. out of their difficult financial situation. This areas. The assessment forms the basis for gives the customer an opportunity to dismeasures taken to control risks. We need Whistleblowing cuss the often difficult decisions that must to pose questions and make the necessary In 2014, SBAB implemented a whistlebe taken together with us. Our insolvency controls in an effective manner so that blower service, whereby employees are team, which works with customers in payour services do not risk being abused. We able to report potential internal impropriment difficulties, has extensive experience therefore have a programme to ensure we: eties. Instructions for the service are availand works actively to minimise SBAB’s loan • Have good customer awareness able for all employees on our intranet. No losses. • Have appropriate procedures improprieties were reported in 2015. • Have adapted transaction monitoring READ MORE ABOUT THE INSOLVENCY TEAM’S WORK • Undertake regular controls • ON PAGE 35. Train our employees; at year-end, Security 100 percent of SBAB’s employees had Our preventative work within banking secubeen trained in money laundering rity and banking confidentiality is of major ­prevention. importance for our customer's confidence • Follow up continuously on how our proin us. Our security measures involve both gramme works prevention and control. We take meas• Closely monitor regulatory ­developments Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as a creditor 39 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS AN EMPLOYER Our attitudes and behaviours are critical to SBAB’s future. During the year, we endeavoured to develop our v­ alue-driven work method and implement our new HR strategy. Corporate culture Change Talent manSkill develRemuneraLeadership manageHealth agement opment tion ment Corporate culture Equality and diversity Successful organisations are characterised by cultures based on clear values. With that in mind, we defined four new values during HR STRATEGY the year. A business-related HR strategy is key to achieving our vision and our business objectives. In our new strategy, we have defined eight key areas, within which we are to READ MORE ABOUT OUR VALUES ON PAGE 25. be at the forefront in order for our operations to evolve in the desired direction. Leadership SBAB’s value-driven leadership encourages OBJECTIVE – OUR RESPONSIBILITY RESULT leaders to be courageous and have a holistic AS AN EMPLOYER perspective. Our leaders should act as role models to build the trust and the commitment 2015 2014 Equality: The equality between required to promote self-driven employees. women/men in leading positions To improve our leadership skills, we launched should be within the range of 44/56% 41/59% 1) new initiatives during the year, such as a 45–55 percent. leadership forum and a leader development programme. An attractive workplace: The proportion of employees recommending SBAB Skills development as an employer should exceed 80 per61% 63% Our new HR strategy focuses on developing cent. 2) a learning organisation. It is important to ensure that our training programmes are 1) The target for 2014 was 50/50 percent. 2) Results from SBAB’s internal employee survey. relevant and contribute to business value and long-term skill development for all 40 Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as an employer THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB We want to be an attractive workplace with self-driven employees who describe SBAB in the following manner: At SBAB, we work smart and at speed and take responsibility all the way. We have a value-driven leadership, where our leaders act as role models. As employees, we are selfdriven and want to succeed together with others. The relationship between managers and employees, as well as that between colleagues, is based on deep trust. There is a genuine wish to develop, to remain at the forefront of the sector. Our culture is permeated by innovative thinking, speed and honest feedback. employees. In appreciation that skills are which performance and future development between employees and the Executive perishable in our changing world, the are discussed. These matters are discussed Management. We have named this initiaopportunities for learning and continuous over the year and followed-up with individtive “SBAB Boost Camp,” and it comprises development are strategically important ual conversations. an intensive and pleasurable two-day priorities. Our development efforts are In 2015, we also prepared a new conintroduction to SBAB. We carried out four based on the “70–20–10 model”. cept that will allow us to introduce new Boost Camps during the year, with plenty of Both managers and employees received employees in our value-driven work method positive feedback from the participants. training during the year in the preparation quickly and efficiently. The new concept of individual development plans, which is intended to create a closer relationship allowed our values to be transformed from 10% words into actions. It should be clear how 70–20–10 MODEL FOR LEARNING individual employee efforts contribute to our vision and our adopted objectives. In 20% the longer term, our learning culture should TRAINING be one of the factors that differentiate Internal courses, external us in the market when attracting future courses, individual studies. talent. Our new format for development LEARNING FROM plans were devised to make it easier for our OTHERS employees to drive their own personal pro70% Network, coaching, ­mentorship, sponsor. fessional development. Guidance documents and templates have been prepared to facilitate construcDEVELOPMENT IN THE tive discussions between managers and CURRENT ROLE employees. All employees have annual Projects, new role, job rotation, career discussions with their managers, in ­delegation, more important role. Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as an employer 41 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS An attractive workplace managers still scored highly, and that SBAB has a specific equality and diversity Since 2001, we have conducted an annual internal cooperation was greatly valued, policy that emphasises the value of employemployee survey that shows us how our which places us in a good position in our ees with different backgrounds. This means employees perceive SBAB as a workplace. ongoing work. In the summer and autumn, that we want to encourage and look after Questions include job satisfaction, motivareference groups in various parts of the our employees and their skills and committion, commitment, leadership and personal company worked intensively to ensure that ment, regardless of gender, transgender development. In recent years, the proporwe can together turn SBAB into a truly outidentity or expression, ethnicity, religion or tion of satisfied employees in these surveys standing workplace. religious belief, sexual orientation, disabilhas unfortunately declined. This year’s ity or age, but also different perspectives, employee survey had a very high response Equality and diversity backgrounds and experiences. One of rate (95 percent; 379 out of 398 employEquality and diversity are a natural part our cornerstones is to create and offer a ees), which shows great commitment. The of our approach that influences and perculture that values diversity. It gives us a primary purpose of this type of survey is to meates everything we do. For us, it involves strong competitive advantage, which is a maintain a continuous dialogue, create a making all employees perceive that they prerequisite for success. You can read more sense of participation in important matters, are seen, appreciated and respected about our policy on equality and diversity at and of course to monitor improvements and for who they are. If we are to succeed sbab.se. deteriorations within specific areas. in achieving our vision, we need broad All SBAB employees naturally have the In this year’s survey, which was conexpertise within the organisation. We are same rights, obligations and opportunities ducted in May, we received low scores on convinced that employees with different in everything related to the workplace. matters within the areas of personal develexperiences and backgrounds increase Equality and diversity aspects should opment and trust in the Executive Managethe dynamics and creativity within our always be taken into consideration in our ment’s ability to make the right decisions. operations. daily activities and in the recruitment of We were happy to see that the immediate SBAB’S EMPLOYEES EXPLAIN THE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE When a customer decides to take out a PROCESS ­mortgage with SBAB, Andreas forwards the application to Karin in customer services. The residential mortgage process starts with Andreas in the customer centre Karin Jaretorp has worked in Karlstad. at SBAB since 2001. Her unit, customer support, is Andreas Karlsson works as a key account manager in SBAB’s in charge of ensuring that Karlstad office. He has worked at SBAB for just over four years, all loan documents and and says that he has lots of interesting work duties. supporting documents from “A key account manager the customers are correct. guides the customer through the This includes everything entire residential mortgage profrom purchase agreements, cess – from the application for a detailed property descriploan commitment to the customer tions and employer certiftaking possession of their new icates, to powers of attorKARIN JARETORP home,” says Andreas. ney, debt instruments and Customer Services “I’m very sociable and enjoy identification ­documents. customer contact, so this role suits “We ensure that the me very well. Buying a home is supporting documents and signed loan instruments from the often a significant transaction in customer are complete before forwarding the application to the customer’s life. Feeling a great ANDREAS KARLSSON the payment team,” Karin explains. deal of responsibility is important Key Account Manager at the “Every application is different. This means learning new to me.” ­Customer Centre things every day, which is a great challenge and lots of fun.” 42 Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as an employer THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB new employees. These matters are also an RESULTS FROM THE EXTERNAL EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION SURVEY (ESS) important part of the human rights princi2015 2014 2013 ples that we have undertaken to support, Questions/areas ESS Sector ESS Sector ESS Sector within the scope of the UN Global ComOverall employee satisfaction 62 71 63 74 70 73 pact’s Ten Principles on corporate social responsibility. Professional and personal development 58 66 57 68 65 66 In 2015, one of our targets was that Immediately superior manager 45–55 percent of all leaders should be Clear feedback on work performance 70 – 71 n/a 72 n/a women. At year-end, 44 percent (41) Professional competence 81 77 81 79 81 77 were women. We work continuously Leadership qualities 73 69 72 71 74 67 to achieve our target in this area, and ­implemented a number of initiatives in Manager works persistently towards set targets 78 – 77 n/a 79 n/a 2015, including: ESS = Employee Satisfaction Survey conducted among SBAB’s employees. • Industry = Average sector index. Cooperation with “Nyckeltalsinstitutet” to obtain an external assessment of our equality efforts • We require our external recruitment Proportion of female managers 1) Number of employees 2) 44% 429 partners to provide applicant lists with as many women as men when recruiting for management positions and key ­specialist roles 1) Proportion of female managers of the total number of 2) Number of active employees as of 31 December 2015, ­managers in the Company. expressed as a full-time equivalent, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence (FTE). The residential mortgage process ends with Maria in the credit management team in K ­ arlstad. When all loan documents have been ­verified, the application is forwarded to ­ “In credit management, we help customers with land Annelie in the payment team. registry ­applications and ensure that all loans have the appropriate ­collateral and are Annelie has worked for complete before SBAB for almost 17 years. vaulting”, says Since 2006, she has been Maria. a member of the payment Maria Eriksson team, which is tasked with has worked with managing loan payments. credit manage“My team ensures that ment since 2009. the correct amount of Before that, she money is paid to the right worked in SBAB’s recipient and account,” payment team for says Annelie. almost two years. “The payment team ANNELIE ERIKSSON “Working with MARIA ERIKSSON is a bit like a large family. Payment team credit manageCredit management We have a wonderful ment is interesting team spirit and really and rewarding. I find the legal issues that may arise ­succeed together.” in connection with land registry applications particularly exciting and interesting.” Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as an employer 43 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS • SBAB has a clear ambition to make To achieve this, we offer all employees cover work environment, fitness and health it easier for our employees to combine health promotion contributions, health­ that are available to all employees on our work and parenthood. We also want care hours, free gym access, subsidised intranet. to promote a favourable attitude to health insurance, and free medical parental leave and parenthood that attention and medicine. Flexible working Remuneration and equal opportunities characterises the company hours, reinforced parental pay and the Regular salary reviews are conducted • We conduct annual salary surveys, active prevention of long-term sick leave within SBAB to prevent any systematic or which goes beyond the legal requirein ­cooperation with occupational health unreasonable salary differences. In the ment of every third year, to ensure the services are other building blocks in our event that such a difference would be continuation of our successful work on work to promote health. detected, an action plan would be develpreventing non-objective salary differIn our new HR strategy, we invest oped and followed up in the next salary ences and salary discrimination even more resources in proactive work review. to promote health. An important area If workplace discrimination is reported, Health and fitness where we, as a company, can and want to the company has procedures in place for Assisted by our committed healthcare protake an active role to improve the health investigating and taking remedial action. fessionals, we offer modern and proactive of our employees is stress. We intend to Discrimination should be reported to the health promotion initiatives with innovative improve the understanding of stress and immediate manager, who is to contact and inclusive activities. We have modern stress-related diseases among our employthe HR department. Alternatively, the and easily accessible fitness facilities and ees. We want to emphasise the personal employee may contact HR directly. If the attractive health promotion contributions. responsibility related to wellbeing, while employee belongs to a union, a representThis creates beneficial conditions for a improving the dialogue between managers ative from that organisation is brought healthier SBAB, which results in higher and employees on these issues. The purinto the investigation. No known cases ­levels of wellbeing. pose of this work is to achieve an improved of ­workplace discrimination occurred We want our work environment to conperceived life-balance and reduced sick at SBAB in 2015. tribute to the wellbeing of our employees. leave. SBAB has internal guidelines that 44 Responsibility and transparency – Our responsibility as an employer THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB BOOST BY FC ROSENGÅRD REALISING YOUNG PEOPLE’S DREAMS A labour market project that ­promotes a better social ­housing environment. L ast year, nearly 40 percent of unemployed people were aged between 15 and 24 years old. According to Statistics Sweden, the trend is clear – unemployment rates are increasing among the young, not least for those who were born abroad and those who have not completed secondary school. “It’s difficult for young people to enter the job market. We want to inspire and help them,” says Carl Lindståhl at SBAB. In 2015, SBAB contributed to the content of the project Boost by FC Rosengård, by teaching and giving lectures to increase the understanding of everyday personal finances. “We want to contribute to better social housing environments in deprived areas. In 2015, we initiated partnerships that contributed to this. This included a cooperation with the football club FC Rosengård. The club runs a labour market project in the Malmö region, with the purpose of helping unemployed youths to find work or start studying. The project uses football, and physical and mental health as the starting point. 60 percent of all youths in the project found employment within six months. It’s incredibly inspiring,” says Carl. SBAB typically initiates dialogue on issues involving the pitfalls and temptations that can affect young people. These include the consequences that may arise from text message loans, moonlighting and impulsive consumer loans. Tips on how to plan and put their finances in order are presented and discussed. This may include how to make a budget or invest in themselves by getting an education. It might even involve them getting a home of their own in the future. It’s difficult for young people to enter the job market. We want to be there, and help these people. Read more about Boost by FC Rosengård at boostbyfcr.se. CARL LINDSTÅHL Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations, SBAB 45 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS SUSTAINABLE HOUSING Sweden faces several social challenges that are economically, socially and environmentally related to housing and the housing stock. Climate and environment are fundamental perspective, the development of sustainaspects of sustainable housing, but the able housing with its various aspects is home of the future will also be sustainable necessary and entirely possible to achieve. from a social perspective. Environmental SBAB’s role is to contribute with financing, sustainability concerning housing includes develop sustainable products, spread sound building materials, energy efficiency knowledge, offer financial advice and to and responsible waste management. When actively cooperate in stakeholder dialogue. new housing is constructed, we talk about housing that contributes instead of being Financing of new housing a burden, which also includes the social Not enough new housing is being built dimension. Consequently, in addition to in Sweden. Particularly in urban areas, minimal environmental impact and optimal demand vastly exceeds the supply of housenergy efficiency, properties and homes ing, which is an important reason for rising are expected to contribute to social sushousing prices. A low level of residential tainability. This may involve adapting the construction combined with low interest home to different resident needs in the rates has caused rising levels of household various stages of life, or building residential debt. It also prevents young people from areas in which the residents can remain in entering the property market, and those a community where they feel secure even if who are not already on the housing ladder what we refer to as sustainable products. they move to another home. The establishfind it increasingly difficult to purchase their Properties account for a significant proment of neighbourhood watch and meeting own homes. We want to contribute to more portion of the world's and Sweden's carbon places are other aspects of the social housing being built in Sweden. In 2015, we footprint. By developing products that give dimension of sustainable housing. had a target to achieve a 6 percent market our customers the incentive to invest and Ensuring reasonable housing costs is share of newly built housing. We achieved an implement energy efficiency improvean important part of the social aspect, as 8 percent share. ments in their homes, we can contribute to is making housing available for different reducing this impact. Investments in energy groups of people. The trend has been The development of sustainable efficiency also give our customers better increasingly towards segregated housing, products and services housing finances in the long-term. By workwhich have caused social problems in some As with all human essentials, our impact on ing with our customers and integrating susareas. In the new multicultural Sweden, the the environment is indirect. But through tainability into our products and services, issue of diversity is growing increasingly creativity, innovation and innovative we can contribute to global and national important. From a societal development thinking, we have the ambition to develop environmental objectives being met. OBJECTIVE – SUSTAINABLE HOUSING RESULT 2015 2014 Financing of new housing: SBAB’s market share within the financing of the number of newly built housing should exceed 6 percent. 8% 6% 1) Product development: The development of Retail: Develop 1 sustainable offer. 0 n/a 2) products that contribute to a better home ­environment and reduced environmental Corporate Client and Tenant-owner impact. 1 n/a 2) Associations: Develop 1 sustainable offer. 1) The target for 2014 was 5.5 percent. 2) The target was adopted for 2015, so no outcome is available for 2014. 46 Sustainable housing THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Hållbarhetsbarometern (The Sustainability Index) indicates that we can do more SBAB ranked second among all of Sweden’s In the first half of 2016, we will launch an banks in the survey Hållbarhetsbarometern energy app intended to help our customers 2015. Hållbarhetsbarometern is a brand reduce their home energy consumption, in ­survey that shows how companies are perorder to see how such a tool will be received ceived by the public with regard to sustainaon the market. bility. 80 of Sweden’s largest and most visible Properties, business premises and homes consumer companies are surveyed each account for a major proportion of total year. The survey covers four areas: Environenergy consumption. In 2015, we launched ment/Climate, Society, the Long-term pera Green loan aimed at tenant-owner associspective and Openness/Transparency. SBAB ations – a loan with an extra advantageous was given a sustainability index of 59 on a interest rate for the implementation of enviscale from 0–100. ronmental improvement measures. We plan Hållbarhetsbarometern is an in-depth to offer a similar product in the retail market ­version of the annual survey Anseendebain the first half of 2016. rometern and is based on research within We also consider the possibility of ­issuing the relevant sustainability areas. 6,016 green bonds in the future. interviews were carried out with members of the public in Sweden, aged 18–74. The The urban housing shortage questions reflect which companies in various There is already a severe housing shortage sectors are considered to be most sustainain Sweden’s major cities, and migration ble. The study was conducted by the econois expected to continue. The question is Our target in 2015 was to develop at least mist Dr. Tony Apéria at Stockholm University. whether SBAB can take a more active role, one sustainable product in each of our The aim of the survey is to annually monitor considering the current instructions and two business areas Retail and Corporate the development of ­sustainability in Swedish profitability requirements from our owner. Clients and Tenant-owner Associations. In consumer companies. SBAB’s cooperation with Stadsmissionen in February 2015, we launched a Green loan, Needless to say, we are not satisfied with Stockholm is such an initiative. aimed at tenant-owner associations. In ranking second within an area as important Sustainable urban development is an the first half of 2016, we plan to launch an as sustainability. Instead, we intend to do increasingly important concept for growing energy app to help our customers reduce better in the future. cities. A relevant question is where this their home energy consumption. Sustainable business encompasses many develop­ment will ultimately lead, and how aspects. Not all of them are relevant for SBAB can continue to contribute. READ MORE ABOUT OUR GREEN LOANS ON PAGE 57. a bank such as SBAB. The delimitation of where our responsibility starts and ends and Training for sustainable development in how to optimally manage our resources in society Knowledge sharing and advice relation to our core business are subject to Training and skill development are preWe have extensive experience and knowlinternal discussions. requisites for behavioural changes related edge of housing finance. Issues affecting Today, the value of “nudging”, “green to the environment and sustainability. An homes and housing are deeply rooted nudges” and influencing efforts to encourage important issue for SBAB is how we develop in the company. To make objective and more sustainable behaviour is increasingly our employee training, and how we can sound decisions, our customers need to discussed – and this is an area where SBAB ultimately share knowledge and influence understand the relevant financial issues. In can and will continue to make a difference. customer values and behaviour. addition to direct contact with our customClimate and energy issues Information technology and digitalisation ers via the Internet or telephone, we attend A relevant issue for SBAB is how social and We conduct our operations without traditrade shows, arrange seminars and reguurban planning are affected by the ongoing tional offices, but with a well-developed larly publish relevant analyses and reports energy transition, and how this transition digital platform and a customer call centre. that contribute to sharing knowledge and ultimately impacts upon property prices, tenNaturally, digitalisation continues to be an raising awareness of the issues related to ant-owner associations and private finances. important aspect of our sustainability work. housing finance. Sustainable housing 47 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Our head economist and housing ­economists SBAB’s head economist and our two housing economists are financial experts that conduct analyses on aspects of macroeconomics, savings, housing finances and other issues related to private finances. They act as the company’s spokespeople on such matters and work to disseminate information to and share knowledge and skills with investors, employees, customers, the public and the media. This work is conducted in many ways and through multiple communication channels. Our economic experts publish regular analyses and reports on current issues related to macroeconomics and private finances. The reports have been drafted in a manner that makes them easy to read and understand for customers and the general public. Regularly published reports include “Boräntenytt” (Mortgage rate news), which analyses the interest rate market and forecasts future mortgage rates, and “Mäklarbarometern” (the Estate agent barometer), in which we analyse the property market in major cities. All reports and analyses are available free of charge on sbab.se. Our economists are happy to respond to questions and can be followed on Twitter and at sbab.se/bloggen. READ MORE ABOUT OUR HEAD ECONOMIST AND OUR HOUSING ECONOMISTS ON PAGES 16 AND 38, ­RESPECTIVELY. Active cooperation and a dialogue for development In 2015, we continued the dialogue with our stakeholders that was initiated in 2014, aimed at finding out how we can cooperate to improve the social housing environment During the Almedalen week, we joined such as board liability, efficiency measures in deprived areas. some of our customers in the property secor new legislation affecting tenant-owner For example, SBAB supports Stockholms tor in seminars and panel discussions. We associations. In 2015, SBAB arranged ten Stadsmission with the aim of halving acute discussed how various stakeholders – propsuch seminars. homelessness in the City of Stockholm erty companies, public housing companies, The creation of value in a tenant-owner by 2018, while maintaining an ongoing politicians, etc. – can cooperate to create association is not always about financial dialogue to identify solutions that reduce a better social housing environment, where value. Some of the seminars arranged homelessness. residents are satisfied and feel safe. look into how internal communications SBAB’s Corporate and Tenant-owner may create commitment and contribute READ MORE ABOUT OUR COOPERATION WITH STOCKHOLMS STADSMISSION ON PAGE 32. business area regularly visits trade shows to greater satisfaction among the owners and holds seminars that are primarily of tenant-owned apartments. In recent In the first quarter of 2015, we entered aimed at trustees and board representayears, a joint initiative with Stockholms into a cooperation with the football club, tives from tenant-owner associations. In Stadsmission involved the possibility for FC Rosengård, which runs a labour mar2015, we participated in 11 trade shows, tenant-owner associations to join a neighket project in the Malmö region that is which intend to share knowledge and bourhood advice service. The service prointended to help unemployed youth find experience, forge new contacts and learn vides advice on what to do if a neighbour work or begin studying. about trends, as well as gather the sector’s is subject to domestic violence, illness or is thoughts about the future. We also arrange suspected of conducting criminal activities READ MORE ABOUT OUR COOPERATION WITH our own seminars where experts from SBAB in the property. FC ROSENGÅRD ON PAGE 45. or our network are invited to address topics 48 Sustainable housing THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB OUR VALUE PROPOSITION Our promise to customers should be unique, and we should offer them such great value that they choose us AVAILABILITY Residential mortgages online and over the – both now and in the future. This phone, every day and in all situations. has been summarised in the areas of SBAB is entirely focused on residential mortgages. There are availability, consideration and no queries related to residential mortgages that we cannot transparency, which collectively answer, and our answers are based on the customer’s situation and previous knowledge. Customers are able to reach form our value proposition. SBAB by telephone from 8 am–9 pm every day of the week, or around the clock online. Having to wait for days for a meeting with your bank is old fashioned and does not show appreciation for the customer. TRANSPARENCY Competitive pricing and appropriate terms Thank you very much for the quick and conditions from the outset. processing, and on a weekend too. At SBAB, we offer our customers straightforward, high-quality Impressive! and simple products. We have therefore actively chosen to Quote from a customer, 2015 remove elements that do not conform to our values. For example, we do not believe that the interest rate you get on your residential mortgages should depend on who you talk to at the bank, how you are dressed, how well-spoken you are or how CONSIDERATION long your parents have been customers. Our customers do not need to put on an act or adopt a negotiation strategy – we always offer competitive pricing and appropriate terms and conditions from the outset. Housing specialists who care. Whereas expertise and skills often come in a factual and cold package, our housing specialists are considerate and generous with their knowledge. Consequently, dialogue with SBAB rarely concerns only money; it often involves support I’m impressed! I’ve been in touch  with major decisions as well. We find it natural to offer our cuswith several banks, and I’m satistomers a personal contact to assist them, bring things to their fied with the terms and conditions attention and send them reminders during the entire process. offered by SBAB. But more than anything, I was incredibly impressed by how I was received over the phone. Professional, kind First, I want to thank you for not and ­generally accommodating! being like other banks, you are Quote from a customer, 2015 experts in residential mortgages. SBAB is the only bank for us. We are very satisfied. Quote from a customer, 2015 Our value proposition 49 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT RETAIL The Retail business area offers loans and savings products Deposits Several factors such as rising incomes, tax to private individuals under its own brand and through reforms, the recession and financial turpartnerships. Our core product, residential mortgages, bulence have caused household deposits in savings accounts to increase rapidly in is supplemented by retail loans, savings accounts for recent years, despite low interest rate levels deposits and insurance mediation in the form of home and high returns on other forms of saving. At year-end, bank retail deposits amounted and loan insurance products. to SEK 1,491 billion, which is 9.7 percent higher than the previous year-end. Since 2014, the Retail product area has Residential mortgages prioritised and focused on housing and The residential mortgage market continOrganisation housing finances, which allows us to offer ued to perform strongly in 2015, and the The Retail business area includes the Retail services that are characterised by innovarate of lending increased sharply. The Market and the Partner Market. tion and consideration, and are in harmony strong development in housing prices was The Retail Market manages the part of with our business idea. In 2015, we prefuelled by low interest rates, amortisation SBAB’s business conducted under its own pared a new brand platform and objective requirements and other factors such as the brand, with retail customers as the target position for SBAB. The platform visualises population growth, urbanisation and the group. In early 2015, the Retail Market the way forward towards offering Sweden’s low rate of residential construction. Market was divided into two units: Communication best residential mortgages and clarifies growth combined with the increased inter& Business Development and the Retail our position within housing and housing nal focus on our core product during the business area. In June, the unit Retail Marfinances. year resulted in excellent growth in both ket was formed, following the merger of new lending and the loan portfolio. The Communication & Business Development Our market residential mortgage market in Sweden and the part of the Retail business area Our customers primarily live in Sweden’s amounted to SEK 2,696 billion at year-end, that managed business under SBAB’s own major cities. Our value proposition to which is 8.3 percent higher than the previbrand. The unit comprises of the following customers who purchase new homes and ous year-end. departments: Customer Centre (sales), our focus on communication in major cities Product & Business Development, Market have resulted in us primarily recruiting new Consumer loans & Digital, Information, Operational Develcustomers from distinct target groups who Growth in the consumer loan market opment and Customer Development. The have purchased tenant-owner rights. Buyincreased somewhat in 2015. At yearunit has 134 employees and is located in ers of single-family homes in major cities end, the consumer loan market amounted Karlstad and Stockholm. also account for a large share. to SEK 206 billion, which is 0.8 percent The Partner Market is in charge of the higher than the previous year-end. part of SBAB’s business that is conducted via selected partnerships. The unit has approximately 25 employees and is located in Stockholm and Karlstad. 2015 in brief SIMPLIFIED INCOME STATEMENT, INCOME, EXPENSES AND COST/INCOME PROFIT/LOSS AND RETURN ON EQUITY, RETAIL RATIO, RETAIL RETAIL SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million % SEK million % 1,800 60 1,250 12 Operating income 1,793 1,404 1,500 50 Expenses –622 –638 1,000 11 Profit/loss before 1,200 40 loan losses 1,171 766 750 10 Loan losses –23 12 900 30 500 9 Operating profit/loss 1,148 778 600 20 Return on equity 250 8 excluding net income/ 300 10 expense from financial instruments 11.5% 9.2% 0 0 0 7 13 14 15 13 14 15 Income Costs Profit/loss Return on equity C  ost/income ratio 50 Our customer offering – Retail THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB OUR CUSTOMERS’ STORIES MOVING HOME We spoke to Anna-Karin Brorsson Kinch about why she and her husband, Daniel, chose SBAB as their residential mortgage provider, and why adults like to move back to where they have their roots. A nna-Karin Brorsson Kinch has been “We never actually considered choosing an SBAB customer since 2009, a different bank. I’ve always been very when she and her husband, ­Daniel, happy with SBAB, both with the terms and bought their first house in Märsta, north of conditions and with our relationship. It’s Stockholm. nice that we don’t have to visit a branch I don’t want to place “My father was already a customer of office to handle our bank matters,” she SBAB, and SBAB offered the best terms says, and continues: my whole life in the and conditions for interest rates at the “I don’t want to place my whole life in hands of a single bank time when the loan was taken out,” says Anna-Karin. the hands of a single bank just to get good terms and conditions for my residential just to get good terms mortgage.” and conditions for my Back home At the end of 2015, Anna-Karin and Daniel Quick and easy ­residential mortgages. moved to a slightly smaller house in Valla­ “I applied online for a loan commitment. ANNA-KARIN BRORSSON KINCH torp, a residential area in Täby, in the After a few calls to SBAB’s customer sermunicipality where she grew up. vices, I was put in contact with Andreas, “There comes a time in life when you a residential mortgage administrator. He want to return home. You want to be close was there for us during the entire purchase to your family when raising your own chil­process, which was much appreciated.” dren.” The family now look forward to spending As Anna-Karin already had both her more time together and will soon begin loans and savings with SBAB, it was natural renovations. for her to contact the same bank when the “We will need to replace the boiler time came to apply for a new residential almost immediately. But we also plan mortgage. to renovate the kitchen, bathroom and ­laundry room.” Our customer offering – Retail 51 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT NEW SALES AND REDEMPTION OF SBAB Residential mortgages ­RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGES SBAB’s total lending related to residential SEK billion mortgages to private individuals rose by 80 SEK 30.3 billion to 212.0 billion. At year60 end, our market share was 7.86 percent (7.30), including lending via partners. 40 This puts SBAB in fifth place, after the four 20 major banks. That means that a third of all residential mortgages granted outside the 0 major banks were granted by SBAB. At the end of 2015, SBAB had 254,000 –20 (243,000) residential mortgage custom–40 ers, distributed over 168,000 (161,000) 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 objects. The majority of SBAB’s residenNew lending Redemption Total tial mortgage customers choose shorter MARGIN DEVELOPMENT IN RESIDENTIAL maturities. The share of total lending MORTGAGES with a three-month fixed-interest period % amounted to 71.8 percent (61.8) at the 1.2 end of 2015. SBAB’s residential mortgage stock is clearly concentrated to the Stock1.0 holm and Öresund regions, which collectively amount for nearly 80 percent. 0.8 COMPOSITION OF COLLATERAL IN THE LOAN Consumer loans 0.6 PORTFOLIO, RETAIL CLIENTS Since 2010, SBAB has offered consumer SEK billion 2015 2014 2013 loans (i.e. unsecured loans). Unlike res0.4 Mortgage deed 115.4 106.9 102.8 idential mortgages, consumer loans are 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 not connected to any specific purpose, Tenant-owner rights 96.2 74.3 67.3 although they are frequently used to supMORTGAGE RATES Municipal guarantees plement residential mortgages in relation % and direct loans to 6 municipalities 0.4 0.4 0.7 to home finance. In 2015, the volume of Government consumer loans performed well, with a 5 guarantee 0.0 0.0 0.0 6 percent increase in sales. At the end of Bank guarantee 0.0 0.0 0.0 the year, the total consumer loan volume 4 amounted to SEK 2.0 billion (1.7), correOther collateral 0.0 0.0 0.0 3 sponding to a market share of 1.00 percent Consumer loans 1) 2.0 1.7 1.2 (0.83). As of 31 December 2015, just over 2 Total 214.0 183.4 171.9 17,000 (14,000) customers had SBAB 1 1) Unsecured loans to retail customers. ­consumer loans. 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 3-month 5 years 2 years 10 years CHOICE OF FIXED-INTEREST PERIOD, RESIGEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE LOAN DEPOSIT VOLUMES, RETAIL DENTIAL MORTGAGES TO HOUSEHOLDS PORTFOLIO, RETAIL % SEK billion % 80 60 6 70 50 5 60 50 40 4 40 30 3 30 20 2 20 10 10 1 0 Stockholm region 58.5% 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Öresund region 19.5% 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Gothenburg region 8.5% Deposit volume, SEK billion 3-month 1–4 years 5–10 years University and growth areas 7.1% Market share, % Other regions 6.5% 52 Our customer offering – Retail THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Booli acquisition Savings accounts In 2015, we entered into an agreeBooli Bygg: Sweden’s largest analysis We actively work to diversify our sources ment to acquire Booli Search Techservice for residential construction of funding through increased retail and nologies AB, an independent search that aimed at property owners and corporate deposits. Our savings accounts engine for homes. The company has banks. The service helps construction offer competitive interest rates, are free the expressed objective to improve companies and banks reach deciof charge with free withdrawals, and are the housing market by collecting and sions on the construction and financrefining market data, and increasing ing of new residential properties covered by the national deposit guarantransparency between parties in the tee. Retail deposits increased during the market. Booli’s operations are organThe acquisition of Booli is driven by year to SEK 56.1 billion (47.9), correised in three business areas: strategic and operational value sponding to a market share of 3.76 perBooli fits in well with our strategic cent (3.53). At the end of 2015, approxiBooli.se: Search engine with homes ­service offering and the transition mately 259,000 (257,000) retail customfor sale. The service comprises of our brand towards housing. The ers held a savings account with SBAB. Sweden’s largest database of final acquisition of Booli strengthens purchase prices and a sophisticated, our position in the market as well Insurance partly user-generated valuation as making it more unique. But most We offer two insurance products that are service importantly, it allows us to better related to residential mortgages and housassist our customers when they buy or Hittamäklare.se: Sweden’s largest sell a home. ing in different ways: mortgage insurance estate agent guide with 6,000 regisUpon completion on 14 January and home insurance. Mortgage insurance tered estate agents. The guide helps 2016, Booli became a subsidiary of insures customers against unemployment home sellers to chose the right estate SBAB and will operate under its own or sick leave, by compensating the monthly agent, by providing a database of brand for an indefinite period. Opercost of the loan. Mortgage insurance also estate agents, their performance and ationally, the company is included in means that the borrower’s residential mortrelevance the Retail business area. gage may be wholly or partially written off in the event of death. Our homeowner and home insurances pay compensation to the homeowner in case of damage to the home We now take the next step in our development or single-family dwelling. These products to contribute to better housing and improved protect our customers, but they also add housing finances. Booli’s housing services and value for SBAB, as good insurance protecproperty information enhances our customer tion reduces the risk of loan losses. offering, our position in the residential mortgage market and our competitiveness. KLAS DANIELSSON, CEO of SBAB Our customer offering – Retail 53 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Information and services Partner Market LOAN LOSSES, RETAIL LOANS Our ambition of innovation and considerIn the Partner Market, we have mortgage % of ation is evident in our free digital services mediators who mediate residential mortYear SEK million ­lending 1) that help with matters involving housing gages under their own brands and under 2013 1.0 0.00% and housing finances. In the App Store/ SBAB’s brand. Our partners comprise of 2014 14.4 0.01% Google Play and on sbab.se, we already banks and estate agents. In 2015, SBAB’s 2015 –22.5 –0.01% offer “Värdeguiden” (the value guide) and total new lending was SEK 67 billion, of 1) For the lending portfolio, the closing balance for the “Bytabostadsguiden” (the guide for homewhich approximately SEK 37 billion of mortrelevant period is used. In 2015, residential mortgages buyers). During the year, we launched our gages were paid using SBAB’s own brand constitute 99 percent of the lending portfolio, and ­consumer loans constitute the remaining 1 percent. updated website (www.sbab.se) and a digand SEK 30 billion using partner brands. ital notice service via Kivra, and we began to offer legal services via Avtal 24. We Increased focus on our own brand also entered into an agreement with the As a part of our efforts to increase the focus PORTFOLIO GROWTH AND MARKET SHARES, start-up Greenely regarding the launch of on SBAB’s own brand, the partnerships RETAIL a new energy app in the first half of 2016, with Folksam, Bättre Bolån and Plus Bolån SEK billion % 250 10 which intends to help our customers reduce were terminated during the year. Due to their home energy consumption. Work on increased capital requirements, we will pri200 8 the creation of increased customer and oritise lending growth in in areas where we user benefits in issues related to housing are able to deliver the greatest customer 150 6 and housing finances will continue in 2016. benefit and build the strongest customer Through increased digitalisation, we can relationship. 100 4 also offer better services, become more By focusing our lending on SBAB’s own cost-efficient and grow at lower marginal brand, we can deliver significant customer 50 2 costs. benefit and we can contribute more effectively to better housing and improved hous0 0 Loan losses 11 12 13 14 15 ing finances for our customers in accordNew lending, residential mortgages SBAB’s low risk appetite and proactive ance with our mission. Our residential Residential mortgage portfolio management of insolvencies has resulted mortgage mediation through partnerships Market shares in low credit losses in recent years. Rising using other companies’ brands will thereproperty prices and low interest rates have fore be reduced and primarily aimed at contributed favourably to low loan losses. partnerships with banks that have a digital A provision of SEK 20 million was made business model, where we still see potential in the fourth quarter of 2015 as a prefor major economies of scale. Our partnercaution to a number of retail residential ship with Folksam ceased in the third quarmortgage cases that were discovered to ter, while the partnerships with Bättre Bolån have been granted based on false inforand Plus Bolån will be wound up in 2016. mation. These cases have been reported to the police. No credit losses have been confirmed in any of these cases, and the residential mortgages are secured. Priorities for 2016 for the Retail business area In 2016, we shall further strengthen our • Strengthen customer relationships: position with a clear focus on housing and We shall strengthen the relationship housing finances. We will: with our existing customers • Strengthen our brand: We shall work • Increased digitalisation for increased actively with reinforcing our brand, efficiency: Greater digitalisation of our position and awareness business and our communications • Develop our products and services • More efficient work processes: We ­further: All our products and services shall make our work processes more shall help our customers to better housefficient and ensure that we have motiing and improved housing finances vated and self-driven employees 54 Our customer offering – Retail THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB CORPORATE CLIENTS AND ­ TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS The Corporate Clients and Tenant-Owner Associations business area funds multi-family dwellings. With a flexible organisation and the capacity to manage major projects, we offer services that are characterised by innovation and consideration. We contribute to sustainable housing by property financing, where we cooperate with our customers to stimulate new residential construction, environmental consciousness in the management and development of the social housing environment. The Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner The new construction of multi-family Organisation Associations business area has years of ­dwellings continued to increase in 2015. The Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner experience in funding within the residential It is estimated that the construction of Associations business area has 40 employsector. We concentrate our credit granting approximately 48,000 apartments began ees. We have offices in Stockholm, Gothto expansive growth regions and near our during the year, evenly distributed between enburg and Malmö. The Stockholm office offices in Stockholm, Gothenburg and rented properties and tenant-owned apartaccounts for more than half of our lending. Malmö, where we can create the close ments, but with regional differences. From these offices, we actively develop the relationships required to remain competproperty markets in growth areas south of itive and provide our customers with the Tenant-owner associations the Dalälven river. best possible service. The market for lending to tenant-owner associations grew by 5.5 percent to SEK We have three functions: Our market 388 billion at the end of 2015. In addition • Key account managers with overall We primarily target major property ownto new construction, the growth rate in responsibility for sales, profitability and ers, tenant-owner associations and conlending to tenant-owner associations is relationships with our major customers. struction companies, where our skills and due to reorganisations from rented to • Analysts, whose responsibility include extensive experience of credit granting and tenant-owned apartments. The number the validation of risk and opportunities properties make us highly competitive. of reorganisations declined somewhat in in properties, construction projects and 2015 and remains far below the peak years owners. Corporate of 2008–2010. • Customer and business support staff In 2015, the transaction volume in the who administer our credit granting and Swedish property market was approximately Deposits are responsible for customers in certain SEK 151 billion, which is on par with 2014. The market for deposits from corporate clisegments. Swedish players were overrepresented by ents and organisations grew by 8.3 percent nearly 65 percent of the invested capital. in 2015, to SEK 823 billion. Growth was Property funding therefore slightly higher than the previous We fund multi-family dwellings, both priyear despite falling interest rates. vately owned and owned by tenant-owner 2015 in brief SIMPLIFIED INCOME STATEMENT, CORPORATE INCOME, EXPSENSES AND COST/INCOME PROFIT/LOSS AND RETURN ON EQUITY, CLIENTS AND TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS RATIO, CORPORATE CLIENTS AND TEN­CORPORATE CLIENTS AND TENANT-OWNER ANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS ASSOCIATIONS SEK million 2015 2014 SEK million % SEK million % 750 50 500 12 Operating income 519 583 Expenses –167 –192 600 40 400 10 Profit/loss before loan losses 352 390 450 30 300 8 Loan losses –17 18 300 20 200 6 Operating profit/loss 335 408 Return on equity 150 10 100 4 excluding net income/ expense from financial instruments 7.9% 10.1% 0 0 0 2 13 14 15 13 14 15 Income Costs Profit/loss Return on equity Cost/income ratio Our customer offering – Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations 55 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT associations. The properties may consist LOAN VOLUME HOUSING FINANCING, NEW LENDING AND REDEMPTION, of existing buildings or new construction, ­CORPORATE CLIENTS, SBAB AND SWEDEN CORPORATE CLIENTS where we mortgage the land and the conSBAB, SEK billion Sweden, SEK billion SEK billion 30 300 15 struction, and offer final funding. SBAB’s 10 total lending to corporate clients and ten25 250 ant-owner associations amounted to SEK 5 20 200 83.0 billion (78.2) on 31 December 2015. 0 We generally offer funding of up to 15 150 –5 75 percent of a property’s value. In our –10 credit process, we monitor developments in 10 100 the property market on a regular basis, and –15 5 50 conduct a review and risk evaluation of all –20 customer relationships at least once a year. 0 0 –25 11 12 13 14 15 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Housing financing SBAB Corporate Housing financing Sweden New lending Redemption Total At the end of 2015, SBAB’s lending to property companies amounted to SEK 30.6 LOAN VOLUME TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIANEW LENDING AND REDEMPTION, billion (25.5). New lending amounted to TION FINANCING, SBAB AND SWEDEN TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS SEK 7.6 billion (2.9). The market share with SBAB, SEK billion Sweden, SEK billion SEK billion regard to loans to property companies was 60 600 20 10.59 percent (9.47) as at 31 December. As per 31 December 2015, our lending 50 500 10 to commercial properties amounted to SEK 40 400 4.3 billion (3.7). We do not intend to grow 0 within this segment, but we can offer fund30 300 ing if required by the overall business or the –10 20 200 customer relationship in individual cases. 10 100 –20 Tenant-owner associations New lending to tenant-owner associations 0 0 –30 11 12 13 14 15 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 amounted to SEK 6.1 billion (5.0) and Tenant-owner association financing SBAB New lending Redemption Total the total lending volume was SEK 52.4 T  enant-owner association financing S ­ weden billion (52.7). The market share within loans to tenant-owner associations was to LENDING VOLUMES, SBAB, CORPORATE 13.05 percent (13.82) at year-end. ­CLIENTS AND TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS AND SWEDEN 1) Savings accounts SBAB, SEK billion Sweden, SEK billion We actively work to diversify our sources 20 1,000 of funding through increased retail and corporate deposits. Our savings accounts 15 750 offer competitive interest rates, are free of charge, have free withdrawals and are covered by the national deposit guarantee. 10 500 Deposits from non-financial companies increased over the year, totalling SEK 18.4 5 250 billion (11.6), corresponding to a market share of 2.24 percent (1.53). At year-end, 0 0 8,200 (6,700) corporate clients and 2,300 11 12 13 14 15 (1,900) tenant-owner associations held D  eposits SBAB Corporate Clients and savings accounts with SBAB. Tenant-owner Associations Deposits Corporate Clients and ­Tenant-owner Associations Sweden Loan losses 1) Deposits from companies and tenant-owner SBAB’s low risk appetite and active man­Associations began in 2009. agement of insolvencies has resulted in low credit losses in recent years. Rising property prices and low interest rates have contributed favourably to low loan losses. 56 Our customer offering – Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB COMPOSITION OF COLLATERAL IN THE LOAN PORTFOLIO, CORPORATE CLIENTS AND ­TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS SEK billion 2015 2014 2013 Mortgage deed 80.1 75.5 83.3 Tenant-owner rights 0.0 0.0 0.0 Municipal guarantees and direct loans to municipalities 1.7 2.2 2.8 Government guarantee 0.2 0.3 0.4 Bank guarantee 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other collateral 1.0 0.3 0.6 Consumer loans 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 83.0 78.2 87.0 GREEN LOANS GEOGRAPHIC COMPOSITION OF THE LOAN PORTFOLIO, CORPORATE CLIENTS AND ­TENANT-OWNER ASSOCIATIONS SUPPORTING GREEN INVESTMENTS We support investments in properties that lead to reduced energy consumption or an improved environment by offering a particularly advantageous interest rate. Our Green loans help improve our Stockholm region 50.4% customers’ housing finances, but most importantly – together, we Öresund region 16.1% contribute to a better and more sustainable housing environment. University and growth areas 15.1% Other regions 9.7% U Gothenburg region 8.6% lf Kroon is the chairman of the “We found out that SBAB offered Sparven tenant-owner associsomething called Green loans, which ation in Kristinehamn, Sweden. are loans with a somewhat lower interThe association consists of 12 terraced est rate for energy efficiency meashouses and 17 semi-detached houses. ures. And you always want to get the In 2015, the board of the association lowest possible interest rate.” Priorities in 2016 for the Corporate decided to replace the ventilation To obtain a green loan, it must be Clients and Tenant-owner Associasystem. possible to approve the loan using the tions business area “The fan system installed in conregular credit-granting procedure, In 2016, our focus will be on controlled, nection with extensive renovations in and the loan must meet the criteria profitable and sustainable growth and 1990–1991 required high repair costs, for environmental improvements or on defending our position in the market. and it was difficult to to find spare energy efficiency. Ulf informed SBAB To achieve this, we have the following parts,” Ulf explains. how much the association would save focus areas: He says that the association had to by installing the new, more energy-­ • Exploring prospects among property choose between replacing a couple of efficient ventilation system. companies and associations fans every year, or replacing all of them “Changing the air treatment equip• Actively contribute to the funding of at once. The second alternative would ment from a cross-flow heat exchanger new residential construction require the association to take a bank to a new system with a rotary heat • Ensure extension targets in case of loan, as Ulf and the others in the assoexchanger increased the recovery rate ­turnovers ciation’s board did not want to use up to approximately 85 percent. We now • Upgrade tenant-owner associations all of its cash reserves. It is always good have a Green loan with a fixed interest that are partial SBAB customers to to keep a cash reserve in the event of period of 5 years and a 5 year amortifull-service customers unforeseen costs. sation plan.” • Increase the value proposition for “We contacted SBAB, which is tenant-owner associations and their where the association had taken out its members previous loans,” Ulf says. Read more about our Green loans at sbab.se. Our customer offering – Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations 57 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT FUNDING SBAB’s lending operations are mainly funded through Short-term funding In 2015, SBAB utilised two commercial bond issuance in the Swedish and international capital certification programmes for short-term markets. In recent years, savings account deposits funding: one Swedish and one European programme. During the year, short-term have increased, which has reduced the need for funding continued to decrease gradually, ­capital market funding. and was replaced by long-term funding and deposits. This is in line with our strategic direction, which involves extending the maturity of outstanding debt. SBAB’s main funding objective is that our diversify debt. The growth in deposits via Long-term funding funding should be competitive and diversisavings accounts contributes to a relative SBAB issues senior unsecured bonds fied. In 2015, we continued our diversificareduction in future annual lending needs, through an EMTN programme. SBAB’s covtion efforts and continuously met with instiless dependence on capital markets and ered funding is conducted through SCBC’s tutional investors, both in the international a more even balance between lending EMTCN programme and a Swedish covand Swedish capital market. This resulted and funding. The confidence in SBAB and ered bond programme. A new benchmark in a wider investor base, increased demand SCBC as issuers has been high during the bond, loan 142, was issued in the Swedish for our bonds and improved funding levels year, which resulted in continued competimarket. As of 31 December 2015, this loan for the Group. SBAB encountered favourtive levels of funding. had an outstanding volume of SEK 7.3 bilable demand in all active funding markets The majority of funding from the capital lion. In May, a 3-year senior unsecured EUR in 2015. market is secured through the Swedish transaction totalling EUR 750 million was capital market. More than 71 percent of issued, followed in June by a 7-year covFunding operations the long-term market funding in 2015 was ered bond totalling EUR 500 million. At the The SBAB Group is active in both the senissued in SEK. end of September, a 5-year covered EUR ior unsecured market through the Parent The SBAB Group issued a total of SEK transaction totalling EUR 750 million was Company SBAB, as well as in the covered 77.4 billion in long-term bonds. The total also issued in the international market. bond market through the wholly owned outstanding covered bonds, issued by During the year, we carried out three subsidiary SCBC. The Group works actively SCBC, amounts to SEK 187.3 billion and capital transactions in the Swedish market. to limit its liquidity and funding risks. the total outstanding senior unsecured In March, we launched a SEK 1.5 billion This work includes extending the matubonds amounts to SEK 69.7 billion. In 2015, Additional Tier 1 capital transaction. We rity of issued debt, evening out the maturity SBAB also issued three capital instruments also carried out two Tier 2 capital transacprofile, active debt management through in the domestic market: one Additional Tier tions. The first of these was carried out in repurchasing of bonds with short remain1 instrument and two Tier 2 instruments. June, and totalled SEK 1 billion. The second ing maturities and continued efforts to was carried out in October, with a total volume of SEK 2.45 billion. These capital transactions were carried out to meet the SHORT-TERM FUNDING SOURCES growth in lending and to retain a strong Limit buffer against internal and external capital requirements. Swedish Commercial Paper OUTSTANDING MATURITY PROFILE Programme (SVCP) SEK 25 billion SBAB has been less active in issuing AS PER 31 DECEMBER European Commercial Paper senior unsecured bonds, as deposits has SEK billion Programme (ECP) EUR 3 billion continued to grow and the liquidity situa150 tion has remained strong. The total volume LONG-TERM FUNDING SOURCES of senior unsecured debt in issue amounted 120 Limit to SEK 76.9 billion on 31 December 2015. Euro Medium Term Note 90 Programme (EMTN), SBAB EUR 13 billion Covered bonds Euro Medium Term Covered Note SCBC’s primary operations involve the 60 Programme (EMTCN), SCBC EUR 10 billion issuance of covered bonds in the Swedish Swedish covered bond programme, and international capital markets. SCBC’s 30 SCBC [No fixed limit] funding programmes have received the Australian Covered Bond Issuance highest possible long-term rating of “Aaa” 0 Programme, SCBC AUD 4 billion 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 31 from the rating agency Moody’s. SCBC 58 Funding THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB does not conduct any lending activithe issuance of covered bonds and a numDISTRIBUTION BY CURRENCY, SECURITIES ties under its own auspices, but instead ber of different buffers. The SBAB Group IN ISSUE (INCLUDING SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES) AND DEPOSITS, GROUP acquires loans from SBAB. The intention is a residential mortgage bank with a very of the acquisitions is for these loans to strong credit risk profile, sufficient capitalbe included in full or in part in the cover isation and relatively low, but increasing, pool that serves as collateral for SCBC’s deposits. Thus, the Group’s primary risk for covered bonds. Information on SCBC’s a theoretical bankruptcy scenario is the covered bonds and cover pool is published access to liquidity. At year-end, the loan monthly on our website, sbab.se. SCBC volume in SBAB’s cover pool amounted to complies with and reports to the European SEK 211.4 billion, compared with the total Covered Bond Council’s (ECBC) “labelloan portfolio of approximately SEK 215.7 ling initiative” and issues monthly reports billion, i.e., corresponding to a ratio of according to the “national template” approximately 98 percent. published by the “Association of Swedish SEK 74% (72) Covered Bond Issuers” (ASCB). 31 December EUR 20% (20) Encumbered assets 2015 Other currencies 5% (6) Liquidity portfolio Lending to the public 184.8 JPY 1% (2) SBAB’s liquidity portfolio has the primary of which, residential mortgages 184.8 purpose of acting as a provision for situOther 0 SECURITIES IN ISSUE (INCLUDING SUBORations when the ability to obtain liquidity Total encumbered assets 184.8 DINATED DEBENTURES) AND DEPOSITS, from other sources is limited or rendered GROUP materially more difficult. The liquidity 31 December Unencumbered assets 2015 portfolio aims to be able to cover an entire year’s debt maturities. Both external regRetail lending 78.7 ulations and internal limits dictate the size of which, residential mortgages 78.7 and composition of the liquidity portfolio. Corporate loans 33.5 As of 31 December 2015, this provision of which, residential mortgages 33.5 was SEK 64.0 billion. SBAB only invests in Liquidity portfolio 64.0 interest-bearing bonds with the highest credit rating of AAA from the major rating Total unencumbered assets 176.2 agencies. The average maturity of the portfolio is 2.71 years, with a maximum Rating Swedish covered mortgage of 10 years for new investments. SBAB bonds SCBC 31.5% (33) SBAB’s long-term and short-term credit EMTCN programme SCBC 22.2% (23) also holds a limited number of approved ratings from Moody’s were unchanged Deposits 22.0% (20) currencies, but investments are mostly in ­during the year, at A2 and P–1 respecEMTN programme SBAB 18.9% (18) SEK, EUR and USD. Derivatives are used tively. “Negative Outlook” was removed Subordinated debentures 2.3% (2) ECP 2.0% (2) to manage the portfolio’s interest rate and during the year. Issues on the Japanese market, currency risks. SBAB also invests in “green SBAB’s long-term and short-term credit “Samurai bonds” 1.1% (1) bonds” and has the ambition to increase ratings from S&P (Standard & Poor’s) also SVCP 0.1% (1) USCP 0.0% (0) the number of counterparties and holdings remained unchanged during the year, at A in sustainable projects, within the scope of and A–1, respectively. The negative outthe current investment policy. look remains from the previous year. Encumbered assets Our mix of covered and senior unsecured RATING 31 DECEMBER 2015 funding is determined in relation to our Standard balance sheet and by the composition of Moody’s & Poor’s our assets. Considering our business model, Long-term funding, SBAB A2 A 1) where our lending primarily consists of Long-term funding, SCBC Aaa – residential mortgages, it is natural for us to use covered bonds as our largest funding Short-term funding, SBAB P–1 A–1 tool. The limitations of our funding mix for 1) Outlook Negative. SBAB’s balance sheet include the current level of surplus collateral in the cover pool, Funding 59 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Risk is a natural element in our business. SBAB’s risk management function identifies, analyses and prevents various types of risks in our operations. Our risk taking is kept at a low level preportionate with our financial targets for return and the scope of risk capital. Risk taking primarily comprises of credit risk related to the lending operations. Risks in SBAB’s operations The CEO also ensures that the reporting Risk strategy Risk is defined as a potentially negative to the Board of Directors by each unit, For a bank, risk management is a central impact that may arise due to on-going including the risk control units, is conducted activity of fundamental significance for or future internal or external events. The on an on-going basis in accordance with long-term profitability and stability. Risk definition of risk includes the probability the relevant instructions to the Board of management is closely connected to a that an event occurs as well as the impact Directors. bank’s business and business development, the event might have on SBAB’s profit, The risk control units within Credit & and therefore also to the customers’ needs. operations and equity. We have classified Risk are responsible for the identification, In other words, SBAB’s profitability is the risks within the “SBAB’s risk appetite” quantification, analysis and reporting of directly dependent on its ability to assess, framework, which defines the risk we are all risks. The Chief Risk Officer (“CRO”) is manage and price risks while maintaining willing to take to achieve our business responsible for the independent risk control sufficient liquidity and capital standing objectives within the framework of our functions within Credit & Risk. The CRO is to withstand unforeseen events. We are chosen long-term strategy. All risks are subordinate to the CEO and reports to the to consciously expose ourselves only to monitored and reported to the Board of CEO and the Board of Directors of SBAB. risks that are directly connected to or are Directors, in addition to a daily risk report In SBAB’s risk management, roles and regarded as necessary for our business that monitors market and liquidity risks. responsibilities shall be divided in accordoperations. ance with the three lines of defence: The SBAB shall identify, measure, govern, Authority and responsibility Business that owns and manages risks in report internally and maintain control of The Board of Directors bears the overarday-to-day operations; Credit & Risk/ the risks to which we are or may become ching responsibility for the company’s total Compliance that governs, monitors and folexposed to. There shall be satisfactory risk exposure. The Board of Directors are lows up; and Internal Audit that assesses on internal control and a functioning and responsible for ensuring that the operations assignment from the Board of Directors. effective risk management system. We shall can be conducted with good internal conSBAB’s Corporate Governance Report have knowledge and awareness of any risks trol, so that our ability to meet our obligais an individual document that can be to which the bank may be exposed. We tions is not jeopardised. found on pages 62–67. Information on the shall also estimate the size of such existing The CEO is responsible for on-going company’s internal governance and control and potential risks. SBAB shall also have an administration in accordance with the system is provided on pages 66–67. independent function for risk control, which strategies, guidelines and governance docshall have the necessary skills and authority. uments adopted by the Board of Directors. 60 Risk management THIS PAGE IS PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB SBAB’S RISK APPETITE 2. Market risk Losses or a decline in future profitability due to market fluctuations. 1. Credit risk 3. Operational risk MARKET RISK The counterparty does not O Losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful ­fulfil its payment obligations. SK PE internal processes, human error, incorrect TI RA ­systems or external events, including legal risk. RI T DI O RE NA C LR IS K 8. Compliance 4. Capital targets CAPITAL TARGETS RETURN COMPLIANCE That SBAB does not comply with legislaThe levels adopted by the Board of tion, rules, ethical guidelines, good market ON Directors for regulatory capital. practices or other relevant regulations of operations requiring licences and thereEQUITY fore is affected by statements or sanctions by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, negative publicity in the media and/or reduced confidence from customL RA SK E VO AR ers and other stakeholders. TU RI C TY N LA IN RU DI TI GS ST UI LI TY LI Q 7. Structural liquidity risk SHORT-TERM 5. Earnings volatility LIQUIDITY RISK See Note 6. Short-term liquidity risk. Declining income due to deteriorating competitive conditions or an incorrect strategy or decision, including earnings volatility. 6. Short-term liquidity risk The inability to meet payment obligations on the date of maturity without the cost of obtaining payment funds increasing ­significantly. SBAB shall have a documented process The scope of acceptable risks must be As a rule, each business decision changes for the approval of new or significantly clearly linked to how important the prevailour exposure to various risk types over time. altered products, services, markets, proing risks are to SBAB’s business model. This SBAB’s risk control models are therefore cesses and IT-systems. The same process includes the positive effects anticipated designed so that individual business decialso covers major changes to the compato be achieved in the form of expected sions reflect the determined risk appetite, ny’s organisation and operations. revenues, cost savings or the mitigation of which means that business decisions should All significant risks shall be limited by the other risks. SBAB minimises undesired risks be based on a healthy balance between Board of Directors and be commensurate through appropriate functions, strategies, the estimated impact on earnings and with the pre-determined risk appetite. processes, procedures, internal rules, limits changes in risk exposure. and controls. Risk taking SBAB’s risk taking shall be kept at a level consistent with our short-term and longTHE THREE LINES OF DEFENCE term strategic, capital and financial plans. FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE An important part of our business model entails risks being relatively small and The business Risk and Credit Internal Audit predictable. This does not mean that each Compliance credit exposure has very low risk, rather that the total lending portfolio consists largely of low-risk loans, and that their internal risk effect is such that our total risk is limited. The basis for SBAB’s appetite for various types of risk is that each risk should fit within a well-defined segment of our risk-bearing capacity. Risk-bearing capacity primarily refers to the capacity to cover expected Owns and manages Assesses on ­assignment and unexpected losses by means of our risks in day-to-day Governs, controls from the Board of on-going earnings capacity and own funds. ­operations. and follows up. ­Directors. Risk management 61 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2015 SBAB is a Swedish public limited banking company that is wholly-owned by the ­Swedish state. SBAB is domiciled in Solna. SBAB’s is governed through g ­ eneral shareholder meetings, the Board of Directors and the CEO in accordance with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and policies and instructions adopted by SBAB. The Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the regulations regarding corporate governance reports in the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the “Code”, and the Annual Accounts Act. This Corporate Governance Report has Annual General Meeting and have is to appoint the Chairman of the Board been subject to a statutory review by the matters included in the agenda for the and determine the minimum and maximum Company’s auditor. Annual General Meeting. In companies number of Board Members. It is further entirely owned by the Swedish state, in stated that if the Chairman of the Board The basics of SBAB’s corporate accordance with the owner’s guidelines, resigns from his or her office during the ­governance the public shall be invited to attend the mandate period, the Board shall appoint Well-functioning corporate governance, Annual General Meeting. As a summons is one of the Board Members as the new risk management and internal governance sent to the Administration of the Swedish Chairman until the end of the Annual Genare essential for SBAB to reach set targets Riksdag (parliament) Members of Parliaeral Meeting, when a new Chairman will be and gain the confidence of all its stakeholdment also have the opportunity to attend. elected by the Annual General Meeting. ers. In addition to corporate governance in • Code rules 1.4 and 2 – establishment The Articles of Association require that notithe traditional sense, which describes the of a Nomination Committee responsible fication of an Extraordinary General Meetsystem by which a company is governed for matters such as the appointment and ing convened to address amendments to the and controlled, SBAB’s vision, mission, remuneration of the Board of Directors Articles of Association must be issued not business idea and values, information and auditor. The reason for the deviaearlier than six weeks and not later than four transparency, corporate culture, leadertion is that nomination matters in stateweeks prior to the meeting. SBAB’s Articles ship and the fact that the operations are owned companies are handled by the of Association do not assign any limitations conducted in a manner that is sustainable Government in the manner described in as to the number of votes each shareholder in the long-term constitute highly essential the state’s ownership policy. is entitled to exercise at a General Meeting. elements. Together with corporate govern• Code rules 2.6, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 10.2 ance, these allow us to maintain great con– information to be provided concerning A General meeting fidence in SBAB’s operations. Confidence the independence of Board Members SBAB’s Annual General Meeting was held forms the basis of all banking operations. in relation to major shareholders. No on 22 April 2015. The Annual General such information is provided since the Meeting was open and the Members of ParApplication primary objective of the Code rules in liament and the general public were invited In certain issues, SBAB has chosen to apply question is to protect minority shareto attend. The owner was represented by the Code in a manner that deviates from holders in companies with dispersed Christine Leandersson, the Ministry of Entersome of the rules in the Code. The reasons ownership. Consequently, there is no prise and Innovation. Most of SBAB’s Board for this include SBAB being a entirely statereason for such information concerning Members, the CEO and SBAB’s auditor owned company. independence to be disclosed in entirely also attended the Annual General Meeting. state-owned companies. Bo Magnusson, Chairman of the Board of Based on this ownership structure, deviSBAB, served as the Chairman of the Annual ations have occurred from the following Articles of Association General Meeting. The Meeting re-elected Code rules: SBAB’s Articles of Association regulate Board Members Bo Magnusson (who was • Code rule 1.1 – publication of informatters such as the company’s business also elected Chairman), Jakob Grinbaum mation regarding the shareholders’ objective. The Articles of Association do (who was also elected Vice Chairman), Lars right to propose business at the Annual not include any stipulations regulating the Börjesson, Kristina Ekengren, Ebba Lindsö, General Meeting. The purpose of this appointment or dismissal of Board MemJane Lundgren-Ericsson and Karin Moberg. rule is to give shareholders the opporbers, with the exception of stipulations Carl-Henrik Borg was elected as a new tunity to prepare ahead of time for the stating that the Annual General Meeting Board Member. 62 Corporate Governance Report Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB OVERVIEW AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 J A EXTERNAL AUDITOR GENERAL MEETING The auditor examines the Annual The General Meeting is SBAB’s highest governing Report, the consolidated financial body where the shareholder exercises its statements and the accounting ­decision-making authority. records, as well as the Board’s and the CEO’s administration of the Company. B BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for SBAB’s organisation and management. C AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE D E RISK AND CAPITAL F REMUNERATION CREDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The Audit and Compliance The Credit Committee’s principal The Risk and Capital Committee’s The Remuneration Committee’s ­Committee’s principal task is to task is to decide on loans and principal task is to prepare issues main task is to prepare motions examine SBAB’s governance, credit limits. within the risk and capital area. regarding principles for remunerainternal control and financial tion and other employment terms ­information. and conditions for senior management. G CEO 1) H The CEO is responsible for the I COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDIT on-going management of the operations of SBAB. Compliance follows up that the Internal Audit is SBAB’s operations are conducted in comIndependent review function. pliance with laws and regulations. SUSTAINABLE HR 1) LEGAL 1) CREDIT & RISK 1) ­BUSINESS Risk Control, which for organisational purposes is a part of Credit & Risk, ­analyses and controls CORPORATE CLIENT SBAB’s overall risks. ACCOUNTING & RETAIL AND TENANT-OWNER OPERATIONS 1) IT 1) FINANCE 1) ASSOCIATIONS 1) Retail market 1) Partner market 1) 1) Member of the Executive Committee. The Head of Retail Market is also the Head of Communication & Business Development. The Annual General Meeting passed The Meeting also decided on the fees to be B Board of Directors resolutions regarding the discharge from paid to the Members of the Board. No fees Composition and nomination procedure liability for the Board of Directors and the will be paid to Board Members who are In entirely state-owned companies, uniCEO, the appropriation of profits and the either employed by Government Offices or form and shared principles are applied to adoption of the annual accounts for 2014. are employee representatives. The CEO achieve a structured nomination process The Annual General Meeting elected and Chairman reported on the operations for the appointment of Board Members in KPMG AB, with Hans Åkervall as the audiof the bank and the work of the Board of state-owned companies. The objective is tor-in-charge, as SBAB’s auditor until the Directors in 2014. Due to the company’s to ensure an adequate supply of compeclose of the 2016 Annual General Meeting. imminent relocation to new premises, the tence for the Boards of Directors of these The Annual General Meeting reviewed Board of Decision resolved to change the companies. The Board nomination process the guidelines for remuneration to senior company’s domicile in the Articles of Assois coordinated by the Ministry of Enterexecutives adopted by the 2014 Annual ciation to Solna. The General Meeting of prise and Innovation. For each company, General Meeting, see Note 8 for details of SBAB did not authorise the Board of Direccompetence needs are analysed on the the guidelines, and adopted new guidetors to issue new shares or acquire treasury basis of the company’s business, situalines for remuneration to senior executives. shares. tion and future challenges, as well as the Corporate Governance Report 63 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 composition of the Board of Directors and Annual General Meeting. The Chairman The formal work plan regulates decision-­ the Board assessments that have been conof the Board leads the work of the Board making within SBAB, the arrangements ducted. Recruitment requirements are then of ­Directors, monitors that the Board confor Board meetings and the division of established and work commences. Members ducts its duties, represents the Board in any work among the Board, the Chairman of are selected from a broad recruitment dealings with the owner and maintains conthe Board and the Board committees. The base in order to draw on the expertise of tact with the owner. The Chairman of the work of the Board complies with an annual both women and men, as well as individuals Board is also responsible for initiating the plan that satisfies the Board’s need for with different backgrounds and experience. annual evaluation of the work of the Board information among other things. SBAB’s and the CEO. The Chairman of the Board Board makes decisions on matters relating Diversity and suitability policies ensures that the Board receives adequate SBAB’s strategic direction, for example The Board has adopted a policy on diverinformation and decision-making docuby means of a business plan, and makes sity in the Board and a policy on suitability mentation for its work and the training necdecisions regarding investment, financing, assessments for Board Members, the CEO essary for the Board to function efficiently. ­capitalisation, significant organisational and senior executives. The diversity policy issues, policies, and certain guidelines. includes statements to the effect that the Board governance and activities On a quarterly basis, the Board composition of the Board shall be such that SBAB’s Board of Directors comprises of addresses the company’s interim reports a balance is achieved with regard to backeight members elected by the Annual Genand determines their adoption and publiground, area of competence, experience eral Meeting and two members appointed cation. The Board also follows up SBAB’s and gender. The suitability policy states by the Financial Sector Union of Sweden. risks, compliance, and reports on the that the suitability of the Board, the CEO The CEO is not a member of the Board. effectiveness of internal control within and the senior executives shall be assessed None of the board members or the CEO SBAB by means of reports provided by taking into account the individual’s skills, hold shares or financial instruments issued SBAB’s independent Risk Control, Compliexperience, reputation and judgment. by SCBC. ance and Internal Audit units. The Board The Board adopts business objectives also receives reports from SBAB’s auditor Chairman of the Board and strategies for SBAB’s operations. The regarding the reporting of completed The Chairman of the Board is elected by Board ensures that an efficient system audits and financial reporting assessments. the Annual General Meeting, unless he is in place for the follow-up and control The CEO attends the meetings of the or she resigns from his or her office durof SBAB’s operations. The Board is also Board of Directors, and other SBAB officers ing the mandate period, in which case assigned with appointing, evaluating and, may participate in a reporting role if necthe Board shall appoint one of the Board if the need arises, dismissing the CEO. The essary. SBAB’s Chief Legal Counsel keeps Members as the new Chairman until the work of the Board complies with the formal the minutes of the Board meetings. The end of the Annual General Meeting when work plan adopted annually at the Board of Board has established committees for the a new Chairman will be elected in the Directors’ statutory Board meeting immepreparation of certain issues that are to be diately after the Annual General Meeting. addressed. WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2015 In 2015, the Board of Directors held The Annual Report and Sustainability Report for 2014, Extraordinary board meeting ten board meetings, of which eight matters prior to SBAB’s Annual General Meeting, Resolutions regarding authorisations were regular board meetings and two decisions regarding SBAB’s internal capital adequacy for capital transactions and organiwere extra­ordinary board meetings. assessment, presentation and information from the sational and management matters. It also held a sustainability day. credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE Performance in 2014 and adoption of Statutory board meeting, resolutions regarding Discussions regarding values/culture, the year-end report, reporting from ­governance documents and statutory matters, peradoption of an HR strategy, review of the Compliance, Risk Control, Internal Audit, formance in the first quarter of 2015 and adoption brand platform and IT strategy. In June, adoption of a code of conduct, resolution of the interim report, the control functions’ reports the Board also held a special meeting regarding the assumptions for the internal for the first quarter, a review of the inventory of conaimed at sustainability issues, to make capital adequacy assessment. On this flicts of interest, information on proposed changes the Board’s work on the matter more occasion, the auditor also reported on the of the standardised approach to credit risk. ­profound. review of the end-of-year accounts. 64 Corporate Governance Report Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB ATTENDANCE OF THE BOARD Audit and OF DIRECTORS IN 2015 Board of Credit Risk and Capital ­Compliance Remuneration Board Members ­Directors ­ ommittee C Committee Committee Committee The table presents the Bo Magnusson 10/10 19/19 – 6/6 8/8 meeting attendance of the Jakob Grinbaum 10/10 18/19 6/6 – – Board and its committees Carl-Henrik Borg 8/10 – – – – in 2015 by those who were Lars Börjesson 10/10 – – – – Members of the Board as of Kristina Ekengren 10/10 – – 6/6 8/8 31 December 2015. One member, Carl-Henrik Borg, Anders Heder 8/10 – – – – joined the Board of DirecEbba Lindsö 9/10 – 6/6 – – tors during the year, so his Jane Lundgren-Ericsson 10/10 16/19 6/6 – – attendance refers to part of Karin Moberg 9/10 – – 6/6 – the year. Helen Vallin 10/10 – – – – The Board’s committees Committee is also responsible for monitorCommittee in preparation for decisions or The Board has established the following ing financial statements and the efficiency for presentation to the Board of Directors. committees to prepare matters prior to the of risk management and of the work carried The Audit and Compliance Committee Board's decisions. out by Compliance and Internal Audit. comprises of three Board Members. FollowThe Audit and Compliance Committee is ing the statutory Board meeting in 2015, C Audit and Compliance Committee responsible for evaluating external auditing the members of the Audit and Compliance The main task of the Audit and Compliwork, informing the owner of the results Committee are: ance Committee is to examine the SBAB of this work and assisting in the drafting of • Karin Moberg (Chairperson) Group’s governance, internal controls proposals for auditors. The Audit and Com• Kristina Ekengren and financial information and to prepare pliance Committee is also to review and • Bo Magnusson issues in these areas for decisions by the monitor the auditor’s impartiality and indeBoard. This is done at the request of the pendence. Annual plans and reports from The Audit and Compliance Committee owner and on the basis of the applicable Internal Audit and Compliance are also held six meetings during the year. regulations. The Audit and Compliance addressed by the Audit and Compliance Performance in the second quarter and Performance in the third ­quarter, Extraordinary board meeting adoption of the interim report, reportadoption of the interim report, Resolution regarding the strategic direction of SBAB’s ing from Compliance and Internal reporting from Compliance, Risk partnership business (residential mortgages mediated to Audit. The auditor’s review of the Control and Internal Audit. SBAB by cooperative p ­ artners) and a resolution regard­second quarter accounts. ing the acquisition of Booli Search Technologies AB. JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Adoption of an IT strategy, review Adoption of the 2016 business plan and budget, adoption of annual plans of business area statuses and stratfor the control functions, resolution regarding changed capital targets for egies, resolution regarding the SBAB, review and discussion regarding an evaluation of the Board’s work. brand platform, review of the The evaluation was conducted with the assistance of an external party by macro economy, review of risk conway of a questionnaire that was then compiled, the result of which was distrol and the conditions for the 2016 cussed by the Board at the board meetings in December and February business plan. 2016. On the same occasion, the Board of Directors resolved on measures arising from the evaluation. Corporate Governance Report 65 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 D Credit Committee employment terms and conditions for senand has a certain scope to make decisions The principal task of the Credit Committee ior executives for resolution by the Board. on matters connected to SBAB’s credit is to decide on loans and credit limits in The Remuneration Committee also preoperations and limits for the financial operSBAB’s lending and funding operations. pares matters pertaining to SBAB’s remuations, and the Forum for Matters of PrinThe Credit Committee also has the task neration system ahead of Board decisions. ciple coordinates and makes proposals on of preparing matters involving changes in The Remuneration Committee follows up the Group’s more important standpoints. the credit policy and credit instructions for remuneration structures and remuneration decision by the Board, the assessment of levels within SBAB. Governance of sustainable business portfolio strategies, the transparency of the Within SBAB, the Board of Directors is loan portfolio, the evaluation of existing or Following the statutory Board meeting in ultimately responsible for ensuring that proposed portfolio strategies, the evalua2015, the members of the Remuneration proactive, long-term efforts to achieve tion of existing or new delegation rights and Committee are: sustainable development are carried out the Board’s annual review of regulatory • Bo Magnusson (Chairman) within the company. The Board also adopts frameworks, models for granting credits • Kristina Ekengren a strategy, objectives and a policy for susand outcomes in terms of retail credit tainable business. Furthermore, the Board granting. The Credit Committee prepares The Remuneration Committee held eight monitors and assesses SBAB’s sustainability all matters relating to credit risk and meetings during the year. work. approves new IRB models and significant The Sustainable Business function changes to existing models. G CEO and Executive Management is responsible for developing a compaThe Credit Committee consists of at least The Board has formulated instructions for ny-wide sustainability plan, including a three Board Members. the CEO’s work. The CEO is responsible for strategy, objectives and activities that the on-going management of the operaare subsequently considered by the SusFollowing the statutory Board meeting in tions in accordance with guidelines, estabtainability Council and approved by the 2015, the members of the Remuneration lished policies and instructions issued by Executive Management. The Sustainability Committee are: the Board. The CEO reports to the Board. Council comprises of the CEO, the Head • Bo Magnusson (Chairman) Executive Management provides the CEO of Sustainable Business (who convenes • Jakob Grinbaum with support in exercising operational manthe meetings), the Head of Retail Market/ • Jane Lundgren-Ericsson agement of SBAB. Communication & Business Development In addition to the CEO, the following and the Head of Corporate Clients and The Remuneration Committee held positions are included in SBAB’s ExecTenant-owner Associations. The Council 19 meetings during the year. utive Management: The heads of IT, meets regularly and acts as a forum for economics & finance, legal, credit & risk, issues related to sustainable business. E Risk and Capital Committee retail market/communication & business To ensure continuity and comparability, The Risk and Capital Committee prepares development, partner market, operations the company-wide objectives for sustainmatters concerning SBAB’s finance operand corporate clients and tenant-owner able business are fully integrated into the ations, matters related to risk and capital associations. Company’s governance model. The objecand the use of new financial instruments. tives are measured and reported to the The committee also prepares issues for resThe CEO’s councils and committees CEO and the Board quarterly. The actual olution by the Board of Directors concernThe CEO has appointed a number of work on sustainability issues take place ing objectives, strategies and control doccouncils and committees within SBAB to within the organisation, where the operuments within the areas of risk and capital. support him in his work on the management ation-specific expertise exists. Based on The Risk and Capital Committee comprises of the operations. These are tasked with the company-wide objectives, operational of at least three members appointed by preparing issues for the CEO, either prior objectives and activities are identified the Board. The Risk and Capital Committo his decisions or his recommendations on and integrated into the business plans of tee is the statutory Risk Committee of the matters to be determined by the Board. each unit, thereby contributing to meeting SBAB Group. The members of the Risk and These established councils and committees the overarching objectives for sustainable Capital Committee following the statutory are the Marketing Council, the Price Counbusiness. meeting in 2015 are: cil, the Sustainability Council, ALCO (i.e. • Jakob Grinbaum (Chairman) the Asset and Liability Committee), the Remuneration of Board of Directors and • Ebba Lindsö Credit Council and the Forum for Matters senior executives • Jane Lundgren-Ericsson of Principle. The Marketing Council preInformation regarding the remuneration pares marketing-related matters, the Price of the Board, the CEO and Executive The Risk and Capital Committee held six Council prepares matters related to the Management is presented in Note 8 to the meetings during the year. pricing of SBAB’s products, the Sustainabilannual accounts. ity Council prepares and coordinates issues F Remuneration Committee related to sustainability, ALCO prepares Internal control and governance The principal task of the Remuneration major issues related to the Group’s finanInternal control is important for ensuring Committee is to prepare issues regarding cial operations, balance sheet risks and that SBAB’s operations are conducted in principles for remuneration and other capital issues, the Credit Council prepares accordance with prevailing regulations, as 66 Corporate Governance Report Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB well as ensuring that SBAB identifies, measthe CEO and quarterly by means of a writSustainability Report and the Communicaures and controls relevant risks and has ten report to the Board and the CEO. The tion on Progress (“COP”). an efficient organisation and operational scope and focus of the work of Compliance management, and reliable financial reportis established in an annual plan adopted by Internal Control of Financial Reporting ing. The Board and the CEO are ultimately the Board. In SBAB, the internal control of financial responsible for ensuring good internal reporting is primarily aimed at ensuring control and governance. The Board and I Internal Audit that an effective and reliable procedure for the CEO of SBAB are assisted in this work SBAB’s Internal Audit unit constitutes an SBAB’s financial reporting is in place, and by several functions. Key control functions internal independent examination functhat both internal and external reporting is in this regard are the Compliance, Risk tion. Accordingly, the main function of the correct and accurate. Control and Internal Audit functions, which Internal Audit is to examine and evaluate are described in further detail below. Other the governance and internal controls of The control environment functions, including Accounting, Credit SBAB Group companies. The Internal The internal control of financial reporting and Legal, support of the Board and the Audit’s examination activities are peruses SBAB’s values, organisational strucCEO with regard to good internal governformed in accordance with an audit plan ture, policies, instructions and directions ance and control. All managers in each that is prepared annually by the Audit and for SBAB’s operations as its starting point. area of responsibility are responsible for Compliance Committee and adopted by the activities they oversee being conducted the Board. All reporting is conducted in Control activities with good internal governance and control. accordance with a reporting and meeting Business-support processes that provide plan. data for the financial statements are Risk Control charted and contain control activities The SBAB Group has a central Risk Control J External auditor in the form of descriptions of processes, department with overall responsibility for The Annual General Meeting appoints reasonability assessments, reconciliations, developing and ensuring that risk-taking auditors. SBAB’s Audit and Compliance attestations and performance analyses. An strategies are conducted in accordance Committee evaluates the contribution of internal set of rules, including accounting with the Board’s aspirations, and that the auditor and assists the owner in preparpolicies and reporting procedures, ensures policies and processes facilitate relevant ing motions for the auditor. Officials at the the application of control activities. follow-up. Risk Control is responsible for the Government Offices monitor all stages of The Board’s Audit and Compliance identification, quantification, analysis and the procurement process from tendering Committee supervises the financial reportreporting of all risks. The CRO is responcriteria to selection and evaluation. At ing as well as the effectiveness of internal sible for Risk Control. The CRO is directly the Annual General Meeting, the owner control and internal audit. subordinate to the CEO and reports to the appoints the auditor or the accounting firm Board and CEO of SBAB. Risk Control is to that is commissioned to audit SBAB. AudiInformation and communication ensure that risk awareness and acceptance tors must be authorised public accountants The Economy and Finance unit ensures that are sufficient to be able to manage risks on or an authorised accounting firm with an the instructions on accounting and finana daily basis. Risk Control shall also have a auditor-in-charge. As of 2011, SBAB’s cial reporting are updated, communicated supportive role and work to ensure that the auditor is appointed annually in accordand made available for the units that need operations have the procedures, systems ance with the Companies Act and the Artithem for their work. The instructions are and tools required to maintain the daily cles of Association. The 2015 Annual Genalso available on SBAB’s intranet. management of risks, thereby ensuring that eral Meeting appointed KPMG as auditor. SBAB’s operations comply with applicaHans Åkervall was the auditor-in-charge Follow-up ble laws and regulations in the sphere of until November 2015; thereafter, Anders Each year, a risk assessment is performed responsibility of risk control. Tagde held this role. A more detailed in the form of a self-evaluation of all busipresentation of the auditor, the auditorness-support processes that provide data H Compliance in-charge and the fees and expenses paid for the financial statements. SBAB has a central Compliance function. to auditors is provided in Note 9 of the The Compliance function’s area of responAnnual Report. The auditor examines the The Board’s measures to follow up on the sibility comprises rules on internal governAnnual Report, the consolidated financial internal control of financial reporting ance and control, customer protection, statements and the accounting records, as The Board’s measures to follow up on market conduct and measures preventing well as the Board’s and the CEO’s adminthe internal control of financial reporting money laundering and the financing of istration of the Company. In addition, the include the Board’s regular follow-up of terrorism. Compliance is independent of auditor reviews SBAB’s interim reports and SBAB’s finances and performance, key the business operations and is directly subyear-end reports and presents his findings ratios, etc., but also include the Board’s ordinate to the CEO. Compliance provides to the Audit and Compliance Committee at review and ­follow-up on the auditor’s advice and support to the operations on regular meetings of the committee, when review reports. compliance matters, analyses compliance the interim and year-end reports reviewed risks and monitors regulatory compliance by the auditor are considered, and when in respect of operations requiring licences. the internal control review is reported to Reporting occurs on an on-going basis to the Board. The auditor also reviews the Corporate Governance Report 67 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 BOARD OF DIRECTORS JAKOB GRINBAUM KRISTINA EKENGREN Deputy Chairman of the Board Board Member Bachelor of Arts. Born in 1949. Elected in 2010. M.Sc. Business Administration and Economics. Board assignments: Oscar Properties Holding AB Born in 1969. Elected in 2013. (Chairman), Fourth AP fund (Deputy Chairman), Board assignments: Jernhusen AB, Teracom Boxer Swedish Covered Bond Corporation, the foundation Group AB and V.S. Visit Sweden AB. Stiftelsen Östgötagården Uppsala, the sport club IK Other appointments: Under-secretary at the Ministry Sirius, J Grinbaum Finanskonsult and Jernhusen AB. of Enterprise and Innovation. Other appointments: Advisory Board of Genesta Past experience: Financial analyst Delphi Economics. Property Nordic AB. Past experience: Executive Vice President, Group Treasury and Group Corporate Development at Nordea. BO MAGNUSSON Chairman of the Board Advanced bank training (SEB). Born in 1962. Elected in 2013. Board assignments: Carnegie Investment Bank and Carnegie Holding, Fastighets­aktiebolaget ­Norrporten and NS Holding AB, Swedish ­Covered Bond Corporation, Chairman in all of the above-mentioned companies. Other appointments: – Past experience: Deputy CEO at SEB and other senior positions within SEB. LARS BÖRJESSON Board Member CARL-HENRIK BORG Master of Engineering. Born in 1964. Elected in 2014. Board Member Board assignments: Taggsvampen. Master of Law. Born in 1952. Elected in 2015. Other appointments: Self employed. Board assignments: Lägenhetsbyte Sverige AB (Chairman), Chiffer Media AB (Chairman) and CABO consulting AB. Past experience: CEO of Stena Technoworld, Director of Strategy and Business Development Other appointments: Self employed and digital advisor. Stena metall, Senior partner of Accenture, including Past experience: CEO of Hemnet, founder/senior partner Managing Director of Accenture Management of Webanalys Sitesfaction AB (iProspect AB). ­Consulting Nordic. 68 Board of Directors Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB KARIN MOBERG EBBA LINDSÖ Board Member Board Member Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Born in 1963. Elected in 2009. Born in 1955. Elected in 2012. Board assignments: FriendsOfAdam AB, Doro AB Board assignments: Sixth AP fund (Chairman), (publ), Caretech Nordic AB. the Federation of Swedish Farmers, Burenstam & Other appointments: CEO Friends of Adam. Partners, Lindsö & Partners, Aktiebolag Veritas and Medica Clinical Nord Holding AB. Past experience: Board Member of IAR AB, Seventh AP fund, Chairman of Caretech AB, management positions Other appointments: Senior Advisor to ­Brummer & within the Telia-Sonera group for 14 years, including CEO Partners, Board Member of King Carl XVI ­Gustaf’s of Telia e-bolaget and Director of Communications. Young Leadership Foundation and Statistic ­Sweden’s Advisory Council. Past experience: CEO Respect Europe, CEO ­Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, CEO and editor in chief TT, editor in chief Affärsvärlden, CEO Transferator Fondkommission. ANDERS HEDER Board Member (Employee Representative) Born in 1962. Appointed in 2012 by the Financial Sector Union of Sweden. HELEN VALLIN Board assignments: – Board Member (Employee Representative) Other appointments: Business Controller, SBAB, Treasurer in the local club committee of the FinanBorn in 1979. Appointed in 2013 by the local cial Sector Union of Sweden. ­chapter of the Financial Sector Union of Sweden. JANE LUNDGREN-ERICSSON Board assignments: – Board Member Other appointments: Key Account Manager, Master of Law, LL.M (London). Born in 1965. SBAB. Chairman of the local club committee of the Elected in 2013. ­Financial Sector Union of Sweden. Board assignments: – Other appointments: Executive Director & Head of Lending at Svensk Exportkredit. Past experience: CEO of SEK Securities and other senior positions at Svensk Exportkredit AB. Board of Directors 69 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT As of 10/03/2016 CARINA ERIKSSON MIKAEL INGLANDER Head of HR CFO Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Born in 1965. Year of employment: 2015. Born in 1963. Year of employment: 2014. Board assignments: – Board assignments: Board Member of Booli Search Past experience: Scandinavian HR Business Part­Technologies AB and HittaMäklare Sverige AB. ner Lead, Trygg Hansa/Codan; Scandinavian HR Past experience: CEO of Lindorff Sverige AB, Executive Vice Director Personal Lines, Trygg Hansa/Codan; HR President and CFO of Swedbank AB, Regional Manager and Director, Microsoft Sweden; COO, Deutsche Bank Executive Vice President of FöreningsSparbanken AB, Board Nordic Equities. member of ICA Banken, OK-Q8 Bank AB, HansaBank Group AS, and others. KLAS DANIELSSON CEO Bachelor of Social Sciences Business Administration Born in 1963. Year of employment: 2014. Board assignments: Board Member of Swedish Covered Bond Corporation and DE Capital, Chairman of Booli Search Technologies AB and ­HittaMäklare Sverige AB. Past experience: Founder and CEO of Nordnet AB (publ) and Nordnet Bank AB, Head of Trading at SBC Warburg AB, Chairman of SwedSec Licensiering AB, Board Member of Ikano Bank AB, East Capital AB, the Swedish Consumers’ Banking and Finance Bureau, Alternativa Aktiemarknaden AB, the Swedish Securities Dealers Association, and others. CHRISTINE EHNSTRÖM ELIZABET JÖNSSON Chief Legal Counsel Head of Retail Market and Head of Communications Master of Law. Born in 1973. Year of employment: & Business Development 1999. Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Board assignments: Board Member of Maricon Born in 1976. Year of employment: 2015. Marinconsult AB’s Pension Fund, Deputy Board Board assignments: Board Member of Miljonlotteriet, Member of Maricon Marinconsult AB. Booli Search Technologies AB and HittaMäklare Past experience: Legal Counsel at Volvo Treasury Sverige AB. AB (publ). Past experience: Head of Digital Consumer Market, Tele2 Sverige, Head of Customer Loyalty and Market Analysis, Head of Sales Online and other positions within Svenska Spel. 70 Executive management and auditor Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB DANIEL LJUNGEL TIM PETTERSSON Head of Partner Market Head of Corporate and Tenant-owner Market Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. Post-secondary school education – economics. Born in 1975. Year of employment: 2015 Born in 1960. Year of employment: 2002. Board assignments: Board Member of Booli Search Board assignments: – Technologies AB and HittaMäklare Sverige AB. Past experience: Office and Area Manager, Past experience: Sales Manager at East Capital, ­Swedbank, Head of Sales, Corporate Clients Head of Funds at Nordnet. and Tenant-owner Associations, SBAB. PETER SVENSÉN CRO Master of Engineering. Born in 1974. Year of employment: 2012. Board assignments: – Past experience: Senior Job Manager at Oliver Wyman, Manager at KPMG Financial Services. BROR-GÖRAN PETTERSSON AUDITOR COO The 2015 Annual General Meeting appointed Bachelor of Business Administration and Economics. KPMG as auditor. Hans Åkervall was the auditor-­­ Born in 1970. Year of employment: 1993. in-charge until November 2015; thereafter, Anders Tagde held this role. Board assignments: – Past experience: Managerial positions in various groups within SBAB since 1998; acting Head of Anders Tagde Retail Market, Head of Credit at Frispar Bolån, KPMG AB KLAS LJUNGKVIST Department Head of Backoffice, etc. Auditor-in-charge at SBAB since 2015. Born: 1966. CIO Master of Engineering, Born in 1966. Year of employment: 2016. Board assignments: – Past experience: CTO of Nordnet, various ­managerial positions within Abaris. Executive management and auditor 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement 73 Statement of comprehensive income 73 Balance sheet 74 Statement of changes in equity  75 Cash flow statement 76 FINANCIAL NOTES Note 1 Accounting policies 77 Note 15 Lending to the public 106 Note 2 Risk management and capital adequacy 81 Note 16 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 107 Note 2a Risk management – Credit risk in lending Note 17 Derivative instruments 108 operations 81 Note 18 Shares and participations 109 Note 2b Risk management – Credit risk in treasury Note 19 Shares and participations in joint ventures 109 operations 85 Note 20 Shares and participations in Group companies 109 Note 2c Risk management – Liquidity risk 87 Note 2d Risk management – Market risk 90 Note 21 Intangible fixed assets 109 Note 2e Risk management – Operational risk 92 Note 22 Property, plant and equipment 110 Note 2f Risk management – Business risk 92 Note 23 Other assets 110 Note 2g Risk management – Concentration risk 92 Note 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 110 Note 2h Risk management – Internal capital adequacy Note 25 Liabilities to credit institutions 110 assessment  93 Note 26 Deposits from the public 110 Note 2i Risk management – Capital adequacy Note 27 Debt securities in issue, etc. 110 analysis 94 Note 28 Other liabilities  111 Note 3 Net interest income/expense 100 Note 29 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 111 Note 4 Dividends received 100 Note 30 Deferred tax 111 Note 5 Commission 100 Note 31 Provisions 111 Note 6 Net income/expense from financial Note 32 Subordinated debt 113 instruments measured at fair value/ Net income/expense from financial Note 33 Equity 114 transactions 100 Note 34 Assets pledged for own liabilities 114 Note 7 Other operating income 100 Note 35 Commitments 114 Note 8 Personnel costs 101 Note 36 Classification of financial instruments 115 Note 9 Other expenses 104 Note 37 Information about fair value 119 Note 10 Depreciation of property, plant and Note 38 Information about offsetting 120 equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets 104 Note 39 Information about related parties 122 Note 11 Loan losses, net  104 Note 40 Operating segments 124 Note 12 Tax 105 Note 41 Five-year overview 125 Note 13 Chargeable treasury bills and other Note 42 Events after the balance sheet date 125 eligible bills  105 Note 14 Lending to credit institutions 105 72 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB INCOME STATEMENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest income 3 5,123 7,261 1,419 2,758 Interest expenses 3 –2,681 –5,150 –1,258 –2,423 Net interest income 2,442 2,111 161 335 Dividends received 4 – – – 20 Commission income 5 61 47 82 55 Commission expense 5 –163 –157 –79 –73 Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value/Net income/expense from financial transactions 6 1 620 –76 300 Other operating income 7 0 0 625 822 Total operating income 2,341 2,621 713 1,459 Personnel costs 8 –376 –414 –379 –424 Other expenses 9 –402 –434 –409 –454 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets 10 –31 –160 –22 –22 Total expenses before loan losses –809 –1,008 –810 –900 Profit/loss before loan losses 1,532 1,613 –97 559 Loan losses, net 11 –40 30 –51 1 Participations in joint ventures – 1 – – Operating profit/loss 1,492 1,644 –148 560 Tax 12 –330 –388 31 –153 Profit for the year 1,162 1,256 –117 407 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 Profit for the year 1,162 1,256 –117 407 Other comprehensive income Components that have been or will be reallocated to the income statement 33 Change in reclassified financial assets, before tax – 32 – 32 Change relating to available-for-sale financial assets, before tax –7 –5 –7 –5 Changes related to cash flow hedges, before tax 175 128 –6 – Tax attributable to components that have or will be reallocated to the income statement –37 –36 3 –8 Components that have not or will be reallocated to the income statement 33 Revaluation effects of defined benefit pension plans, before tax 72 –71 – – Tax attributable to components that have not been or will be reallocated to the income statement –16 16 – – Other comprehensive income, net after tax 187 64 –10 19 Total comprehensive income for the year 1,349 1,320 –127 426 Financial statements 73 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT BALANCE SHEET GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million Note 2015 2014 2015 2014 ASSETS Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 13 14,312 15,557 14,312 15,557 Lending to credit institutions 14 3,456 7,437 17,162 35,823 Lending to the public 15 296,981 261,445 81,207 43,866 Change in value of interest-rate-hedged items in portfolio hedges 549 937 5 11 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 16 49,714 42,335 49,714 42,335 Derivative instruments 17 7,192 9,408 6,430 7,800 Shares and participations 18 – 253 – 253 Shares and participations in Group companies 20 – – 10,300 10,300 Deferred tax assets 30 – 104 52 18 Intangible fixed assets 21 56 52 13 13 Property, plant and equipment 22 20 27 20 27 Other assets 23 1,246 461 554 138 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 1,026 969 904 794 TOTAL ASSETS 374,552 338,985 180,673 156,935 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 25 5,111 7,284 2,973 3,250 Deposits from the public 26 76,639 60,610 76,639 60,610 Debt securities in issue 27 264,205 243,168 76,925 68,182 Derivative instruments 17 5,194 7,263 6,778 9,103 Other liabilities 28 783 424 773 407 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 29 2,767 3,200 569 735 Deferred tax liabilities 30 47 – – – Provisions 31 15 89 – – Subordinated debt 32 7,943 5,946 7,943 5,946 Total liabilities 362,704 327,984 172,600 148,233 Equity Share capital 33 1,958 1,958 1,958 1,958 Statutory reserve – – 392 392 Reserves/Fair value reserve 33 264 77 –14 –4 Retained earnings 8,464 7,710 5,854 5,949 Profit for the year 1,162 1,256 –117 407 Total equity 11,848 11,001 8,073 8,702 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 374,552 338,985 180,673 156,935 Memorandum items Assets pledged for own liabilities 34 211,435 211,674 15 23 Commitments 35 47,949 39,458 80,772 79,152 74 Financial statements THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY RESTRICTED EQUITY NON-RESTRICTED EQUITY GROUP Retained earnings and profit for the SEK million Note Share capital Reserves year Total equity OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2014 1,958 13 7,710 9,681 Other comprehensive income, net after tax 33 64 64 Profit for the year 1,256 1,256 Total comprehensive income for the year 64 1,256 1,320 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2014 1,958 77 8,966 11,001 OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2015 1,958 77 8,966 11,001 Dividends paid 33 –502 –502 Other comprehensive income, net after tax 187 187 Profit for the year 1,162 1,162 Total comprehensive income for the year 187 1,162 1,349 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 1,958 264 9,626 11,848 PARENT COMPANY RESTRICTED EQUITY NON-RESTRICTED EQUITY Retained earnings Statutory and profit for the SEK million Note Share capital reserve Fair value reserve year Total equity OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2014 1,958 392 –23 5,949 8,276 Other comprehensive income, net after tax 33 19 19 Profit for the year 407 407 Total comprehensive income for the year 19 407 426 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2014 1,958 392 –4 6,356 8,702 OPENING BALANCE, 1 JANUARY 2015 1,958 392 –4 6,356 8,702 Dividends paid 33 –502 –502 Other comprehensive income, net after tax –10 –10 Profit for the year –117 –117 Total comprehensive income for the year –10 –117 –127 CLOSING BALANCE, 31 DECEMBER 2015 1,958 392 –14 5,737 8,073 In accordance with a resolution by the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2015, SBAB has paid a dividend to its owner of SEK 502 million (SEK 25,634 per share). Financial statements 75 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT CASH FLOW STATEMENT GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 7,422 19,238 4,627 8,159 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Interest received 4,600 7,170 880 2,615 Commission received 58 56 79 71 Interest paid –3,065 –5,909 –611 –2,280 Commission paid –99 –114 –19 –80 Dividends received for shares and similar securities – – – 20 Recoveries on loans previously written off 2 13 2 13 Payments to suppliers and employees –813 –840 –823 –863 Paid/repaid income tax –601 –893 –4 –45 Change in subordinated receivables – – 16,261 8,812 Change in lending to credit institutions 1) 15 1,014 15 1,004 Change in lending to the public –35,421 –2,587 –37,368 4,897 Change in chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 1,177 –7,090 1,177 –7,090 Change in bonds and other interest-bearing securities and fund units –7,898 –1,123 –7,898 –1,123 Change in liabilities to credit institutions –2,149 –7,873 –254 2,727 Change in deposits from the public 16,029 14,741 16,029 14,741 Issuance of long-term funding 77,331 58,486 20,515 11,425 Repayment of long-term funding –53,325 –60,153 –11,648 –31,867 Issuance of short-term funding 22,373 44,021 22,373 44,021 Repayment of short-term funding –22,407 –50,569 –22,407 –50,569 Change in other assets and liabilities –1,430 –242 –354 638 Cash flow from operating activities –5,623 –11,892 –4,055 –2,933 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Sale of property plant and equipment 1 0 1 0 Investments in property plant and equipment and intangible fixed assets –29 –37 –16 –12 Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures – 113 – 113 Cash flow from investing activities –28 76 –15 101 FUNDING ACTIVITIES Shareholder contribution – – – –700 Dividend paid –502 – –502 – Issuance of subordinated debentures 4,947 – 4,947 – Repayment of subordinated debentures –2,760 – –2,760 – Cash flow from funding activities 1,685 – 1,685 –700 Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents –3,966 –11,816 –2,385 –3,532 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 3,456 7,422 2,242 4,627 1) Pertains to lending to credit institutions with a maturity of more than three months from the acquisition date. Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and loans to credit institutions with maturities of less than three months from the acquisition date. 76 Financial statements THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB FINANCIAL NOTES NOTE 1 Accounting policies provided in a note instead in the administration report. The disclosure regarding the appropriation of profits shall be provided both in the administration report and in a note. Other changes in the new annual accounts acts will have no material impact in The operations of SBAB Bank AB (publ), “SBAB”, and its subsidiaries mainly conduct practice on SBAB’s financial statements. These legislative changes will be applied for lending to private individuals, tenant-owner associations and companies in the Swedish the first time on 1 January 2016. residential mortgage market. SBAB’s offering also includes savings products. SBAB is a The accounting act inquiry also fulfilled its assignment by presenting a final report. It Swedish public limited banking company domiciled in Stockholm. The address of the is proposed that the provisions on the preparation of interim reports should be removed Head Office is SBAB Bank AB (publ), Box 27 308, SE-102 04 Stockholm. from the annual accounts acts and instead be compiled into a new separate act, the Act The Annual Report for SBAB has been prepared in accordance with the International on interim reports. However, the contents of the provisions will remain unchanged. It is Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. In addition to these also proposed to change the way the accounts are signed. The provisions requiring accounting standards, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and annual and consolidated reports to be signed by all board members and the CEO are general guidelines on annual accounts for credit institutions and securities companies supplemented by the possibility to finalise the accounts through a resolution recorded in (FFFS 2008:25), the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Compathe minutes of a board meeting where all board members and the CEO are present, nies and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 Supplemeninstead of the current signing. It is also proposed to allow the certificate of adoption to tary Accounting Rules for Groups were taken into consideration. be signed by someone other than a Board Member or the CEO, to be appointed by the The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the acquisition method, Board of Directors. The inquiry also proposes that credit institutions and securities comapart from the revaluation of derivatives and financial assets and liabilities measured at panies, when preparing consolidated accounts, shall not be required to break down fair value through the income statement, financial assets measured at fair value through equity in the way otherwise required in the preparation of annual accounts. They shall other comprehensive income, as well as hedge-accounted items. On 10 March 2016, not be required to break down equity in restricted and non-restricted equity in the conthe Board of Directors approved the financial statements for publication. They will be solidated accounts. It is also proposed that all credit institutions and securities compafinally adopted by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016. nies shall require consent from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority when fixed assets are written up. Other changes in the new annual accounts acts will regarding the Introduction of new accounting standards contents of the final report have no material impact in practice on SBAB’s financial IFRS 9 Financial Instruments statements. The amendments to the Swedish Annual Accounts Act will be applied from In 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2017. shall replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Classification and measurement regarding classification and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. Accounting for General accounting policies macro hedges is the subject of an on-going separate project within the IASB. Consolidated financial statements Classification occurs on the basis of the Company’s business model and the characThe consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the acquisiteristic properties of its contractual cash flows. In turn, the classification determines the tion method and include the Parent Company SBAB and its subsidiaries. Entities qualify measurement. The impairment model according to IFRS 9 is based on expected losses as subsidiaries if they are controlled by the Parent Company. A parent company is rather than loss events that have occurred as in the current model. The purpose of the deemed to have control of a subsidiary when it not only controls the subsidiary and is new model is that expected loan losses should be captured and reported at an earlier exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from the subsidiary but when it can also stage. The new standard also requires enhanced disclosures. The new provisions on affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of its influence. The companies are conhedge accounting have a clearer ambition to reflect risk management and entail new solidated as of the date when the Parent Company assumes control of the subsidiary, disclosures. SBAB has carried out a comprehensive preliminary study of how the new and the consolidation ends when the Parent Company no longer controls the subsidiary. provisions on impairment will affect SBAB, but it has not yet carried out any complete Intra-Group transactions and receivables and liabilities between Group companies are analysis of how the new standard will affect SBAB’s financial reports. The standard will eliminated. be applied from 1 January 2018. The cost of an acquisition shall consist of the fair value of any assets provided by way of remuneration and any arisen or assumed liabilities. Any consideration for a put option IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that has not yet been settled shall be valued at the present value of the redemption The standard introduces a five-step model for determining when revenues within the amount. Identifiable acquired assets and assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities scope of IFRS 15 shall be recognised. Depending on when certain criteria are met, shall be valued at fair value on the acquisition date. The transferred consideration for income is either recognised over time in a manner that shows the Company’s perforcorporate acquisitions exceeding the fair value of identifiable acquired net assets shall mance, or at a certain point in time when the control over goods or services is transbe recognised as goodwill. Goodwill is distributed over cash-generating units or groups ferred The standard will have limited impact on SBAB’s financial statements. The standof cash-generating units, which are expected to benefit from the acquisition through ard will be applied from 1 January 2018. synergies. The cash-generating units to which goodwill is distributed correspond the lowest level within the Group where goodwill is followed up in the internal governance. Amendment of IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Transaction costs, with the exception of transaction costs related to the issue of equity The amendment will result in a requirement for interim reports to contain a section on instruments or debt instruments, arising through the acquisition are recognised directly financial reports, including notes, similar to annual reports. Disclosures provided in in profit/loss for the year. For acquisitions where a put option has been issued, the anticaccordance with IAS 34.16A shall either be included in the section that includes finanipated-acquisition method is applied, which means that the put option for the remaincial reports, including notes, or a reference must be included from the notes to a differing shares will be considered as acquired at the time of acquisition. Consequently, no ent section in the interim report, where such disclosures are made. This will be applied holdings without control will be recognised. The debt regarding the present value of the effective from 1 January 2016. redemption price for a put option will thereby the included in the fair value of the total consideration. Introduction of new annual accounts legislation Due to the new EU accounting directive, amendments to the Swedish Annual Accounts Recognition in and derecognition from the balance sheet Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Issued securities and all derivative instruments are recognised on the trade date, meanSecurities Companies (1995:1559) were adopted. For SBAB, this means the introducing the date on which the significant risks and rights are transferred between the partion of a reserve for development costs. This means that when expenses for proprietary ties. Other financial instruments are recognised on the settlement date. software are capitalised, a corresponding amount in equity is transferred from non-reA financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual rights stricted equity to a restricted reserve: the Reserve for development costs. All intangible to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire and the Company has transassets shall be amortised in the same way as fixed assets in general, i.e. over their useful ferred essentially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset. A financial liabillife. Only in cases where the useful life of development costs cannot be determined with ity is derecognised from the balance sheet when it is extinguished, meaning when the a reasonable degree of certainty, the useful life shall be considered to be five years. The obligation specified in the contract is fulfilled, cancelled or expires. section of the balance sheet that currently contains information about off-balance sheet items will be removed, and this information will instead be provided in a note. Also, the Recognition of income and expense Swedish term ansvarsförbindelse (contingent liabilities) will be replaced by the term Interest income and interest expense (including interest income from impaired receivaeventualförpliktelser (contingent liabilities). Other examples of situations where inforbles) are recognised in accordance with the effective interest method. The calculation mation, according to the proposal, shall be provided in a different place in the accounts of the effective interest rate includes all fees paid or received between the parties to the refer to the disclosure about events after the balance sheet date, which shall now be contract, including transaction costs. Financial notes 77 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 1 Accounting policies Since transaction costs in the form of remuneration to business partners or issue “Investments held to maturity” are measured at amortised cost. The assets are tested expenses attributable to the acquisition of loans constitute part of the acquisition for impairment if there are indications, referred to as objective evidence, of impaircost of the loan, these costs are recognised in the balance sheet and included in ment. Impairment losses are recognised as “Impairment of financial assets,” while the profit or loss following the effective interest method via net interest income over effective interest rate is recognised as interest income. Also refer to the section on the expected maturity of the loan. “Loan losses and impairment of financial assets.” Commission income and commission expense are included in profit or loss continuously in accordance with the terms of the contract. Available-for-sale financial assets In the event of premature redemption of loans, the customer pays interest compensaIn the category “Available-for-sale financial assets,” financial assets are recognised for tion intended to cover the cost that arises for SBAB. This compensation is recognised as which there is an active market, but which assets are not held for trading and are not income directly under the heading “Net income/expense from financial instruments intended to be held until maturity. These are measured at fair value in the balance measured at fair value.” Other items under this heading are described in the section sheet, with the change in value recognised as a component of other comprehensive “Financial instruments.” income and accumulated in a special reserve (the fair value reserve) in equity. Changes in fair value are not reported in the income statement until the asset has been realised Financial instruments or an impairment is recognised. Changes in value that are attributable to exchange rate Classification changes are recognised in the income statement. All financial instruments that are covered by IAS 39 and which are not subject to hedge When a fair value reduction for a financial asset that has been categorised as an accounting are classified in accordance with this standard in the following categories: asset available for sale has been recognised in other comprehensive income and there • Financial assets measured at fair value through the income statement are objective evidence of impairment, the accumulated loss that has been reported in • Loans and receivables other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclas• Investments held to maturity sification adjustment, even if the financial asset has not been removed from the state• Available-for-sale financial assets ment of financial position. The impairment amount is recognised under the item “Net • Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value.” • Other financial liabilities Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income statement Offsetting The category “Financial liabilities measured at fair value through the income stateA financial asset and a financial liability shall be offset and recognised at the net ment” is divided into financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities that amount only where the recognised amounts may legally be offset and the intention is to Executive Management has designated as such upon initial recognition. All of SBAB’s settle the items with a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset and settle the liabilities in this category are classified as held for trading. The category includes derivliability. No financial instruments are recognised at net amounts in the balance sheet. atives not covered by hedge accounting. Liabilities in this category are initially recognised at fair value, while related transaction costs are recognised in the income stateFair value measurement ment. Changes in fair value and realised gains or losses for these liabilities are recogFair value is defined as the price that would be received on the valuation date at the nised in the income statement under the heading “Net income/expense from financial sale of an asset or the price that would be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transinstruments measured at fair value,” while the effective interest rate is recognised in net action between market participants. interest income. Measurement of the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value and traded on an active market is based on quoted prices. Other financial liabilities If the market for a financial instrument is not active, the fair value is established on the Financial liabilities that are not classified as “Financial liabilities measured at fair value basis of generally accepted measurement methods. Calculations conducted in connecthrough the income statement” are initially recognised at fair value with an addition for tion with measurement are based to the greatest extent possible on observable market transaction costs and are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effective information. The main tools used are models based on discounted cash flows. In individinterest method. This category consists mainly of debt securities in issue, deposits from ual cases, the calculations may also be based on assumptions or estimates. the public and liabilities to credit institutions. Realised profit or loss from the repurchase of own liabilities affects profit or loss when incurred and is recognised under the heading Financial assets measured at fair value through the income statement “Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value.” The category “Financial assets measured at fair value through the income statement” is divided into holdings held for trading and financial assets that Executive Management Repos designated as such upon initial recognition. All of SBAB’s assets in this category are Repos are agreements where the parties have simultaneously reached agreement on classified as held for trading and primarily encompass interest-bearing instruments. This the sale and repurchase of a particular security at a pre-determined price. Securities category includes derivatives that are not subject to hedge accounting plus fund units. that have been provided or received according to a repo agreement are not derecogAll fund units were sold on 13 February 2015. nised from or not recognised in the balance sheet, respectively. Payments received are On the first accounting occasion, assets in this category are recognised at fair value, recognised in the balance sheet as liabilities to credit institutions and payments made while related transaction costs are recognised the income statement. are recognised as lending to credit institutions. The impact on profit or loss is attributaChanges in fair value and realised gains or losses for these assets are recognised ble to the difference between sale and repurchase prices and is recognised as interest directly the income statement under the heading “Net income/expense from financial income or interest expense, respectively. instruments measured at fair value,” while the effective interest rate is recognised in net interest income. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivative instruments are used primarily to manage interest rate and currency risk in Loans and receivables the Group’s assets and liabilities. Derivatives are recognised at fair value in the balance Financial assets classified as loans and receivables are recognised at fair value at the sheet. time the loan is released plus transaction costs. For economic hedges where the risk of a significant fluctuation in profit or loss is the Loans and receivables are subsequently recognised at amortised cost using the effecgreatest and that meet the formal hedge accounting criteria, SBAB has chosen to apply tive interest method. This category consists of assets with fixed or determinable payhedge accounting for hedging of the interest rate and currency risk. There are also ments that are not quoted in an active market. Loan receivables consist of lending to the other economic hedges for which hedge accounting is not applied These derivatives public and credit institutions and include associated items. The majority of lending comoutside hedge accounting are classified as assets or liabilities, respectively, measured at prises retail loans for the funding of housing and loans to legal entities and private indifair value through the income statement. viduals for multi-family dwellings and commercial properties. Changes in value are recognised as “Loan losses, net,” while the effective interest Fair value hedging rate is recognised as interest income. Also refer to the section on “Loan losses and In the case of fair value hedging, the derivative hedging instrument is measured at fair impairment of financial assets.” value at the same time as the hedged asset or liability is measured with an addition for accumulated changes in fair value attributable to the hedged risk associated with the Investments held to maturity hedged item. Changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income statement The category “Investments held to maturity” recognises interest-bearing assets that the under the heading “Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair Group has the intent and ability to hold to maturity. If any more than an insignificant value.” The effective interest rate of the hedge is recognised in net interest income. amount in this category is sold or reclassified in the current financial year or in the two When hedging relationships are terminated, the cumulative gains or losses are previous financial years, no assets can be classified as belonging to this category. The accrued adjusting the carrying amount of the hedged item in the income statement in exception to this rule is sales or reclassifications made close to maturity or if more or less accordance with the effective interest method. The accrual extends over the remaining the entire original nominal amount has been received or if it depends on an isolated maturity of the hedged item. The realised gain or loss arising from premature closing of event over which the Company had no control, that was non-recurrent, and that the a hedging instrument is recognised in the income statement under the heading “Net Company could not reasonably foresee. income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value.” 78 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Macro hedge Loans with renegotiated terms and conditions In this type of hedging, derivative instruments are used at an aggregated level to hedge Loans with renegotiated terms and conditions are receivables where SBAB has granted structured interest-rate risks. When reporting these transactions, the “carve-out” versome form of concession due to a deterioration of the borrower’s financial position or sion of IAS 39 is applied, as adopted by the EU. In the financial statements, derivative because the borrower has encountered other financial problems. Concessions granted instruments designated as macro hedges are treated in the same way as other hedging are considered to constitute confirmed loan losses, and they are recognised in the instruments recognised at fair value. income statement under the item “Net loan losses.” Additional information about loans In fair value hedging of portfolios of assets, the gain or loss attributable to the hedged with renegotiated terms and conditions is provided in Note 2a Risk management – risk is recognised under the heading “Change in value of interest-rate-hedged items in Credit risk in lending operations. portfolio hedges” in the balance sheet. The hedged item is a port­folio of lending transactions based on the next contractual renewal date. The hedging instrument used is a Individually measured securities portfolio of interest-rate swaps grouped in accordance with renewal intervals based on Receivables included in this group are securities that have been classified as “Investconditions in the fixed leg of the swap. ments held to maturity.” Each security is impairment tested individually. Cash flow hedging Other In case of cash flow hedging, the hedging instrument (the derivative contract) is valued Functional currency at fair value. The effective part of the total change in value is reported as a component Functional currency is the currency used in the primary economic environments in which in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a special reserve (hedge reserve) the Group operates. The companies included in the Group are the Parent Company in equity The accumulated amount is reversed in the income statement in periods where and a subsidiary. The Parent Company’s functional currency and presentation currency the hedged item affects the profit or loss. The ineffective part of the change in value is is SEK. The Group’s presentation currency is SEK. transferred to the income statement under the item “Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value,” where the realised gain or loss arising at the Foreign currency translation of receivables and liabilities end of the hedge relationship is recognised. The effective interest rate of the derivative Foreign currency transactions are recognised by applying the exchange rate on the is recognised in net interest income. date of transaction, and foreign currency receivables and liabilities are translated using the closing day rate. Foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from settlements of forLoan losses and impairment of financial assets eign currency transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in Loans and receivables recognised at amortised cost foreign currency are recognised in the income statement under “Net income/ expense On the balance-sheet date, an assessment takes place of whether there is any objective from financial instruments measured at fair value.” evidence that an individual receivable or group of receivable requires impairment. This takes place as a result of events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the Leasing asset and which have had an impact on the estimated future cash flows for the loan Existing leases relate to normal leases for SBAB’s operations. They mainly concern office receivable or group of receivables in question. Events that could lead to the loan being premises and office equipment and are classified as operating leases. In operating impaired include, depending on the circumstances, bankruptcy, suspension of payleases, lease payments are recognised as expenses in the income statement on a ments, a composition, a court order to pay or a changed credit rating. straight-line basis over the lease term. Agreed future lease payments are presented in The amount of impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying Note 9. amount of the receivable and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the effective interest rate of the receivable in accordance with the most Property, plant and equipment recent interest rate adjustment date. The cash flows attributable to the borrower or the Property, plant and equipment are recognised as an asset in the balance sheet if it is issuer and any use of the collateral are taken into consideration when assessing the probable that future financial benefits will flow to the entity and the cost of the item can need for impairment. Any expenses associated with the realisation of the pledge are be measured reliably. Property, plant and equipment are recognised at cost less any included in the cash flow calculations. Measurement of probable loan losses or impairaccumulated depreciation and impairment losses. ment of other financial assets is effected in gross amounts and, when there is a guarantee or the equivalent, this is recognised as a receivable against the counterparty. If the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment present value of future cash flows exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, no impairThe depreciable amount is calculated as the cost of the asset less its estimated residual ment takes place and the receivable is not regarded as doubtful. The impairment value at the end of its useful life. The depreciable amount is allocated on a straight-line amount is recognised in the income statement under the item “Loan losses, net” or basis over the estimated useful life of the asset, and the depreciation charge for each “Impairment of financial assets” depending on the type of receivable. See the sections period is recognised in the income statement. This means that computer hardware is on “Loans and receivables” and “Investments held to maturity.” If the impairment depreciated over four years and other equipment over five years. The residual value requirement has declined in a subsequent period and the decrease can objectively be and useful life of an asset are assessed annually. attributed to an event that occurred after the impairment loss had been recognised, a reversal of a previously recognised impairment loss can be recognised in the correIntangible fixed assets sponding income statement item. Investments in acquired computer software and/or software developed by SBAB are Confirmed loan losses and provisions for probable losses, with deductions for guaranrecognised at cost after accumulated amortisation and impairment losses have been tees expected to be utilised or that have been utilised plus any recoveries, are recogdeducted. Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed as they arise. Developnised as loan losses. The term “Confirmed loan losses” refers to losses where the ment expenditure that is directly attributable to the development and testing of identifiamounts are definite or established with a high level of probability and have thus been able and unique software products controlled by the Group is recognised as an intangiderecognised. ble asset when the following criteria are fulfilled: • it is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used; Individually measured loan receivables Corporate Market loans (loans to companies and tenant-owner associations) are indi• the Company intends to complete the software and use it; it can be demonstrated how the software will generate probable future financial benefits; adequate technividually measured for impairment. Retail Market loans are individually measured for cal, financial and other resources for completing the development and for using the impairment if there are special reasons for doing so. Loan receivables not determined to software are available; and the expenditure that was attributable to the software durhave an individual impairment requirement are included in a group of financial assets ing its development can be reliably estimated. with similar credit risk characteristics and are judged on a collective basis in terms of the Other development expenditure that does not fulfil these criteria is expensed as it arises. impairment requirement. Development expenditure that has previously been expensed may not be recognised as an asset in a later period. Collectively measured loan receivables Additional expenses for capitalised intangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset The loan receivables assessed in this group are as follows: in the balance sheet only in cases where they increase the future financial benefits of the • Retail Market loans not individually measured. These consist of a large number of specific asset to which they are attributable. All other costs are expensed as they arise. loans each of a limited amount and with similar credit risk characteristics Development expenditure is capitalised only in the consolidated financial statements. • Individually measured loan receivables where no objective evidence of individual impairment requirements has been determined in accordance with the above inforAmortisation of intangible fixed assets mation on “Individually measured loan receivables” Amortisation is allocated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. This entails amortisation periods of four or five years. The amortisation period and amortisaImpairment of collectively measured loans is identified in two different ways: tion method for an intangible fixed asset are reviewed at each financial year-end. • Based on the internal risk classification and adjusted in accordance with the IFRS regulatory framework, groups of loans have been identified that have been subject to events Impairment of non-financial items that produce a measurable negative impact on the expected future cash flows The recoverable amount of an asset is measured when there is any indication that an • In addition, groups of loans are identified for which future cash flows have undergone asset may be impaired. Development work not yet available for use is tested annually for a measurable deterioration due to events that have recently taken place but which impairment irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment. An asset is have not yet had an impact on the risk classification system. impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The impairment loss for each period is charged against profit or loss. Financial notes 79 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 1 Accounting policies Tax Pensions Total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Current tax comprises tax that is to be The Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and regulations issued by the Swedish paid or received for taxable earnings during the current year and adjustments of current Financial Supervisory Authority contain rules requiring a different method of recognistax for previous years. Accordingly, for items recognised in the income statement, the ing defined-benefit pension plans compared with the manner stipulated in IAS 19. related tax effects are also recognised in the income statement. Tax effects of items recApplication of the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act is a prerequisite for tax ognised in other comprehensive income or equity are recognised in other comprehendeductibility of the pension payments. In view of this, RFR 2 states that the regulations of sive income or equity. IAS 19 in terms of defined-benefit pension plans need not be applied by the legal entity. Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are measured according to the balance sheet method on the basis of temporary differences that arise between the carrying amount Measurement in relation to the assumption of receivables and the tax base of an asset or liability. Deferred tax assets are recognised for unutilised Intra-group loan receivables between the Parent Company and the subsidiary, SCBC, tax losses to the extent that it is probable that the carryforwards can be used to offset are recognised at fair value. When a reserved receivable is transferred between the future taxable profit. Deferred tax is calculated in accordance with the tax rate applicacompanies, it is assumed at the net carrying amount after provisions. The selling comble at the time of taxation. pany recognises the loss as a confirmed loss, while the purchasing company recognises the receivable at the net carrying amount, without provisions. The loan will be recogCash and cash equivalents nised as a doubtful receivable in the purchasing company, albeit at the net carrying Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and loans to credit institutions with amount. If it is later established that the receivable can be measured at its original value maturities of less than three months from the acquisition date. (after amortisation), the income will be recognised in the income statement under the item “Net profit/loss from financial transactions.” Pensions The Group has both defined-contribution and defined-benefit pension plans. For the Subsidiaries defined-contribution pension plans, fixed fees are paid to an independent unit, followParticipations in subsidiaries are recognised in the Parent Company in accordance with ing which no additional obligations arise. Pension costs for defined-contribution plans the cost method. are expensed on a continuous basis in pace with vesting by the individual employee. The Group’s net obligation with regard to defined-benefit plans is calculated sepaDividends rately for each plan by estimating the future benefit that employees have earned Dividends received from subsidiaries are recognised in the income statement. Anticithrough their service in current and prior periods, with that benefit being discounted to pated dividends from subsidiaries are recognised in cases where formal decisions have its present value. The present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined by been taken in the subsidiary or where the Parent Company otherwise has full control discounting the estimated future cash flows applying the interest rate for mortgage over the decision-making process before it publishes its financial statements. bonds in SEK with maturities comparable to those of the pension obligation in question. Dividends paid are recognised as a reduction of non-restricted equity following the Changes or reductions in a defined-benefit plan are recognised on the earliest of the passing of a resolution about dividends at the Annual General Meeting. following dates: a, when the change or reduction in the plan occurs or b, when the Company reports related restructuring costs and severance benefits. The changes/ Group contributions reductions are recognised directly in profit for the year. The defined-benefit pension Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognised as financial income, obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries applying the projected unit while Group contributions paid to subsidiaries by the Parent Company are recognised credit method. as increased participations in Group companies. The provision recognised in the balance sheet for defined-benefit pension plans represents the present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the close of the reporting Critical accounting estimates and judgements period less the fair value of the plan assets. The provision includes special employer’s Critical assumptions contributions. All of the components included in the period’s cost for a defined-benefit To prepare the annual accounts in compliance with statutory IFRS, it is required that plan are recognised in operating profit/loss. This includes return on plan assets, calcuExecutive Management use estimates and judgements based on historical experience lated applying the same discount rate used to calculate the present value of the obligaand assumptions that are considered to be reasonable and fair. These estimates affect tion. Revaluation effects comprise actuarial gains and losses, including the difference the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments, as well as between the actual return on plan assets and the total included in operating profit/ loss. income and expenses presented in the Annual Report. Subsequently, the actual outAll revaluation effects are recognised under “Reserves” in equity. come may differ to some extent from the estimates made. Segment reporting Measurement of loan receivables A segment is a part of a business for which independent financial information is availaThe area that primarily entails a risk of causing an adjustment to recognised assets in ble, that conducts business operations from which income can be generated and the next financial year is the measurement of loan receivables. In the case of individually expenses incurred and whose operations are regularly assessed by the Company’s chief measured loan receivables, the most critical assessment, which also contains the most operating decision maker as a basis for decisions regarding the allocation of resources uncertainty, is the estimate of the future cash flow that the customer will generate. For to segments and an assessment of the segment’s profit or loss. At SBAB, the CEO is the collectively measured loan receivables, the estimates of future cash flows are based function that is responsible for allocating resources and assessing the profit or loss of the partly on assumptions concerning how observable data may result in loan losses. See operating segment. also the section “Loan losses and impairment of financial assets” above. Parent Company accounting policies Recognition of pensions The Parent Company, SBAB AB (publ), applies statutory IFRS, which means that the Measurement of the Group’s pension obligations is based on a number of actuarial and Annual Report has been prepared in compliance with IFRS subject to the additions and financial assumptions that have a material impact on carrying amounts. SBAB uses the exceptions that ensue from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation yield on mortgage bonds for the discounting of pension obligations, since a functioning RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and market for mortgage bonds exists in Sweden. The assumptions upon which the measureSecurities Companies and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations ment is based, as well as a sensitivity analysis, are presented in Note 31. and general guidelines on annual accounts for credit institutions and securities companies (FFFS 2008:25). Differences compared with the Group The main differences between the accounting policies of the Group and those of the Parent Company are shown below: Presentation of the income statement and balance sheet The Parent Company complies with the presentation standards for income statements and balance sheets stipulated in the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, which entail a different presentation of equity. The Parent ­Company’s statutory reserve is recognised in the Group as retained earnings, while the Parent Company’s fair value reserve is included in the Group’s Reserves. 80 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 2 Risk management and capital adequacy Note 2, Risk management and capital adequacy is divided into the following segments: e) Operational risk a) Credit risk in lending operations f) Business risk b) Credit risk in treasury operations g) Concentration risk c) Liquidity risk h) Internal capital adequacy assessment d) Market risk i) Capital adequacy analysis NOTE 2a Risk management – Credit risk in lending operations Credit risk in the lending operations is defined as the risk that the counterparty is unable In the financial statements, the calculated loan loss (EL) according to IRB models differs to fulfil its payment obligations. Credit risk arises in conjunction with loans and loan from the provision for probable loan losses. The calculation of EL according to Basel commitments, as well as in connection with changes in the value of pledged assets ­Pillar 1 is governed by the Capital Requirements Regulation (“CRR”) 2). According to entailing that these no longer cover the Group’s receivables. Credit risk also arises in the regulation, the risk associated with each individual loan is to be estimated based on treasury operations (Note 2b). historic information, over a longer period of time, using a statistical model. The manThe credit risk in lending operations is managed through a credit granting process, agement of the loss arising in the financial statements is regulated by IAS 39, according whereby the ability of potential borrowers to make their interest payments and pay amorto which, assets are to be impaired when there are objective grounds for impairment tisation is analysed. New loans are only granted to borrowers who are judged to be able due to the occurrence of one or more events that have a negative impact on the future to pay interest and amortisation in an interest rate situation that comfortably exceeds the cash flows. EL for loans calculated according to IRB models amounts to SEK 281 million rate prevailing when the loan decision is taken. Moreover, the credit risk is restricted by (262). The provision for corresponding loans according to the financial statements is credit limits adopted for various customers or customer groups. SEK 198 million (178). In the capital adequacy calculation, the difference is subtracted Over the year, the credit rules have been made more stringent for new lending, in the calculation of the own funds. New future rules in IFRS 9 will change the method including a decision by SBAB to reduce the amortisation period for residential mortused for credit risk p ­ rovisions. gages with a loan-to-value ratio in excess of 70 percent from 15 to 7.5 years and to limit In connection with the quantitative assessment in lending to companies, a systematic the debt ratio 1) to 6 for new loans, with the purpose of ensuring that the good credit qualitative assessment is conducted based on the internal loan regulations by respondquality of the lending portfolio remains. ing to a number of questions. This enables a more uniform risk assessment founded on a Furthermore, risk classification is based on the internal ratings-based approach (IRB larger amount of data. approach) for the analysis of the credit risk for new and existing customers in the loan portfolios. SBAB applies the IRB approach for retail loans and lending to tenant-owner Collateral in the lending operations associations and the foundation IRB approach (FIRB approach) for Corporate loans. The For loans granted by SBAB, adequate collateral must normally be provided. Adequate Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority has reviewed the bank’s IRB approach and collateral primarily refers to mortgage deeds in residential properties or shares in tenfound it to be reliable. For other types of exposures, including unsecured loans, the standant-owner associations within a maximum of 75–85 percent of the market value. The ardised approach is used for measurement of credit risk. For cases in which external rat85 percent level applies only provided that collateral can be obtained with priority right ings are used, the lowest rating from either Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s is selected. and that the customer is included in a lower risk class. The lower risk classes for retail The IRB approach has been used since 2007 used for assessing credit risk where a customers 3), “Retail – R”, comprise the levels R1–R4, while the lower risk classes for mortgage deed or a tenant-owner right is used as collateral. In 2015, SBAB also Corporate customers, (“Corporate – C”), comprise the levels C1–C3, and manually received permission to use the IRB approach for excess exposures that are not fully adjusted from C3 to C4. In other cases, a loan to value ratio of 75 percent generally ­covered by mortgage deeds, property financing using other collateral than directly applies. In addition to collateral in the form of mortgage deeds in residential property or pledged mortgage deeds and letters of credit. Previously, the standardised approach shares in tenant-owner associations, it is possible to grant loans against, inter alia, colwas used for these exposures. lateral in the form of a government guarantee, municipal guarantee, securities, bank guarantee and deposits in a Swedish bank. A very limited part of total lending has been made The IRK credit risk models assess the following parameters: without any collateral being secured. SBAB does not hold any collateral that has been • Probability of default by the customer – PD (Probability of Default) taken over to protect a receivable. Lending to the public accounts for 79 percent (77) of • Loss amount in the event of default – LGD (Loss Given Default) SBAB’s overall assets. • The part of the off-balance sheet commitment that is utilised in the event of default – Without taking collateral received or any other forms of credit enhancement into Credit conversion factor (CCF) account, the maximum credit risk exposure for the lending operations matches the carrying • The expected exposure in the event of default – EAD (Exposure at default) amount with a supplement for off-balance sheet exposures that are reported in Note 35. • The expected loan loss (EL) is measured using the formula EL = PD*LGD*EAD The financial effect of collateral received is illustrated in the diagram below, which shows loans in relation to the market value of underlying collateral for loans secured on On the basis of these parameters, customers are ranked according to risk, and the collateral comprising mortgage deeds or shares in tenant-owner associations. The area expected and unexpected loss can be estimated. After assessment, the exposure is alloin the diagram corresponds to the lending volume and shows that SBAB’s lending portcated to one of eight risk classes for retail and corporate exposures, of which the eighth folio has favourable collateral, since the area is greatest in connection with lower loanclass comprises customers in default. The development of customers in high-risk classes to-value ratios. The data encompasses 97 percent (98) of the Company’s total lending is monitored thoroughly and, when necessary, the exposure is managed actively by to the public. Since 97 percent (96) of total lending is secured on collateral in mortgage credit monitoring personnel in the credit division. The developed models are validated deeds or shares in tenant-owner associations within 75 percent, the quality is judged to annually and calibrated as the need arises. For 2015, the validations in 2015 did not be highly favourable. result in any changes to models. Loans in relation to the market value of underlying collateral (LTV) for loans secured on collateral comprising mortgage deeds or tenant-owner rights EXPOSURES TO CORPORATES RETAIL EXPOSURES Lending volume Lending volume 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 >150 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 >150 LTV, % LTV, % 1) Income  in relation to loan. 2) CRR refers to the European Parliament and Council's recommendation on supervisory requirements for credit institutions and securities companies No. 575/2013. 3) “Loans to retail customers” refers to all lending to the public pertaining to single-family homes, holiday homes and tenant-owner homes, as well as unsecured loans to private individuals and loans to ­tenant-owner associations, with a turnover of less than EUR 50 million. “Loans to corporates” refers to i) loans to other legal entities, and ii) other loans to private individuals. Financial notes 81 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2a Risk management – Credit risk in lending operations Exposure weighted Segment, % Below 50% Below 75% Below 100% average LTV Exposures to corporates 75.7 98.9 99.8 66.0 Retail exposures 80.3 97.2 99.6 59.6 Total 79.9 97.4 99.6 60.2 Loan portfolios in lending operations allocated by risk class For individually reserved loan receivables, an individual assessment of the loan’s future Every customer is allocated to a risk class. However, lending to the public includes a cash flow is conducted in conjunction with an estimate of the market value of the underreceivable of SEK 14.6 million (22.7) that is not assigned a risk class as it lies outside the lying collateral, which constitutes the basis for the individual provision. For collective normal lending operations. Customers with individually reserved loans are always alloprovisions, a change has occurred in the risk associated with a group of loans, but this cated to corporate risk class (C8) or Retail Market risk class (R8). For corporates, loans change cannot be traced to an individual customer. The table provides a specification covered by collective provisions are obtained from risk classes C6–C7, and collectively of provisions without taking guarantees into account, as well as a specification of the impaired Retail Market loans comprise loans in risk classes R5–R8. Risk class C0 comguaranteed amount for each group of provisions. The value of collateral and guaranprises loans to counterparties with a 0 percent risk weight (Swedish municipalities). tees largely refers to the value of mortgage deeds or tenant-owner rights and to a lesser Transaction costs of SEK 104 million (61), which were attributable to the loans, are disextent to the value of loan guarantees from the Swedish National Housing Credit Guartributed in the table on a pro rata basis. antee Board (currently part of the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning), insurance companies and banks that have been recognised at the assessed value of what is expected to be received in the event of insolvency. LOAN PORTFOLIO BY RISK CLASS – RETAIL (INCLUDING TENANT-OWNER At 31 December 2015, total provisions (individual and collective) amounted to SEK ­ASSOCIATIONS) 214 million (186) after a deduction for guarantees, which corresponds to 0.1 percent 2015 2014 (0.1) of the loan portfolio, of which individually assessed loans accounted for SEK 81 million (36). At year-end 2014/2015, individual provisions after deduction for guaranProvisions/ Provisions/ tees increased by SEK 45 million (decrease: 11) compared with the preceding year, and lending in lending in accounted for 48 percent (75) of loans with individual provisions, which amounted to respective respective SEK 170 million (48). No need for provisions arose for lending to credit institutions. Risk class 1) Lending risk class Lending risk class R1/C1, % 28.8 0.0 25.8 0.0 LENDING TO THE PUBLIC AND CREDIT INSTITUTIONS BASED ON THE STATUS OF R2/C2, % 31.1 0.0 34.6 0.0 THE BORROWER’S PAYMENTS R3/C3, % 20.4 0.0 21.7 0.0 2015 2014 R4/C4, % 11.6 0.0 10.3 0.0 Credit Credit R5/C5, % 5.7 0.3 5.0 0.3 SEK million Public institutions Public institutions R6/C6, % 1.4 0.8 1.5 1.1 Current loans R7/C7, % 0.8 3.4 0.9 3.8 without past-due unpaid amounts or R8/C8, % 0.2 18.0 0.2 10.2 provisions 296,577 3,456 260,903 7,437 100% 0.1% 100.0% 0.1% Loans with unpaid 1) R = Retail, C=Corporate. amounts > 5 days past due 487 – 736 – LOAN PORTFOLIO ALLOCATED BY RISK CLASS – CORPORATE Loans with individual provisions 170 – 48 – 2015 2014 Total outstanding loans 297,234 3,456 261,687 7,437 Provisions/ Provisions/ lending in lending in Individual provisions –81 – –36 – respective respective Risk class 1) Lending risk class Lending risk class Collective provisions, corporates –11 – –19 – C0, % 0.0 – 0.1 – Collective provisions, C1, % 56.5 – 61.3 – retail –161 – –187 – C2, % 23.1 – 22.0 – Total provisions –253 – –242 – C3, % 15.8 – 12.1 – Total lending after provisions 296,981 3,456 261,445 7,437 C4, % 3.4 0.0 2.2 – C5, % 1.0 0.1 1.8 0.7 Guarantees for loans with individual provisions 0 – – – C6, % 0.0 10.4 0.2 3.9 Guarantees for loans C7, % 0.0 27.3 0.1 3.4 with collective C8, % 0.2 36.3 0.2 35.9 provisions, corporates 3 – 5 – Not assigned a Guarantees for loans in risk class 0.0 – 0.0 – collective provisions, corporates 36 – 51 – 100% 0.1% 100.0% 0.1% Total guarantees 39 – 56 – 1) C=Corporate market. Total lending after provisions and Lending to the public and credit institutions guarantees 297,020 3,456 261,501 7,437 The table below shows loans to the public and credit institutions in three categories based on the status of the borrower’s payments: • Without past-due unpaid amounts or provisions – the borrower has fulfilled its payCurrent loans without past-due unpaid amounts or provisions The allocation of loans per risk class for the loans that had neither past-due unpaid ment obligations in accordance with the terms of the loans • With unpaid amounts more than five days past-due – the borrower has not fulfilled amounts nor individual provisions shows that 93 percent (93) are in the risk classes C0/R1–C4/R4. The allocation includes total transaction costs of SEK 104 million (61), its payment obligations • With individual provisions, doubtful receivables which were allocated on a pro rata basis. The costs derive mainly from single-family dwellings and tenant-owner rights. 82 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT – CURRENT LOANS WITHOUT PAST-DUE UNPAID AMOUNTS OR PROVISION 2015 Single-family Private Municipal Risk class dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner multi-­family multi-­family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total C0 – – – – 8 – – 8 C/R1 35,047 18,669 23,201 15,314 202 2,102 116 94,651 C/R2 34,282 25,520 23,067 5,799 41 720 332 89,761 C/R3 22,214 26,232 4,771 3,876 217 911 768 58,989 C/R4 14,347 15,283 688 687 0 395 431 31,831 C/R5 6,867 7,588 327 140 2 185 255 15,364 C/R6 1,560 1,891 168 16 – – 88 3,723 C/R7 1,152 828 50 0 – – 40 2,070 C/R8 44 26 73 21 – – 1 165 Not assigned a risk class – – – – – – 15 15 Total 115,513 96,037 52,345 25,853 470 4,313 2,046 296,577 2014 Single-family Private Municipal Risk class dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner multi-­family multi-­family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total C0 _ _ _ _ 23 _ _ 23 C/R1 29,231 14,049 17,310 14,000 404 2,092 63 77,149 C/R2 33,871 20,532 27,570 3,898 106 788 249 87,014 C/R3 22,770 21,533 6,163 2,616 44 331 661 54,118 C/R4 12,242 10,717 694 341 7 254 392 24,647 C/R5 5,830 5,158 580 241 22 228 214 12,273 C/R6 1,720 1,400 224 66 – – 79 3,489 C/R7 1,225 665 51 19 – – 27 1,987 C/R8 40 17 101 21 – – 1 180 Not assigned a risk class – – – – – – 23 23 Total 106,929 74,071 52,693 21,202 606 3,693 1,709 260,903 Loans with unpaid amounts > 5 days past due The table describes loans with a past-due principal. All amounts are distributed by segAt year-end 2015, 99.8 percent (99.7) of lending had no past-due unpaid amounts and ment. For loans with past-due amounts in several time intervals are shown in full in the was not assessed as doubtful. Of SBAB’s loan portfolio totalling SEK 297 billion (261), oldest time interval. SEK 487 million (736) of the principal has past-due unpaid amounts. LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT – LOANS WITH UNPAID AMOUNTS MORE THAN FIVE DAYS PAST DUE 2015 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner ­multi-family ­multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total Past-due 5–30 days 1) 12 13 17 – – – 0 42 Past due 31–60 days 160 105 2 – – – 8 275 Past due 61–90 days 32 13 – – – – 1 46 Past due 91–180 days 29 11 – – – – 1 41 Past due 181–365 days 24 10 – – – – 1 35 Past due > 365 days 42 5 – – – – 1 48 Total 299 157 19 – – – 12 487 2014 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner ­multi-family ­multi-family Commercial Loans without SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties formal collateral Total Past-due 5–30 days 1) 7 12 1 – – – 0 20 Past due 31–60 days 247 140 – 0 – – 7 394 Past due 61–90 days 81 20 – – – – 2 103 Past due 91–180 days 53 16 – – – – 1 70 Past due 181–365 days 59 24 7 1 – – 1 92 Past due > 365 days 46 11 – – – – 0 57 Total 493 223 8 1 – – 11 736 1) For the first time interval, amounts past-due by five days or less are not taken into consideration to ensure that the analysis is not distorted by payments delayed because the payment date is a holiday. Financial notes 83 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2a Risk management – Credit risk in lending operations Loans with individual provisions Loans with individual provisions refers to receivables where provisions have been made following individual risk assessment. These loans account for no more than 0.06 percent (0.02) of SBAB’s total lending. LENDING TO THE PUBLIC BY SEGMENT – LOANS WITH INDIVIDUAL PROVISIONS 2015 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner ­multi-family ­multi-family Commercial Unsecured SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties loans Total Loans with individual provisions 19 90 27 29 – – 5 170 Individual provision, Corporate Market – – –25 –18 – – – –43 Individual provision, Retail Market –6 –27 – – – – –5 –38 Loans with individual provisions, net 13 63 2 11 – – 0 89 Calculated value of guarantees – – – – – – – – Loans with individual provisions with pledged guarantees taken into consideration 13 63 2 11 – – 0 89 2014 Single-family Private Municipal dwellings and Tenant-owner Tenant-owner ­multi-family ­multi-family Commercial Unsecured SEK million holiday homes rights associations dwellings dwellings properties loans Total Loans with individual provisions 2 13 3 30 – – – 48 Individual provision, Corporate Market – – –3 –18 – – – –21 Individual provision, Retail Market –2 –13 – – – – – –15 Loans with individual provisions, net 0 0 0 12 – – – 12 Calculated value of guarantees – – – – – – – – Loans with individual provisions with pledged guarantees taken into consideration 0 0 0 12 – – – 12 Loans with renegotiated terms and conditions In exceptional cases, loans may be renegotiated due to a deterioration of the borrower’s financial position or because the borrower has encountered other financial problems. Such receivables are monitored carefully. Loans that have been renegotiated due to the borrower’s inability to fulfil the loan agreement may entail that: • the terms of the loan are modified by terms that are not normal market terms • the borrower partly repays the loan by handing over various assets • the borrower agrees to convert part of the loan receivable into an ownership share • the borrower is replaced or supplemented by a new borrower CARRYING AMOUNT OF RENEGOTIATED LOANS BY SEGMENT SEK million 2015 2014 Single-family dwellings and holiday homes 8 3 Tenant-owner rights 1 1 Tenant-owner associations 60 75 Private properties – – Municipal properties – – Commercial properties – – Unsecured loans – – Total 69 79 The carrying amount of financial assets that would otherwise have been recognised as past-due or impaired and whose terms have been renegotiated, by segment. 84 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 2b Risk management – Credit risk in Treasury In Treasury, credit risk arises when the counterparty is unable to fulfil its payment obligaand repo contracts entered into by SBAB to manage its financial risks and, in part, tions. Credit risk arises, in part, in the form of counterparty credit risks for the derivative as a result of investments in the liquidity portfolio and investment of surplus liquidity. LIMIT UTILISATION GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rating category, SEK million Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit Limit Utilised limit AAA – – – – – – – – AA– to AA+ 11,600 3,546 8,110 3,358 11,600 2,812 8,110 1,886 A– to A+ 12,910 3,851 13,610 4,939 12,910 3,468 13,610 4,283 Lower than A– 4,320 597 2,110 551 4,320 597 2,110 551 Unrated – – – – – – – – Total 28,830 7,994 23,830 8,849 28,830 6,877 23,830 6,721 The “Limit utilisation” table shows the limit and the utilised limit, respectively, for SBAB’s eral pledged or received according to CSAs or GMRAs is included in the total exposure. derivative counterparties, at an aggregate level per rating category, with each counterFor derivative contracts, an add-on amount is also calculated for future changes in risk party placed in relation to its lowest rating. levels. For counterparties who also are loan customers, the limit is coordinated with the The SBAB Group’s counterparties are banks and credit institutions, and the underlycredit limit. Counterparty limits may be established for a period of no longer than one ing exposure in the table includes investments, derivative contracts and repo contracts. year, after which a new assessment must be conducted. The decisions of the Credit The limits are set by the Board of Directors’ Credit Committee within the c­ onfines of the Committee are reported to the Board at the following Board meeting. All of SBAB’s framework adopted by the Board of Directors. counterparties have a rating by either Moody’s or Standard & Poor’s. The utilised limit is calculated as the market value of financial derivative instruments, repo contracts and investments. For derivative and repo contracts, the effect of collatDISTRIBUTION OF ELIGIBLE AND OTHER INTEREST BEARING SECURITIES BY RATING CATEGORY The table below shows an analysis of eligible treasury bills, bonds and other interest bearing securities distributed in accordance with the lowest rating as at 31 December 2015, based on Standard & Poor’s rating or equivalent. 2015 Rating category, Government guaranteed Supranational and Non-governmental SEK ­million Covered bonds securities ­sovereign agencies public sector entities Total AAA 38,004 15,170 1,962 5,779 60,915 AA– to AA+ – 1,988 – 1,124 3,112 A– to A+ – – – – – Lower than A– – – – – – Total 38,004 17,158 1,962 6,903 64,027 Financial notes 85 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2b Risk management – Credit risk in Treasury GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ELIGIBLE AND OTHER INTEREST BEARING SECURITIES 2015 Securities, SEK million Sweden Other EU Other Total Covered bonds 31,109 2,306 4,589 38,004 Government guaranteed securities 11,141 5,912 105 17,158 Supranational and sovereign agencies – 1,962 – 1,962 Non-governmental public sector entities 5,729 1,174 – 6,903 Total as of 31/12/2015 47,979 11,354 4,694 64,027 Total as of 31/12/2014 40,884 13,127 3,881 57,892 Counterparty credit risk mented with associated collateral agreements, known as a Credit Support Annex Counterparty credit risk is the risk that SBAB’s financial counterparties cannot meet (CSA). When SBAB enters into a derivatives transaction, it must always draft an associtheir commitments pursuant to the completed derivatives and repo contracts, and such ated CSA. The framework agreements entitle the parties to offset receivables against risk consists primarily of exposures to major banks. This exposure is predominantly covdebt in the event of a payment default. ered by collateral agreements, where the counterparty posts collateral to reduce Counterparty credit risk is reconciled on a daily basis for all counterparties. CSAs are SBAB’s exposure. In accordance with the credit instruction, the credit-risk limits are reconciled on a daily basis or on a weekly basis if a collateral agreement exists. Derivaestablished by SBAB’s Credit Committee for all counterparties in Treasury, with the tive contracts entered into with external counterparties are for the most part entered exception of the Swedish government and companies included in the SBAB Group, for into within the Parent Company, where the CSAs are reconciled with all counterparties which no credit limits are established. on a daily basis. When collateral agreements exist, collateral is transferred to reduce the To limit the potential counterparty credit risk associated with non-standardised derivexposure. Wherever applicable, the posted and received collateral takes the form of ative instruments that are not cleared by clearing organisations approved by the comcash with a transfer of title, which entitles the party that receives the collateral to use the petent authority (in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 648/2012), a framework collateral in its operations. The effects of pledged and received collateral are shown in agreement is entered into with the counterparty. Such framework agreements, known greater detail in Note 38 Information about offsetting. as ISDA Master Agreements, or similar agreements have in most cases been suppleMAXIMUM CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE IN TREASURY, GROUP Without taking into account collateral received Taking into account collateral received or other credit enhancements or other credit enhancements SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Lending to credit institutions 1,739 4,756 3,456 7,437 Eligible securities 14,312 15,557 14,312 15,557 Bonds and other interest bearing securities 49,714 42,335 49,714 42,335 Derivative instruments 7,192 9,408 3,315 4,937 Maximum credit risk exposure at 31 December 72,957 72,056 70,797 70,267 Liquidity portfolio COLLATERAL POSTED AND RECEIVED UNDER COLLATERAL AGREEMENTS, SBAB’s liquidity portfolio comprises liquid, interest bearing securities with a high rating. 31 DECEMBER 2015 The purpose of the liquidity portfolio is to reduce the Group’s liquidity risk by acting as a Company, SEK million Collateral pledged Collateral received buffer, as the securities in the portfolio can be sold to free up liquidity in stressed market conditions. Holdings in securities are limited by asset class and by country, respectively, SBAB 1,717 2,973 and must have the highest rating upon acquisition. In addition, limits for individual issuSCBC 0 905 ers are also set. Securities holdings constitute an integrated part of the total credit risk utilisation for each issuer/counterparty. The holdings in the portfolio are long-term and on 31 December 2015, the market value, exclusive of deposits at the National Debt Office, amounted to SEK 64.8 billion with an average maturity of 2.7 years. At the same date, 95 percent of the portfolio’s value had a rating of Aaa from Moody’s or AAA from Standard & Poor’s. The portfolio’s market value is distributed over the following asset classes: • Securities issued by central governments, SEK 14.5 billion • Securities guaranteed by central governments, SEK 2.9 billion • Securities issued by supranational and sovereign agencies, SEK 2.0 billion • Securities issued by public sector entities, SEK 7.0 billion • European covered bonds, SEK 38.5 billion. 86 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB DISTRIBUTION BY CURRENCY Liquidity reserve, SEK million December 2015 SEK EUR USD Other Cash and balances from central banks 1) 461 461 – – – Balances from other banks – – – – – Securities issued or guaranteed by central government, central banks or multinational development banks 19,345 10,435 7,715 1,195 – Securities issued or guaranteed by municipalities or non-governmental public sector entities 6,972 5,674 – 1,298 – Covered bonds issued by others 38,504 31,575 5,292 1,447 190 Own covered bonds – – – – – Securities issued by non-financial companies – – – – – Securities issued by finance companies (excl. covered bonds) – – – – – Other securities – – – – – Total 65,282 48,145 13,007 3,940 190 Bank and loan facilities – – – – – Total 65,282 48,145 13,007 3,940 190 Distribution by currency, % 74 20 6 0 1) Refers to a placement with the Swedish National Debt Office. NOTE 2c Risk management – Liquidity risk The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority introduced a Swedish version of the LCR, which is binding for all banks with balance sheet totals exceeding SEK 100 billion as of 1 January 2013. LCR must correspond to at least 100 percent at a consolidated Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its payment level, as well as isolated in terms of EUR and USD. SBAB’s LCR, at all given times, is limobligations on the date of maturity without the related cost increasing significantly. The ited to amount to at least 100 percent. SBAB Group has long identified the importance of well-functioning and proactive On 1 October 2015, the European Commission's Delegated Regulation (EU) liquidity risk management. SBAB’s management of liquidity risk is described below. 2015/61 entered into force. According to the Regulation, all credit institutions shall meet an LCR of at least 60 percent, according to a new definition that differs somewhat Broad and diversified funding from the definition used by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. The requireBecause the SBAB Group has maintained an active presence in the international capiment will be gradually increased by 10 percentage points per year-end, with the first tal market since 1989, its brand is well established. The SBAB Group has access to the increase occurring on 1 January 2016, until the requirement reaches 100 percent. covered bond market, both in Sweden and internationally, through SCBC. In addition to Since SBAB is required to comply with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's issuing bonds, SBAB is funded by deposits from the public. requirement of an LCR of 100 percent, the introduction will not have any substantial effect on SBAB. Liquidity reserve Internally within the SBAB Group, the liquidity risk is measured and stress tested by To ensure access to funding in times when the normal sources of funding are not availatotalling the maximum conceivable need for liquidity for every day during the coming ble, the SBAB Group has a liquidity portfolio. When calculating the reserve value of the period. This liquidity risk measure is referred to as the survival horizon. The calculations securities included in the liquidity portfolio, the SBAB Group applies the haircuts issued are based on a crisis scenario in which all loans are assumed to be extended on matuin accordance with the Riksbank’s Guidelines for Collateral Management in the regularity, meaning that no liquidity is added through loan redemption, and where no funding tory framework for RIX and monetary policy instruments. The reserve value of the liquidis available. Deposits from the public are treated with a conservative assumption, ity portfolio is referred to as the liquidity reserve. The portfolio comprises liquid securities whereby withdrawals from the portfolio are distributed over time on the basis of historiwith high ratings and 100 percent of the value of the portfolio can be used as collateral cal balance volatility. Accordingly, the maximum need for liquidity can be identified for for repos with the Riksbank or the European Central Bank (the “ECB”). On 31 Decemevery given future period, and the necessary liquidity reserve can be established. The ber 2015, SBAB’s liquidity reserve comprised SEK 62.1 billion (reserve value at the Rikssurvival horizon corresponds to the number of days for which the liquidity reserve covers bank) in liquid securities. the maximum outflow and it has been limited to a minimum of 180 days at any given time. Moreover, unutilised issuance capacity for covered bonds is an additional reserve Liquid balance sheet that is not included in the calculation of the measurements above. SBAB’s assets primarily consist of lending against collateral in residential properties and tenant-owner rights. SCBC was established in 2006 for the purpose of issuing covered Liquidity situation in 2015 bonds, which has also resulted in increased liquidity in SBAB’s balance sheet. On 31 December 2015, the Group’s survival horizon amounted to 265 days (234). In 2015, the survival horizon was never less than 189 days (105). Continuous monitoring of liquidity risk On 31 December 2015, the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), in accordance with the Active debt management, the liquidity of the balance sheet and the size of SBAB’s definition in FFFS 2012:6 that governs the Swedish quantitative requirement, was liquidity reserves are key factors in SBAB’s liquidity risk management. By viewing fund232 percent at the consolidated level, and 1,544,051 percent and 233 percent, ing activities as a natural part of both operational work and strategic planning of liquidrespectively, in EUR and USD. In 2015, the liquidity coverage ratio never fell below ity risk, concentrations of excessively large funding maturities are avoided. Another 171 percent. important part of the on-going liquidity risk management is the continuous monitoring As of 31 December 2015, the LCR according to the EU’s Delegated Regulation and testing of the practical liquidity value of the liquidity portfolio in the secondary market. amounted to 251 percent at the consolidated level. Since this measure was introduced on 1 October 2015, it has never fallen below 211 percent. Liquidity-risk measurements To increase transparency and the comparability of liquidity risk between banks, the New regulations for liquidity risk Basel Committee has formulated international measurements for use by all banks. The In the wake of the financial crisis and its implications, a major international review has short-term measurement, called the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), has the purpose of been carried out and extensive efforts launched to review the regulations for the ensuring that a bank maintains unencumbered liquid assets that, if required, can be ­management of liquidity risk in banks and credit institutions. The objective of the new converted into cash and cash equivalents sufficient to cover 30 days of net cash outflows regulations, which are still being formulated, is to increase the resilience of banks to under stressed conditions. The liquidity requirement consists in part of the bank’s conserious disruptions in the capital market and to achieve a more harmonised approach tractual cash flows and in part of theoretical cash flows based on standard assumptions to liquidity risk at the international level. concerning, for example, the utilisation of committed credit lines or major withdrawals of deposits. Financial notes 87 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2c Risk management – Liquidity risk In order to set minimum levels for the liquidity of banks, the new regulations focus on The measures in question are: two key ratios or standard measurements called the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) • A maturity ladder showing maturities of assets and liabilities up to ten years into the and the LCR, as described in more detail above. The aim of NSFR is to indicate how future. ­stable the Group’s funding is by comparing the stability of assets and liabilities. • Concentration of counterbalancing capacity per issuer/counterparty, showing the In the EU, both measures are included in the new capital adequacy regulations that bank’s holdings of liquid assets or liquidity facilities to meet temporary declines in came into effect on 1 January 2014 and are reported to the EBA. The NFSR is not curaccess to liquidity in the market. rently subject to a quantitative requirement. It is expected that the Basel Committee’s • Concentration of financing counterparties and products, showing the counterparties definition of NFSR will be implemented in the EU, potentially with some deviations, and or financing products representing such a large percentage that losing them would it is expected that the quantitative requirements will enter into force in 2018. affect the bank’s liquidity risk. The EBA has developed five more measures of liquidity risk that are intended for com• Prices for various financing maturities. parison purposes. No quantitative requirements are expected in connection with these. • Extension of maturing financing during the reporting period. The reporting of these measures to the EBA is expected to start in 2016. GROUP Maturities of financial assets and liabilities (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) 2015 2014 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million maturity months months months years years Total maturity months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks 0 – – – – – 0 0 – – – – – 0 Eligible treasury bills and other eligible bills – 526 27 1,710 11,653 586 14,502 – 566 26 2,319 10,867 2,054 15,832 Lending to credit institutions 0 3,593 – – – – 3,593 441 7,110 – – – – 7,551 Lending to the public – 40,954 60,232 110,059 89,214 5,441 305,900 – 40,912 50,718 90,546 83,803 5,379 271,358 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – 1,093 1,333 3,642 43,163 1,953 51,184 – 656 1,487 2,767 34,691 4,015 43,616 of which classified as loans and receivables – – – – – – 0 – – – – – – 0 Derivative instruments – 20,369 35,707 3,457 77,222 48,262 185,017 – 32,188 13,345 8,781 74,625 33,195 162,134 Other assets 2,273 2,273 1,429 1,429 Total financial assets 2,273 66,535 97,299 118,868 221,252 56,242 562,469 1,870 81,432 65,576 104,413 203,986 44,643 501,920 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 5,307 – – – – 5,307 – 7,397 – – – – 7,397 Deposits from the public 76,450 94 20 22 54 0 76,640 60,336 107 21 73 73 0 60,610 Securities issued, etc. – 13,402 21,184 33,162 236,475 33,651 337,874 – 17,143 20,898 25,157 160,047 30,025 253,270 Derivative instruments – 19,908 35,088 3,360 77,009 48,919 184,284 – 32,479 13,048 8,819 73,234 33,181 160,761 Other liabilities 3,550 – – – – – 3,550 3,626 – – – – – 3,626 Subordinated debt – 2,123 38 71 6,521 0 8,753 – 2,248 7 672 3,165 0 6,092 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 44,572 11 – 3,366 – 47,949 – 37,661 46 5 1,746 – 39,458 Total financial liabilities 80,000 85,406 56,341 36,615 323,425 82,570 664,357 63,962 97,035 34,020 34,726 238,265 63,206 531,214 Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged 0 5 46 99 538 207 895 Currency-hedged 0 0 0 0 –12,764 –14,747 –27,511 Net 0 5 46 99 –12,226 –14,540 –26,616 88 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB PARENT COMPANY Maturities of financial assets and liabilities (amounts refer to contractual, undiscounted cash flows) 2015 2014 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 No <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million maturity months months months years years Total maturity months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances held at central banks 0 – – – – – 0 0 – – – – – 0 Eligible treasury bills and other eligible bills – 526 27 1,710 11,653 586 14,502 0 566 26 2,319 10,867 2,054 15,832 Lending to credit institutions 14,920 2,374 0 0 0 0 17,294 31,612 4,325 0 0 0 0 35,937 Lending to the public – 11,840 17,401 37,987 14,923 1,237 83,388 – 9,005 8,378 16,443 10,511 1,347 45,684 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – 1,093 1,333 3,642 43,163 1,953 51,184 – 656 1,487 2,767 34,691 4,015 43,616 of which classified as loans and receivables – – – – – – 0 – – – – – – 0 Derivative instruments – 17,093 19,905 1,532 52,703 31,809 123,042 – 19,206 9,330 5,871 40,321 21,559 96,287 Other assets 1,459 – – – – – 1,459 932 – – – – – 932 Total financial assets 16,379 32,926 38,666 44,871 122,442 35,585 290,869 32,544 33,758 19,221 27,400 96,390 28,975 238,288 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 3,169 – – – – 3,169 3,363 – – – – 3,363 Deposits from the public 76,450 94 20 22 54 0 76,640 60,336 107 21 73 73 0 60,610 Securities issued, etc. – 10,491 6,587 7,623 53,142 511 78,354 – 5,125 6,374 7,565 43,635 7,762 70,461 Derivative instruments – 17,109 20,614 1,663 52,278 31,826 123,490 – 19,376 9,276 6,185 41,452 21,576 97,865 Other liabilities 1,342 – – – – – 1,342 1,142 – – – – – 1,142 Subordinated debt – 38 2,123 71 6,521 0 8,753 – 7 2,248 672 3,165 0 6,092 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments – 44,572 11 – 3,366 – 47,949 – 37,661 46 5 1,746 – 39,458 Total financial liabilities 77,792 75,473 29,355 9,379 115,361 32,337 339,697 61,478 65,639 17,965 14,500 90,071 29,338 278,991 Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges SEK million No maturity < 3 months 3–6 months 6–12 months 1–5 years > 5 years Total Interest-rate-hedged 0 4 4 8 15 0 31 Currency-hedged 0 0 0 0 –5,549 0 –5,549 Net 0 4 4 8 –5,534 0 –5,518 For receivables and liabilities that have been amortised, the maturity of the amortisation version of NSFR, in which the maturity, in terms of liquidity, on deposits and lending is has been calculated as the period up to the date of maturity of the particular amortisaestimated by means of SBAB’s own statistical models, which are based on historical tion. Foreign currency cash flows have been converted using the exchange rate of 31 data on the behaviour of SBAB’s customers. On 31 December 2015, the measure was December 2015. Future interest-rate cash flows with floating interest rates have been 112 percent (110) at the one-year point, compared with the limit of 90 percent. NFSR estimated until the next fixing date using forward interest rates based on the actual according to the Basel Committee definition was 115 percent. interest base, usually the three-month STIBOR. The Parent Company, SBAB, is the credThe tables “Maturities of hedged cash flows in cash flow hedges” and “Maturities for itor for the subsidiary SCBC’s subordinated debt. If the maturity is not specified, current financial assets and liabilities” show the status of SBAB’s future cash flows at 31 Decemdebt is recognised as having no maturity and without estimated interest-­rate cash flows. ber 2015 and 31 December 2014, respectively, from both a short-term and long-term The item “Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments” for the Group, perspective. which totals SEK 47,949 million (39,458), amounts to SEK 13,242 million (10,736) after application of the internal model for calculating the conversion factor. The reduction Stress tests has not been included in the table. The corresponding figures for the Parent Company A model has been developed for stress testing of liquidity risk in order to fulfil internal amounted to SEK 47,949 million (39,458) and SEK 13,242 million (10,736), respectively. requirements with regard to the analysis of liquidity risk and risk management preparedness. The stress tests were designed in accordance with the Swedish Financial SuperviStructural liquidity risk sory Authority’s regulations regarding the management of liquidity risks in credit instituStructural liquidity risk pertains to when funding opportunities become more costly, or tions and investment companies (FFFS 2010:7). The developed models analyse SBAB’s there is a shortage in supply, as a result of differences in structure and maturity between Group’s ability to meet its liquidity requirement in various scenarios and assesses the lending and funding. SBAB aims to have a diversified funding. The SBAB Group has effect that a prolonged period with various stresses would have on an estimated matuadopted a conservative approach to the management of funding. A larger share of rity profile. The scenarios have been designed to match SBAB’s specific risk profile and future maturities is being pre-funded and the share of total funding attributable to shortcover both idiosyncratic and market-related stress. The scenarios are divided into variterm funding is being maintained at a low level. SBAB works actively to ensure an even ous stages that capture an increased degree of stress in order to show how a crisis can distribution of maturities, while at the same time extending the maturity of the liabilities. continuously worsen. Monitoring of upcoming maturities, repurchases, replacements and pre-funding constitute key elements of the practical management efforts aimed at reducing the risk. The scenarios simulated by the stress tests include: SBAB limits its dependence on market funding by applying a limit on the relation • Stress in the funding operations – the intention is that the stress should replicate the between deposits from the public and lending to the public. On 31 December 2015, 2008/09 financial crisis, with funding programmes closing at various stages the relation amounted to 26 percent (23) compared to a limit of 18 percent. Access to • Rating-related stress, with gradually lower ratings for SBAB and SCBC funding from covered bonds is further secured by monitoring, at each point in time, • Decline in the property market including in stressed circumstances, that the over collateralization in the cover pool • Stress of liquidity in the liquidity reserve exceeds Moody’s requirements for Aaa ratings. • Sizeable fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, leading to larger SBAB also measures its structural liquidity risk through a measure of maturity matchamounts having to be secured through CSAs, which could thus impair liquidity ing that measures the relationship between the maturity of assets and liabilities from a liquidity perspective at various points in the future. This can be viewed as SBAB’s internal Financial notes 89 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2c Risk management – Liquidity risk The stress tests are under continuous development and the assumptions on which the value, in accordance with the accounting standards applied by SBAB. This causes various scenarios are based are assessed regularly. Stress tests are conducted and effects to arise in operating profit/loss that do not correspond to the actual risk to which reported on a quarterly basis, The results are assessed against SBAB’s established risk SBAB’s portfolio is exposed. The earnings volatility from basis spreads is expected to appetite and used for the purpose of adjusting strategies and guidelines. decrease in the future, as SBAB has applied hedge accounting through cash flow hedges since 2014, which means that earnings volatility will only be calculated for swap contracts that are not subject to cash flow hedges. Interest rate risk in the banking book is measured and reported to the Swedish FinanNOTE 2d Risk management – Market risk cial Supervisory Authority in accordance with FFFS 2007:4. As per 31 December 2015, the effect on the present value was SEK –785.3 million (–803.9) at a parallel upward shift by 2 percentage points and SEK 809.5 (841.1) million at a parallel downward shift Market risk is the risk of loss or reduced future income due to market fluctuations. SBAB by 2 percentage points. As SBAB’s own funds amounted to SEK 18.9 billion as at 31 is characterised by low risk taking, with the Board determining the overall risk appetite December 2015, the effect of the stress tests amounted to –4.2 percent and 4.3 perand setting the limit for the risk measure Value at Risk (VaR). In addition to VaR, a numcent of the own funds, respectively. ber of supplementary risk based measurements set by the CEO of SBAB are also subject to limitation. Through daily reports, Risk Control checks compliance with current risk levels and limits. Market risk is followed up on the Group level as well as broken down to NOMINAL AMOUNTS, ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES lower levels. IN FOREIGN ­CURRENCY The general principle governing SBAB’s exposure to market risk is that the level of risk taking should be low. Interest rate risk shall as a general principle be limited through GROUP direct funding or the use of derivatives. SBAB’s interest rate structure as of 31 DecemSEK million Assets and liabilities Derivatives ber 2015 is shown in the table “Interest period for financial assets and liabilities.” CurAUD –478 478 rency risks are mitigated as funding in international currency must be hedged through CAD –36 36 currency swap contracts or invested in matching currencies. As per 31 December 2015, total assets and liabilities in foreign currency amounted to a negative SEK 75.0 billion CHF –7,183 7,183 (negative: 67.8) in terms of nominal amounts. The outstanding risk was reduced using DKK 0 0 derivatives where the nominal amount was equivalent to SEK 74.7 billion (67.7). The total effect per currency is reported in the table “Nominal amounts, assets, liabilities EUR –57,003 57,191 and derivatives in foreign currency”. GBP –450 450 JPY –4,039 4,039 Value at Risk VaR is a comprehensive portfolio measurement expressing the potential loss that could NOK –2,255 2,255 occur given a certain level of probability and holding period. SBAB’s model is a so called USD –2,921 2,495 historical model and applies percentiles in historic market data from the past two years. ZAR –608 608 Limits for the day-to-day follow-up of VaR are set at three levels: the market risk of SBAB, all market risks that Treasury is responsible for managing and the Trading portfoTotal –74,974 74,736 lio. The limit for the market risk of the whole SBAB is based on the VaR measure included in the model for Economic Capital and applies a probability level of 99.97 percent and a holding period of one year, while the other two measures apply a probability level of NOMINAL AMOUNTS, ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND DERIVATIVES 99 percent and a holding period of one day. IN FOREIGN ­CURRENCY As per 31 December 2015, the exposure to the market risk of the whole SBAB Group was SEK 1,154 million (608), compared with the limit of SEK 1,650 million (1,350). PARENT COMPANY SEK million Assets and liabilities Derivatives Exposure to market risks managed by Treasury was SEK 36 million (7) and the limit was SEK 55 million (30). Exposure in the Trading portfolio was SEK 1.6 million (0) and the AUD –478 478 limit was SEK 12 million (12). The higher levels for exposures and limits compared with CAD –36 36 2014 were due to a review of SBAB’s limit structure. In connection with this review, the credit spread risk was reallocated from the earnings volatility framework to the market CHF –2,958 2,958 risk framework, and is therefore included in SBAB’s VaR calculation of market risk. The DKK 0 0 reallocation does not affect SBAB’s total risk attributable to market risk and earnings EUR –14,211 14,386 volatility. GBP –450 450 Supplementary risk measurements JPY –4,039 4,039 In addition to the overall VaR limits determined by the Board, the CEO has set a number NOK 191 –191 of supplementary risk measurements for different kinds of risks to which SBAB is exposed. For interest rate risk, there are limits for parallel shifts, where the effect on the present USD –2,584 2,158 value of a one percentage point shift in the yield curve is measured, and curve risk, ZAR –608 608 where the effect on the present value is measured in different scenarios, in which the Total –25,172 24,923 short end of the yield curve is adjusted down (up) and the long end is adjusted up (down). Currency risk is controlled by measuring the effect of present value when currency exchange rates change compared to SEK, and in the Liquidity portfolio by controlling the matching of the principal in each currency. There are also limits for basisswap risk, credit spread risk and earnings volatility for basis spreads. Earnings volatility from basis spreads arise because the derivatives used to hedge funding are recognised at fair value while the underlying funding is reported as book 90 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Cont. NOTE 2d Risk management – Market risk INTEREST PERIODS FOR FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2015 2014 Without Without GROUP interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million period months months months years years Total period months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances from central banks – 0 – – – – 0 – 0 – – – – 0 Eligible securities – 435 0 1,504 11,765 609 14,313 – 662 0 2,104 10,443 2,348 15,557 Lending to credit institutions – 3,456 – – – – 3,456 – 7,437 – – – – 7,437 Lending to the public 15 200,788 12,727 15,414 63,853 4,184 296,981 – 158,505 14,561 18,992 66,105 3,282 261,445 Change in fair value of interestrate-hedged loan receivables – 18 39 73 392 26 548 – 33 43 98 631 132 937 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – 6,024 640 3,101 38,021 1,928 49,714 – 5,443 933 1,843 30,189 3,927 42,335 Derivative instruments –5,622 3,466 427 6,820 2,102 7,193 – –8,937 409 519 14,065 3,352 9,408 Other assets 2,273 – – – – – 2,273 1,429 – – – – – 1,429 Total financial assets 2,288 205,099 16,872 20,519 120,851 8,849 374,478 1,429 163,144 15,946 23,556 121,433 13,041 338,549 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 5,111 – – – – 5,111 – 7,284 – – – – 7,284 Deposits from the public – 76,544 20 22 54 0 76,640 – 60,443 21 73 73 – 60,610 Debt securities in issue, etc. – 56,987 30,708 18,074 131,776 26,659 264,204 – 57,659 22,704 14,004 119,548 29,253 243,168 Derivative instruments – 7,222 –3,576 –489 2,084 –47 5,194 – 4,339 –2,740 1,031 3,445 1,188 7,263 Other liabilities 3,550 – – – – – 3,550 3,626 – – – – – 3,626 Subordinated debt – 5,038 1,726 0 1,180 0 7,944 – 800 2,316 848 1,982 – 5,946 Total financial liabilities 3,550 150,902 28,878 17,607 135,094 26,612 362,643 3,626 130,525 22,301 15,955 125,048 30,441 327,896 Difference assets and liabilities –1,262 54,197 –12,006 2,912 –14,243 –17,763 11,835 –2,197 32,618 –6,355 7,601 –3,615 –17,400 10,653 2015 2014 Without Without PARENT COMPANY interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 ­interest <3 3–6 6–12 1–5 >5 SEK million period months months months years years Total period months months months years years Total ASSETS Cash and balances from central banks – 0 – – – – 0 – 0 – – – – 0 Eligible securities – 435 0 1,504 11,765 609 14,313 – 662 0 2,104 10,443 2,348 15,557 Lending to credit institutions –557 17,720 – – – – 17,163 45 35,778 – – – – 35,823 Lending to the public 15 73,594 1,315 2,672 3,406 205 81,207 – 37,144 855 1,423 4,037 408 43,866 Change in fair value of interestrate-hedged loan receivables – – 5 – – – 5 – – 2 – 9 – 11 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities – 6,024 640 3,101 38,021 1,928 49,714 – 5,443 933 1,843 30,189 3,927 42,335 Derivative instruments – –1,722 1,708 185 5,497 762 6,430 – –6,079 491 326 10,486 2,576 7,800 Other assets 1,459 – – – – – 1,459 932 – – – – – 932 Total financial assets 917 96,051 3,668 7,462 58,689 3,504 170,290 977 72,949 2,280 5,696 55,164 9,259 146,324 LIABILITIES Liabilities to credit institutions – 2,973 – – – – 2,973 – 3,250 – – – – 3,250 Deposits from the public – 76,544 20 22 54 0 76,639 – 60,443 21 73 73 – 60,610 Debt securities in issue, etc. – 38,194 11,744 2,018 24,646 324 76,925 – 30,180 8,175 751 21,192 7,884 68,182 Derivative instruments – 1,506 –2,057 535 5,773 1,021 6,778 – –1,557 –2,740 1,105 9,935 2,361 9,103 Other liabilities 1,342 – – – – – 1,342 1,142 – – – – – 1,142 Subordinated debt – 5,038 1,726 – 1,180 – 7,943 – 800 2,316 848 1,982 – 5,946 Total financial liabilities 1,342 124,255 11,433 2,575 31,653 1,345 172,600 1,142 93,117 7,771 2,777 33,182 10,245 148,233 Difference assets and liabilities –425 –28,204 –7,765 4,887 27,036 2,159 –2,310 –164 –20,168 –5,491 2,919 21,982 –986 –1,909 Financial notes 91 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 2e R  isk management – ability to operate. A crisis management organisation is responsible for crisis management and for management and communication in case of serious incidents, crises or Operational risk disasters. The crisis management work is conducted with support from the continuity plan, contingency plans and recovery plans. Operational risk means the risk of losses due to inappropriate or unsuccessful processes, IT governance human error, faulty systems or external events. The definition includes legal risk. The Operational Risk & Security function sets the requirements for the overall IT governance principles in SBAB’s operations in accordance with FFFS 2014:5. The overall goal Risk management of IT governance is to create operative processes for measuring, evaluating and adaptWithin SBAB, risk management consists of uniform measurement and reporting of opering IT in order to optimise resources. The purpose is to create value for SBAB, manage ational risk. An analysis of risk levels in all operations is conducted on a regular basis and IT-related risk and create information to support decision-making and transparency for reported to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. The Operational Risk the Executive Management and the Board regarding IT. & Security functions within the Credit and Risk departments have overall responsibility for the methods and procedures used for identifying, governing, controlling and reportCapital requirements for operative risks ing on operational risk, including follow-up. The work on identifying and managing operSBAB uses the standardised approach to assess capital requirements for operational ational risks is conducted against a backdrop of SBAB’s strict view of risk and complirisks. This approach entails that the capital requirement is based on 12–18 percent of ance while striving to optimise risk management. SBAB strives to continuously develop the average operating income of the business areas for the past three years. Capital and improve the methods used for identifying and managing operational risks. This requirements for operational risks are presented in the Table Capital requirements entails constant efforts to improve the bank’s risk culture and procedures to manage (Note 2i). operational risk and incidents effectively and proactively. Self-evaluation The self-evaluation process encompasses identification of risks in all units, measurement of identified risks and management of significant risks. The result of the self-evaluation is NOTE 2f Risk management – Business risk reported annually to the Board, the CEO and the Executive Management. The entire business uses a common method for self-evaluation of operational risk, and the method By business risk, SBAB means the risk of declining earnings due to harsher competition, is further used to cover all key processes within the bank. inappropriate strategies or erroneous decisions. Business risk includes strategic risk, reputation risk and margin risk, which arise when the interest margins on lending and borIncident management and reporting rowing have different maturities. SBAB has procedures and systems support intended to facilitate the reporting and folBusiness risk is included in the calculation of the capital requirement, as part of low-up of incidents The Operational Risk & Security function supports the operations in SBAB’s stress tests. the reporting and analysis, to ensure that root causes are identified and suitable measures are implemented. Even incidents that have not caused direct damage or financial loss are reported, to promote proactive risk management. Process for approving changes (GFF) NOTE 2g  isk management – R SBAB has a process for the approval of new or significantly altered products, services, Concentration risk markets, processes and IT-systems as well as major operational and organisational changes in SBAB. The purpose of GFF is the proactive identification and management Concentration risk arises when major exposures or exposures in the loan portfolio are of operational risks related to change. concentrated to certain counterparties, regions or industries. SBAB is primarily considered to be exposed to credit-risk related concentration risk in its lending operations. The Security and contingency management concentration risk is calculated based on the size of the exposures, industry concentraAt SBAB, security involves protecting customers, individuals, information and physical tion and geographical concentration. The entire capital requirement for concentration assets. Information must be kept confidential and be reliable and accurate, and it must risk is included in the economic capital for credit risk. Upon calculation at 31 December be made available to the appropriate people as and when needed. SBAB’s security 2015, the internally calculated capital requirement for concentration risk amounted to efforts include technical, organisational and administrative measures, and they are SEK 562 million (346), of which SEK 521 million (321) pertained to credit risk in the based on the international information security standard ISO/IEC 27000. lending operations and SEK 41 million (25) to credit risk in the funding operations. SBAB works in a pre-emptive manner to prevent security incidents that may affect the its 92 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 2h R  isk management – Internal In addition, consideration is given to the risk associated with deteriorating market ­conditions, which is illustrated in conjunction with stress tests. What is finally taken into ­capital adequacy assessment account is the impact on profit or loss caused by a valuation effect on primarily basis swap spreads arising due to accounting regulations for basis swaps that are not subject Internal capital adequacy assessment to hedge accounting. The valuation effect is not estimated to affect risk in the operaWithin the framework of Pillar 2, the Basel regulations impose the requirement that the tions, apart from the impact on own funds. banks’ management and assessment of risks must be satisfactory to ensure that the Within the Pillar 2 framework, the risk weight floor applied to Swedish residential banks can fulfil their obligations. In order to fulfil this requirement, the banks must have mortgages by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority in its supervisory practices is methods that enable them to continuously evaluate and uphold capital in an amount, considered. Since September 2014, the risk weight floor has been 25 percent. The type and distribution sufficient to cover the risks to which they are or will become internal capital requirement is reported both including and excluding the risk weight exposed. This is called the internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP). floor. The purpose of the ICAAP is to identify, evaluate and manage the risks to which SBAB Taken together, the above comprise the capital that, in accordance with Basel III, is is exposed and ensure that the Group has sufficient own funds for its selected risk prorequired to meet all risks in the operations. Additional information on the internal capifile. The ICAAP is revised annually to identify changes in the operating environment and tal adequacy assessment can be found in the document “Capital Adequacy and Risk changed regulations and supervisory practices that continuously affect the Group’s perManagement 2015,” which is published on www.sbab.se formance. The amount of own funds required to manage the combined risk in the operFor the Parent Company, the internally assessed capital requirement amounted to ations is based primarily on the calculation of SBAB’s economic capital. However, if the SEK 5,525 million (2,884). economic capital for risks included in Pillar 1 is less than the capital requirements under Pillar 1 for a given type of risk, the capital requirements under Pillar 1 are applied. EXCLUSIVE OF THE RISK INCLUSIVE OF THE RISK WEIGHT WEIGH FLOOR FLOOR Internally assessed capital Internally assessed capital Pillar 1 requirements requirements Credit risk 2,672 2,672 2,672 Pillar 1 Market risk 149 149 149 Operational risk 239 239 239 Credit risk 1) 1,101 Market risk 1,006 1,006 Operational risk 111 111 Risk weight floor 6,175 Pillar 2 Concentration risk 562 562 State risk 67 67 Pension risk 21 21 Earnings volatility 228 228 Capital conservation buffer 956 956 956 Buffers Capital planning buffer 2) 1,414 0 Countercyclical buffer 379 379 379 Total 4,395 8,905 12,565 1) In internal capital requirement without consideration for the risk weight floor, additional credit risks in Pillar 2 consists of SBAB’s estimated capital requirement in economic capital. As the additional ­capital requirement for the risk weight floor is larger than the additional capital requirement according to economic capital, only the risk weight floor is included in internal capital requirement with ­consideration for the risk weight floor. 2) The higher of the stress test buffer and capital planning buffer are included in internal capital requirements. With consideration for the risk weight floor, the stress test buffer is calculated without ­consideration for risk migration in the residential mortgage portfolios, so the required buffer is smaller. Financial notes 93 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 2i R  isk management – Capital SBAB has entered into an agreement to acquire 71 percent of Booli Search Technol­ ogies AB. The purpose of the acquisition is to strengthen SBAB’s position as an institu­adequacy analysis tions focused on housing, thereby increasing competitiveness within residential ­mortgages and housing financing. It is estimated that the acquisition will only have Regulatory framework a marginal effect on SBAB’s capital position. New common regulations on supervisory requirements for credit institutions were SBAB primarily recognises credit risk in accordance with the IRB approach, and adopted by the EU and have been applied since 1 January 2014. The purpose of the ­operational and market risk in accordance with the standardised approach. Profit for rules is in part to make institutions more resilient to new crises, in part to raise confithe year is included in the calculation of own funds and Tier 1 capital. Dividends calcudence in the institutions’ ability to manage new crises. The regulations include proposals lated according to SBAB’s dividend policy have been deducted. However, considering for higher capital requirements, stricter demands on capital quality, the introduction of future capital requirements and the uncertainty regarding these, the Board of Directors a non-risk-based measurement (debt/equity ratio) and quantitative liquidity requirements. proposes that no dividends be paid. Within the framework of these regulations, the Swedish Financial Supervisory AuthorThe SBAB Group has no securitised loans of its own and has not contributed to any ity has adopted a national risk weight floor of 25 percent for residential mortgage to other institution’s securitisation. Swedish households within Pillar 2. Banks that are considered systemic will be subject to Section 2h contains a summary of the method used to assess the internal capital additional capital requirements. SBAB is not subject to these requirements. requirement. In November 2014, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority announced that an amortisation requirement would be introduced for new residential mortgages. AccordOwn funds ing to this requirement, new residential mortgages were to be amortised by 2 percent of SBAB’s own funds comprise equity as well as additional Tier 1 instruments and Tier 2 the initial loan until a loan to value ratio of 70 percent was reached, and thereafter by capital consisting of subordinated debentures. SBAB’s own funds amounted to SEK 1 percent down to a loan-to-value ratio of 50 percent. The requirement never entered 18,867 million (15,307) as per 31 December 2015. Over the year, the Common Equity into force during the year, but a new proposal with a similar content was presented on Tier 1 capital was affected by the fact that net profit/loss for the period was added and 18 December 2015. For the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s proposal to enter the estimated dividend was deducted. The surplus has been verified by the Company’s into force, it is required that the legislative change and authorisation proposed by the auditors, in accordance with Article 26, item 2, of the CRR. Swedish Government is adopted by the Swedish Riksdag (parliament). The Swedish According to Article 35 of the CRR, the institution shall, except in the case of the Government must further authorise the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to items referred to in Article 33, not make adjustments to remove from own funds unrealdetermine the details of the regulation. As an amortisation requirement may have ised gains or losses on assets or liabilities measured at fair value. According to this Artifar-reaching impact on individual households, the regulations must also be approved by cle, SEK 264 million (76) have been added to Common Equity Tier 1 capital. the Swedish Government before entering into force. According to Article 33, item 1, of the CRR, part of the fair value reserves related to Moreover, the rate of change in the regulatory frameworks has remained high. Over gains or losses on cash flow hedges of financial instruments that are not valued at fair the year, EBA and the Basel Committee presented additional proposals for changes, value, including projected cash flows, shall not be included in own funds. The Common aimed at increasing transparency and make institution more resilient to disruptions in Equity Tier 1 capital has been adjusted for SEK 236 million (100) in cash flow hedges. the market. Proposals have been submitted regarding new common reporting rules and Changes in fair value that depend on the institution’s own credit standing and that a new standardised method that involves an increased requirement for Common Equity are related to derivative instruments have affected the Common Equity Tier 1 capital Tier 1 capital. with SEK 25 million (2), in accordance with Article 33, item b. Future rules in IFRS 9 will regulate a new method used for credit risk provisions. SBAB With reference to Articles 34 and 105 of the CRR, SEK 67 million (70) has been is working on devising a model for this. It is still too early to express a view on the impact deducted due to the requirements for prudent valuation. this will have on the size of the provision, and therefore also on own capital. A deduction of SEK 46 million (43) for intangible assets and a deduction of SEK 83 million (84) for net provisions were made, in accordance with Article 36. SBAB’s capital position SBAB is well capitalized, and to retain a strong capital position, SBAB’s Board of DirecConsolidated situation tors has adopted a new policy for capital. The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio shall The table below lists the companies that are included in the consolidated situation exceed the internally assessed Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement by 1.5 perwithin the SBAB Group. There are no on-going or unforeseen material obstacles or cent of the risk exposure amount, and the total capital ratio shall exceed the internally legal barriers to a rapid transfer of funds from own funds other than what is stipulated in assessed own capital requirement by 1.5 percent of the risk exposure amount. By means the terms and conditions governing subordinated debentures (see Note 32) or what is of a strong capital position and good risk management, SBAB meets the supervisory generally stipulated by the Companies Act. rules adopted by the EU. COMPANIES INCLUDED IN THE CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Consolidation method Consolidation method Company Corporate Identity Number Ownership share used in the accounts used for capital adequacy SBAB Bank AB (publ) 556253-7513 Parent Company – – AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation – SCBC) 56645-9755 100% Acquisition method Acquisition method Debenture loans loans. For a specification of the own funds and the complete terms and conditions for Subordinated debt may be included in the calculation of Tier 1 capital if certain condidebenture loans in accordance with Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No tions are present according to the transitional regulations of the CRR and the Swedish 1423/2013, please refer to the document under “Risk management” at sbab.se. The Financial Supervisory Authority has given its consent. SBAB received such consent for complete terms and conditions for each debenture loans are specified in the same four debenture loans with a nominal value of SEK 2,500 million (see Note 32), of which place. For further information on debenture loans, also refer to Note 32. two loans totalling SEK 1,500 million were concluded during the year and included in own capital as Tier 1 capital. Two debenture loans with a nominal value of SEK 1,000 Consolidated situation million have an incentive to redeem (step-up), of which SEK 994 million have been Disclosure of own funds during a transitional period included in own capital as Tier 1 capital, according to the transitional rules. Tier 2 capiDisclosures in accordance with Article 5 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) tal was SEK 5,447 million, of which SEK 3,447 million was subscribed in 2015. Two preNo 1423/2013. viously concluded debenture loans of SEK 2,000 million and JPY 10,000 were No amounts are subject to the provisions preceding Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 redeemed during the year. (“CRR”) or the prescribed residual amount according to Regulation (EU) No Debenture loans are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, and 575/2013. debenture loans that are included in Tier 1 capital are subordinate to other debenture 94 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Amount as per Amount as per OWN CAPITAL GROUP, SEK million 31 ­December 2015 31 ­December 2014 Common Equity Tier 1 instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 8,464 7,710 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses according to applicable accounting standards) 264 76 Interim profit/loss after deduction of foreseeable costs and dividends, verified by persons in an independent position 697 754 Common Equity Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 11,383 10,498 Common Equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –67 –70 Intangible assets (net after deduction for associated tax liabilities) (negative amount) –46 –43 Reserves in fair value related to profit or loss on cash flow hedging –236 –100 Negative amounts following the calculation of expected loss amounts –83 –84 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value that result from changes in the own credit standing of the institution –25 –2 Total regulatory adjustments to the Common Equity Tier 1 capital –457 –299 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 10,926 10,199 Additional Tier 1 instruments: Instruments Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 1,500 –, of which classified as liabilities according to applicable accounting standards 1,500 –, Amount for qualified items referred to in Article 484(4) and associated share premium reserves included in the phase-out from the additional Tier 1 instruments 994 2,395 Additional Tier 1 instruments before regulatory adjustments 2,494 2,395 Additional Tier 1 instruments: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments of additional Tier 1 instruments – – Additional Tier 1 instruments 2,494 2,395 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital = Common Equity Tier 1 capital + additional Tier 1 instruments) 13,420 12,594 Tier 2 capital: Instruments and provisions Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 5,447 2,599 Amount for qualified items referred to in Article 484(5) and associated share premium reserves that are phased out from Tier 2 capital – 114 Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 5,447 2,713 Tier 2 capital. Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments of Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 5,447 2,713 Total capital (total capital = Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 18,867 15,307 Total risk-weighted assets 38,244 34,247 Capital ratios and buffers Common Equity Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 28.6 29.8 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 35.1 36.8 Total capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 49.3 44.7 Institution-specific buffer requirements (common equity Tier 1 capital requirement according to Article 92(1)(a) plus capital conservation buffer requirement and countercyclical capital buffer, plus systemic risk buffer, plus buffer for systemic institutions (G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer) expressed as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount, % 8.0 7.0 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 1.0 – of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – Common Equity Tier 1 capital, available for use as a buffer (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 24.1 25.3 Capital instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current ceiling for additional Tier 1 instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements 2,096 2,395 Amount excluded from additional Tier 1 instruments due to the ceiling (amounts that exceed the ceiling after redemption and maturity) – 599 Current ceiling for Tier 2 instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements 910 1,040 Financial notes 95 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2i Risk management – Capital adequacy analysis CONSOLIDATED SITUATION Capital Capital r­ equirements Risk exposure amount ­requirements Risk exposure amount OWN CAPITAL GROUP, SEK million 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposure to corporates 864 10,795 558 6,975 Retail exposures 1,128 14,103 1,028 12,851 of which, exposures to small and medium-sized companies 130 1,628 139 1,737  of which, exposures to tenant-owner rights, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 998 12,475 889 11,114 Total exposure recognised in accordance with IRB approach 1,992 24,898 1,586 19,826 Credit risk recognised in accordance with the standardised approach Exposures to central governments and central banks 0 0 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 122 1,526 111 1,388 of which, derivatives listed in CRR, Annex II 120 1,505 103 1,291 of which, repos 1 14 7 85 Exposure to corporates 1 15 146 1,829 Retail exposures 168 2,106 143 1,783 Defaulted exposures 1 7 1 10 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 237 2,957 59 744 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 1 15 7 86 Exposures in the form of shares or units in collective investment undertakings (funds) – – 20 253 Other items 58 730 86 1,070 Total exposure in accordance with the standardised approach 588 7,356 573 7,163 Market risk 149 1,856 337 4,210 of which, position risk 105 1,314 279 3,491 of which, currency risk 44 542 58 719 Operational risk 239 2,989 164 2,047 Credit Value Adjustment risk 92 1,145 80 1,001 Total minimum capital requirement and risk exposure amount 3,060 38,244 2,740 34,247 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 956 856 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 379 – Total capital requirements 4,395 38,244 3,596 34,247 1) The risk-weighted exposure amount for counterparty risk according to CRR, Article 92, item 3(f), amounts to SEK 1,519 million (1,376). Disclosure of own funds during a transitional period. Disclosures in accordance with Article 5 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1423/2013. No amounts are subject to the provisions preceding Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (“CRR”) or the prescribed residual amount according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 96 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Amount as per Amount as per OWN CAPITAL GROUP, SEK million 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Common Equity Tier 1 instruments: Instruments and reserves Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 1,958 1,958 Retained earnings 5,781 6,246 Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves, to include unrealised gains and losses according to applicable accounting standards) –14 –4 Interim profit/loss after deduction of foreseeable costs and dividends, verified by persons in an independent position –117 0 Common Equity Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 7,608 8,200 Common Equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Additional value adjustments (negative amount) –68 –70 Intangible assets (net after deduction for associated tax liabilities) (negative amount) –13 –13 Reserves in fair value related to profit or loss on cash flow hedging 5 – Negative amounts following the calculation of expected loss amounts –49 –49 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value that result from changes in the own credit standing of the institution –24 –2 Total regulatory adjustments to the Common Equity Tier 1 capital –149 –134 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 7,459 8,066 Additional Tier 1 instruments: Instruments Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 1,500 – of which classified as liabilities according to applicable accounting standards 1,500 – Amount for qualified items referred to in Article 484(4) and associated share premium reserves included in the phase-out from the additional Tier 1 instruments 994 2,395 Additional Tier 1 instruments before regulatory adjustments 2,494 2,395 Additional Tier 1 instruments: Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments of additional Tier 1 instruments – – Additional Tier 1 instruments 2,494 2,395 Tier 1 capital (Tier 1 capital = Common Equity Tier 1 capital + additional Tier 1 instruments) 9,953 10,461 Tier 2 capital: instruments and allocations Capital instruments and associated share premium reserves 5,447 2,599 Amount for qualified items referred to in Article 484(5) and associated share premium reserves that are phased out from Tier 2 capital – 114 Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments 5,447 2,713 Tier 2 capital. Regulatory adjustments Total regulatory adjustments of Tier 2 capital – – Tier 2 capital 5,447 2,713 Total capital (total capital = Tier 1 capital + Tier 2 capital) 15,400 13,174 Total risk-weighted assets 33,295 28,363 Capital ratios and buffers Common Equity Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 22.4 28.4 Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 29.9 36.9 Total capital (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 46.3 46.4 Institution-specific buffer requirements (common equity Tier 1 capital requirement according to Article 92(1)(a) plus capital conservation buffer requirement and countercyclical capital buffer, plus systemic risk buffer, plus buffer for systemic institutions (G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer) expressed as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount, % 8.0 7.0 of which, capital conservation buffer requirement, % 2.5 2.5 of which, countercyclical buffer requirement, % 1.0 – of which, systemic risk buffer requirement, % – – of which, G-SII buffer and O-SII buffer, % – – Common Equity Tier 1 capital, available for use as a buffer (as a percentage of the risk-weighted exposure amount), % 17.9 23.9 Capital instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements (only applicable between 1 January 2013 and 1 January 2022) Current ceiling for additional Tier 1 instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements 2,096 2,395 Amount excluded from additional Tier 1 instruments due to the ceiling (amounts that exceed the ceiling after redemption and maturity) – 599 Current ceiling for Tier 2 instruments that are subject to phase-out arrangements 910 1,040 Financial notes 97 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 2i Risk management – Capital adequacy analysis OWN CAPITAL GROUP Capital ­requirements Risk exposure amount Capital ­requirements Risk exposure amount SEK million 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 31 December 2014 Credit risk recognised in accordance with IRB approach Exposure to corporates 484 6,052 188 2,341 Retail exposures 500 6,247 343 4,292 of which, exposures to small and medium-sized companies 52 648 35 436  of which, exposures to tenant-owner rights, single-family dwellings and holiday homes 448 5,599 308 3,856 Total exposure recognised in accordance with IRB approach 984 12,299 531 6,633 Credit risk recognised in accordance with the standardised approach Exposures to central governments and central banks 10 129 0 0 Exposures to regional governments or local authorities 0 0 0 0 Exposures to institutions 1) 95 1,190 74 925 of which, derivatives listed in CRR, Annex II 95 1,186 71 886 of which, repos – – 2 31 Exposure to corporates 1 15 145 1,817 Retail exposures 168 2,106 142 1,770 Defaulted exposures 1 7 1 10 Exposures in the form of covered bonds 237 2,957 59 744 Exposures to institutions and corporates with a short-term credit assessment 2 19 7 84 Exposures in the form of shares or units in collective investment undertakings (funds) – – 20 254 Share exposures 824 10,300 824 10,300 Other items 8 105 7 90 Total exposure in accordance with the standardised approach 1,346 16,828 1,279 15,994 Market risk 120 1,498 299 3,733 of which, position risk 105 1,314 279 3,491 of which, currency risk 15 184 20 242 Operational risk 137 1,709 112 1,402 Credit Value Adjustment risk 77 961 48 601 Total minimum capital requirement and risk exposure amount 2,664 33,295 2,269 28,363 Capital requirements for capital conservation buffer 832 709 Capital requirements for countercyclical buffer 330 – Total capital requirements 3,826 33,295 2,978 28,363 1) The risk weighted exposure amount for counterparty risk according to Article 92, item 3f, of CRR amounts to SEK 1,186 million (917). 98 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB CONSOLIDATED SITUATION PARENT COMPANY SCBC CAPITAL ADEQUACY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 10,926 10,199 7,459 8,066 13,906 12,700 Tier 1 capital 13,420 12,594 9,953 10,461 13,906 12,700 Total capital 18,867 15,307 15,400 13,174 13,906 12,700 Without transitional regulations Risk exposure amount 38,244 34,247 33,295 28,363 16,151 17,565 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, % 28.6 29.8 22.4 28.4 86.1 72.3 Excess Common Equity Tier 1 capital 9,205 8,658 5,961 6,790 13,179 11,909 Tier 1 capital ratio, % 35.1 36.8 29.9 36.9 86.1 72.3 Excess Tier 1 capital 11,125 10,539 7,955 8,760 12,937 11,646 Total capital ratio, % 49.3 44.7 46.3 46.4 86.1 72.3 Excess total capital 15,807 12,567 12,737 10,905 12,614 11,295 With transitional rules Own funds 18,950 15,392 15,449 13,223 13,940 12,736 Risk exposure amount 165,830 142,975 50,414 29,938 115,555 113,258 Total capital ratio, % 11.4 10.8 30.6 44.2 12.1 11.2 Financial notes 99 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 3 Net interest income NOTE 6  et income/expense from financial N GROUP PARENT COMPANY instruments measured at fair value/ Net income/expense from financial SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 transactions Interest income Lending to credit institutions –23 93 472 1,284 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Lending to the public 1) 5,643 7,343 978 1,179 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Interest-bearing securities 796 966 796 966 Gains/losses on interestbearing financial instruments Derivatives –1,293 –1,141 –827 –671 – Securities measured at fair Total interest income 5,123 7,261 1,419 2,758 value through the income statement –411 1,401 –411 1,401 of which, interest income from financial assets that is – Change in value of hedged not measured at fair value items in hedge accounting 1,505 –1,581 516 –762 through the income statement 5,698 7,454 1,528 2,482 – Realised income/expense from financial liabilities –113 –122 –31 –12 Interest expenses – Derivative instruments in Liabilities to credit institutions 28 –86 24 –30 hedge accounting –1,406 1,990 –458 916 Deposits from the public –572 –893 –572 –893 – Other derivative instruments 307 –1,183 295 –1,286 Debt securities in issue –4,302 –5,540 –985 –1,575 – Loan receivables 113 89 7 17 Subordinated debt –279 –317 –279 –317 Currency translation effects –2 –2 –2 –3 Derivatives 2,474 1,712 585 418 Gains/losses on shares and Other –30 –26 –31 –26 participations measured at fair value through the income Total interest expense –2,681 –5,150 –1,258 –2,423 statement 8 28 8 29 of which, interest expense Total 1 620 –76 300 from financial liabilities that is not measured at fair value through the income NOTE 7 statement –5,155 –6,862 –1,843 –2,841 Net interest income 2,442 2,111 161 335 Other operating income 1) Includes interest income from doubtful receivables of SEK 2 million (1). GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 NOTE 4 Administrative services on Dividends received behalf of subsidiary – – 625 822 Other operating income 0 0 0 0 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Total 0 0 625 822 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Dividends received Dividend income from FriSpar Kreditkonsult AB joint venture – – – 20 Total – – – 20 NOTE 5 Commission GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Commission income Commission on lending 25 17 15 8 Other commission 36 30 67 47 Total 61 47 82 55 Commission expense Commission on securities –34 –41 –21 –23 Stability fee –129 –116 –58 –50 Total –163 –157 –79 –73 Commission, net –102 –110 3 –18 100 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 8 Personnel costs GENDER DISTRIBUTION AMONG SENIOR EXECUTIVES GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY Board of Directors 2015 2014 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Women 5 5 5 5 Salaries and other remuneration –225 –257 –226 –259 Men 5 5 5 5 Pension costs –44 –44 –45 –51 Total number of Board Other social security expenses –82 –93 –83 –94 Members 10 10 10 10 Other personnel costs –25 –20 –25 –20 The Group includes the Board Members of the subsidiary Swedish Covered Bond Total –376 –414 –379 –424 Corporation (SCBC). Restructuring costs amounted to SEK 1 million (23). GROUP PARENT COMPANY Executive Management 2015 2014 2015 2014 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Salaries and other Women 3 3 3 3 ­remuneration, SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Men 7 4 7 4 CEO –5 –5 –5 –5 Total number of employees in Executive Management 10 7 10 7 Senior executives who report directly to the CEO –16 –15 –16 –15 The Group includes the Managing Director of the subsidiary The Swedish Covered Other employees –205 –237 –205 –239 Bond Corporation (SCBC). Total salaries and other remuneration –225 –257 –226 –259 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Board Members who are employed by the Parent Company receive remuneration Form of employment 2015 2014 2015 2014 and pension benefits as a result of their employment. No additional remuneration or pension benefits are paid for Board assignments. Total number of employees at No remuneration was paid to the CEO of the subsidiary Swedish Covered Bond the end of the year 471 435 471 435 Corporation (SCBC). of whom, women, % 53.5 55.6 53.5 55.6 The number of senior executives who reported directly to the CEO as per the end of the year was 9 (7). of whom, managers, % 11.5 12.4 11.5 12.4 of whom, female managers, % 5.4 5.1 5.4 5.1 GROUP PARENT COMPANY of whom, temporary Average number of employees 2015 2014 2015 2014 employees, % 1.3 0.5 1.3 0.5 Women 235 262 235 262 of whom, part-time employees, % 1.7 2.1 1.7 2.1 Men 208 205 208 205 Average number of employees 443 467 443 467 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Personnel turnover 2015 2014 2015 2014 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Number of permanent employees who terminated Sickness absence, % 2015 2014 2015 2014 employment during the year 58 78 58 78 Total sickness absence 3.9 2.8 3.9 2.8 of whom, women, % 53.4 48.7 53.4 48.7 Women 2.3 3.4 2.3 3.4 of whom, 29 years or younger, % 19.0 11.5 19.0 11.5 Men 1.6 2.1 1.6 2.1 of whom, 30–49 years, % 69.0 66.7 69.0 66.7 29 years or younger 3.1 2.5 3.1 2.5 of whom, 50 years or older, % 12.1 21.8 12.1 21.8 30–49 years 4.1 2.7 4.1 2.7 50 years or older 4.1 3.2 4.1 3.2 Proportion of long-term sickness absence compared to total sickness absence that exceeded 60 days 52.4 33.3 52.4 33.3 Financial notes 101 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Cont. NOTE 8 Personnel costs Salary, remuneration and pension costs for the CEO Salaries and other remuneration No company car or non-cash benefits were provided to the CEO. The Company Fringe benefits (subsidised interest rate, company car and sickness benefit) to s­ enior pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance plan amounting to 30 percent of executives who report directly to the CEO amounted to SEK 0.1 million (0.1). Salary the CEO’s pensionable salary, although not longer than until age 65. and other remuneration were paid in the following amounts: SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION AND PENSIONS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES WHO REPORT DIRECTLY TO THE CEO 2015 Salary and other Title, SEK million Period ­remuneration Severance pay Pension cost Klas Danielsson, CEO 1 January–31 December 2015 4.6 1.4 Christine Ehnström, Chief Legal Counsel 1 January–31 December 2015 1.9 0.5 Mikael Inglander, CFO 1 January–31 December 2015 2.5 0.7 Peter Svensén CRO 1 January–31 December 2015 1.6 0.4 Elizabet Jönsson, Head of Retail Market 8 June–31 December 2015 0.8 0.1 Håkan Höijer, Head of Retail Market 1 January–7 June 2015 0.6 0.2 Elizabet Jönsson, Head of Communications & Business Development Officer 1 March–7 June 2015 0.4 0.3 Bror-Göran Pettersson, COO 1 January–31 December 2015 1.2 0.4 Daniel Ljungel, Head of Partner 1 March 2015–31 December 2015 1.0 0.2 Carina Eriksson, Head of HR 15 June–31 December 2015 0.9 0.3 Catharina Kandel, Head of HR 1 January–29 May 2015 0.2 1.1 0.1 Per O Dahlstedt, Head of Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations 1 January–30 September 2015 1.7 0.3 Tim Pettersson, Head of Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations 1 October–31 December 2015 0.4 0.1 Marie Ljungholm, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–31 December 2015 1.3 0.3 Michael Sparreskog, Head of Internal Audit 1 January–31 December 2015 1.2 0.3 20.3 1.1 5.6 In 2015, two organisational changes were implemented that had effect on the the newly formed Retail Market department. In connection with this change, cus­Executive Management. In March, the Business Development department was transtomer services/sales Partner was transferred from the Retail business area to the ferred from Retail to Communication, forming a new department: Communications Partner Market department. This change also resulted in the Head of Partner and Business Development. In June, the next step of the change was implemented, becoming a member of the Executive Management. and the Communications and Business Development department was transferred to 2014 Salary and other Title, SEK million Period ­remuneration Severance pay Pension cost Carl-Viggo Östlund, CEO 1–13 January 2014 0.1 5.2 0.1 Per Anders Fasth, Acting CEO 14 January–13 August 2014 3.0 1.0 Klas Danielsson, CEO 14 August–31 December 2014 2.0 0.5 Christine Ehnström, Chief Legal Counsel & Deputy CEO 1) 1 January–31 December 2014 1.9 0.4 Lennart Krän, CFO 1 January–5 May 2014 0.6 1.6 0.1 Mikael Inglander, CFO 1 September–31 December 2014 0.8 0.1 Peter Svensen, CRO 1 January–31 December 2014 1.6 0.4 Håkan Höijer, Head of Retail Market 1 January–30 September 2014 1.1 0.3 Sarah Bucknell, Head of Retail Market 1 October–31 December 2014 0.4 0.1 Eva Marell, Head of Partner 1 January–31 May 2014 0.4 0.1 Erik Perman, Acting Head of Partner 1 June–31 December 2014 0.5 0.2 Sarah Bucknell, Head of Business Development 1 January–30 September 2014 1.3 0.3 Jim Petersson, Head of IT 1 October–31 December 2014 0.2 0.0 Jonas Burvall, Head of Communications & HR 1–31 January 2014 0.1 0.0 Jonas Burvall, Head of Communications 1 February–30 April 2014 0.4 1.2 0.1 Catharina Kandel, Head of HR 1 February–31 December 2014 1.2 0.4 Per O Dahlstedt, Head of Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations 1 January–31 December 2014 2.3 0.4 Marie Ljungholm, Chief Compliance Officer 1 January–31 December 2014 1.2 0.6 Michael Sparreskog, Head of Internal Audit 1 January–31 December 2014 1.1 0.4 20.2 8.0 5.5 1) The Deputy CEO position ceased to exist as of 1 September 2014. 102 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB After preparation by SBAB’s Remuneration Committee and based on the risk analyOther terms and conditions for the CEO and senior executives sis for SBAB’s remuneration system, the Board decided on an updated remuneration As regards pension conditions, notice periods and severance pay for senior execupolicy and the identification of specially regulated personnel, in accordance with tives, SBAB observes the principles stated in the Government’s Guidelines for Terms the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations and general guidelines of Employment for Senior Executives in State-owned Companies (April 2009). concerning remuneration policies of credit institutions, securities companies and The company pays for a defined-contribution pension insurance plan correspondfund companies (FFFS 2011:1). Risk analyses for SBAB’s remuneration system and ing to 30 percent of the CEO’s pensionable salary, although not longer than until remuneration policy are published on sbab.se. The composition and mandates of age 65. the Remuneration Committee are described on page 66. During the year, an agreement was reached with the other managers who report Salaries and other remuneration to specially regulated personnel, 14 employees directly to the CEO regarding a defined-contribution plan corresponding to 30 per(17), excluding senior executives who report directly to the CEO, amounted to SEK cent of pensionable salary. 9.4 million (14.5). There are no other pension agreements that deviate from the general rules of collective agreements in the banking area. Remuneration of the Board The remuneration paid to Board Members is resolved by the Annual General MeetAgreements on severance pay ing. Fees paid to Board Members in the Parent Company amounted to SEK 1.8 milThe CEO and SBAB are subject to a mutual period of notice of six months. With lion (1.5) for Board work and SEK 0.3 million (0.2) for work on committees. respect to severance pay, the agreement stipulates that if the Company gives notice Board Members who serve on a committee received SEK 3,500 per committee terminating the agreement and the CEO leaves his position, the Company shall – in meeting attended. The fees paid to the Chairman of the Board amounted to SEK addition to salary and pension during the period of notice – pay severance pay cor0.4 million (0.4). responding to 18 monthly salaries, all with deduction of new salary. Should the Two of the six Board Members elected by the Annual General Meeting received employment be terminated by the company, remuneration of up to two years’ salary fees amounting to SEK 0.3 million (0.2) each, and the remaining Board Members is paid, including the period of notice. Deductions will be made from the remuneraelected by the General meeting received fees of SEK 0.2 million (0.1). No fees were tion should new employment or income from another activity be received during the paid to Board Members employed by the Parent Company or the Government two-year period. Offices or to the employee representatives who are members of the Board. Three members of Executive Management have concluded agreements on severance pay in case of termination by the Company. In addition to salary and pension Pensions during the notice period, the Company shall pay severance pay corresponding to 12 Employees recruited to SBAB on 1 February 2013 or later are covered by the new months’ salary. Five members of Executive Management have concluded agreecollective pension plan BTP1, which is a defined-contribution plan. Those employed ments on severance pay in case of termination by the Company. In addition to salary earlier are covered by BTP2, which is a defined-benefit plan. BTP2 pays a percentand pension during the notice period, the Company shall pay severance pay correage of the final salary as a pension. Both plans encompass health and survivor pensponding to six months’ salary. Deductions will be made from the remuneration sions, as well as provisions for retirement pension. BTP2 also encompasses suppleshould new employment or income from another activity be received during the six mentary pension (BTPK) and, where applicable, family pension. BTP2 also covers and 12 month periods, respectively. employees with high incomes, whereby the recipient can choose an alternative In 2015, severance pay to one member (three) of the Executive Management investment for a certain part of the premium. IN BTP1, the employee determines to totalling SEK 4.2 million was carried as an expense, of which SEK 1.1 million (8.0) a substantial extent how premiums are invested. was paid with a deduction for new salary. In 2015, SEK 3.0 million was also carried The defined-benefit plans are collective employer plans (BTP2) secured through as an expense, of which SEK 1.0 million were paid to a former senior executive who insurance with SPP and constitute multi-employer plans. SBAB’s pension costs for its reports directly to the CEO. defined-benefit pensions amounted to SEK 33.8 million (37.4), excluding payroll In 2014, SEK 5.9 million was also paid to former members of the Executive Managetax. SBAB’s pension costs for its defined-contribution pensions amounted to SEK 9.9 ment. million (7.0), excluding payroll tax. In 2016, pension contributions for defined-benefit plans are expected to total SEK 30.0 million. See Note 31 for further information. Loans to senior executives Loans to senior executives are presented in Note 39 Information about related parGuidelines adopted by the Annual General Meeting for remuneration and other ties. employment terms and conditions of senior executives The Annual General Meeting’s principles for remuneration and other employment Incentive programme terms and conditions for senior executives, which were adopted by the Annual GenSBAB has no incentive programme. eral Meeting in 2015, state that remuneration and terms and conditions shall be reasonable and well-considered. With regard to remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment, SBAB shall continue to apply the “Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Senior Executives in State-owned Companies” as adopted by the Swedish Government on 20 April 2009. This remuneration shall be competitive, with a set ceiling and appropriate for its purpose, as well as contributing to high ethical standards and a good corporate culture. Remuneration shall not correspond to a leading salary level in relation to comparable companies but shall be characterised by moderation. This shall also provide guidance for the total amount of remuneration to other employees. Variable salary shall not be paid to senior executives. These guidelines were not amended in 2015. Financial notes 103 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 9 Other expenses NOTE 10  epreciation of property, plant D GROUP PARENT COMPANY and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 GROUP PARENT COMPANY IT expenses –180 –202 –192 –225 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Rent 1) –26 –25 –26 –25 Other costs for premises –26 –7 –26 –7 Property, plant and equipment Depreciation, computer Other administration expenses –115 –124 –113 –123 hardware –6 –7 –6 –7 Marketing –40 –54 –40 –54 Depreciation, other equipment –6 –8 –6 –8 Other operating expenses –15 –22 –12 –20 Disposals/divestments –3 – –3 – Total –402 –434 –409 –454 Intangible fixed assets Expenses for development amounted to SEK 84 million (96), of which SEK 14 million Depreciation, acquired software –7 –7 –7 –7 (27) pertained to internally produced intangible assets in the Group. Most of the Depreciation, internally development work is pursued in project form and includes the budgets of entire developed part of software –9 –13 – – ­projects, involving such expenses as planning, analysis, specification of requirements, programming, implementation and quality testing, Impairment, internally developed part of software – –125 – – Restructuring costs amounted to SEK 19 million (29). Total –31 –160 –22 –22 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Fees and compensation for expenses to auditors (KPMG), SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 NOTE 11 Loan losses, net Audit assignment –2.1 –2.2 –1.7 –1.9 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Audit tasks in addition to audit SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 assignment –1.6 –2.3 –1.1 –1.7 CORPORATE MARKET Other services –0.4 –2.2 –0.4 –2.2 Individual provision for Total –4.1 –6.7 –3.2 –5.8 Corporate Market loans Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year –1 –0 –1 –18 The audit assignment includes examination of the annual report, the accounting records and the administration by the Board and CEO. The audit assignment also Reversals of previously includes consultancy and other assistance resulting from such examination. implemented provisions for Audit tasks in addition to the audit of the annual financial statements pertain to probable loan losses that are recognised as confirmed losses the examination of interim reports/year-end report and such other duties that may in the closing accounts for 2015 – – – 18 only be performed by the signing-off auditor, such as the preparation of various types of certificates. Provision for probable loan Other services pertain to consultancy services required at the initiative of SBAB. losses for the year –22 –0 –22 –0 Recoveries in respect of confirmed loan losses in prior GROUP PARENT COMPANY years 0 0 0 0 Future rents 1), SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Reversal of prior years’ provisions for probable loan Agreed future rents due for losses no longer required 0 7 0 7 payment Guarantees – – – – – within one year –23 –25 –23 –25 Net cost for the year for – between one and five years –102 –50 –102 –50 individual provisions for – after five years –47 –10 –47 –10 Corporate Market loans –23 7 –23 7 Total –172 –85 –172 –85 Collective provision for 1) Rents = operating leases. Corporate Market loans Allocation to/redemption of collective provisions 7 8 3 6 Guarantees –2 0 –1 –1 Net cost for the year for collective provisions Corporate Market loans 5 8 2 5 104 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB GROUP PARENT COMPANY NOTE 12 Tax SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 GROUP PARENT COMPANY RETAIL MARKET SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Individual provision for Retail Market loans Current tax –232 –296 – –118 Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year –3 –7 –3 –8 Deferred tax –98 –92 31 –35 Reversals of previously Total –330 –388 31 –153 implemented provisions for probable loan losses that are The effective tax rate differs recognised as confirmed losses from the nominal tax rate in in the closing accounts for 2015 – 5 – 6 Sweden as below Provision for probable loan losses for the year –24 –4 –24 –4 Profit before tax 1,492 1,644 –148 560 Reversal of prior years’ Nominal tax rate in Sweden provisions for probable loan 22% –328 –362 33 –123 losses no longer required 1 4 1 1 Guarantees – – – – Tax-free dividends from business-related shares – – – 4 Net cost for the year for individual provisions for Retail Tax for prior years and other –2 –26 –2 –34 Market loans –26 –2 –26 –5 Total tax –330 –388 31 –153 Collective provision for Retail Effective tax rate, % 22.1 23.6 21.0 27.3 Market loans Write-off of confirmed loan losses for the year –12 –22 –12 –21 Recoveries in respect of confirmed loan losses in prior NOTE 13  hargeable treasury bills and C years 2 12 2 12 other eligible bills Allocation to/redemption of collective provisions 26 31 10 0 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Guarantees –12 –4 –4 3 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Net cost for the year for Current assets collective provisions for Retail Market loans 4 17 –4 –6 Swedish state 11,141 11,252 11,141 11,252 Net cost for the year for Foreign states 3,171 4,305 3,171 4,305 loan losses –40 30 –51 1 Total chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 14,312 15,557 14,312 15,557 A provision of SEK 20 million was made in the fourth quarter of 2015 by way of precaution in relation to a number of retail cases where it was discovered that residential mortgages had been granted based on false information. These cases have been reported to the police. No credit losses have been confirmed in any of these cases, and the residential mortgages are secured. NOTE 14 Lending to credit institutions Both the write-off of confirmed loan losses for the period and reversal of prior year GROUP PARENT COMPANY write-offs as specified above relate to receivables from the public. The guarantees pertain to received or expected receivables from the National Board of Housing, SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Building and Planning, insurance companies and banks. For additional analyses and information on loan losses, refer to Note 2a Risk manLending in SEK 1,726 4,877 15,427 33,233 agement – Credit risk in lending operations. Lending in foreign currency 1,730 2,560 1,735 2,590 Total 3,456 7,437 17,162 35,823 of which, repos 1,219 4,315 – 1,535 Of the Parent Company’s lending to credit institutions, SEK 14,920 million (31,181) relates to a receivable from the wholly owned subsidiary, The Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC). These receivables are subordinated, which means that payment is received only after other creditors of the subsidiary have been paid. Interest-bearing securities that SBAB purchases with an obligation to sell at a price determined in advance are not recognised in the balance sheet, while the purchase price paid is recognised in the balance sheet in the item Lending to credit institutions. The securities are regarded as collateral received and can be pledged or sold by SBAB. In case in the event that the counterparty is unable to meet its repurchase obligation, SBAB is entitled to keep the security. The fair value of collateral received in the Group was 1,219 (4,313), of which – (–) was pledged or sold, and in the Parent Company, it was – (1,535), of which – (–) was pledged or sold. Financial notes 105 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 15 Lending to the public GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Opening balance 261,445 258,739 43,866 48,758 Lending for the year 80,470 48,297 80,470 48,297 Transferred to/from Group companies – – –17,017 –25,371 Amortisation, write-offs, redemption, etc. –44,681 –45,349 –25,927 –27,698 Closing balance 297,234 261,687 81,392 43,986 Provision for probable loan losses –253 –242 –185 –120 Closing balance 296,981 261,445 81,207 43,866 of which subordinated assets – – – – GROUP 2015 2014 AB Sveriges SäkerAB Sveriges Säkerställda ­Obligationer ställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish (publ) (Swedish Distribution of lending by property type, ­Covered Bond SBAB Bank AB ­Covered Bond SBAB Bank AB including provisions, SEK million ­Corporation – SCBC) (publ) Total ­Corporation – SCBC) (publ) Total Single-family dwellings and holiday homes 86,943 28,790 115,734 92,066 15,235 107,301 Tenant-owner rights 71,638 24,560 96,198 63,181 11,056 74,237 Tenant-owner associations 38,431 13,926 52,356 43,902 8,787 52,689 Private multi-family dwellings 18,413 7,449 25,862 17,982 3,225 21,207 Municipal multi-family dwellings 349 121 470 434 172 606 Commercial properties – 4,313 4,313 14 3,679 3,693 Other – 2,048 2,048 – 1,712 1,712 Total 215,774 81,207 296,981 217,579 43,866 261,445 Percentage of lending with a governmental or municipal guarantee, % 1 1 1 1 1 1 Average fixed-interest period, years 1.0 0.3 0.8 0.5 1.0 0.9 In the event of early redemption during the fixed-interest period, SBAB has the right erty, SBAB has, in certain cases, received government or municipal guarantees as to receive so-called interest compensation. In the case of Retail Market loans, the collateral for the borrower’s commitments. The proportion of loans covered by this amount of compensation is based on the interest rate for the mortgage compared to type of guarantee is shown in the table above. the interest rate for mortgage bonds with a maturity that corresponds to the remainA total of SEK 82,309 million (76,533) of SBAB’s lending portfolio, of which SEK ing fixed-interest period for the loan, plus one percentage point. For other loans, the 23,294 million (12,745) in the Parent Company, was provided by business partners, reinvestment interest rate for comparable government securities is, in most cases, and it is possible for certain bank partners to acquire brokered loans if the cooperathe comparable interest rate. In other cases, the comparable interest rate is specition comes to an end. fied in the current terms of the loan. In addition to mortgage deeds in pledged propLoan commitments and other credit-related commitments are shown in Note 35. GROUP PARENT COMPANY Doubtful loan receivables and provisions, SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 a) Doubtful loan receivables 170 48 170 24 b) Individual provisions, loan receivables 81 36 57 12 c) Collective provisions, Corporate Market loans 11 19 5 5 d) Collective provisions, Retail Market loans 161 187 99 103 e) Total provisions (bcc’d) 253 242 161 120 f) Doubtful loan receivables after individual provisions (a–b) 89 12 113 12 g) Provision ratio for individual provisions (b/a), % 48 75 34 50 For further information on doubtful and non-performing loan receivables, refer to Note 2a Risk management – Credit risk in lending operations. 106 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB GROUP 2015 2014 Single-­ Single-­ family Private family Private dwellTenant­ multi-­ dwellTenant­ multi-­ ings and Tenant­ owner family ings and Tenant­ owner family Distribution of doubtful loan receivables and holiday owner associadwellholiday owner associadwellprovisions by type of property, SEK million homes rights tions ings Other Total homes rights tions ings Other Total Doubtful loan receivables, gross 19 90 27 29 5 170 2 13 3 30 48 Individual provisions, loan receivables –6 –27 –25 –18 –5 –81 –2 –13 –3 –18 –36 Collective provisions, Corporate Market loans –9 –2 –11 –12 –7 –19 Collective provisions, Retail Market loans –93 –58 –10 –161 –122 –57 –8 –187 Doubtful loan receivables after individual provisions 89 12 2015 2014 Individual Individual Individual Individual ­provision for indi­provision for ­provision for indi­provision for Change in provision for probable loan losses, vidually measured c­ ollectively measCollective vidually measured c­ ollectively measCollective SEK million receivables ured receivables ­provision receivables ured receivables ­provision Provision at the beginning of the year –21 –15 –206 –28 –19 –244 Individual provision for the year –22 –24 –0 –4 Reversed from previous provisions – – 7 3 Individual provision utilised for confirmed losses – 1 – 5 Allocation to/redemption of collective provisions 34 38 Provision at the end of the year –43 –38 –172 –21 –15 –206 NOTE 16 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Distribution of holdings by issuer, etc. CURRENT ASSETS Listed securities Issued by public bodies Intergovernmental issuers 1,962 1,908 1,962 1,908 Other public issuers 6,903 6,166 6,903 6,166 Issued by other borrowers Swedish mortgage institutions 31,109 24,570 31,109 24,570 Other foreign issuers (covered bonds, RMBSs) 6,895 6,206 6,895 6,206 Other foreign issuers (with government guarantee) 2,845 3,485 2,845 3,485 Total listed securities 49,714 42,335 49,714 42,335 Unlisted securities – – Total 49,714 42,335 49,714 42,335 of which subordinated assets – – – – Financial notes 107 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 17 Derivative instruments GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2015 2014 2015 2014 Fair Fair Fair Fair Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value value liabiliNominal value liabiliNominal value liabiliNominal value liabiliNominal SEK million assets ties amount assets ties amount assets ties amount assets ties amount Other derivatives Interest-rate related – interest-rate swaps 4,051 929 170,181 5,758 1,040 157,345 1,081 171 51,522 1,595 33 32,062 Currency-related 2,595 2,070 44,046 2,783 2,584 57,023 1,142 873 14,184 1,105 1,048 16,019 Total 6,646 2,999 214,227 8,541 3,624 214,368 2,223 1,044 65,706 2,700 1,081 48,081 Derivative instruments in cash flow hedges Interest-rate related – interest-rate swaps 160 20 21,323 54 – 9,425 – – – – – – Currency-related 35 393 27,901 197 – 9,203 – 65 5,613 – – – Total 195 413 49,224 251 – 18,628 – 65 5,613 – – – Other derivatives Interest-rate related – interest-rate swaps 271 1,252 40,358 422 2,668 59,330 2,820 3,869 262,728 3,278 5,600 245,749 – interest-rate futures – – – 1 2 –20,000 – – – 1 2 –20,000 Share-related – – – – 0 –45 – – – – 0 –45 Currency-related 80 530 18,237 193 969 19,871 1,387 1,800 79,698 1,821 2,420 63,899 Total 351 1,782 58,595 616 3,639 59,156 4,207 5,669 342,426 5,100 8,022 289,603 Currency interest-rate swaps are classified as currency-related. GROUP PARENT COMPANY 2015 2014 2015 2014 Derivative instruments distributed by remaining maturity, Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal carrying amount, SEK million Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount At most 3 months 58 30,345 –558 23,247 103 40,074 –48 27,760 3–12 months 170 64,498 144 40,894 –745 59,492 283 50,089 1–5 years 1,715 182,516 2,062 185,095 453 230,654 –1,506 190,493 More than 5 year 55 44,687 497 42,916 –159 83,525 –32 69,339 Total 1,998 322,046 2,145 292,152 –348 413,745 –1,303 337,681 108 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 18 Shares and participations NOTE 20 S  hares and participations GROUP PARENT COMPANY in Group companies SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 The Swedish Covered Bond Corporation is domiciled in Solna, Sweden. For more information about the company, see page 34. Fund units measured at fair value through the income PARENT COMPANY statement – 253 – 253 SEK million 2015 2014 Total – 253 – 253 AB Sveriges AB Sveriges ­Säkerställda Obliga­Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (­Swedish tioner (publ) (­Swedish Covered Bond Covered Bond NOTE 19 ­Corporation – SCBC) ­Corporation – SCBC)  hares and participations S Swedish credit institutions 556645-9755 556645-9755 in joint ventures Cost at the beginning of the year 10,300 10,300 FriSpar Kreditkonsult AB was a joint venture that was liquidated on 19 December Group contributions provided – – 2014. Cost at the end of the year 10,300 10,300 PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 The assets are expected to be disposed of after more than 12 months. FriSpar FriSpar 2015 2014 Kreditkonsult AB Kreditkonsult AB Swedish credit institutions 556248-3338 556248-3338 AB Sveriges AB Sveriges ­ äkerställda Obliga­Säkerställda ObligaS Cost at the beginning of the year – 113 tioner (publ) (­Swedish tioner (publ) (­Swedish Covered Bond Covered Bond Repaid share capital – –77 ­Corporation – SCBC) ­Corporation – SCBC) Shareholder contribution – – Swedish credit institutions 556645-9755 556645-9755 Repaid shareholder contribution – –36 Number of shares 500,000 500,000 Cost at the end of the year – – Share of equity, % 100 100 Carrying amount, SEK million 10,300 10,300 Number of shares – – Share of ownership, % – – NOTE 21 Share of equity, % – – Carrying amount, SEK million – – Intangible fixed assets GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP SEK million 2015 2014 Software, SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 FriSpar FriSpar Cost at the beginning of the year 403 370 74 68 Kreditkonsult AB Kreditkonsult AB Swedish credit institutions 556248-3338 556248-3338 Acquisitions during the year 20 33 7 6 Divestments during the year – –0 – –0 Current assets – – Cost at the end of the year 423 403 81 74 Fixed assets – – Current liabilities – – Amortisation at the beginning of the year –188 –167 –61 –54 Long-term liabilities – – Amortisation for the year Income – 1 according to plan –16 –21 –7 –7 Expenses – –0 Divestments during the year – 0 – 0 Tax – –0 Accumulated amortisation –204 –188 –68 –61 Profit/loss/Comprehensive income – 1 Amortisation at the beginning of the year –163 –38 – – The amounts relate to the Group’s share, meaning 51 percent of FriSpar Kredit­ konsult AB’s corresponding amount. Amortisation for the year – –125 – – Amortisation at the end of the year –163 –163 – – Net carrying amount 56 52 13 13 Internally produced intangible assets are reported in the consolidated financial statements. Consequently, the difference between the amounts in the Parent Company’s financial statements and the consolidated financial statements pertain solely to internally-produced intangible assets. Borrowing costs are capitalised for assets that are produced internally and take a significant amount of time to utilise. In 2015, borrowing costs of SEK 0 million (1) were capitalised. The average ­interest rate for the periods and assets in question was 0 percent (1.6). Financial notes 109 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 22 Property, plant and equipment NOTE 25 Liabilities to credit institutions GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Cost at the beginning of the year 187 183 187 183 Liabilities in SEK 1,565 3,126 275 258 Acquisitions during the year 9 4 9 4 Liabilities in foreign currencies 3,545 4,158 2,698 2,992 Divestments during the year –1 – –1 – Total 5,111 7,284 2,973 3,250 Disposals during the year –12 – –12 – of which, repos 1,233 2,798 – – Cost at the end of the year 183 187 183 187 NOTE 26 Amortisation at the beginning of the year –160 –146 –160 –146 Deposits from the public Amortisation for the year according to plan –12 –14 –12 –14 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Divestments during the year 0 – 0 – SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Disposals during the year 9 – 9 – Private individuals 56,061 47,948 56,061 47,948 Accumulated amortisation Tenant-owner associations 3,677 2,957 3,677 2,957 according to plan –163 –160 –163 –160 Corporate 16,901 9,705 16,901 9,705 Net carrying amount 20 27 20 27 Total 76,639 60,610 76,639 60,610 NOTE 23 Other assets NOTE 27 Debt securities in issue GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Tax assets 796 422 120 117 Commercial paper Other 450 39 434 21 Commercial papers in SEK Total 1,246 461 554 138 – at amortised cost 320 2,739 320 2,739 Other assets distributed by remaining maturity, carrying Commercial papers in foreign amount currency At most 1 year 1,246 461 554 138 – at amortised cost 6,897 4,872 6,897 4,872 More than 1 year – – – – Total 7,217 7,611 7,217 7,611 Total 1,246 461 554 138 Bond loans Bond loans in SEK – at amortised cost 99,423 42,694 29,966 27,112 NOTE 24  repaid expenses and accrued P – in fair value hedging 73,601 113,019 5,270 7,672 income Bonds loans in foreign currency – at amortised cost 35,793 18,707 12,584 2,835 GROUP PARENT COMPANY – in fair value hedging 48,171 61,137 21,888 22,952 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Total 256,988 235,557 69,708 60,571 Prepaid expenses 41 34 39 34 Total securities in issue, etc. 264,205 243,168 76,925 68,182 Accrued interest income 930 862 831 725 of which, covered bonds 187,280 174,986 – – Accrued guarantees 39 56 26 29 Other accrued income 16 17 8 6 The bond loan conditions in SBAB’s long-term funding programme include a possibility for the bondholder to demand premature redemption of the holder’s bonds Total 1,026 969 904 794 issued in such loan programmes if the Swedish state ceases to own the majority of the shares in SBAB and the Swedish state, before such change in ownership, has not Prepaid expenses and accrued taken steps to guarantee SBAB’s commitments ensuing from the bond loan or the income distributed by remaining bondholders have accepted this in such a way as is described in current terms and maturity, carrying amount conditions. However, subordinated debentures and additional Tier 1 instruments At most 1 year 1,000 932 887 775 issued under the long-term funding programme do not include the aforesaid conditions. Total funding under these programmes with the right to demand redemption More than 1 year 26 37 17 19 amounted to SEK 68.9 billion (59.5) at 31 December 2015. Total 1,026 969 904 794 110 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 28 Other liabilities NOTE 30 Deferred tax GROUP PARENT COMPANY GROUP PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Accounts payable – trade 3 34 3 34 Deferred tax assets (+)/tax liabilities (–) for temporary Employee withholding taxes 8 9 8 9 differences in: Liabilities to employees 298 99 288 81 – Stock of financial instruments –25 59 6 – Other 474 282 474 283 – Debt securities in issue 673 1,085 190 300 Total 783 424 773 407 – Derivative instruments –729 –1,052 –184 –284 Other liabilities distributed by – Intangible fixed assets –9 –9 – – remaining maturity, carrying amount Pension provision 3 19 – – At most 1 year 783 424 773 407 – Tax loss carryforwards 38 – 38 – More than 1 year – – – – – Other 2 2 2 2 Total 783 424 773 407 Total –47 104 52 18 Change in deferred tax NOTE 29 Revaluation for temporary A  ccrued expenses and prepaid differences – 664 – 182 income Deferred tax in the income statement –98 –92 31 –35 GROUP PARENT COMPANY Deferred tax attributable to items recognised directly SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 against other comprehensive income –53 –9 3 4 Accrued interest expenses 2,477 2,903 375 518 Total –151 563 34 151 Other accrued expenses 290 297 194 217 Total 2,767 3,200 569 735 Deferred tax distributed by expected maturity date, Accrued expenses and prepaid carrying amount income distributed by remaining At most 1 year – – – – maturity, carrying amount More than 1 year –47 104 52 18 At most 1 year 2,767 3,200 569 735 Total –47 104 52 18 More than 1 year – – – – Total 2,767 3,200 569 735 NOTE 31 Provisions GROUP SEK million 2015 2014 Provisions for pensions –12 –71 Provision for special employer’s contribution on pensions –3 –18 Total –15 –89 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS GROUP Summary of defined-benefit pension plan, SEK million 2015 2014 Present value of the obligation, closing balance 326 372 Fair value of plan assets –314 –301 Pension provisions (excluding special employer’s contributions) 12 71 Financial notes 111 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT cont. NOTE 31 Provisions RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PRESENT VALUE OF OBLIGATION FINANCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC ASSUMPTIONS GROUP GROUP SEK million 2015 2014 % 2015 2014 Present value of the obligation, opening balance 372 285 Financial assumptions Cost pertaining to service during the current year 11 8 Discount rate 3.70 3.00 Interest expenses 11 12 Annual salary increase 3.00 3.00 Gain/loss arising from changed financial assumptions –50 69 Annual inflation 2.00 2.00 Experience-based gains/losses –3 –10 Annual increase in income base amount 3.00 3.00 Pension disbursements from plan –6 –5 Annual increase in pension disbursements 2.00 2.00 Gain/loss due to demographic assumptions –9 13 Demographic assumptions Present value of the obligation, closing balance 326 372 Personnel turnover 9.00 6.00 The weighted average maturity of the defined-benefit obligation is 19 years. Mortality table DUS14 DUS14 RECONCILIATION OF CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ASSUMPTIONS GROUP GROUP SEK million 2015 2014 Discount rate, SEK million 2015 Fair value of plan assets, opening balance 301 264 Assumption, % 4.70 Interest income 9 11 Present value of the obligation 270 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in Cost pertaining to service during the current period 5 interest expense/interest income –4 15 Interest expenses 13 Premiums paid by employer 14 16 Pension disbursements from plan –6 –5 Assumption, % 2.70 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance 314 301 Present value of the obligation 400 Cost pertaining to service during the current period 9 DISTRIBUTION OF PLAN ASSETS Interest expenses 11 GROUP The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while all other % 2015 2014 assumptions are kept constant. In the calculation of sensitivity in the defined-benefit obligation, the same method is applied as in the calculation of the reported pension Swedish shares 4 3 provision. For further information on pensions, see Note 1 Accounting policies and Note 8 Foreign shares 4 9 Personnel costs. Government and government-guaranteed bonds 31 32 Mortgage institutions 24 23 Corporate bonds 31 28 Real estate and infrastructure 6 5 Total 100 100 The defined-benefit pension plan is secured through insurance with SPP Livförsäkring AB. Through investments in shares, interest-bearing instruments and property, the insurance capital will reflect the performance of the financial markets. The aim of the management is to achieve a high and consistent return while ensuring a guaranteed increase in value. 112 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 32 Subordinated debt PARENT COMPANY AND GROUP First possible CARRYING AMOUNT, SEK million CurNominal Outstanding redemption right Interest rate, % Loan designation rency amount nominal amount for SBAB 31 December 2015 Maturity date 2015 2014 Subordinated debenture JPY 1 JPY 10,000,000,000 – – 5.230 16 November 2015 – 848 Subordinated debenture SEK 1 SEK 700,000,000 700,000,000 2016 5.220 Perpetual 714 740 Subordinated debenture SEK 2 SEK 300,000,000 300,000,000 2016 3 M STIBOR+0.930 Perpetual 300 300 Subordinated debenture SEK 3 SEK 2,000,000,000 – 2015 7.160 Perpetual – 2,016 Subordinated debenture SEK 4 SEK 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 2016 6.123 20 April 2021 1,011 1,042 Subordinated debenture SEK 5 SEK 800,000,000 800,000,000 2017 3 M STIBOR+2.650 16 November 2022 800 800 Subordinated debenture SEK 6 SEK 200,000,000 200,000,000 2017 4.180 16 November 2022 200 200 Subordinated debenture SEK 7 SEK 400,000,000 400,000,000 2020 3.825 Perpetual 397 – Subordinated debenture SEK 8 SEK 1,100,000,000 1,100,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR+3.250 Perpetual 1,091 – Subordinated debenture SEK 9 SEK 1,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR+1.300 11 June 2025 997 – Subordinated debenture SEK 10 SEK 600,000,000 600,000,000 2020 2.250 10 November 2025 583 Subordinated debenture SEK 11 SEK 1,850,000,000 1,850,000,000 2020 3 M STIBOR+1.900 10 November 2025 1,850 – Total 7,943 5,946 of which, Group companies – – Subordinated debentures are subordinate to the Parent Company’s other liabilities, SEK 5 which means that they carry entitlement to payment only after other unsubordiMaturity: 16 November 2012–16 November 2022 nated creditors have received payment. Subordinated debentures SEK 1, SEK 2, Interest rate: For the period 16 November 2012 to 16 November 2017: Floating SEK 7 and SEK 8 are subordinate to other subordinated debentures, known as addiinterest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 2.65 percent. For the subsetional Tier 1 instruments, and may according to the transitional rules be included in quent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus Tier 1 capital. 2.65 ­percent. Permission has been obtained from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to include these debentures in the Company’s own funds for the purpose of calculating SEK 6 the Parent Company’s capital adequacy. Maturity: 16 November 2012–16 November 2022 Interest rate: For the period 16 November 2012 to 16 November 2017: 4.18 perSubordinated debt is distributed among the following loans: cent. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month JPY 1 STIBOR plus 2.65 percent. Maturity: 16 November 1995–16 November 2015 (the loan was repaid in its entirety by 16 November 2015) SEK 7 Interest rate: SBAB may opt to pay the interest in USD, EUR or JPY. The interest rate The loan is perpetual. is 5.23 percent in the respective currency. Interest rate: For the period 16 March 2015 to 16 March 2020: 3.8245 percent. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR SEK 1 plus 3.25 percent. The loan is perpetual. Interest rate: For the period 30 June 2006 to 30 June 2016: 5.22 percent. For the SEK 8 subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus The loan is perpetual. 1.93 percent. Interest rate: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 3.25 percent. SEK 2 The loan is perpetual. SEK 9 Interest rate: For the period 30 June 2006 to 30 June 2016: Floating interest correMaturity: 11 June 2015–11 June 2025 sponding to three-month STIBOR plus 0.93 percent. For the subsequent period: Interest rate: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 1.93 percent. 1.30 percent. SEK 3 SEK 10 The loan is perpetual. (The loan was repaid in its entirety as soon as redemption was Maturity: 10 November 2015–10 November 2025 allowed, by 8 June 2015) Interest rate: For the period 10 November 2015 to 10 November 2020: Interest rate: For the period 08 April 2010 to 08 June 2015: 7.16 percent. For the 2.25 ­percent. For the subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus ­three-month STIBOR plus 1.90 percent. 4.50 percent. SEK 11 SEK 4 Maturity: 10 November 2015–10 November 2025 Maturity: 20 April 2011–20 April 2021 Interest rate: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus Interest rate: For the period 20 April 2011 to 20 April2016: 6.123 percent. For the 1.90 ­percent. subsequent period: Floating interest corresponding to three-month STIBOR plus 2.40 percent. For further information on the terms and conditions of SBAB’s subordinated debentures, see sbab.se and Note 2i Risk management – Capital adequacy analysis. Financial notes 113 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 33 Equity Further information on Reserves and Fair value reserve is provided in Note 1 Accounting policies, in the sections “Available-for-sale financial assets”, “Cash flow hedges” and “Pensions”. The share capital amounts to SEK 1,958,300,000. The number of shares is 19,583, each with a quotient value of SEK 100,000, as in previous years. All shares are owned by the Swedish state. Dividends are proposed by the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. It is proposed that no dividend be paid for 2015. For 2014, it was decided NOTE 34 Assets pledged for own liabilities that a dividend of SEK 502 million (25,634 per share) should be paid. Further inforGROUP PARENT COMPANY mation on equity is provided in the report “Changes in equity” on page 75. SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Loan receivables 211,420 211,651 – – GROUP Other receivables 15 23 15 23 Provisions, SEK million 2015 2014 Total 211,435 211,674 15 23 Reclassified financial assets at beginning of year – –23 Accrual of interest and currency effect in reclassified financial Of the assets pledged, SEK 211.4 billion (211.7) comprise the cover pool for covassets – 32 ered bonds totalling SEK 187.3 billion (175.0). Loan receivables pledged as collateral mainly consist of the registered cover pool Tax attributable to the change – –9 benefiting holders of covered bonds issued by SCBC and SCBC’s covered derivaReclassified financial assets at end of year – – tive counterparties. In the event that the Company becomes insolvent, the holders of the covered bonds and the covered derivatives counterparties have priority rights Available-for-sale financial assets, at the beginning of the year –4 – to the pledged assets under the Covered Bonds Issuance Act and the Rights of Priority Act. Unrealised change in value over the year –7 –5 Reclassified to the income statement over the year 0 – Tax attributable to the change Available-for-sale financial assets, at end of year 2 –9 1 –4 NOTE 35 Commitments GROUP PARENT COMPANY Cash flow hedges at the beginning of the year 100 – SEK million 2015 2014 2015 2014 Unrealised change in value over the year –297 128 Reclassified to the income statement over the year 472 – Commitments concerning future payments – – – – Tax attributable to the change –39 –28 Other commitments Cash flow hedges at the end of the year 236 100 Loan commitments and other credit-related commitments 47,949 39,458 47,949 39,458 Defined-benefit pension plans at beginning of year –19 36 Other commitments – – 32,823 39,694 Revaluation effects of defined-benefit pension plans 72 –71 Total 47,949 39,458 80,772 79,152 Tax attributable to the change –16 16 Defined-benefit pension plans at end of year 37 –19 Commitments allocated by remaining maturity Total 264 77 Within 1 year 44,583 37,712 77,406 77,406 1–5 years 3,366 1,746 3,366 1,746 PARENT COMPANY > 5 years – – – – Fair value reserve, SEK million 2015 2014 Total 47,949 39,458 80,772 79,152 Reclassified financial assets at beginning of year – –23 Accrual of interest and currency effect in reclassified financial Excluding building credits of SEK 3,432 million (1,797), loan commitments and assets – 32 other credit-related commitments in the Group totalling SEK 44,516 million (37,661) were reduced to SEK 10,667 million (9,838) after taking into account the Tax attributable to the change – –9 conversion factor, meaning the statistically calculated probability that the exposure Reclassified financial assets at end of year – – will lead to payment of the loan. Excluding building credits of SEK 3,432 million (1,797), the corresponding figures Available-for-sale financial assets, at the beginning of the year –4 – for the Parent Company were SEK 44,516 million (37,661) and SEK 10,667 million Unrealised change in value over the year –7 –5 (9,838), respectively. The Parent Company’s other commitments include an agreement concerning a liquidity facility with the subsidiary, SCBC, through which SCBC Reclassified to the income statement over the year – – may borrow funds from the Parent Company for its operations if the need arises. Tax attributable to the change 2 1 Available-for-sale financial assets, at end of year –9 –4 Cash flow hedges at the beginning of the year – – Unrealised change in value over the year –137 – Realised change in value, reclassified to the income statement 131 – Tax attributable to the change 1 – Cash flow hedges at the end of the year –5 – Total –14 –4 114 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 36 Classification of financial instruments GROUP Financial assets 2015 Assets measured at fair value Hedge-accounted through the derivative Available-for-sale Loan Investments held Total SEK million income statement ­instruments financial assets receivables to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 10,185 4,127 14,312 14,312 Lending to credit institutions 3,456 3,456 3,456 Lending to the public 296,981 296,981 298,353 Change in value of interest-ratehedged items in portfolio hedges 549 549 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 16,275 24,115 9,324 49,714 49,708 Derivative instruments 351 6,841 7,192 7,192 Shares and participations – – – Other assets 1,246 1,246 1,246 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 255 455 224 92 1,026 1,026 Total 27,066 6,841 28,697 302,456 9,416 374,476 375,293 2014 Assets measured at fair value Hedge-accounted through the derivative Available-for-sale Loan Investments held Total SEK million income statement ­instruments financial assets receivables to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 13,250 2,307 15,557 15,557 Lending to credit institutions 7,437 7,437 7,437 Lending to the public 261,445 261,445 263,991 Change in value of interest-ratehedged items in portfolio hedges 937 937 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 33,842 3,518 4,975 42,335 42,341 Derivative instruments 616 8,792 9,408 9,408 Shares and participations 253 253 253 Other assets 461 461 461 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 523 110 274 62 969 969 Total 48,484 8,792 5,935 270,554 5,037 338,802 340,417 Financial notes 115 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT cont. NOTE 36 Classification of financial instruments GROUP Financial liabilities 2015 Liabilities measured at fair value through the Hedge-accounted Other Total SEK million income statement ­derivative instruments financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 5,111 5,111 5,111 Deposits from the public 76,639 76,639 76,639 Debt securities in issue, etc. 264,205 264,205 265,160 Derivative instruments 1,782 3,412 5,194 5,194 Other liabilities 783 783 783 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 2,767 2,767 2,767 Subordinated debt 7,943 7,943 7,974 Total 1,782 3,412 357,448 362,642 363,628 2014 Liabilities measured at fair value through the Hedge-accounted Other Total SEK million income statement ­derivative instruments financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 7,284 7,284 7,284 Deposits from the public 60,610 60,610 60,610 Debt securities in issue, etc. 243,168 243,168 245,024 Derivative instruments 3,639 3,624 7,263 7,263 Other liabilities 424 424 424 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 3,200 3,200 3,200 Subordinated debt 5,946 5,946 5,957 Total 3,639 3,624 320,632 327,895 329,762 116 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB PARENT COMPANY Financial assets 2015 Assets measured at fair value Hedge-accounted through the derivative Available-for-sale Loan Investments held Total SEK million income statement ­instruments financial assets receivables to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 10,185 4,127 14,312 14,312 Lending to credit institutions 17,162 17,162 17,162 Lending to the public 81,207 81,207 81,465 Change in value of interest-ratehedged items in portfolio hedges 5 5 – Bonds and other interestbearing securities 16,275 24,115 9,324 49,714 49,708 Derivative instruments 4,207 2,223 6,430 6,430 Shares and participations – – Other assets 554 554 554 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 255 455 103 92 904 904 Total 30,922 2,223 28,697 99,031 9,416 170,288 170,535 2014 Assets measured at fair value Hedge-accounted through the derivative Available-for-sale Loan Investments held Total SEK million income statement ­instruments financial assets receivables to maturity Total fair value Cash and balances at central banks 0 0 0 Chargeable treasury bills and other eligible bills 13,250 2,307 15,557 15,557 Lending to credit institutions 35,823 35,823 35,823 Lending to the public 43,866 43,866 44,153 Change in value of interest-ratehedged items in portfolio hedges 11 11 – Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 33,842 3,518 4,975 42,335 42,341 Derivative instruments 5,099 2,701 7,800 7,800 Shares and participations 253 253 253 Other assets 138 138 138 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 523 110 99 62 794 794 Total 52,967 2,701 5,935 79,937 5,037 146,577 146,859 Financial notes 117 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT cont. NOTE 36 Classification of financial instruments PARENT COMPANY Financial liabilities 2015 Liabilities measured at fair value through the Hedge-accounted Other Total SEK million income statement ­derivative instruments financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 2,973 2,973 2,973 Deposits from the public 76,639 76,639 76,639 Debt securities in issue, etc. 76,925 76,925 77,052 Derivative instruments 5,669 1,109 6,778 6,778 Other liabilities 773 773 773 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 569 569 569 Subordinated debt 7,943 7,943 7,974 Total 5,669 1,109 165,822 172,600 172,758 2014 Liabilities measured at fair value through the Hedge-accounted Other Total SEK million income statement ­derivative instruments financial liabilities Total fair value Liabilities to credit institutions 3,250 3,250 3,250 Deposits from the public 60,610 60,610 60,610 Debt securities in issue, etc. 68,182 68,182 68,240 Derivative instruments 8,022 1,081 9,103 9,103 Other liabilities 407 407 407 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 735 735 735 Subordinated debt 5,946 5,946 5,957 Total 8,022 1,081 139,130 148,233 148,302 Fair value measurement of financial instruments For “Lending to the public”, where there are no observable credit margin data at the The principles for the measurement of financial instruments recognised at fair value time of measurement, the credit margin on the most recent stipulated date of expiry in the balance sheet are given in Note 1 Accounting policies. In the column “total is applied, Level 3. Debt securities in issue are measured at the Group’s current fair value” above, information is also provided on the fair value of financial instru­borrowing rate, Level 2. ments that are recognised at amortised cost in the balance sheet. Investments held to maturity are measured at quoted prices, Level 1. The carrying amount for current receivables and liabilities has been assessed to be equal to the fair value, Level 3. 118 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 37 Information about fair value GROUP 2015 2014 Other Non-­ Other Non-­ ­observable observable ­observable observable Quoted market market data market data Quoted market market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Securities 55,412 – 55,412 53,803 – – 53,803 Derivatives in the category trade – 351 – 351 1 615 – 616 Other derivatives – 6,841 – 6,841 – 8,792 – 8,792 Total 55,412 7,192 – 62,604 53,804 9,407 – 63,211 Liabilities Derivatives in the category trade – 1,782 – 1,782 2 3,637 – 3,639 Other derivatives – 3,412 – 3,412 – 3,624 – 3,624 Total 0 5,194 – 5,194 2 7,261 – 7,263 PARENT COMPANY 2015 2014 Other Non-­ Other Non-­ ­observable observable ­observable observable Quoted market market data market data Quoted market market data market data SEK million prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total prices (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Assets Securities 55,412 – 55,412 53,803 – – 53,803 Derivatives in the category trade – 4,207 – 4,207 1 5,098 – 5,099 Other derivatives – 2,223 – 2,223 – 2,701 – 2,701 Total 55,412 6,430 – 61,842 53,804 7,799 – 61,603 Liabilities Derivatives in the category trade – 5,669 – 5,669 2 8,020 – 8,022 Other derivatives – 1,109 – 1,109 – 1,081 – 1,081 Total – 6,778 – 6,778 2 9,101 – 9,103 Parent Company and Group Measurement based on observable data (Level 2) In the table, financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value in the balance Measurement aided by external market information other than quoted prices sheet are divided on the basis of the measurement methods used. included in Level 1, such as quoted interest rates or prices for closely related instruThere were no transfers between the levels in 2014 or 2015. ments. This group includes all non-quoted derivative instruments. Quoted market prices (Level 1) Measurement based in part on unobservable data (Level 3) Measurement at quoted prices in an active market for identical assets and liabilities. Measurement whereby a material component of the model is based on estimates or A market is deemed to be active if the price data is easily accessible and correassumptions that do not originate directly from the market. This method is currently sponds to actual regularly occurring transactions. not used on any asset or liability. The measurement method is used for holdings of quoted interest-bearing securities, fund units and for publicly quoted derivatives, primarily interest-rate futures. Financial notes 119 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 38 Information about offsetting GROUP Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. RELATED AMOUNTS THAT ARE NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2015 Provided (+)/ Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Received (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet Financial instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 7,192 –3,115 0 –3,602 475 Repos 1,219 –1,219 0 0 Liabilities Derivatives –5,194 3,115 0 1,530 –549 Repos –1,233 1,219 14 0 0 Total 1,984 0 14 –2,072 –74 RELATED AMOUNTS THAT ARE NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2014 Provided (+)/ Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Received (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet Financial instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 9,408 –4,393 0 –3,996 1,019 Repos 4,315 –2,779 –1,535 0 1 Liabilities Derivatives –7,263 4,393 0 2,643 –227 Repos –2,798 2,779 18 1 0 Total 3,662 0 –1,517 –1,352 793 For further information on offsetting, see Note 2b Risk management – Credit risk in treasury operations, the section on Counterparty risk. 120 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB PARENT COMPANY Financial assets and liabilities covered by a legally binding agreement regarding netting or a similar agreement but that are not offset in the balance sheet. RELATED AMOUNTS THAT ARE NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2015 Provided (+)/ Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Received (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet Financial instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 6,430 –3,558 0 –2,774 98 Repos – – – – Liabilities Derivatives –6,778 3,558 1,530 –1,690 Repos – – 0 0 Total –348 0 0 –1,244 –1,592 RELATED AMOUNTS THAT ARE NOT OFFSET IN THE BALANCE SHEET 2014 Provided (+)/ Provided (+)/ Amounts reported Received (–) collateral Received (–) SEK million in the balance sheet Financial instruments – securities cash collateral Net amount Assets Derivatives 7,800 –4,608 0 –2,879 313 Repos 1,535 0 –1,533 –1 1 Liabilities Derivatives –9,103 4,608 0 2,643 –1,852 Repos 0 0 0 0 0 Total 232 0 –1,533 –237 –1,538 Financial notes 121 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 39 Information about related parties SBAB Bank AB (publ) is a Swedish public limited company that is wholly–owned by the Swedish state. Group companies The Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC) is to be regarded as a subsidiary and recognised in accordance with the acquisition method, which entails the elimination of internal transactions at Group level. Transactions with related parties have been made on market terms. PARENT COMPANY GROUP COMPANIES TOTAL 2015 Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ SEK million Liabilities expense Liabilities expense Lending to credit institutions 14,920 493 14,920 493 Derivative instruments 1,233 445 1,233 445 Other assets 2 – 2 – Total 16,155 938 16,155 938 Liabilities to credit institutions – – – – Debt securities in issue, etc. – – – – Derivative instruments 2,788 –818 2,788 –818 Other liabilities – – – – Total 2,788 –818 2,788 –818 GROUP COMPANIES TOTAL 2014 Assets/ Interest income/ Assets/ Interest income/ SEK million Liabilities expense Liabilities expense Lending to credit institutions 31,181 1,237 31,181 1,237 Derivative instruments 1,518 598 1,518 598 Other assets 2 – 2 – Total 32,701 1,835 32,701 1,835 Liabilities to credit institutions – – – – Debt securities in issue, etc. – – – – Derivative instruments 3,189 –572 3,189 –572 Other liabilities 4 – 4 – Total 3,193 –572 3,193 –572 Of the Parent Company’s other commission income, SEK 32 million (18) pertained to the possibility for Group companies to utilise a liquidity facility at the Parent ­Company. The Parent Company also conducted administrative services on behalf of Group companies for SEK 625 million (822), refer to Note 7. 122 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB cont. NOTE 39 Information about related parties LOANS TO THE BOARD, CEO AND OTHER KEY SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2015 2014 SEK million Lending Interest income Lending Interest income Loans to key personnel Managing Director – – – – Board of Directors 3 0 3 0 Other key senior executives 5 0 11 0 Total 8 0 14 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever relemay be provided on loans of up to SEK 1,500,000 on the condition that the loan is vant, the Managing Directors and Boards of other Group companies are included within 85 percent of the value of the residence. On loans of up to SEK 1,000,000, under “Other key senior executives.” a discount of 2.50 percent is given on the interest rate, and on loans of between Lending to Board Members of SBAB Bank AB (publ) or to employees holding key SEK 1,000,000 and SEK 1,500,000, a discount of 1.50 percent is given on the positions in the Company may not occur on terms that are not normally available to ­interest rate. The preferential loan is taxable. The interest rate received including other personnel. Preferential loans may be taken out by senior executives for their discount must not be less than 0.50 percent. permanent residences, following a standard credit evaluation. Preferential terms 2015 2014 SEK million Deposits Interest expenses Deposits Interest expenses Deposits from key personnel CEO and other key senior executives 3 0 2 0 Board of Directors 0 0 2 0 Total 3 0 4 0 The CEO and the Board of Directors refer to the Parent Company. Wherever relevant, the Managing Directors and Boards of other Group companies are included under “Other key senior executives.” Deposits from key personnel are made on the same terms and conditions as other deposits in the Company. Financial notes 123 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT NOTE 40 Operating segments The Retail and Partner Markets include loans for single-family homes, holiday homes from financial instruments measured at fair value, which derives from the finance and tenant-owned apartments, and the Retail Market also includes all deposits. operations, has not been distributed and is included in Other. The costs are Corporate Clients and Tenant-owner Associations mainly include lending to multi-­ ­allocated to the business areas, using distribution quotas. family dwellings as well as commercial properties. The item Net income/expense GROUP 2015 2014 Corporate Clients Corporate and Clients Tenant-­ and Tenowner ant-owner Retail Partner AssociaRetail Partner AssociaIncome statement by segment, SEK million Market Market tions Other Total Market Market tions Other Total Net interest income 1,241 618 555 28 2,442 975 490 628 18 2,111 Net commission –40 –26 –36 – –102 –27 –35 –45 –3 –110 Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value – – – 1 1 – – – 620 620 Other operating income – – – 0 0 – – – 0 0 Total operating income 1,201 592 519 29 2,341 948 455 583 635 2,621 Salaries and remuneration –136 –37 –52 – –225 –136 –40 –65 –16 –257 Other personnel costs –109 –34 –41 –1 –185 –96 –27 –44 –7 –174 Other expenses –220 –59 –70 –19 –368 –247 –61 –80 –29 –417 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets –24 –3 –4 – –31 –28 –3 –4 0 –35 Impairment of intangible fixed assets – – – – – – – – –125 –125 Loan losses, net –3 –20 –17 – –40 7 5 18 – 30 Participations in joint ventures – – – – – – 1 – – 1 Operating profit/loss 709 439 335 9 1,492 448 330 408 458 1,644 Standardised tax (22%) –156 –96 –74 –2 –328 –99 –72 –90 –101 –362 Profit after standardised tax 553 343 261 7 1,164 349 258 318 357 1,282 Adjustment for actual tax –1 –1 0 0 –2 –7 –5 –7 –7 –26 Net profit for the year 552 342 261 7 1,162 342 253 311 350 1,256 Internally calculated ROE, % 12.3 10.3 7.9 10.2 9.3 9.0 10.1 12.7 In relation to the legal income statement, SEK –34 million (–17) was transferred Internally calculated return on equity is calculated based on the profit/loss of each between the rows “Other personnel costs” and “Other expenses.” The cost refers to business area, after standardised tax (22 percent) and internally distributed capital. administrative consultants, which pertain to “Other personnel costs” in the internal monitoring. 124 Financial notes THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB NOTE 41 Five-year overview PARENT COMPANY SEK million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Interest income 1,419 2,758 3,243 4,162 3,864 Interest expenses –1,258 –2,423 –2,960 –4,032 –3,956 Net interest income 161 335 283 130 –92 Other operating income 552 1,124 778 811 895 Total operating income 713 1,459 1,061 941 803 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets –22 –22 –20 –15 –13 Other operating expenses –788 –878 –851 –788 –695 Total operating expenses –810 –900 –871 –803 –708 Profit/loss before loan losses –97 559 190 138 95 Loan losses, net –51 1 –14 –34 3 Operating profit/loss –148 560 176 104 98 Lending Portfolio 1) 81,207 43,866 48,758 46,360 32,940 Other assets 99,466 113,069 112,937 115,668 129,708 Total assets 180,673 156,935 161,695 162,028 162,648 Deposits from the public 76,639 60,610 45,869 27,654 8,769 Debt securities in issue, etc. 76,925 68,182 91,316 101,782 116,753 Other liabilities 11,093 13,495 10,310 17,543 22,820 Deferred tax liabilities – – 133 65 248 Subordinated debt 7,943 5,946 5,791 7,052 6,233 Equity 8,073 8,702 8,276 7,932 7,825 Total liabilities and equity 180,673 156,935 161,695 162,028 162,648 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, % 22.4 28.4 35.3 29.7 29.5 1) The Parent Company continuously transfers loans to the subsidiary, Swedish Covered Bond Corporation (SCBC). NOTE 42 Events after the balance sheet date Acquired net assets at the time of acquisition: Fair value recognized on acquisition New members of the Executive Management Cash and cash equivalents 7 In the first quarter of 2016, Klas Ljungkvist became the CIO of SBAB. He replaced Trade payables –3 Jim Petersson who was the acting CIO for a transitional period. Net assets and consideration 86 Acquisition of Booli Search Technologies AB In December 2015, SBAB agreed to acquire 71 percent of the shares in Booli Fair value recognized on Search Technologies AB with affiliates (Booli). The day of taking possession was the The consideration consists of: acquisition 14th of January 2016, which is the date on which control was obtained. For the remaining shares and issued warrants, both put and call options exists. Taking into Cash 59 account the substance of these contracts and SBAB’s intention to exercise these options, the acquisition of Booli is recognised without any non-controlling interest at Liability to the owners of the remaining shares and the day of taking possession. warrants 27 Booli develops products and services focusing on the housing market. The company’s services consist for example of booli.se which is on of Sweden’s largest search At the time of acquisition intangible assets have been identified and consist mainly services with approximately 270,000 unique users per week. SBAB consider the of trademark/domain and database/software. The acquisition also led to the creaacquisition important in order to strengthen the company’s competitiveness, their tion of goodwill which comprises of expected synergies arising from the acquisition. position on the mortgage market and their customer offer. Booli Search TechnoloThe transaction costs related to the acquisition were charged to profit and loss gies will become a subsidiary to SBAB and will be a part of the business area retail. under Other expenses. Booli will operate as a separate business unit under the Booli trademark. Fair value recognized on Fair value recognized on Analysis of cash flows on acquisition: acquisition Acquired net assets at the time of acquisition: acquisition Consideration 59 Property, plant and equipment 0 Settled: Intangible assets, of which 80 – Cash and cash equivalents (acquired) 7 – Database/software 3 Net cash flow on acquisition 52 – Brand 3 – Deferred tax –1 – Goodwill 75 Trade receivables 3 Financial notes 125 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS SUSTAINABILITY NOTES NOTE 1 S  takeholders and ongoing NOTE 2  ateriality analysis, material M ­communication aspects and how they are reported Since the bank was founded, SBAB has identified eight important stakeholder In 2013, an externally conducted materiality analysis identified the most relevant groups that affect and are affected by the bank’s operations: customers, owners, sustainability issues, risks and opportunities linked to business development within employees, investors, cooperation partners, suppliers, trade organisations and the the area of sustainability. 38 stakeholder representatives were invited to participate media. in interviews. 11 interviews were conducted with customer representatives, the From a business perspective, the most important stakeholders in the short, bank’s Board of Directors, employees, investors (including a representative of medium and long-term are the customers, the owner, the employees and the invesSocially Responsible Investors), banks, the bank sector and a trade organisation. tors. This priority has grown out of a recurring internal dialogue regarding the bank’s All of the responsibility issues listed by SBAB’s stakeholders in the 2013 materiality business logic in the Board of Directors and the Executive Management. analysis continue to be reported as material aspects. The issues are reported in We maintain ongoing communication, primarily with the most important stakethree focus areas: Sound finances (financial development and ethics), Responsibility holders, to set the right priorities in our business development and sustainability and transparency (customer relations, communication, employees and business work. This communication occurs through customer surveys, customer meetings, relations) and Sustainable housing (sustainable products and social responsibility). dialogue with owner representatives, forums at sbab.se, physical meetings in various Responsibility issues have been delimited in the report to include SBAB’s direct constellations, dialogues concerning accounting and other forms of stakeholder efforts and are reported using at least one GRI indicator per material aspect. engagement. This communication has been signified more by continuous contact and relationship management focusing on the business than by a planned and READ THE GRI/COP INDEX ON PAGES ­systematic stakeholder dialogue. However, a more systematic stakeholder dialogue 129–130. will be initiated and planned in 2016; a stakeholder dialogue that will also be ­documented in a clearer manner. NOTE 3 Employees AGE DISTRIBUTION MEN/WOMEN LENGTH OF EMPLOYMENT MEN/WOMEN PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE D ­ ISTRIBUTION (%) ­DISTRIBUTION (%) Age distribution per Length of employment per 31 December 2015 Women Men Total 31 December 2015 Women Men Total 20–29 years 9.3 9.1 18.3 <3 years 18.9 21.7 41 30–39 years 12.8 14.5 27.4 4–6 years 5.1 6.3 11 40–49 years 15.4 12.2 27.6 7–9 years 5.9 5.5 11 50–59 years 12.8 7.8 20.6 10–12 years 2.5 2.7 5 60–69 years 3.2 2.9 6.1 13–15 years 2.7 0.8 4 Total 53.5 46.5 100.0 >16 years 18.3 9.5 28 Total 53.5 46.5 100 KEY EMPLOYEE FIGURES Key figures 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total number of employees at the end of the year 1) 429 397 436 380 363 of whom, women 1) 51.7 55.6 55.0 55.3 58.1 Share of temporary employees 2), % 1.3 0.5 1.3 2.1 2.3 Share of part-time employees , % 2) 1.7 2.1 2.1 2.1 0.1 Average age, years 41 43 42 42 42 People who left the Company over the year 58 78 31 36 54 People who joined the Company over the year 100 39 82 48 57 Personnel turnover, % 13 18 7 9 14 Satisfied employees, % 61 63 70 70 73 1) Number of active employees expressed as a full-time equivalent, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence (FTE). 2) Total number of employees at the end of the year. 126 Sustainability notes THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB Key figures 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Equality Share of women in the Board of Directors, % 50 50 50 50 50 Share of women in the Executive Management, % 30 43 33 40 38 Share of female managers, % 44 41 41 44 39 Proportion of male employees, receiving parental leave allowance, % 24 28 28 41 33 Sickness absence and health Short-term sickness absence, % 1.9 1.9 2 1.9 1.9 Long-term sickness absence, % 2.0 0.9 0.7 0.2 0.6 Total sickness absence, % 3.9 2.8 2.7 2.1 2.5 Use of health-promotion contribution by all employees, % 69 75 76 78 69 NOTE 4 A climate-friendly bank EMISSIONS DIVIDED PER SCOPE tCO2e emissions 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 We primarily administer services and products via the Internet and telephone. Consequently, we do not need a large network of branch offices, which ensures we have Total 158.6 170.9 200.2 161.7 222.5 a relatively low direct environmental impact. But we still want to reduce the impact Scope 1 13.7 12.6 10.0 11.5 8.5 we have. Since 2008, we have therefore measured the Company’s carbon dioxide emissions. Scope 2 54.5 86.0 89.4 71.7 69.9 For 2015, SBAB has published a Greenhouse Gas Protocol Assesment, which is Scope 3 90.4 72.2 100.8 78.6 144.1 available in its entirety at sbab.se. It was prepared by U&WE, using the computerised tool Our Impacts. The report complies with the GHG Protocol standard. In 2015, our emissions were 159 tCO2e, which is a reduction of 7 percent EMISSIONS DIVIDED PER SOURCE OF EMISSION ­compared to 2014. This year’s value is the lowest value measured since we started measuring in 2009. The reason for the reduction is primarily the reduced environtCO2e emissions 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 mental impact of district heating. This is because in 2015, we were able to use local suppliers’ emission factors, compared to using the average value for Sweden the District heating 45.4 69.7 71.6 54.9 53.7 previous year. Furthermore, the property we rent in Solna holds a silver certification Electricity 15.0 16.6 18.1 16.8 16.1 according to the GreenBuilding standard. Data in the tables show greenhouse gas emissions expressed in carbon dioxide Waste for incineration 0.2 0.05 0.06 0.08 0.03 equivalents, CO2e. Unless otherwise stated, we report in tonnes of CO2e. Cars 15.0 13.3 11.1 12.3 9.2 Air travel 65.7 59.3 85.9 65.8 129.1 Train 1.32 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.2 Cars used by employees 16.0 10.8 12.4 10.8 13.2 Total 158.6 170.9 200.2 161.7 222.5 Sustainability notes 127 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS NOTE 5 Supply chain NOTE 6 Marketing communications SBAB provide loans and savings products under its own brand and through partnerCommunications is a broad term that includes both financial reporting and cusships with other banks and estate agents. tomer dialogue. Regardless of the occasion or target group, it is crucial for how When homeowners turn to SBAB to borrow money, SBAB must first raise the SBAB’s brand is perceived in the market. For brand management to be effective in the ­capital required – 97 percent of a new residential mortgage consists of money that long-term, all communication must be coordinated and adhere to a number of overarSBAB has borrowed from other players. ching guidelines. The lion’s share of our funding, approximately 71 percent, is borrowed from the SBAB’s Communication guidelines regulate SBAB’s external and internal commucapital market. To achieve this, SBAB issues bonds that are purchased by investors. nication and provision of information. This instruction also aims to ensure that In return, SBAB pays interest at a rate determined by the general interest rate level SBAB’s provision of information to the market is correct, relevant and complies with and by how safe investments in SBAB are considered to be. To reduce the risk perapplicable laws and regulations. ceived by investors, SBAB uses its residential mortgage stock as collateral for the SBAB’s Direction for the marketing process aims to describe the work process bonds. A good credit rating for SBAB will also reduce the perceived risk. Two major SBAB is to follow in its marketing activities. It is a tool aimed at ensuring compliance international credit rating agencies determine the credit rating based on SBAB risk with applicable regulations. The direction is aimed at the people who work with taking and long-term profitability. marketing and communication at SBAB. After investors have invested money in SBAB’s bonds, SBAB needs to fund the SBAB had no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes remaining 29 percent that it lends to others. The majority of these funds, approxiconcerning marketing communications during the year. mately 26 percent, are financed through deposits. Deposits refer to private individuals and companies saving money in SBAB’s savings accounts, in return for interest on their savings. We receive the remaining 3 percent from our owner, the Swedish Government. NOTE 7 Organisations This is in the form of equity invested in SBAB. In return for its investment, the owner Since 2012, SBAB has been a member of the Swedish Financial Coalition against receives a dividend, which is expected to amount to at least 40 percent of our profchild pornography. The Financial Coalition cooperates with ECPAT for the purpose its. of preventing and rendering it more difficult to trade in pictures featuring sexual Our supply chain also includes other suppliers, such as suppliers of various serabuse of children through financial systems on the Internet. vices and materials. Examples of these are IT-systems, office materials and consultancy services. In 2016, we will begin the systematic work to continuously consoliNOTE 8 date the number of such suppliers. During this work, matters such as the suppliers’ sustainability work will be evaluated. By actively selecting suppliers, we aim to conPolicies and instructions tribute to an increased focus on sustainability issues among SBAB’s suppliers. In 2016, we will review the existing agreements to evaluate potential savings. This Every year, SBAB’s Board of Directors adopts a number of policies at the statutory work will be led by SBAB’s purchasing function, together with representatives of Board meeting. These are an important part of the internal governance and help all SBAB’s business areas to ensure that our purchasing needs are coordinated. the company to create a consensus on company-wide issues and areas. We also intend to hold meetings regularly with major suppliers to ensure compliFor example, SBAB has policies on sustainable enterprise, ethics, equality and ance with SBAB’s sustainability requirements. The requirements posed by SBAB on diversity as well as a policy aimed at preventing money laundering and the financing its suppliers may also be followed up in regular audits. Over time, we shall only enter of terrorism. These are available on sbab.se. into contracts with suppliers that comply with SBAB’s adopted sustainability criteria. In addition to these policies, a number of guidelines adopted by the Executive Management also contribute to sustainable business. Examples of these are guidelines for the management of complaints, communication, work environment, bribery, bank secrecy, compliance and security. 128 Sustainability notes THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB GRI/COP INDEX STANDARD DISCLOSURES UNGC Description Page reference Comment/Omission principle Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statements from the CEO and the Chairman 10–13 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 6, 77 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6, 50–56, 77 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 62, 77, 139 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 6, 77 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6, 62 G4-8 Markets served 6, 50–56, 77 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6, 30, 43, 50–56, 101 G4-10 Total number of employees 43, 101, 133 These statistics are not broken down per region, as SBAB only conducts 6 operations in Sweden, which can be considered a single region G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective All employees, except the CEO, are covered by collective 3 bargaining agreements bargaining agreements G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 26, 58–59, 128 4, 5 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period 10–11, 53 At the end of 2015, SBAB entered into an agreement to acquire Booli Search Technologies AB G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 46–47, 127 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 7, 25, 138 principles, or other initiatives G4-16 Memberships of associations 7, 128, 137 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included or not covered by the report 138 G4-18 Process for defining the report content 7, 20–21, 126, 137 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 20–21, 126, 137 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation 137 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation 137 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 137 and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope 137 and aspect boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups 20–21, 126 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 20–21, 126 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 20–21, 126 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 20–21, 126 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 27 March 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Updated annually as at 31 December G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 137 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, the GRI 7, 129–131, Content Index and the reference to the External Assurance Report 135–138 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 67, 136–137 assurance for the report Control G4-34 Governance structure 62–67 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as 25, 32, 39, 128 10 codes of conduct and codes of ethics GRI/COP index 129 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA* and Page Comment/ UNGC Issue in SBAB’s Aspects indicators Description ­reference Omission principle materiality analysis Economy Economic G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–31, Financial Performance 62–67, 126, performance 128 Social responsibility G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 31 Environmental Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 62–67, Environmental 126–128 responsibility G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 127 7, 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 127 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 127 7, 8 Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, 4, 5 Employees 39, 40–44, 126 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 101, 126–127 These statistics are not broken down 6 turnover by age group, gender and region per region, as SBAB only conducts operations in Sweden, which can be considered a single region Occupational G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, Employees Health and Safety 40–44, 62–67, 126, 128 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 44, 101, It is only relevant for SBAB to report and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, 127 sickness absence by region and by gender Training and G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, Employees Education 39–44, 62–67, 126, 128 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support 40–41 SBAB does not have any specific the continued employability of employees and assist them in programme to assist employees at managing career endings the end of their employment. However, SBAB complies with regulatory requirements and collective bargaining agreements with regard to terminations G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 41 This information is not reported 6 career development reviews, by gender and by employee distributed per gender or category employment category Diversity and Equal G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, Employees Opportunity 39–44, 62–67, 126, 128 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 68–71, 101, 6 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority 127 group membership, and other indicators of diversity Human Rights NonG4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, 1, 2 Employees Discrimination 40–44, 62–67, 126, 128 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 44 No incidents of discrimination were 6 actions taken reported during the year * DMA= Disclosure on Management Approach 130 GRI/COP index THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB DMA* and Page Comment/ UNGC Issue in SBAB’s Aspects indicators Description ­reference Omission principle materiality analysis Society Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, Ethics 39, 62–67, Business relationships 126, 128 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 39 10 and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 39 No incidents of corruption were 10 reported during the year Compliance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 39, Ethics 62–67, 126, 128 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of No significant fines or sanctions non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws have been imposed on the and regulations organisation for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Product and G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, Customer Service Labelling 36, 126 relationships G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 7, 13, 20, 28–29, 36 Marketing G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 39, Communications Communications 62–67, 126, 128 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 128 SBAB had no incidents of voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including non-compliance with regulations advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications during the year Compliance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 39, Ethics 62–67, 126, 128 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws No fines of this nature and regulations concerning the provision and use of products were incurred in 2015 and services Product Portfolio G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 20–21, 28–29, 9 Sustainable products 46–47, 62–67, 126, 128 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed 28–29, 46–47 SBAB intends to report the monetary 9 to deliver a specific environmental benefit value of sustainable products in the future * DMA= Disclosure on Management Approach GRI/COP index 131 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT OVERVIEW OF EARNINGS PARENT COMPANY GROUP SEK million SBAB Bank SCBC 2015 2014 Interest income 1,419 4,197 5,123 7,261 Interest expenses –1,258 –1,917 –2,681 –5,150 Net interest income 161 2,280 2,442 2,111 Dividends received – – – – Commission income 82 10 61 47 Commission expense –79 –116 –163 –157 Net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value/Net income/expense from financial transactions –76 –16 1 620 Other operating income 625 – 0 – Total operating income 713 2,158 2,341 2,621 Personnel costs –379 – –376 –414 Other expenses –409 –627 –402 –434 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets –22 – –31 –160 Total expenses before loan losses –810 –627 –809 –1,008 Profit/loss before loan losses –97 1,531 1,532 1,613 Loan losses, net –51 12 –40 30 Participations in joint ventures – – – 1 Operating profit/loss 148 1,543 1,492 1,644 Tax 31 –340 –330 –388 Profit for the year –117 1,203 1,162 1,256 Definitions of key data New lending Gross lending Net interest margin Net interest income in relation to average total assets Loan loss rate Loan losses in relation to opening balance for lending to the public Cost/income ratio Total operating expenses/total income Cost/income ratio excluding net income/expense (Total operating expenses less restructuring costs)/cost (total income less net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value from financial instruments measured at fair value) and restructuring costs Return on equity Operating result after actual tax in relation to average equity Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital less additional Tier 1 instruments in relation to risk-weighted assets (RWA) Capital adequacy ratio Own funds/risk-weighted assets Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital/risk-weighted assets Equity ratio Equity, incl. minority interest, in relation to total assets at year-end Consolidation ratio Equity, incl. minority interest, and deferred tax in relation to total assets at year-end Number of employees (FTE) Number of employees expressed as a full-time equivalent, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence Return on assets Operating profit/loss after actual tax, in relation to average total assets 132 Overview of earnings THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP, SEK million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Interest income 5,123 7,261 8,147 10,485 10,449 Interest expenses –2,681 –5,150 –6,184 –8,544 –8,831 Net interest income 2,442 2,111 1,963 1,941 1,618 Other operating income 1) –101 510 –70 –693 –439 Total operating income 2,341 2,621 1,893 1,248 1,179 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible fixed assets –31 –160 –69 –24 –27 Other operating expenses –778 –848 –746 –704 –680 Total operating expenses –809 –1,008 –815 –728 –707 Profit/loss before loan losses 1,532 1,613 1,078 520 472 Loan losses –40 30 7 –20 –8 Participations in joint ventures – 1 – – – Operating profit/loss 1,492 1,644 1,085 500 464 Lending portfolio 296,981 261,445 258,739 255,946 248,150 Other assets 77,571 77,540 76,319 78,482 91,600 Total assets 374,552 338,985 335,058 334,428 339,750 Deposits 76,639 60,610 45,869 27,654 8,769 Debt securities in issue, etc. 264,205 243,168 243,870 253,897 276,678 Other liabilities 13,870 18,260 29,388 37,057 39,615 Deferred tax liabilities 47 – 459 0 71 Subordinated debt 7,943 5,946 5,791 7,052 6,233 Equity 11,848 11,001 9,681 8,768 8,384 Total liabilities and equity 374,552 338,985 335,058 334,428 339,750 Lending New lending, SEK million 80,470 48,297 37,367 34,878 31,107 Net interest margin, % 0.68 0.63 0.59 0.58 0.49 Loan losses Loan loss rate, % –0.01 0.01 0.00 –0.01 –0.00 Productivity Cost/income ratio, % 35 38 43 58 60 Cost/income ratio excluding net income/expense from financial instruments measured at fair value and restructuring costs, % 34 41 44 39 46 Return on assets, % 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.1 Return on equity, % 10.2 12.1 9.5 4.2 4.2 Capital structure Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio without transitional regulations, % 28.6 29.8 23.3 16.4 15.0 Tier 1 capital ratio without transitional regulations, % 35.1 36.8 30.6 21.7 20.0 Total capital ratio without transitional regulations, % 49.3 44.7 35.6 27.4 23.9 Total capital ratio with transitional regulations, % 8.0 10.8 10.5 11.5 10.7 Equity ratio, % 3.2 3.2 2.9 2.6 2.5 Consolidation ratio, % 3.2 3.2 2.9 2.6 2.5 Employees Number of employees at year-end, FTE 2) 429 397 436 380 363 1) The item includes net commission, net income/expense from financial instruments and other operating income. 2) Number of active employees expressed as a full-time equivalent, adjusted for sick leave and leave of absence. Five-year overview 133 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 THIS PAGE IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS According to SBAB’s balance sheet, SEK 5,723 million are at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting, of which a negative SEK 14 million is the fair value reserve, SEK 5,854 million is retained earnings and SEK 117 million is loss for the year. The Board of Directors proposes that the funds at disposal of the General Meeting be carried forward, of which a negative 14 million in the fair value reserve. SIGNATURES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors of SBAB hereby submit SBAB’s Integrated Annual Report, position and earnings, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties faced by which includes both the Annual Report and the Sustainability Report. The formal the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Annual Report is to be found in specially marked sections, which are apparent from In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 2, Item 2 of the Annual Accounts Act for the table of contents. The Sustainability Report, excluding the Corporate GovernCredit Institutions and Securities Companies, the Board considers the Company’s ance Report, constitutes the remaining part of the year’s Integrated Annual Report. equity to be sufficiently large in relation to the scope and risks of the operations. The Board and the CEO certify that the sections containing to the formal annual The information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the accounts and the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance Company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which might affect with the international accounting standard (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide the view of the Company created by the Annual Report. a true and fair view of the Group’s position and earnings. The formal annual SBAB’s Integrated Annual Report has been prepared inspired by the International accounts were otherwise prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountIntegrated Reporting Council’s (IIRC) framework and in accordance with the Global ing policies and provides a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s position and Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Core guidelines. It also constitutes SBAB’s Commuearnings. The Administration Report, which is provided on pages that have been nication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. marked specially, provides a true and fair view of the development of the operations, Stockholm, 10 March 2016 Bo Magnusson Chairman Jakob Grinbaum Carl-Henrik Borg Lars Börjesson Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Kristina Ekengren Ebba Lindsö Board Member Board Member Jane Lundgren-Ericsson Karin Moberg Board Member Board Member Anders Heder Helen Vallin Employee representative Employee representative Klas Danielsson CEO Our audit report was submitted on 11 March 2016 KPMG AB Anders Tagde Authorised Public Accountant 134 Appropriation of profits and signatures of the Board of Directors Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB AUDIT REPORT To the annual meeting of the shareholders of SBAB Bank AB (publ), corp. id 556253-7513 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Report on other legal and regulatory requirements We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of SBAB Bank AB In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have (publ) for the year 2015, except for the corporate governance statement on pages also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and the 62–71. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of SBAB Bank included in the printed version of this document on pages 30–35, 50–61, 72–125, AB (publ) for the year 2015. We have also conducted a statutory examination of the 132–134. corporate governance statement. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the comThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparapany’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are tion and fair presentation of these annual accounts in accordance with the Annual responsible for administration under the Companies Act, and that the corporate Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and of the consoligovernance statement on pages 62–71 has been prepared in accordance with the dated accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as Annual Accounts Act. adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Auditor’s responsibility Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proaccounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administration whether due to fraud or error. based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Auditor’s responsibility As basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors proposed appropriations of the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolicompany’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in accordance with dated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Companies Act. International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in As basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined significant plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from material misstatement. whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director is liable to An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. The the Managing Director has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Compaprocedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of nies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the audiWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained as above is sufficient and tor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. entation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit Furthermore, we have read the corporate governance statement and based on procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of that reading and our knowledge of the company and the group we believe that we expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An have sufficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory examination of audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Managing Director, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual generally accepted audit standards in Sweden. accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriOpinions ate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that Opinions the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the from liability for the financial year. Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and present A corporate governance statement has been prepared, and its statutory content fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. December 2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance Stockholm, 11 March 2016 with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 KPMG AB December 2015 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on pages 62–71. The statutory administration report is consistent with Anders Tagde the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Authorised Public Accountant We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Audit report 135 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON SBAB BANK AB (PUBL)’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To SBAB Bank AB (publ), corporate identity number 556253-7513 Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of SBAB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of SBAB’s sustainability report in the Integrated Annual Report for the year 2015. The Company has defined the scope of the sustainability report on pages 7 and 137. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Executive Management for the sustainability report The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible for the preparation of the sustainable report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page 137 in the Integrated Annual Report, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicable to the sustainability report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a sustainability report that is free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the auditor Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the sustainability report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the sustainability report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Conclusion Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability report, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. Stockholm, March 11, 2016 KPMG AB Anders Tagde Karin Sivertsson Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR 136 Auditor’s review report THIS PAGE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY THE AUDITORS Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB INFORMATION ABOUT THE ACCOUNTS SBAB complies with the Swedish Government Offices’ special Guidelines for exterReport scope and boundary nal reporting by state-owned companies, adopted by the Swedish Government on The Annual Report comprises the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ). The whol29 November 2007. ly-owned subsidiary, AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish Covered Bond Corporation – SCBC), publishes its own, separate Annual Report. The Report profile Sustainability Report comprises of the Parent Company, SBAB Bank AB (publ), and In this report, we take a first step to integrate sustainability-related information with the wholly-owned subsidiary, AB Sveriges Säkerställda Obligationer (publ) (Swedish financial information in SBAB’s first attempt at providing an Integrated Annual Covered Bond Corporation – SCBC). Report. Material aspects and how these are reported A more integrated administration report All of the responsibility issues listed by SBAB’s stakeholders in the materiality analysis This year, our Annual and Sustainability Reports have been restructured. Compared are reported as material aspects. The issues are reported in three focus areas, to previous years, it means that the various sections of the administration report are according to the following: published in different, specially marked sections in the Integrated Report. Through • Sound finances (financial development and ethics) this approach, the report is prepared with inspiration from the International Inte• Responsibility and transparency (customer relations, communication, employees grated Reporting Council’s (“IIRC”) International <IR> Framework. and business relations) • Sustainable housing (sustainable products and social responsibility) Report defined by the Board of Directors The Board of Directors have signed, and thereby submitted, the Integrated Annual The above-mentioned responsibility issues have been delimited in the report to Report in its entirety. include SBAB’s direct efforts and are reported using at least one GRI indicator per The formal Annual Report is to be found in specially marked sections, which are material aspect (see the GRI/COP index, page 129). also apparent from the table of contents. The Sustainability Report, excluding the Environmental responsibility refers to the work on SBAB’s internal environmental Corporate Governance Report, constitutes the remaining part of the year’s Inteimpact. It is therefore delimited to SBAB and reported in the notes. Three indicators grated Annual Report. It is SBAB’s ambition to develop the Integrated Annual Report are reported, divided according to GHG scopes 1, 2 and 3. further next year, in accordance with the International lntegrated Reporting Council’s (“IIRC”) International <IR> Framework. Delimitation Of the six capitals stated in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s InternaThe Global Reporting Initiative’s (“GRI”) reporting framework tional <IR> Framework, we have chosen to focus on the capitals on which SBAB has We apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s framework for sustainability reporting, direct (explicit) impact: financial capital (funding), human capital (employee comversion G4 at the “Core” level , including GRI G4 Sector Disclosures, Financial Serpetencies), social capital (relationship capital) and intellectual capital (procedures vices. It is stated in the special GRI/COP index on page 129 which parts of the Inteand IT platform). Capital on which the bank’s operations have indirect (implicit) grated Annual Report that constitute SBAB’s Sustainability Report according to GRI. impact, such as natural capital, are primarily reported in this report in the sustainability notes on page 126. UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress (COP) SBAB joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. SBAB’s commitment to the Global Report contacts Compact means that the Company reports its work on implementing the Ten PrinciThe contacts for SBAB’s Integrated Annual Report 2015 are, for the financial inforples of the Global Compact in an annual Communication on Progress (“COP”). The mation, Mikael Inglander, CFO, and for the non-financial information, Pontus special GRI/COP index states which parts of the Integrated Annual Report that conNiléhn, Project Manager Financial Reporting. stitute SBAB’s Communication on Progress, which is based on the BASIC GUIDE Lars-Olle Larsson, the Swedish International Integrated Reporting Council Communication on Progress, GC Active Level, developed by the Global Compact. (“IIRC”) ambassador, advised on the work on the report. Audit and auditor’s review Mikael Inglander The report defined by the Board of Directors clarifies which parts of SBAB’s InteCFO grated Report that constitute the formal Annual Report, and therefore has been subTelephone: +46 8 614 43 28 ject to audit. The sections that do not constitute the Annual Report constitute mikael.inglander@sbab.se SBAB’s Sustainability Report according to GRI and Communication on Progress and have been subject to a review by the auditors in their entirety, except in the sections Pontus Niléhn made available through links. The Corporate Governance Report is subject to a Project Manager Financial Reporting statutory review, which is less comprehensive than an audit or auditor’s review. Telephone: +46 706 91 24 44 KPMG submits an audit report for the Annual Report and the Corporate Governpontus.nilehn@sbab.se ance Report, and a separate review report for the Sustainability Report/COP. Information about the accounts 137 SBAB Integrated Annual Report 2015 CONTACT US IR contacts Telephone: +46 8 614 43 98 E-mail: investor@sbab.se Fredrik Jönsson Head of Treasury Telephone: +46 8 614 3822 fredrik.jonsson@sbab.se Louise Bergström Head of Investor Relations Telephone: +46 8 614 4311 louise.bergstrom@sbab.se Contact Sustainable Business Christine Brosewitz Chief Sustainability Officer Telephone: +46 8 614 43 75 christine.brosewitz@sbab.se Information for investors For more information and contacts, see www.sbab.se. Financial calendar Year-end Report 2015 5 February 2016 Annual General Meeting (Stockholm) 28 April 2016 Interim Report January–March 2016 29 April 2016 Interim Report January–June 2016 19 July 2016 Interim report January–September 2016 28 October 2016 Year-end Report 2016 8 February 2017 138 Contact us Integrated Annual Report 2015 SBAB ADDRESSES Head Office: SBAB Bank Box 4209 SE-171 04 Solna (Visiting address: Svetsarvägen 24) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +468 614 38 60 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se Telephone Corporate/Tenant-owner Associations: +46 771 45 30 30 E-mail Corporate/Tenant-owner Associations: foretag-brf@sbab.se Reg. 556253-7513 sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 1012 SE-651 15 Karlstad (Visiting address: Östra Torggatan 9, Arkaden) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 00 Fax: +46 54 17 71 10 E-mail: kundcenter@sbab.se SBAB Bank Box 53072 SE-400 14 Gothenburg (Visiting address: Södra Larmgatan 13) Telephone: +46 771 45 30 30 Fax: +46 31 743 37 10 E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se SBAB Bank Rundelsgatan 16 SE-211 36 Malmö Telephone: +46 771 45 30 30 Fax: +46 40 664 53 58 E-mail: foretag-brf@sbab.se Addresses 139 Production: SBAB in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Photograper: Linda Klemner, Printed by: Strokirk-Landströms 2016
