Communication On Progress (COP) – 2015 Konkan Railway Corporation Limited deploys the best practice in line with the 10 principles of UNGC in its business, so that KRCL employees take pride being part of the Team and commitment to perform its business with responsibility, transparency and sustainability. With best wishes and regards, (Sanjay Gupta) Chairman & Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2015 KONKAN RAILWAY CORPORATION LIMITED (KRCL) AT A GLANCE Registered : Belapur Bhavan, Plot No.6 & Corporate Office Sector 11, CBD Belapur Navi Mumbai 400 614 Maharashtra, INDIA Tel: +91-22-27572015 Fax: +91-22-27572420 E-mail: general@konkanrailway.gov.in COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2015 A CUSTOMER IS THE MOST IMPORTANT VISITOR OF OUR PREMISES Vision  To become a world class surface transport company and infrastructure solution provider. Mission  To develop economical, safe, eco-friendly and cost effective railway transport infrastructure for growth and prosperity of the Nation in general and Konkan Region in particular.  To promote and encourage best practices in the construction and maintenance thereof to achieve “Total Customer Satisfaction” while delivering innovative, cost effective and value added services keeping in view the safety aspects.  To ensure growth and professional excellence by building intellectual capital and distinctive core competencies.  Nurture innovative technologies like ACD and other railway related technologies to improve revenues & to enhance safety for Railways.  To turn around and become a Mini Ratna Company by 2017. Objectives Train Operations: To provide safe, punctual and comfortable transportation for passengers and freight for the section under the control of Corporation so as to maximize the net operating revenues, with optimum utilization of resources. Project Division: To evolve Konkan Railway Technologies & building Intellectual Property to enhance efficiency and reliability of performance and to undertake challenging projects. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2015 From the Desk of Chairman & Managing Director: Global Compact Compliance Statement Dear Friends, In October 2001, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. joined United Nation Global Compact and became signatory to the 10 principles of the Compact. It is indeed a pleasure to update our Organization’s Communication On Progress (COP) and compliance to the 10 principles of United Nation Global Compact. I also take this opportunity to reiterate our Corporation’s commitment to the 10 universally accepted principles of UNGC and our Corporation will always continue to strive to comply with them while conducting our day-to-day business. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is the lifeline of Konkan Region in particular and that of Nation at large. As such, the trust and faith of millions of customers, be it passengers or bondholders or general populace along this Railway Line, is interlinked to the growth of the Corporation. Through this endeavour, we would like to share with you KRCL’s various initiatives in the field of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption besides highlighting progress and events in KRCL. Further, KRCL has incorporated and aligned the principles of UNGC and Corporate Social Responsibility into its business strategy and operation for its success. Since our inception in the early 1990s we have conducted our business duly taking into consideration construction and completion of the Railway Project and in the operational phase, the growth in profit and development of infrastructure to meet with the growing demand, safety, security, punctuality, passenger amenities and improvement in financial performance in an ethical and responsible manner. These form an integral part of our business planning process. KRCL achieves financial and business objectives while constantly contributing to social cause, organizing and displaying over-all responsible corporate behaviour in all the three areas of business – Social, Environmental and Financial performance. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. deploys the best practice in line with the 10 principles of UNGC in its business, so that KRCL employees take pride in being part of the Team and commitment to perform its business with responsibility and transparency. Our efforts are towards embedding Global Compact and Sustainability into our Organization. With best wishes and regards, (Sanjay Gupta) Chairman & Managing Director COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP)-2015 01 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. Our Human Rights Statement, through our ‘Mission’ articulates our values and informs how we conduct our business. Guided by our values, we support universal human rights for our employees and in the communities where we operate. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) believes that companies can play a positive role in contributing to safeguard human rights, their protection and promotion. Our principles prohibit child labour, forced labour and discriminatory behaviour as well as recognize the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We continued to inform and educate our employees about our commitment to the society and social accountability. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is committed to the displaced people, who have lost their land for the Project. One member from each affected family is being provided job as per their eligibility and suitability. Further, the policy is relaxed in the case of reserved community (SC/ST) so that now there is no restriction of number of candidates per family in reserved categories. Till date 2475 land losers have been recruited in KRCL against various posts. There is no discrimination on the grounds of sex, religion, place of origin etc. in the organization as all employees are treated equally. During the year 2012, Konkan Railway Credit Co-operative Society (KRCCS) was formed with the sole purpose of providing loans to the needy Konkan Railway Staff at lesser interest rates compared to other Financial Institutions. The Society has now extended the Loan Facility to the employees to cater their urgent needs with lesser documentation and procedure in a short span of time. The Society also encourages members to make the habit of saving through specialized schemes designed for their future needs. The Central Railway Employees Co-operative Credit Society has also been permitted to operate in KRCL jurisdiction to extend the financial support to employees of KRCL. This Society is undertaking welfare of Railway Employees for more than 100 years. Konkan Railway Staff Welfare Fund was registered as a Trust to extend more welfare activities to its employees and has obtained a PAN Card. Income Tax Returns every year are filed as per the norms of Government of India. It has been established to provide housing facility to the employees and construction of houses is in progress. This trust in addition to other welfare activities also distributes Scholarships and Awards to children of Konkan Railway Employees for their meritorious performance during the academic year. It has also organized Yoga Classes for its employees through eminent professionals in this field to keep the body and mind healthy and peaceful. Konkan Railway Welfare Organization has also been formed. This Organization is registered with Charity Commissioner. It has been established to provide housing facility at affordable rates to the employees. ` 1000/is paid to all employees as a birthday gift on their birthday each year. Hon'ble Minister of Railways has laid the foundation stone for construction of a full fledged Holiday Home for the Non Executives of Konkan Railway at Karmali, Goa in January 2015 and the work is in progress and will be commissioned shortly. KRCL has liberalized its Medical Policy to make it more employee friendly. KRCL is also contemplating provision of Post Retirement Medical facility to its Retired Employees and Voluntary Retirement Scheme for its Employees. 02 To make sure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. ensures strict adherence to labour laws enacted by the Government of India, to protect the interests of the workers. Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. ensures prompt handling of grievances of employees and customers to uphold human rights, for which there is a well established grievance redressal machinery. The Grievance Cell no. is 09004470444. Konkan Railway, in principle and in action, places highest importance towards Human Rights and ensures that at no point these rights are abused. Such rights are not only ensured in the regular employment but are also ensured in contractual employment and other works as well. The Organization exercised vigil in this regard and there is no Child Labour in Konkan Railway. For the works being carried out by the contractors, it is ensured that appropriate steps are taken by the Contractors for safety and welfare of the workers including insurance. A woman officer is specifically nominated in KRCL for dealing with cases of sexual harassment, if any, to the working women in KRCL. Women in Public Sector (WIPS) cell has been introduced in KRCL for empowerment & encouragement of female employees working in KRCL. Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Konkan Railway respects human rights of all persons including offenders arrested by them. During the year 2015, RPF Personnel did a commendable job in detecting and tracing out 31 run away / missing children. They were handed over safely to their parents / Child Help Line. 03 Business should uphold the Freedom of Association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employees of Konkan Railway Corporation Limited have a freedom to join trade unions. The trade union is recognized by the management on the basis of secret ballot election process conducted under the aegis of Ministry of Labour, Govt of India. The duration of the recognition is for a period of two years. Accordingly, Secret Ballot held in the month of May 2015 and subsequently granted recognition to the newly elected union for a period of two years. The Management maintains contact with labour and resolves disputes and differences between Labour and the Management through Permanent Negotiating Machinery (PNM). The Management and Union have regular meetings at fixed interval. Besides, they meet as per need also. The privileges of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) community as per the Constitution of India have also been taken care of in KRCL. Various facilities have also been extended to All India SC/ST Railway Employees' Association in KRCL as per the guide-lines of Ministry. The recognized Union as well as the All India SC/ST Railway Employees' Association have been provided with accommodation for their office. Also in the year 2011, ‘Other Backward Class’ (OBC) Association was formed on Konkan Railway and all like facilities are being extended to the Association. For officers of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., an association called Konkan Railway Executives Association has been formed to look after the interest of the officers also. Participation of employees has been ensured in staff welfare activities viz., Medical Camps, cultural competitions, sports etc. Women’s Day and Children's Day are being celebrated every year. All group 'D' Staff are being given in-house Computer training. The children of KRCL employees have been provided with career Guidance and counselling programe for their developments. 04 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. There is no forced or compulsory labour as all staff are governed by Railway Servants (Hours of Work & Period of Rest) Rules, 2005. Further, Railway Servants (Hours of Work & Period of Rest) Rules 2005, labour officials, from the enforcing authority, inspect the establishment regularly and no incidence of forced or compulsory labour has been reported in KRCL to date. Wherever employment of contract labour in non-core areas are made, it is ensured that they have been paid the minimum wages, provident fund, including meeting of all the other statutory requirements. 05 The effective abolition of child labour. KRCL ensures strict adherence to the Child Labour (Prohibition & Regulation) Act, 1986, which prohibits the engagement of children in certain employments and to regulate the conditions of work of children in certain other employments. However, KRCL has prescribed the minimum age limit for employment as 18 years. No person below this age can be employed in KRCL, thereby ensuring that child labour is not employed. Our contractors and vendors are required to scrupulously follow the laws/rules and regulations in respect of engagement of Child Labour. This is addressed and ensured through our contract agreements and inspection by KRCL and enforcing authorities. 06 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. KRCL does not believe in any kind of discrimination based on caste, colour, gender, religion or region. We firmly believe in inclusivity and strongly oppose discrimination in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion etc. at work place. However, as per policy, KRCL gives preference to the land losers in employment in certain categories. We also follow the guidelines issued by the Government of India for recruitment of persons belonging to Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Castes. In Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. there are 189 Executives and 4831 Staff working out of which 13 Executives and 386 Staff are females. There is no discrimination in terms of employment, place of posting, nature of work, duty hours, training, promotions, emoluments etc. Total No. of employees as Male Female SC/ST on 31.12.2015 Community No. 5020 4621 399 738 % 92.00% 8.00% 15.00% KRCL does not tolerate any kind of behaviour that is threatening, abusive, exploitative or sexually coercive, including gestures, language and physical contact at the workplace. Our system is well equipped to deal with such situations, as we have a very well defined and laid out process in our Standing Orders. As per the guidelines laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, the Corporation has appointed a Special Counsellor and also constituted Complaints Committee for each Region to address any such grievances. Liaison Officers for Scheduled Caste & Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Class have been nominated to redress the grievances and monitor the various provisions of the Government orders like Reservation Rules, Promotion etc. Exhibiting compassion, medically decategorized and physically handicapped staff cases are being dealt with for ensuring suitable posting. Educational allowance of ` 2000/is being given to executives & non-executives of KRCL who are having children with some deficiency like autism, attention deficit, hearing impairment etc. Konkan Railway in collaboration with Maharashtra, Goa & Karnataka Tourism has decided to train the local Taxi and Rickshaw drivers, for growth of tourist business and to promote employment and hospitality business in Konkan region. Training is being given free of cost to improve their knowledge on tourist places, their importance, etiquette, personality, etc. by Tourist Department at Railway stations. After the training, the drivers are being issued with ID cards jointly by Tourist Department & Konkan Railway. Till date total 1065 numbers of local Taxi and Rickshaw drivers have been given training and ID cards issued to them. 07 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Right from the construction phase of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., a policy decision was taken to adopt measures for safeguarding environment. Afforestation was done in a big way throughout the Konkan Railway route. Boulder Netting and Geo-safety works have been carried out on a large scale throughout Konkan Railway route to strengthen the cuttings and to protect the environment. Railway Coach Washing is a very water intensive activity and KRCL has designed and fabricated a mechanized Coach Washing Plant at Madgaon Coach Care Centre, which uses minimum water. Also, an environment friendly water recycling plant and an Effluent Treatment Plant have also been installed for even more reduction in water requirement. Konkan Railway has improvised Automatic Coach Washing Plant which was being used for the last 8 years at the Coach Care Centre, Madgaon. One such plant has also been successfully commissioned by Konkan Railway at Kolkata Metro. Surveys for feasibility studies for installing the Plant in other Zonal Railways have been conducted with positive results. Efforts have also been made to explore further reduction in overall cost with different workable options to make this product more valuable and as a result, two designs of coach washing plants have been developed. Furthermore, offering this service on Build, Own, Operate (BOO) model has also been planned. Rain Water Harvesting is being ensured in a big way at various places of Konkan Railway. Konkan Railway has abolished use of plastic in its operational areas and the same is also incorporated in various contracts. Eco-friendly shelters for passengers have been erected at all stations on Konkan Railway route. Efforts are made to reduce the use of paper in office. Taking this ahead, a decision was taken to withdraw all the individual printers and provide Network Printers in the office. Corporation has formulated an Energy Policy , which guides all our endeavours and initiatives in the direction of conservation of energy and environment. Compact Fluorescent Lamps (CFL) and T-5 type lights and Light Emitting Diode (LED), which are energy efficient are being used for platform and area lighting. Energy savers have also been provided in tunnels. LED Tunnel lights which provide soothing white light, better signal visibility inside tunnels and reduce fatigue of workmen,have now replaced the over-aged yellow sodium vapour lights provided earlier. So far, about 76 Km tunnel length (97% of the total tunnel length) covering 65 tunnels have been provided with such LED lights. To promote the local product & food items, Konkan Railway have allotted 14 Kokam stalls, 07 Ethnic Food stalls & 01 Konkan Pride stall at various stations over Konkan Railway. Roll On Roll Off (RO-RO) services has been introduced in Konkan Railway since the year 1999 in which loaded trucks are transported by trains from one end to the other end which results in saving fuel and reduction of pollution caused by road traffic and also leads to safe transportation of trucks . This service besides contributing to significant savings on fuel, also reduces wear and tear of trucks’ tyres and parts, with least pollution and high safety. This service is unique to KRCL. Konkan Railways’ novel experiment initiated on 26.01.1999 with `Roll-on Roll-off’ of trucks over BRN wagons has been a resounding success. Introduction of Roll On Roll Off services has been a WIN-WIN situation for Railways, Road Transporters as well as to the Nation. One to two hours of terminal detention coupled with 100% loaded traffic in both directions has resulted in better financial returns for Railways. During 2015, 52,106 number of Trucks were transported through Roll On – Roll Off (RO-RO) and about 49.68 Lakh Litres of diesel was saved. The total saving of fuel from the start of this service has been approximately 793.68 Lakh Litres. 08 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Protection of environment is a core value as well as the motto of the organization. For conservation energy, in a First in the country, KRCL has developed and provided ‘Intelligent Lighting System’ for stations, platforms and circulating area lighting, which is need based, computerized, and user friendly system for switching ON/OFF of lights. It is linked with movement of trains on real time basis. The System operates automatically without any human intervention and thus provides most energy efficient solution for station area lighting. Further, for conservation of electrical energy, passive infra red occupancy sensors have been provided in the officers’ chambers which automatically switch OFF the lights and air conditioners when the chambers are left unoccupied for more than a pre set duration. This saves significant amount of wastage of electrical energy. In the year 2014-15, Corporation earned an incentive reward of ` 21..32 Lakhs from State Electricity Board for maintaining higher power factor. Promotion of Clean & Green Energy: Continuing our endeavours to promote use of clean energy, Corporation has installed 350 KWp ON grid connected solar park at Ratnagiri. The plant is capable of catering to full power requirement of Ratnagiri during day time. We also intend to inject surplus power to the grid as soon as “net metering” system is implemented by the State Government. Besides,20 KWp solar plants have been installed at Karmali station roof top, Hybrid (Wind + Solar) System at Level Crossings (LC) gate No.17& 32 (950 W each) and Vinhere station (7.5 KW) provided at Ratnagiri region. Further, work of installing 20 KWp solar park at Sawantwadi & 25 KWp solar park at Kudal has been taken on hand. Corporation further plans to install roof top solar panels of 7 Kwp each at Thivim & Udupi stations and 2 Kwp each at Chiplun, Khed & Kankavali Stations. Solar Water Heaters have been provided at most of the Rest Houses, Training institutions and Running rooms ( total cap. 6500 Lit per day). Also, solar Panels have been provided for staircase lighting at major staff colonies. This though is a baby step towards gradually increasing reliance on non conventional energy sources to conserve the environment. For exploring feasibility of green energy generation on coach roof top using flexible solar panels, work is in advance stage. This experiment may be perhaps first of its own kind on a coach top. Electrification of KR route: Presidential Approval for the proposal of route Electrification of KRCL has been received on 5th November 2015. Foundation stone of the work has been laid by Hon’ble Minister of Railways on 08.11.2015. KRCL is now poised for execution of the same. Konkan Railway in Goa State passes through Carambolim Lake in Karmali. Large number of migratory birds visit this lake throughout the year. However, their number is coming down with the passage of time. It is proposed to join hands with Forest Department of Goa to create suitable environment for attracting the migratory birds to this lake. In the various meetings with Forest Department, it was proposed to develop Observation Platforms, Control Room and Nature Education Centre at Carambolim Lake. The State Government of Goa is in the process of land acquisition for providing the above mentioned infrastructure at Karmali. Planting of Grass and Shrubs has been done on a large scale on cutting slopes to prevent erosion and it is proving quite effective in arresting the soil erosion. KRCL has planted 65,408 no. of various plants along KRCL route in the year 2014-15 and 42039 nos. in the year 2015. 09 Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. The mission statement of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. is to evolve into an economic, eco-friendly and cost effective catalyst for growth and prosperity. To achieve this mission statement, Konkan Railway has adopted cutting edge technologies which are eco-friendly and promotes sustainable growth involving less maintenance. Anti Collision Device is one such environment friendly innovative technology developed by Konkan Railway Corporation Limited. Konkan Railway is the first Railway to provide Bio-Toilets at its stations. Bio-toilets an innovative technology for disposal of human waste in eco-friendly manner have been installed at Chiplun, Kankavali, Sawantwadi Road, Karmali, Madgaon, Karwar and Mookambika Road Byndoor stations with the technology developed and approved by Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Ministry of Defence. In addition, Bio-Toilets are also being installed in Passenger trains being maintained by Konkan Railway. So far 68 passenger coaches have been fitted with Bio-Toilets. The necessary arrangements for their maintenance like training of employees and executives, procurement of consumables, tools and plants have also been made. Efforts are also being made for use of non toxic, organic solutions for pest control and cleaning of coaches. Some initiatives in this regard have been taken on experimental basis. 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery.  Financial and commercial transactions are fully computerized on a network. Therefore, the working is transparent and least susceptible to fraud.  All tenders are put up on Website to ensure transparency in action.  For eliminating corruption, KRCL has a lean but devoted and motivated Vigilance department which keeps watchful eyes on the functioning of the organization by conducting regular preventive checks to ensure that the employees while discharging their duties maintain high integrity and honesty. Lot of emphasis is given on Preventive Vigilance and educating the employees bringing out the areas of common mistakes, with the aim of reducing irregularities likely to be committed by the employees in their day to day functioning.  Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) is the Nodal Officer for filing complaints regarding corruption and the contact numbers of Vigilance Department are displayed in the Konkan Railway Time Table and also in the Website of Konkan Railway.  Konkan Railway has also circulated through its Standing Orders for the guidance of all, that those found guilty of having accepted and obtained illegal gratification from any person, would be meted out with stringent penalty including removal from service.  Immovable Property Returns Statement (IPRS) are collected from the executives each year and non-executives every two year so that their assets are known which is monitored by Vigilance Department. Also, furnishing of information and Annual Returns of Assets and Liabilities under Lokpal Act 2013 has been implemented on Konkan Railway.  KRCL has taken a landmark decision to show the answer sheets to the candidates after declaring the result and before finalizing the selection to bring more transparency in the selection. Thus, KRCL is committed to upholding the principles of United Nations initiative and feels proud to be a part of this Global Compact, sharing the values of good governance and corporate social responsibility. (Siddheshwar Telugu) General Manager (Admin)
