1 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 M AÎTRE CHOCOL ATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 18 45 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 2 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 LINDT & SPRÜ NGLI PORTR AIT As the global leader in the premium chocolate segment, Lindt & Sprüngli looks back on a long-standing tradition of 170 years which takes its origins in Zurich. Production, Marketing 8  and Distribution 1 Kilchberg, CH 24 7 2 Induna Olona, IT 9 4 5 3 Luserna S. Giovanni, IT 6 4 Aachen, DE 10 1 5 Prague, CZ 2 6 Vienna, AT 11 3 7 Warsaw, PL 8 Stockholm, SE 18 9 London, GB 10 Paris, FR 13 11 Barcelona, ES 15 14 12 12 Stratham, USA 21 13 Toronto, CA 20 14 Kansas City, USA 23 19 15 San Leandro, USA 16 São Paulo, BR 17 Cape Town, ZA 18 Moscow, RU 19 Hong Kong, CN 20 Shanghai, CN 21 Tokyo, JP 16 22 Sydney, AU 17 22 Regional offices 23 Dubai, UAE 24 Dublin, IRL For 170 years, Lindt & Sprüngli confirms its reputation as one of the most innovative and creative companies in the premium chocolate market. Quality chocolate from Lindt & Sprüngli is distributed via own subsidiaries and representative offices as well as countless independent distributors around the globe. The main markets are Switzerland, Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, Spain, and other European countries, as well as North America, Canada, and Australia. The LINDT brand with its extensive and innovative global and local range of finest quality chocolate is present in around 120 countries worldwide. The sustainablity practices of Russell Stover (acquired in 2014) will be stepwise adapted to the norms of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group, and are therefore not yet integrated in this Sustainability Report. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 TABLE OF CONTENT –4– K E Y AC H I E V E M E N T S –5– C H A I R M A N ’ S STAT E M E N T –6– SUSTA I NA BI L I T Y A PPROAC H – 10 – SUSTA I NA BLY S OU RC E D – 19 – SUSTA I NA BLY PRODUC E D – 24 – SUSTA I NA BLY C ONSU M E D – 27 – SE L E C T E D SUSTA I NA BI L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S – 31 – OU T L O OK – 32 – SUSTA I NA BI L I T Y G OV E R NA NC E – 33 – A BOU T T H IS R E P ORT L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 K EY ACHIEVEMENTS Lindt & Sprüngli Promise: “All products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain.” SUS TA I NA BLY S OU RC E D 10,000,000 USD Since 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli invested more than USD 10 million in the traceability 89 % 100 % of our cocoa beans bought certification for RSPO and verification of the cocoa supply chain in 2015 were traceable segregated palm oil SUS TA I NA BLY PRODUC E D SUS TA I NA BLY C ONSU M E D –17 % – 46 % 86,000 CO2 emissions per ton produced water consumption per ton recorded and handled consumer contacts since 2008 produced since 2008 –14 % – 87% 3.65 billion CHF energy consumption per ton lost-time accidents rate per Group sales in Swiss francs rise to CHF 3.65 billion (+ 7.9 %) produced since 2008 100,000 working hours since 2008 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 5 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 CHAIR MAN’S STATEMENT Driving sustainability along the value chain is an investment in our future viability. Dear reader, dear stakeholder Since 2008, we invested more than USD 10 million in traceability and verification, as well as the development of farming communiThis year we celebrated a jubilee. Since 170 years we have been ties in Ghana to secure the long-term supply of high-quality raw producing finest premium chocolate. Lindt & Sprüngli is one of the materials for our premium chocolate. This helps us to eradicate very few makers that have complete control over every step of the the worst form of child labor and improve social and working production chain, from the selection of the finest cocoa varieties conditions on the ground as well as environmental protection. through to the finished product. Sustainability and socially responTo create a long-term and lasting effect we need to further work sible business practices along our value chain are firmly integrated on our continuous improvement and find solutions that generate into the Group’s strategy and are an integral part of the Lindt the greatest possible value added – both for society and for our & Sprüngli success. Above all, it constitutes a necessary basis for company. The takeover of Russell Stover in the USA in 2014 was Ernst Tanner further profitable growth. We believe that to ensure our future the largest strategic acquisition in the company’s history – with the viability, we need to make constant investments in a sustainable integration of four additional production sites and 3,300 employees. business model. In order to follow the sustainability norms of Lindt & Sprüngli In 2015, we further developed our long-term sustainability stratGroup, one of the most important objectives is to adapt the susegy that guided our activities and that contributed to delivering tainability practices of Russell Stover. our Lindt & Sprüngli Promise: all products leaving our factories This Global Compact Communication on Progress contains an live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value overview of our goals, measures, and performance in 2015. We are chain. In 2015, we achieved important milestones: we successfully committed to the ten UN Global Compact principles and welcome expanded our Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program for cocoa in feedback on our communication on progress. Ecuador, switched to traceable and certified palm oil, which is used only in certain fillings, according to the RSPO-standard “segregatDr Dieter Weisskopf ed palm oil”. Also we achieved important sustainability milestones at our subsidiaries. One example is the shift to 100 % green energy at our Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiary in Canada. Furthermore, we reduced our CO2 and water use per ton on a Group-wide level and Ernst Tanner, Dr Dieter Weisskopf, started informing our consumers about our sustainability initiatives Chairman of the Board and CFO on our packaging. Chief Executive Officer Resp. Corp. Sustainability L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABILIT Y APPROACH All products leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustainable behavior along the value chain. The Lindt & Sprüngli Promise is the company’s pledge that Complete control of the production chain: from bean PILL ARS OF OUR BUSINESS MODEL all products leaving our factories live up to our commitselection to premium chocolate ment to sustainable behavior along the value chain. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to manage sustainability SOURCED impacts emerging from its operations along the entire valGlobal Presence ue chain. We follow a continuous progress approach, where To ensure a sustainable supply of key resources, Lindt Marketing Excellence we want to improve our performance step by step. With & Sprüngli is committed to long-term partnerships with Trade Relationship this in mind, we continuously strive to improve our consuppliers and traceability of raw materials. It is the key to Technology tribution to a sustainable future, with a focus on the most sustainable procurement and an important step in improvmaterial issues along the value chain. Progress along a set ing the working and environmental conditions at suppliers. of key performance indicators is continuously monitored. Quality Innovation Sustainability In our materiality analysis in 2013 we identified 28 most PRODUCED relevant issues along the Lindt & Sprüngli value chain – One of our main pillars of the business model is sustaina­ sourcing, production, and consumption. Lindt & Sprüngli Lindt & Sprüngli premium products require high-quality bility. However, our vision is not just to make the finest considers these issues the material ones and continuously materials, dedicated employees and respect for the enviproducts; it is to match these high standards with equally increases its efforts and activities with a focus on them. ronment. Therefore, we strive not only as an employer but high ethical and sustainability standards in every aspect of also as a member of society for ecologically and ethically, our business. Therefore, it is our promise that all products and socially responsible corporate behavior. leaving our factories live up to our commitment to sustaina­ ble behavior along the value chain. CONSUMED The significance Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to respon­ sible behavior is reflected in different policies and our susLindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility to the customers and tainability strategy, which defines the way Lindt & Sprüngli consumers. Strict quality controls ensure that our products is doing business. This major issue is therefore dealt with meet our high standards – from raw materials to the conat top management level and are monitored by a Board of sumer. Directors’ committee. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 7 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H TAK ING INTO ACCOU NT STAK EHOLDER’S CONCER NS A ND INTER ESTS We want our sustainability approach to be relevant and credible. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to providing the different stakeholders with a transparent and detailed overview of the company. Our stakeholders shall have full confidence that their interests are considered. Stakeholder Group Lindt & Sprüngli Engagement Stakeholder Group Lindt & Sprüngli Engagement Consumers Consumer satisfaction is key for Lindt & Sprüngli. Consumer service Universities / Along the whole value chain, Lindt & Sprüngli works with different unispecialists of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group register and handle each inquiry, Research versities and research institutions. This can happen through the support compliment and complaint carefully. Consumers also have the opportuInstitutions of existing research facilities and projects, by developing new projects nity to directly get in touch with our employees in the growing number of for applied science, or by giving more information about the companies’ LINDT and Ghirardelli Retail Shops, and with the LINDT Maîtres Chocoactivities for students writing a thesis about a research question that is of latiers at numerous promotional and sponsoring events. Lindt & Sprüngli our interest. additionally engages on various social media platforms such as Facebook Retail / DistribuCustomers of semi-finished Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate products, as well and Twitter. These new communication platforms allow direct interaction tors / Customers as retailers, distributors and other B-to-B customers of finished products and listening in real time to our consumers’ needs, questions, and remarks. ensure that our products are accessible to consumers all year round. Employees Employees are our biggest asset. We foster a culture of feedback where They all have their channel specific customer services representatives in open and honest dialogue is valued and career opportunities are visible the respective subsidiaries, which professionally take care of their needs. for all employees. Our annual Talent Management dialogues help to idenLindt & Sprüngli brands are also present at trade fairs and other events to tify, assess, and develop the professional competencies and performance make partners familiar with our latest creations. of our employees. An employee survey is conducted every three years. Governments Lindt & Sprüngli does not conduct active lobbying at the governmental Investors Investors and analysts are informed about our half-year and annual results level, but its subsidiaries are members of several local industry associa­ and other relevant business-related information. Interactions take place at tions. Governmental institutions become, however, more and more the annual general meeting and during smaller events like financial anaimportant as advisory and supporting partners of sustainability projects. lyst conferences and calls, as well as road-shows and individual meetings. Media We proactively inform the media on relevant issues to ensure a thoughtful Civil Society The Sustainability Manager is the main contact point for civil society orgaand correct image and perception of Lindt & Sprüngli. Our communicaOrganizations nizations and NGOs, and engages with them individually on a continuous tion with media is honest, fact-based, and transparent within the bounds and NGOs basis to listen to their ideas and concerns, share sustainability activities of commercial confidentiality. Engagements include report and media of Lindt & Sprüngli, ask for feedback, and to evaluate the potential for release on half-year and annual results, press releases on all other busipartnerships. ness-relevant matters, media events, annual general meetings, field trips, Farmers and Constant high-quality supply of raw materials and packaging material, and responses to media inquiries. Suppliers reliable partners for transport and logistics, machinery development, delivery and maintenance, as well as service providers for a wide range of support are crucial for our business. Mainly Lindt & Sprüngli procurement staff, but also other employees are regularly in touch with our supply chain partners in order to mutually optimize further development. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 8 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H SUSTA INA BILIT Y STR ATEGY Our sustainability strategy is based on the material issues and includes commitments & strategic goals, main activities, indicators for progress measurement, and clear responsibilities for each issue. This Sustainability Report provides an overview of our measures and achievements in 2015 with regards to most our goals and commitments. SUSTAINABLY SOURCED SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED Material issues Our commitments & strategic goals Read more Material issues Our commitments & strategic goals Read more Secured supply We develop and maintain long-term contractual pp 11–16 Climate change We reduce our CO2 emissions by reducing energy pp 20, 27–28 of raw materials relationships with suppliers for all critical raw & greenhouse use, increasing our share of renewable energy materials to secure long-term supply of high quality. gas emissions use and optimizing transportation and logistics. Farmer education Farmers delivering to us are capable of applying pp 11–16 Water & wastewater We reduce fresh-water use and wastewater within pp 20–21, 28 & capacity building good agricultural, social, environmental, and our operations. business practices in the management of their farm. Environmental We reduce packaging size and use where possible www.lindt-spruengli.com/ sustainability/sustainablyAgricultural Our supply of raw materials fosters agricultural pp 11–16 impact of packaging recyclable materials, while maintaining a balance produced/materialdevelopment development in origin countries. material between gift giving premium character of packaging efficiency/ Biodiversity The cultivation of the raw materials we source does not pp 11–16 & quality aspects of product protection. & soil fertility harm long-term suitability of land for agricultural use. Waste & recycling We reduce waste and increase the recycling rate of p 21 Investments in We know about specific rural infrastructure needs in pp 11–16 waste within our operations. rural infrastructure origins of our raw materials, and link / enable the Work culture We maintain an open work culture where respect, pp 21, 29 target groups to get / develop access to rural infratrust, and fair play characterize our working structure. relationships. Diversity of We contribute to the diversity of cocoa varieties. p 15 We foster teamwork and facilitate communication pp 21, 29 cocoa varieties and understanding across all disciplines, business Core labor Core labor standards are respected within our supply pp 10–17 segments, and geographies to create a company standards chain. of people who support each other for mutual sucClimate change We reduce the carbon footprint in our supply chain. pp 14, 27 cess. & greenhouse We encourage, recognize, and reward individual pp 21, 29 gas emissions innovation, personal initiative, and leadership of people throughout the organization. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 9 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A P P R OAC H SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED Material issues Our commitments & strategic goals Read more Philanthropy We want others to benefit from our successful pp 23, 30 business and make in-kind, financial, and time Employee satisfaction We offer an attractive working environment pp 21–22, 29 contributions to good causes. & retention and maintain or increase employee engagement, satisfaction and employee retention. Employee We ensure that all key positions are staffed with pp 22, 29 development qualified and motivated employees and that SUSTAINABLY CONSUMED & training talented employees are developed internally to fill these positions. Material issues Our commitments & strategic goals Read more Work-life-balance We support our employees in finding and mainp 22 Product quality We adhere to superior measures to ensure product p 25 taining a healthy work-life-balance. We therefore quality. strive Product safety We adhere to superior measures to ensure product p 25 to find the right balance between working on safety. efficiency / productivity and offering the employees Consumer & customer Customer and consumer satisfaction is the main p 26 support to cope with the increasing work requiresatisfaction goal of all our activities. ments. At the same time we give employees increasing empowerment to coordinate their private life Consumer complaints, inquiries and compliments p 25 and work in their preferred way whenever possible. are handled on time and individually. Occupational We offer a healthy and safe working place. p 23 Genetically modified There are no GMO in LINDT products. p 25 health & safety Our vision is zero lost-time accidents. organisms (GMO) Social security Our compensation, remuneration, benefits, or social www.lindt-spruengli.com/ Product information We apply the highest standards to consumer p 26 sustainability/sustainably& compensation security schemes meet or exceed law requirements. produced/employee& labeling information. satisfaction/ We apply correct labeling on all our products. p 26 Diversity We offer equal opportunities and foster diversity www.lindt-spruengli.com/ Marketing Children are not our main target group in marketing p 26 sustainability/sustainably& equal opportunity in employment, development, and advancement for produced/employee& advertising practices and advertising practices. those qualified. satisfaction/ We are not discriminating in hiring and employment on the grounds of race, religion, age, nationality, color, gender, sexual orientation, physical ability, health condition, political opinion, creed, or other basis. Local economic We foster local development around our production, www.lindt-spruengli.com/ sustainability/sustainablydevelopment marketing and distribution sites. produced/responsiblebusiness-conduct/ Corruption & antiWe are not participating in any corrupt or p 23 competitive behavior anti-competitive behavior. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABLY SOURCED Sustainability starts for Lindt & Sprüngli with the procurement of raw and packaging material. To guarantee the sustainable and longterm supply of essential resources, Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to building long-term partnerships with suppliers and establishing traceability of raw materials. Lindt & Sprüngli imposes within its value chain a thorough process control from sourcing of ingredients to production and distribution of its premium chocolate. To accelerate our contribution, we mainly worked in the following three areas during 2015: — We further worked on the improvement of existing and development of new Programs for sustainable raw-material sourcing, and created further long-term partnerships with suppliers for cocoa in Ecuador and hazelnuts in Turkey. — We reached our goal of being fully certified for sustainable palm oil procurement according to the RSPO segL I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 11 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D regation model. Palm oil is only used in certain fillings. In the last step, external independent organizations assess From 2016, 100 % of the physical product we use origthe effectiveness of our Programs based on our ▶Verification inates from RSPO certified palm oil plantations. Guidance Document. The document is based on principles, — We further developed our sustainable supply chain guidance, and knowledge from organizations dedicated to management for packaging material by integrating sustainability assessments such as the COSA Committee on more key suppliers in our Supplier Sustainable Practice The Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Sustainability Assessments, Fair Labor Association, Global Program. consists of four steps: Social Compliance Programme, ISEAL Alliance, and Sedex. LINDT & SPRÜNGLI FARMING PROGRAM Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization For our key raw materials, we have committed to develop – Limit the involvement of intermediaries Applying the United Nations Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles and maintain long-term contractual relationships with our – Register and organize farmers suppliers. We capacitate the farmers participating in our – Monitor farms and communities, e. g. Global agriculture is core to building a sustainable future. Program to apply good agricultural, social, environmental, Its challenges need to be solved in the interest of the – number and age of trees producers and consumers of agricultural goods. The UN and business practices in the management of their farms. – agricultural practices Global Compact has developed six principles that outline These measures have a positive impact on the agricultural – number of children in family desired outcomes and actions for a sustainable future in development in origin countries. They help to safeguard – community infrastructure the food and agriculture sector. They are called the Food the long-term suitability of land for agricultural use and and Agriculture Business Principles. Lindt & Sprüngli foster access to rural infrastructure. Step 2: Training and capacity building supports these principles and applies them throughout the – Sensitize farmers and their families about worst forms cooperation with farmers. ▶ Find out more about the Food The cornerstone of Lindt & Sprüngli’s sustainable rawand Agriculture Business Principles of child labor material sourcing strategy is the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming – Train farmers in professional business, agricultural, Program. The Program’s aim is to trace ingredients back social, and ecological farming methods to their origin and support farmers according to their spe– Improve farmer’s harvest cific needs. – Motivate and train young and female farmers COCOA We are following the ultimate goal of growing as a company along with the farmers by building long-term Step 3: Farmer investments and community development Goal 2020: by 2020, the Lindt & Sprüngli partnerships. The Program is farmer-centered, aiming at – Support farmers global cocoa supply chain will be traceable Lindt & Sprüngli being the preferred buyer for the farmers. – e. g. provide cocoa seedlings, farming equipment and externally verified. Currently, the Program focuses on cocoa from Ghana and – Support communities Ecuador. We continuously evaluate opportunities for – e. g. provide access to clean drinking water, mosquito nets To obtain high-quality cocoa beans, Lindt & Sprüngli needs implementing Farming Programs for other origins and to know where they come from and who produces them. Step 4: Verification and continuous progress ingredients. Cocoa is often grown in countries with difficult living and – Monitor performance and measure continuous progress Through the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, we working conditions. Small cultivation areas, low produc– Perform assessments by independent external organizations know the farmers delivering our raw materials and we can tivity, a lack of rural infrastructure, institutional challeng– Assure effectiveness of the Program verify their social and environmental practices. We also try es, as well as high input and transportation costs challenge to limit the involvement of intermediaries, thereby allowing the incomes of cocoa farming households. To tackle these producers to receive fair payment for their quality products. challenges, Lindt & Sprüngli, together with the company’s L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 12 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Cocoa traceability and LINDT & SPRÜNGLI FARMING PROGRAM: THEORY OF CHANGE verification of all cocoa beans 2012 2013 2014 2015 If improvement activities are performed well, they lead to a secured supply of quality cocoa from a stable base of farmers % of cocoa beans sourced traceable* 75 % 82 % 91 % 89 % and improved livelihoods of farmers and their families. % of cocoa beans sourced traceable and verified – – 13 % 32 % IMPROVEMENT ACTIVITIES OUR OBJECTIVES * F or 2015 deliveries, Ghana and partly Ecuador were the only origins with the Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system in place. Beans from for example Peru and Madagascar relate to certificates of origin that Good agricultural practices confirm where the cocoa beans originate from; do however not have a Good social practices Training and detailed Lindt & Sprüngli traceability system in place. Good environmental practices capacity building Good business practices Improved livelihoods of Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana farmers and their families We started the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program 2008 in Planting appliances Nurseries Ghana. 2015, major projects and achievements along the Farm shops Farmer investments four steps of the Program were: etc. Secured supply of quality cocoa from stable Boreholes base of farmers Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization Malaria nets Of the more than 48,000 farmers in Ghana we sourced Village resource centers Community development from in 2015, more than 41,000 are now registered and etc. organized in groups of 25–50 farmers per community. This facilitates working with them and fosters their ownership in the further development of the Program. More than 30 % of the farmers registered in the Farming Program in Ghasupply chain partners, implements the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli agricultural, environmental, and social farming practices na are women. Farming Program. The Program’s aim is to trace cocoa and the livelihood of farmers and their communities. In 2015, we further gathered extensive data about the deliveries back to their origin, to support farmers accordIn 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli was able to maintain the share farmers, farms, and infrastructure in the villages. So far, we ing to their specific needs and as a final result to advance of traceable cocoa beans at a high level. Thanks to the rapGPS-mapped over 36,000 cocoa farms. On average, each farm productivity yield and increased farm family income. id expansion of the Farming Program in Ghana and the farmer has 1.96 hectares of land to farm cocoa. This infor(See graph Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program: Theory of start of the Farming Program in Ecuador, we were able to mation allows us to better target the specific needs of the change.) Furthermore, the Program enables Lindt & Sprüngincrease our externally verified cocoa beans by 19 % to a farmers and tracks the improvements made. Further, it helps li to ensure a consistent volume of best quality cocoa total share of 32 % of all cocoa beans sourced. For these detecting and analyzing issues on the ground. By making beans for the chocolate production. The sustained provibeans the agricultural, social, and environmental condithis data transparently available to other organizations, we sion of a high-quality cocoa supply is a top priority for tions under which the cocoa was produced have been assupport their work to understand the issues and to find soluLindt & Sprüngli. sessed and verified by an external and independent party. tions for cocoa farmers better. We shared for instance the Lindt & Sprüngli has so far invested more than USD GPS data of the farms with the International Center for 10 million in the traceability and verification of the cocoa Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) to support their research in supply chain, the support of farmers in improving their developing strategies for climate-smart cocoa in Ghana. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 13 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Another issue that can be countered with GPS data is the — We started using coaching methods, whereby most — 32 districts now have a demonstration site, on which illegal establishment of farms in nationally protected forpromising and innovative farmers receive additional we continuously develop new training methodologies, ests. The data can be used to double check if there are any one-to-one support. enhanced support, and test new farming practices and risks of non-conformities with the Ghanaian regulations These improvements make sure that we keep the interest innovations. related to that matter. and participation of the farmers high, enabling them to — The Program built and equipped one new village reNo risks were detected, but we nevertheless defined an further improve their practices. We will continue to review source center. It is located near a junior high school and improved registration and monitoring process to make and improve the training and capacity building given to is equipped with computers and a printer to be used by sure it does not happen in the future. farmers. We are for instance considering adding topics students and teachers alike for education, and also related to income diversification, agroforestry systems, or by farmers for training purposes. Step 2: Training and capacity building nutrition. To further foster community development, the Program Since 2008, we have trained more than 41,000 farmers in heavily focused on access to clean drinking water, as this good agricultural, social, environmental, and business Step 3: Farmer investments and community development topic comes up repeatedly when discussing with farmers. practices in Ghana. Our goal is that by end 2016, the more To give the farmers better access to products and services We continue to work on access to clean drinking water for than 48,000 cocoa farmers in the 39 Ghanaian districts we needed for their farms, we developed the Farming Program all communities we source from. Besides drilling boreholes, source from will be trained within the Lindt & Sprüngli further in the following areas: we also focused on maintenance of the already established Farming Program. — The Program developed an inclusive business model for ones. We are proud to say that the established Community The general training is based on the ▶ Certification Cacommunity-based farm shops. The farm shops will not Water Management Committees managed maintenance pacity Enhancement Curriculum – a uniform training curonly offer products and services for cocoa farms, but well, so that all boreholes are still functioning. Access to riculum developed by the private sector, standard initiaalso other types of agricultural activities within the clean drinking water not only fosters the health of the comtives, and development organizations. Besides the general communities (e. g. plantain cultivation) and some munities, but also saves time for households fetching water. training, the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program further household needs (e. g. lighting). The new business modvaried the trainings in terms of content, form, and methel will be piloted during 2016. Step 4: Verification and continuous progress odology used, e. g.: — As the Ghanaian governmental organization Cocobod As announced last year, we further refined our internal — We started using participatory approaches, where the decided to distribute 50 million higher-yielding cocoa monitoring system to be more geared towards performance farmers themselves tell each other about the observaseedlings to cocoa farmers themselves, Lindt & Sprüngmanagement and impact assessment. Together with tions made on their farms by adapting new farming li did not get access to the approved seeds in sufficient ▶ COSA, Committee on Sustainability Assessments, we depractices. quantities. The Program therefore converted the comveloped new farmer questionnaires and started using them — We started training farmers on basic business skills, munity-based cocoa seedling nurseries in plantain for the 2015 / 2016 harvesting season. whereby they learn to see their farm as a business, calmultiplication sites. The plantain shoots can be used Additionally, we changed the external assessment methculate costs, sales, or return on investments. by farmers as shade trees in new cocoa plantings, for odology used. This year, the ▶ The Forest Trust carried out — We enriched the training on Integrated Soil Fertility improved nutrition, or as additional income if they the assessment of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Management, by using the Demonstration Plots to show are sold. in Ghana, where the objective was to evaluate the implethe different effects of different types of fertilizer use. — The Program continued to offer farmers a 2-acre inputs mentation of the entire Program (not limited to compli— We improved the training on sensitizing the farmers package on credit. Almost 3,000 farmers benefitted ance with standards only), to collect and understand the about child labor, by making it more contextualized, from the package that includes agricultural inputs and main strengths and challenges faced by the stakeholders specific and target-group-oriented. equipment for the maintenance of the farm. and then, propose key areas for further improvement. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 14 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana 2008 – 2015 Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ecuador Step 2: Training and capacity building Number of farmers trained in good agricultural, 41,648 Because of their unique taste, Lindt & Sprüngli uses an exWhile the farmers in Ghana like to gather in groups and social and environmental practices ceptionally high percentage of fine-flavor cocoa bean vahave training sessions together, the farmers in Ecuador Number of cocoa seedling nurseries set up 65 rieties in addition to consumer beans. Most of these preprefer individual support directly on their farms. The Proand running cious fine-flavor beans come from Ecuador. We therefore gram therefore needed to employ more staff than anticiNumber of demonstration plots set up 32 expanded the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program to Ecuapated, and is now offering individual coaching, classroom and running dor in 2014, and scaled it up during 2015. The overall aim training, as well as farmer field schools through twelve Number of village resource centers built 29 and equipped is to develop a traceable cocoa supply chain with a stable local agronomists. The higher literacy rates of farmers in Number of boreholes and hand-dug wells 137 base of fine-flavor cocoa farmers. Ecuador compared to Ghana also allows us to distribute constructed and functioning We use the same Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program more detailed training material with which the farmers are framework in Ecuador as we do in Ghana. However, the able to capacitate themselves further. content of the training and capacity building pillar, as well Many cocoa farmers in Ecuador are very environmenSupporting cocoa research in Ghana as the farmer investments and community development tally conscious, and are interested in organic farming. Bepillar vary due to the different context and needs of the sides offering training on the conservation of natural reIn 2015, the farmers of the Lindt & Sprüngli Program in Ghana participated in various research projects for farmers. We are for instance not focusing on community sources, they therefore also receive practical advice, for sustainable cocoa production. The results of the research development activities, since the farmers already have instance on how to establish a compost site, how to apply help us to take better-informed decisions to enhance access to basic infrastructure (i. e. clean drinking water, organic fertilizer or how to prepare organic pesticides and sustainable production of cocoa further. Two examples electricity, education). fungicides. are described here: — Evaluation of farmer services: a project funded Step 1: Traceability and farmer organization Step 3: Farmer investments and community development by IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative, looked at the impact that services provided to farmers – such as Aligned with the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program, Since the Program puts a high emphasis on fine-flavor cotraining or access to seedlings for replanting – had we establish traceability for each bag shipped to a coa, examples for specific activities are trainings on the on the livelihood of farmers within our Program. The Lindt & Sprüngli production site with our local partners. importance of different cocoa varieties and the distribution research revealed that the farmers highly valued During the 2014 / 2015 harvesting season, 1,100 farmers of high-yielding fine-flavor cocoa seedlings in collaboraservices such as training on pruning and weeding parti­cipated in our pilot program. For the 2015 / 2016 har­ tion with the governmental research institute ▶ INIAP and and access to harvesting tools. — Inclusive value chain collaboration: this project funvesting season an additional 2,500 farmers came on smaller community-based cocoa seedling nurseries. With ded by the Dutch Organization for Scientific Research board, with the aim of covering all Ecuadorian cocoa these two approaches, so far more than 100 hectares were and conducted by the Royal Tropical Institute KIT far­mers supplying to us by 2020. newly planted with higher-yielding and disease-resistant examines whether and how value chain collaboration fine-flavor cocoa varieties. with smallholder tree crop farmers in Ghana (cocoa Many farmers still have very old and tall trees, which and oil palm) and South Africa (macadamia and avocado) can be made more inclusive. The Lindt Cocoa Foundaneed to be properly pruned to be able to give higher yields. tion partly funded the project. Where necessary, farmer groups therefore receive mechaThe farmers participating in our Program contributed their nized pruning tools, which they can use at no cost on their opinions, views, and knowledge in interviews and focus farms. This considerably reduces their workload, and leads groups. to a reduction of plant diseases. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 15 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D The Ecuadorian cocoa sector is not as regulated as the based institute has the second-largest collection of cocoa one in Ghana. We therefore also work on continuously International standard for sustainable cocoa varieties worldwide and works on the ▶ Cacao Genetic Imimproving the quality of the cocoa beans we buy from Since 2012, Lindt & Sprüngli has been participating in provement Program. In 2007, the Program released a group Ecuador. Improved fermentation practices, as well as the development of a standard for traceable and sustain­ of six high-yielding and frosty-pod-tolerant clones for able cocoa. The aim of the initiative is to align the the provision of solar and gas dryers improve the postdistribution to farmers, which are now present in all Cenchocolate industry’s efforts and thereby making sustainable harvesting process. cocoa mainstream instead of a niche product. To ensure tral American countries, Mexico, Brazil, and soon in Boscalability, the standard is being developed under the auslivia. More than 200 clones are under evaluation in differStep 4: Verification and continuous progress pices of the European Standardization Body (CEN) and the ent field trials. Going forward, CATIE will put an Like in our Program in Ghana, an Internal Monitoring International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The emphasis on the quality of these varieties, and established standard is planned to be finalized by 2017. Its objective is System follows the progress made by all participating an in-house quality laboratory. The funds provided by to develop a framework that supports for instance the eradfarmers. The Forest Trust externally assessed the entire ication of forced and child labor, improves farmer income Lindt & Sprüngli cover the costs to obtain, prepare, and Program. and livelihoods, and that provides clarity and transparency process samples for quality analysis in the laboratory. requirements both for sustainability in the production of Other Cocoa Bean Origins, Cocoa Butter cocoa, as well as traceability of cocoa beans and cocoa HAZELNUTS and Cocoa Powder products. Lindt & Sprüngli welcomes this initiative to set standardized requirements to traceable and sustainable Our commitment: core labor standards are Besides cocoa beans from Ghana and Ecuador, Lindt cocoa. Once the standard is finalized, Lindt & Sprüngli will & Sprüngli also sources fine-flavor cocoa beans from othexamine the application of the standard. respected within our supply chain. er origins, as well as cocoa butter and cocoa powder pro­ ces­sed by third parties. Turkey’s black sea region produces up to 80 % of the globWe started evaluating options to establish Farming Proal hazelnut harvest. In Turkey, there have been issues such grams in the origins where we source smaller quantities Diversity of Cocoa Varieties as child labor on hazelnut farms and poor working condifrom (e. g. Madagascar, Peru, and the Caribbean). We tions of migrant workers. Hence, Lindt & Sprüngli impleshould be able to decide within the next two years how Our commitment: we contribute to the mented the policy to source at least 50 % of its whole we will build up programs similar to Ghana or Ecuador. diversity of cocoa varieties. hazelnuts from Italy or from Sustainability Programs of Together with our suppliers, we further worked on esdefined suppliers from Turkey. In 2015, we achieved a tablishing strategies for traceable and sustainable cocoa The company has a major interest in a rich variety of cocoa percentage of 60 % and surpassed our goal. butter and cocoa powder. However, this objective turns out beans and high availability of fine-flavor beans. Lindt Since 2014, Lindt & Sprüngli works with key hazelnut to be more difficult than anticipated, as our high-quality & Sprüngli therefore supports efforts to preserve the diversuppliers that have implemented sustainable hazelnut prospecifications are very difficult to meet with defined origins sity of cocoa varieties in Latin America – the fine-flavor grams in Turkey. Comparable to the Farming Program and stable farmer bases. We require some flexibility in the bean’s origin – and fosters the research and development framework, our suppliers established traceability first, blending of cocoa beans. We were therefore not able to of new productive and disease-resistant fine-flavor cocoa trained farmers, supported them with specific measures realise the pilot project yet, but are evaluating options to varieties. for improvement, and monitored progress. start a new pilot project in 2016. Besides supporting farmers in Ecuador to gain access to those improved varieties (see p. 14), we also started partnering with the Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center (CATIE) in 2015. The Costa Rica L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D In the 2015 harvesting season, farm visits by independent To satisfy the growing worldwide demand for palm oil over non-conformities with the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Supplier Code assessors verified that the knowledge gained in trainings the last few years, development of new plantations has of Conduct, such as forced labor, child labor, or freedom was implemented and required standards were met. The sometimes resulted in the destruction of large areas of of association, and to enable Asian manufacturers to imvisits focused on social standards such as preventing child valuable rainforests, threatening the rich biodiversity of plement better working conditions, the Lindt & Sprüngli labor. However, the visits also revealed that there remains these ecosystems. Although our products only account for Supplier Sustainable Practice Program monitors social a challenge in the complex context to provide decent workaround 0.005 % of global palm oil harvest, we are actively compliance at the production sites and fosters a proging conditions to migrant workers. engaged in the sustainable procurement of palm oil, and ress-oriented approach which supports Asian suppliers reduce negative impacts and contribute to fostering susin developing their production practices. Sustainable Hazelnuts 2014 2015 tainable palm oil plantations. % of whole hazelnuts sourced from Italy or As a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm FOUR STEPS IN THE LINDT & SPRÜNGLI sustainability programs in Turkey 61 % 60 % Oil (RSPO), we purchased exclusively crude palm oil as SUPPLIER SUSTAINABLE PRACTICE PROGRAM % of Turkish hazelnuts sourced from well as palm kernel oil according to the RSPO book and claim sustainability programs 14 % 13 % trading system since 2011. In 2015, we reached certification 1 2 3 4 of all production plants according to the RSPO segregation Sign Lindt & Sprüngli Conduct Develop If necessary, In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli will continue to work with Turkmodel. This means that, from 2016, all our products conSupplier external on-site corrective supplier Code of Conduct assessment action plan support ish hazelnut suppliers to support them in extending and tain segregated RSPO-certified sustainable palm oil. In refining their programs. Further, we will evaluate the opother words, 100 % of the physical product we use, will tion to increase our policy in terms of percentage of hazeloriginate from RSPO certified plantations. In 2015, we alnuts sourced from Italy or Sustainability Programs in Turready used 65 % palm oil and palm kernel oil certified acSupplier Sustainable Practice Program 2012 2013 2014 2015 key, as we already surpassed the objective of 50 % for two cording to the RSPO segregated model. Number of external on-site asyears in a row. sessments (initial and follow-up) 12 2 20 23 PACKAGING MATERIAL Number of suppliers supported PALM OIL in implementing corrective Our commitment: core labor standards are actions (off / on-site) 0 6 0 1 Our commitment: we purchase 100 % respected within our supply chain. certified sustainable palm oil according to the We focus on the development of our key suppliers. ThereRSPO segregation model. Packaging is a very important and sensitive part of the fore, we use the sustainability performance information production chain at Lindt & Sprüngli. Apart from being gathered during on-site assessments as a baseline for imFor the production of our solid chocolate, the only vegeappealing to the consumer and detailing the contents, its provement. The suppliers are rated with a methodology table fat Lindt & Sprüngli uses is pure cocoa butter. Palm essential function is to protect the valuable chocolate withassessing compliance as well as transparency and engageoil is used only in some fillings, among other vegetable fats. in. In order to avoid costly and environmentally questionment. Identified shortcomings as well as the supplier ratable transport and to guarantee fast and flexible delivery, ing of each assessment have been discussed with the Lindt & Sprüngli sources its packaging material – if fea­Lindt & Sprüngli purchasers as well as with the suppliers sible – from suppliers located near to the production sites. and are being considered in future purchasing decisions. Some decoration items for seasonal and promotional gift items are sourced from manufacturers in Asia. To avoid L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D In 2015, we found difficulties to fully remedy all health and safety issues. Also the reduction of working hours and legal remuneration of overtime, as well as the implementation of transparent management systems, remained challenging in Asia. Two supplier relationships were terminated because the producers were not willing to fully remediate non-compliances identified. In 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli integrated more key suppliers in the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program. 23 initial supplier assessments were performed, and one supplier was supported in the implementation of improvements. The support focused on improving the supplier’s health and safety management. During on-site visits and off-site support, the supplier was able to close major non-compliances in this area. In particular, a health risk management system was established and implemented. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY S O U R C E D MEET THE FARMERS Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to developing long-term relationships with the suppliers of critical raw materials. The following farmers are part of more than 50,000 farmers participating in our Sustainable Sourcing Programs. VIDA ARTHUR SIMON DOKU RICONDO JACINTO CHAVEZ AHMET TURGUT K U N K U M S O, D E B I S O, G HA NA PA PA S E , A S E M PA N E Y E , G HA NA VERDUGA D Ü Z C E A KÇ A KO C A , T U R K E Y C E R I O C O, E C UA D O R Ms. Arthur grows cocoa on 2.5 hectares Mr. Doku grows cocoa on seven hectares, Mr. Turgut grows hazelnuts on 40 hectares, since 1998. She appreciates the secure next to other fields with palm oil and Mr. Chavez Verduga started growing following his family’s tradition. Hazelnuts source of income. During the lean season, plantains. After joining the Farming Prococoa 24 years ago on the ten hectares of his are not his only source of income; he also she trades other products to finance gram in 2013, he voluntarily agreed for his farm. He appreciates that cocoa is faster works at a nearby factory outside of her daughter’s higher education. The Lindt cocoa parcel to be used as a demonstra­in terms of rotation of money compared to harvesting season. He joined the Sustainable & Sprüngli Farming Program in Ghana, tion farm. After seeing major productivity oranges, tangerines, and lemons, which Sourcing Program in Turkey three years which she joined in 2013, taught her gains and reduced plant diseases, other he also grows. Like any farmer, Mr. Chavez ago to improve his knowledge of agricultural good agricultural practices, for example farmers followed his example. Mr. Doku is Verduga is worried about different types methods, which differ a lot from the tranot to expose herself when spraying agroimpressed by the reduced need to buy of diseases affecting the plants. That is why ditional applications. Because he is worried appliances. At the same time, her comexpensive fertilizers since he learned how he likes being part of the Lindt & Sprüngli about increasing prices for fertilizers, he munity benefitted from a borehole that to make compost at no cost. Farming Program in Ecuador. Since joining is eager to learn more about good business supplies clean drinking water. Ms. Arthur the Program in 2014, he has learned and practices. Mr. Turgut hopes that one day would like to see the Farming Program applied various new agricultural techniques, he will have a well-built orchard with a high expand to educate other women on lucrae. g. improved pruning. yield. tive side jobs. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 19 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABLY PRODUCED Once the raw materials arrive at our factories, our employees produce our premium chocolate products. Responsible behavior towards our employees, the environment, and the communities we live and work in is part of our corporate culture. The Lindt & Sprüngli premium products require high-quality materials, dedicated employees and respect for the environment. Lindt & Sprüngli is working continuously on reducing the use of valuable energy and water. Special attention is paid to the constant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through programs at production sites and by optimizing transport routes of ingredients and end products. To ensure that the company’s employees are guaranteed a safe working environment and are satisfied in their jobs, programs for health and safety, as well as regular employee surveys, build the basis for continuous improvement. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to a responsible business conduct. Our ▶ Group Policies define our global requirements, while the different subsidiaries are responsible L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 20 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D for the implementation of environmental measures or 17 % since 2008. Therefore, we achieved our annual 2 % Energy use per ton of CO2 per ton of chocolate employee activities. target on average. chocolate produced produced Our goal: – 2 % average annual rate Our goal: – 2 % average annual rate On our journey to sustainability, we have achieved the For the near future, this reduction path will be more of reduction of reduction following highlights in 2015: challenging, as our new warehouse / small production facil100 — It is our goal to reduce our energy use, CO2 emissions, ity in Australia will not operate at full capacity in the begin100 and water consumption per ton of chocolate by an avning. Energy use increases with commissioning, while choc86 86 86 85 84 83 erage of 2 % per year for all our production companies. olate production increases at a slower speed, hence We reached all of these targets in 2015 by improving our impairing our relative indicators in the beginning. Addifacilities continuously. tionally, Australia’s power generation is more carbon-inten— In 2015, 25 Lindt & Sprüngli employees participated in sive than in most other countries we are active in. These are the International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy and strengthsome of the reasons why we paid a lot of attention to the ened their managerial, technical, and leadership skills. new site’s energy consumption. At the new site all lights are 2008 2013 2014 2015 2008 2013 2014 2015 — We revised our Business Code of Conduct to increase LEDs, the waste heat of our chillers provides for the heating Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. clarity and understanding while covering more topics. and the dehumidification system. We expect very energyefficient operations once the plant is up and running. WATER AND WASTEWATER CLIMATE CHANGE AND GREENHOUSE Some of our plants use certifications to improve their GAS EMISSIONS approach to environmental management and energy effiOur commitment: we reduce fresh water use ciency. Both production sites in Italy, as well as the proand wastewater within our operations. Our commitment: we reduce our CO2 duction site in France are certified according to ISO 14001 emissions by reducing energy use, increasing (environmental management), while Lindt & Sprüngli Water is an important resource for Lindt & Sprüngli. We our share of renewable energy use and Germany is certified according to ISO 51001 (energy use it as a fluid for heat exchange throughout the process, optimizing transportation and logistics. efficiency). for the washing of molds, hygienic requirements such as In 2015 we have also seen progress on our commitment hand washing, and for sanitary facilities. Lindt & Sprüngli Chocolate production requires energy at various producto increase our share of renewable energy use. Concerning has committed to reduce the water consumption per ton tion steps such as heating, cooling, and transport. These electricity, the share of renewable electricity used at our produced by an average of 2 % over the coming years. processes cause greenhouse gas emissions. Lindt & Sprüngli production companies rose from 35 % in 2014 to 38 % in In recent years, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies is committed to reduce energy consumption and green2015. Non-production companies are also increasing their reduced their water consumption significantly. Since house gas emissions per ton produced by an average of 2 % share of renewables. For example, Lindt & Sprüngli Cana2008, Lindt & Sprüngli’s production companies cut down over the coming years. In addition, we are also committed da uses both 100 % green electricity and 100 % green natwater consumption by 46 % per ton produced. We achieved to increase our share of renewable energy. ural gas for all operations, including offices, distribution this by eliminating open systems, installing closed loop Since 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli’s production companies facilities, and their 26 boutique locations. For electricity systems, and optimizing cold and hot water circuits. As is cut down energy consumption per ton produced by 14 %. and gas, the energy provider feeds a renewable alternative the case for most of our environmental management, In this time interval, the energy reductions lead to savings into the grid to match the amount of energy used by Lindt & Sprüngli continuously improves its environmental of about 200 GWh and a consequent saving of more than Lindt & Sprüngli Canada. impact whenever we modernize parts of the operations. In CHF 15 Mio. Our greenhouse gases decreased similarly by the future, we expect to find and use additional potential for optimization. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 21 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Water consumption 100 WORK CULTURE Lindt & Sprüngli Competence Model per ton of chocolate produced Our goal: – 2 % average 68 61 Our commitment: we maintain an open 54 annual rate of reduction work culture where respect, trust, and fair play Leads by example characterize our working relationships. We Delights Thinks and operates customers strategically foster teamwork and facilitate communication and understanding across all disciplines, 2008 2013 2014 2015 Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. business segments, and geographies to create a Fosters innovation Collaborates Shares effectively company of people who support each other Passion WASTE AND RECYCLING for mutual success. We encourage, recognize and reward individual innovation, personal Embraces change Develops self and Our commitment: we reduce waste and initiative, and leadership of people throughout others increase the recycling rate of waste within our the organization. Drives for Communicates results operations. effectively In 2015, several subsidiaries reviewed their existing poliThe amount of waste is a measure for the efficiency of our cies and updated them with anti-harassment and equal processes. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to reducing waste opportunities sections. Policies, including our ▶ CREDO EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND RETENTION for environmental reasons, but also for economic reasons. and ▶ Business Code of Conduct are included in local EmReusing, reducing and recycling of materials saves purployee Handbooks and are distributed at onboarding days Our commitment: we offer an attractive chasing and logistics costs. In addition, it is our responsifor new employees. In some subsidiaries, managers are working environment and maintain or increase bility to handle hazardous waste carefully. required to conduct online trainings such as “Respectful our already high employee engagement, There are various sources of waste at Lindt & Sprüngli. Workplace” and additional training material, e. g. messagsatisfaction and retention. In addition to packaging materials, our production proes on ethics, ethical conduct, and treatment of employees cesses lead to chocolate waste. During the production of is available and distributed to employees. In our employee Employee satisfaction is crucial to Lindt & Sprüngli’s longchocolate, temperature, and timing have to match perfectsurvey, we also ask for feedback about our CREDO. term success. Lindt & Sprüngli secures its future viability ly at all times. If we do not meet the high hygienic standards Our CREDO and values are also consistently applied by attracting and retaining the best employees. That in turn and quality requirements, we analyze if we can partly back by our employees. The recruitment process is for instance helps us to reduce costs from employee turnover. channel parts of the processed chocolate into the producperformed using the ten criteria of the Lindt & Sprüngli Regular employee surveys build the basis for continutions process in order to reduce loss of disposal. Competence Model. The ten criteria measure the candious improvement. Based on the last survey, key issues to We currently analyze where, and why food waste incurs dates’ skills and abilities based on their professional comensure the attractive Lindt & Sprüngli working environand continously optimize our production processes. petencies, relevant experience, qualifications, and the spement are personal development, fair remuneration, as well cific work-related requirements of the job. as regular and consistent communication and information about questions concerning the company. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 22 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D Various subsidiaries worked on those issues during 2015. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Leadership teams take this process very seriously. RespecFreedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Our commitment: we ensure that all key at Lindt & Sprüngli tive action plans ensure the implementation of necessary measures. Human Resources worked with business leaders positions are staffed with qualified and motivated Regular consultation and engagement with our employees and their representatives helps ensuring timely discussion between the surveys, monitored and evaluated respective employees and that talented employees are of labor or management expectations as well as negoinitiatives. developed internally to fill these positions. tiating and implementing operational changes. Respect for Examples for follow-up initiatives were the implementhe rights of employees to form and join trade unions tation of local training activities, as well as global leaderIn a rapidly changing world, Lindt & Sprüngli needs the and to bargain collectively is therefore self-evident for ship trainings for senior management members, impleemployees with the best qualifications to ensure competLindt & Sprüngli. menting a reward and recognition program and the imitiveness. In order to attract and retain high-performing Lindt & Sprüngli organizes an annual meeting – the plementation of a Group company intranet for communiemployees, Lindt & Sprüngli puts emphasis on managing European Works Council – where workers’ representatives cation purposes. Some of our companies conducted an talent and developing employees. Major projects and from all Lindt & Sprüngli European Union subsidiaries and Switzerland are given the opportunity to exchange additional “alignment-monitoring” in order to measure achievements in 2015 were: their opinions and meet with Group Management. progress against goals. In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli will con— Talent management: We further developed and enduct the next employee survey and further work on respechanced our Talent Management tool (e. g. annual Talent The central management of Lindt & Sprüngli International AG and the European Works Council meet usually once tive measures and action plans. Management dialogues, yearly performance assessa year during a two-day meeting in Zurich. The agenda and ments & goal setting, succession planning process). to be sent documents are agreed between the chair of WORK-LIFE-BAL ANCE — Employee development: We further focused on individthe European Works Council and the central management. ual development plans (e. g. International Traineeships, The information and consultation refers mainly to the Our commitment: we maintain a healthy employee training, support of continued education and following areas: — Structure of the company or Group of companies as work-life-balance and offer our employees training, life-long learning for continued employability, well as the economic and financial situation support to cope with the increasing work increase in employee productivity, promoting individ— The employment situation and its expected development requirements. ual skills, dual vocational system, leadership trainings — Substantial changes concerning the organization and international exchanges, coaching and mentoring — The introduction of new working and production The boundary between work and leisure blurs increasingprograms). For the first time, we extended our Internamethods — Mergers or divisions of undertakings, establishments ly. To support our employees in finding the right work-lifetional Trainee Program in Operations to our subsidiaror important parts thereof balance we offer a wide range of alternative work forms. ies in the United States furthering the careers of these — Other information relevant to employees (issues such Major projects and achievements in some subsidiaries in manufacturing trainees. as safety, hygiene, and environmental policy) 2015 were the development of several health prevention — International Lindt & Sprüngli Academy: We continued Currently, Lindt & Sprüngli workers are collectively orga­ plans such as health check-up and employee assistance on developing the senior management program, e. g. the nized in Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, and programs through a third-party organization, where empilot project in cooperation with the ▶ International the USA (Ghirardelli). ployees receive confidential counseling sessions at no cost. Institute for Management Development (IMD). In addition, structured conversations between manager In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli will further invest in the Interand employee through our Talent Management Program national Lindt & Sprüngli Academy as well as local edu­ took place regularly. cational programs. We will also extend our International Traineeship to the Finance department. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 23 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY P R O D U C E D OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY In 2016, Lindt & Sprüngli will focus its efforts on risk asthe revised Business Code of Conduct addresses employees sessment and risk mitigation and will continue to work on more directly to assist the understanding of Lindt & SprüngOur commitment: we offer a healthy and working conditions and working behavior to further li’s expectations. In summary, we expanded our Business safe working place. Our vision is zero lost-time strengthen the corporate safety culture. Code of Conduct to cover all material compliance issues accidents. and we improved its language to raise clarity and underCORRUPTION AND ANTI-COMPETITIVE standing. After approval of the Board of Directors, it will The improvement of safety at the workplace is a top priorBEHAVIOR be implemented by all Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries. ity for Lindt & Sprüngli. A healthy and safe work environment is a major driver of employee satisfaction and motiOur commitment: we are not participating in PHIL ANTHROPY vation. At the same time, workplace hazards lead to losses. any corrupt or anti-competitive behavior. By reducing workplace hazards we reduce absenteeism Our commitment: we want others to benefit associated with lost time and resulting costs. In regular Lindt & Sprüngli commits unreservedly to the principle of from our successful business and make in-kind, intervals, we conduct employee safety trainings to raise free competition and to strictly comply with all applicable financial, and time contributions to good awareness and to strengthen the corporate culture. domestic and international antitrust and competition laws. causes. Since 2008, Lindt & Sprüngli production companies Further, Lindt & Sprüngli condemns any form of bribery reduced the number of lost-time accidents rate per 100,000 and corruption. Continually monitoring corruption risks Lindt & Sprüngli understands the company as a corporate working hours by 87 %. The progress we made in these helps to protect our brand and reputation and as a result, citizen and aims at overcoming today’s challenges in sociyears continued in 2015. Among others, the Lindt Producto provide enhanced value to customers, shareholders, and ety. Our financial, in-kind, and time donations for comtion Way includes one pillar dedicated to safety. We exother stakeholders. In 2015, we continued to work on meamunities contribute to local development around our tended the preventive management of our safety program sures relating to anti-competitive behavior and anti-corGroup. Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries make numerous to include “near misses” in order to monitor accidents that ruption. donations to organizations, associations, and social could have happened, but did not happen. By collecting After Lindt & Sprüngli enacted a new competition law schemes Selected Sustainability Initiatives. Particular and assessing these near misses we are able to eliminate policy in December 2014, the local CFOs and local HR importance is attached to the project partnership between pitfalls before they lead to accidents. implemented it. Corporate Legal and / or external legal Lindt & Sprüngli and the Roger Federer Foundation in counsels have trained the relevant employees in 2015. The favor of a promotional program of the Winter Aid for attendance of the employees has been and will continue to deprived children in Switzerland. In 2013, Lindt & SprüngLost-time accidents 100 be monitored and confirmed. Due to the implementation li further established the two charitable foundations, rate per 100,000 and the trainings, we continued to enhance the awareness the ▶ Lindt Cocoa Foundation and the ▶ Lindt Chocolate working hours and understanding of our employees for this topic and we Competence Foundation. Our vision: zero lost-time accidents enforced our zero tolerance policy towards anti-competitive behavior. Lindt & Sprüngli will repeat the competition 24 18 13 law trainings on a regular basis and train new employees. In 2015, we reviewed our Business Code of Conduct 2008 2013 2014 2015 and therein further strengthened the section regarding Note: figures cover only Lindt & Sprüngli production companies. corruption and bribery to reinforce our commitment against any form of corruption or bribery. Furthermore, L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABLY CONSUMED Lindt & Sprüngli is a recognized leader in the market for premium quality chocolate. Strict quality controls ensure that our products meet the high standards that we require. Lindt & Sprüngli has a responsibility towards the consumers. We apply high standards to food safety, correct labeling, and consumer orientation to ensure our quality standards are met from the raw materials to the finished product. Only once the company is convinced that a finished product lives up to our high standards and is in impeccable condition, does it leave the factory. Lindt & Sprüngli will continue its efforts in research and development, packaging and logistics – in co­ operation with its trade partners – to safeguard this quality all the way to the homes of our consumers. All measures in place are continuously reviewed and improved and allow our consumers to enjoy the products with a high degree of trust. To earn this trust now and in the future, we mainly worked on the following three areas in 2015: — We optimized our quality control mechanisms further. As a result, Lindt & Sprüngli manufacturing units passed independent food safety audits again with high marks. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 25 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D — We responded to more than 86,000 consumer contacts There is an entire quality management network engaged personally and made sure that the consumer feedbacks in assuring the excellence of Lindt & Sprüngli products Lindt & Sprüngli position on GMO are fed into our internal processes. This ensured conalong the value chain. The production process is divided As regards genetically modified food, Lindt & Sprüngli sumer satisfaction through direct contacts and products into several levels, each of which has mandatory quality is not involved in any research or development and does not use ingredients that have been genetically modified that address consumer needs. standards the product must fulfill in order to pass on to or derived from genetically modified organisms, as — By including the logo of the Lindt & Sprüngli Farming the next level. Chocolate products exceeding specified inlong as non-modified materials are available. Up to now, Program on our products, we raised the visibility of our ternal company limits are consequently rejected. All manit has been possible to follow this policy for all LINDT sustainable sourcing initiative. ufacturing units are subject to unannounced audits on an labeled products. Appropriate tests regularly monitor annual basis as part of the AIB Food Safety Audits. This Lindt & Sprüngli chocolates concerning genetically modified organisms. PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY independent organization has a long-standing reputation for elevating the food safety in the industry through its Our commitment: we adhere to superior standards. Lindt & Sprüngli completed the AIB audits in measures to ensure product quality and safety. 2015 with high marks, indicating that all the food safety Cadmium levels in Lindt & Sprüngli chocolate issues at the individual production sites are on a high levCocoa beans from South America often grow in areas with As producer of some of the world’s finest chocolates, we el, regularly surveyed and controlled. In addition to the volcanic soil that contain higher concentrations of cadmiwill never compromise on quality or food safety. Through AIB Audits, food safety management systems and quality um. Therefore, Lindt & Sprüngli tests fine-flavor beans for the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Promise, we have committed ourmanagement systems are implemented at manufacturing residues before they enter the production. We reject beans if they exceed internally or externally set levels. Testing of selves to sustainable behavior along the value chain. Thereunits as shown by the following table: the finished products provides additional security. Furtherfore we do not only carefully select the most premium more, Lindt & Sprüngli is building up its Farming Program ingredients from world-renowned growing regions, we CERTIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS FOR QUALITY in Ecuador in low-cadmium regions. also process and finish them with perfection. AND FOOD SAFETY Lindt & Sprüngli conforms to all relevant requirements and To guarantee that the products live up to the Lindt ISO 22000 or recommendations that are available, such as those of the Lindt & Sprüngli production sites ISO 9000 FSSC 22000 & Sprüngli Promise, the company has appropriate internal ▶ Codex Alimentarius. Lindt & Sprüngli Austria and external quality control mechanisms in place. This Lindt & Sprüngli France quality control includes stringent testing processes, conLindt & Sprüngli Germany ducted on different levels from raw materials to the finished Extensive quality control in transportation Lindt & Sprüngli Italy product. Before shipping a product, we need to be conLindt & Sprüngli Switzerland The Lindt Quality Management Standard and Procedure vinced that the product lives up to our high standards and (QMSP) specifies temperature and humidity requirements Lindt & Sprüngli USA is in impeccable condition. During distribution, we make for our products during storage and transportation. A Caffarel sure our products reach the consumer in the same condistrict temperature monitoring process is in place from our Ghirardelli tion. Therefore, a careful evaluation of the distribution factories to the final distribution warehouse within our channels that sell Lindt & Sprüngli products and store them Intercompany Network. Humidity control is in place for all warehouses and for special sea freight trade lines, crossing is an important part of our quality control system. All these measures have been and will be essential that we the equator. The QMSP applies to all our owned or rented keep our Lindt & Sprüngli Promise. Regarding product warehouses and to our representatives’ and dealers’ warequality and safety, Lindt & Sprüngli does not accept any houses of finished goods. compromises. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 26 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S U S TA I N A B LY C O N S U M E D CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Since 2015, we also collect the feedback of our sales people sustainable sourcing, we integrated an icon for the of our own retail network via an online form. The central Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program on the back of our Our commitment: customer and consumer consumer service department analyzes changes and makes packaging in 2015. We also updated our local webpages satisfaction is the main goal of all our activities. sure the knowledge is used to satisfy consumer needs even with more comprehensive information about our sustainConsumer complaints, inquiries, and combetter. ability initiatives and we raised this information to the top pliments are handled on time and individually. Also, consumers can contact us directly, for example by level of these websites. Another important milestone was using the feedback form that is included in our packaging. the integration of the ▶ Lindt & Sprüngli Farming Program Customer and consumer satisfaction is key to our business Lastly, we are in a daily contact with our consumers via into our multi-channel communication on what makes success, today and tomorrow. To ensure we meet our cusover 40 social media channels answering all inquiries perLINDT chocolate so exceptional, our LINDT Difference. tomers’ expectations, we continuously analyze their needs sonally and processing their feedback. Lindt & Sprüngli is committed to be transparent about and their demanding expectations, and implement the In 2015, our consumer service specialists recorded and the products and their origins. Through various channels, corresponding findings in our premium products. Our handled more than 86,000 consumer contacts within the interested consumers can find out easily where our ingreMaîtres Chocolatiers may decide to optimize consistency Group-wide system. We also introduced a new managedients come from and how we integrate sustainability in or flavor; they may include innovative ingredients or dement process to ensure a highly professional and efficient our business. velop new masterpieces. Thereby we ensure customer satconsumer service. The resulting improvements will reduce Taking into account that food allergies can be triggered isfaction and future success of Lindt & Sprüngli. the average handling time so that consumers have an even by even the smallest amounts of specific allergens, a deTo find out about our consumers’ expectations, we test more responsive point of contact. tailed list of all ingredients used in food products is vital. the taste and quality of our products with consumers on Lindt & Sprüngli is aware of its responsibility to ensure that an international base. The evaluation of our products is CONSUMER INFORMATION all ingredients, including minor concentrations of potenpart of our market research. We shared the results intertial allergens such as hazelnuts, peanuts, and almonds, are nally to inform about the latest consumer needs. In addiOur commitment: we apply the highest clearly communicated to the consumer via the ingredient tion, we monitored and tracked the emergence of new standards to consumer information. list or allergen information. Therefore, Lindt & Sprüngli consumer trends and possible issues in relation to our informs consumers by printing a clear warning on all prodproducts globally. Information on food, chocolate and susConsumers purchase chocolate according to their specific ucts that may contain traces of specific allergens. In additainability related trends are summarized in a presentation desires and needs such as percentage of cocoa, absence of tion, we follow strict policies to avoid unwanted contamwhich we share globally. All Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries critical ingredients, as for example allergens. Transparent ination of products. For example, peanuts are strictly consider these global trends in addition to their local customer communication is therefore highly relevant for forbidden at our premises. Employees are not allowed to trends when developing new products. Lindt & Sprüngli and its consumers to enable well-inhave peanuts in their offices, even if they are packaged. Additionally, we are in touch with our consumers on a formed decisions. Further, nutritional values of all Lindt & Sprüngli proddaily basis through our own retail network. Our sales peoA healthy diet is crucial to each consumer’s health. We ucts are labeled on the packaging in accordance to nationple in over 300 Lindt & Sprüngli owned shops find out recommend that chocolate should be eaten and enjoyed al and international laws. In 2015, we increased transparabout their needs and expectations all the time. for indulgence, in reasonable quantity. Therefore, we follow ency further by publishing information about ingredients a strict policy of not making any advertising claims around and nutritional values online. These websites are also availpotential positive health effects of our chocolate. able in a mobile-friendly version so that consumers may In order to sensitize our consumers about our sustainaccess them on the go. ability efforts and to point out our proactive approach to L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 27 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SELECTED SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES LINDT & SPRÜNGLI SWITZERL AND LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GERMANY LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GROUP LOW-EMISSION TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS GOLD STATUS FOR SUSTAINABLE BUILDING ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING Since 2011, Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland gives preference In August 2015, the new logistics building of Lindt & Sprüngli Lindt & Sprüngli started a process of changing the to transport and logistics on rail instead of trucks. Germany was certified according to the Gold status by traditional fluorescent lamps with the newest technology Thereby, we reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In 2014, the German Society for Sustainable Construction. The Soones. In many cases, we opted for LED lamps, which Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland was able to avoid 1,936 ciety rated the overall performance of the building. The require a higher upfront payment compared to fluorescent truck rides and 807 tons of CO2.* This corresponds approxibroad range of criteria included factors such as resource lamps. However, the payback time is only few years mately to 450 one-way flights Zurich–San Francisco. consumption, indoor air quality and marketability of due to their energy efficiency and they last longer, too. As a positive side effect, the rail transportation also the building all the way to a potential disassembly of the In 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli installed new energy-efficient reduces energy consumption used for trucks, air emissions, building. Receiving the Gold status marks a major milestone lighting solutions that will save around 350,000 kWh per and smog resulting from combustion engines and posing in Lindt & Sprüngli Germany’s ambition to ensure susyear. The main projects were in France, which amount challenges for respiratory systems. tainable production practices. to expected savings of 250,000 kWh per year. Lindt & Sprüngli * T  he data 2015 will only be available in April 2016, which is why will continue to replace traditional lamps with more Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland reports this data from 2014. energy-efficient alternatives. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 28 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S E L E C T E D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S “IN 2015, LINDT & SPRÜNGLI CANADA SWITCHED TO BOTH 100 PER CENT GREEN ELECTRICIT Y AND 100 PER CENT GREEN NATURAL GAS.” LINDT & SPRÜNGLI GERMANY LINDT & SPRÜNGLI CANADA LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AUSTRALIA WATER AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY THROUGH ENTIRE CANADIAN OPERATIONS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS IN NEW FACILITY NEW EQUIPMENT 100 PER CENT GREEN ENERGY In 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli Australia opened a new facility In 2015, Lindt & Sprüngli Germany replaced a washing Lindt & Sprüngli Canada chose 2015 to switch to both 100 that considered several environmental aspects: installation for cleaning chocolate containers internally per cent green electricity and 100 per cent green natural — This new facility collects all rainwater into a 150,000 l and externally. The new installation uses already existing gas for all offices, distribution facilities, and 26 boutique storage tank. This system is predicted to service 80 % process-warm water to heat the water to wash the con­ locations. The commitment of Lindt & Sprüngli to green of the site’s grey-water requirement. tainers and the air to dry the containers. This reduces energy builds on the company’s achievements in sustai­na­ — All lights used are LED. Not only reduces this the site’s energy consumption dramatically. Furthermore, the new ble sourcing, production, and consumption and takes electricity consumption. The life span of approximately installation saves water. Lindt & Sprüngli to a new level of environmental action. 50,000 hours also reduces maintenance. This new washing installation consumes approximately Across Canada, Lindt & Sprüngli’s green electricity — The heating, ventilating, and air conditioning system 50 l of water, much less than the former washing installa­comes from a blend of wind and low-impact hydropower reclaims all of the hot water and uses it for heating and tion. This is one of many examples for Lindt & Sprüngli’s sourced from new Canadian renewable energy facilities. dehumidification. This reduces significantly the energy continuous efforts to reduce environmental impacts. consumption. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 29 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S E L E C T E D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S “IN 2015, 55 YOUNG HIGH POTENTIALS AT LINDT & SPRÜNGLI ITALY STRENGTHENED THEIR MANAGERIAL AND TECHNICAL SKILLS.” LINDT & SPRÜNGLI UK LINDT & SPRÜNGLI ITALY LINDT & SPRÜNGLI USA PILLAR 1 I N T E R N AT I O N A L Managerial Training Path for Young High Potential PILLAR 2 Leadership Path for Manager with High Potential L I N DT & SP RÜ NG L I AC A DE M Y PILLAR 3 Leadership Program for Senior Managers GREAT PL ACES TO WORK 2015 INTERNATIONAL LINDT & SPRÜNGLI ACADEMY 1 ST LINE LEAD APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM In 2015, the Great Places to Work survey rated Lindt & Sprüngli Italy developed its local employee devel­GRADUATING CL ASS Lindt & Sprüngli UK the 48th best medium business in the opment program. In 2015, 55 employees participated The newly established line lead apprenticeship program UK. The employees cherished the great team spirit, some in the three pillars of the Academy. Young high potentials has seen its first graduating class of four employees. stating that it feels like a big family. Others valued the strengthened their managerial and technical skills. The The Apprenticeship Program was created as highly competflexibility, which allows them to spend time with their more experienced high-potential managers improved their itive undertaking to ensure the best results for future Line children. Lindt & Sprüngli UK is very proud about this leadership skills at the LIUC University in Milano. Lastly, Leads. For this pilot program, the students covered over 40 achievement and hopes to stay within the top 50 in future the senior managers worked on their leadership skills topics in depth with the support of 27 Lindt presenters. years. within focused days accompanied by individual monitoring. Students had to demonstrate their knowledge physically running production lines. This program proofed to be very successful and Lindt & Sprüngli USA is proud to announce that the 2nd Line Lead apprenticeship pro­gram consists of eight people. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 S E L E C T E D S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y I N I T I AT I V E S “T WICE A YEAR LINDT & SPRÜNGLI USA EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER IN THEIR LOCAL COMMUNITIES.” CAFFAREL ITALY LINDT & SPRÜNGLI SWITZERL AND LINDT & SPRÜNGLI USA TELETHON CHARITY DONATION FOR THE VICTIMS OF THE EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING Caffarel continued its cooperation with the Telethon NEPAL EARTHQUAKE For more than ten years, Lindt & Sprüngli USA has been charity in 2015 by providing chocolate hearts that were Nepal was hit on April 25, 2015, by a strong earthquake. partnering with the United Way; an organization de­distributed in the main Italian squares in exchange Thousands of people were buried under rubble and many dicated to strengthen the neighborhoods in the region. for a donation. The donations went to the Telethon Charity, houses damaged. Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland launched Lindt & Sprüngli USA and the company’s employees an organization that contributes to the research in the a donation campaign among employees to help the victims have voluntarily donated considerable amounts through area of genetic illness (see ▶ www.telethon.it). in Nepal. Lindt & Sprüngli Switzerland doubled the the annual giving campaigns. In addition, twice a year amount and donated it to Swiss Solidarity, which coordiLindt & Sprüngli USA brings teams of employees to the nated the national fundraiser with relief organizations United Way’s “Days of Caring” where volunteers perform (see ▶ www.glueckskette.ch). repairs, painting, or even autumn clean-up efforts for local homeless shelters, day care providers, or schools for children with special needs in the local communities. (see ▶ www.unitedway.org). L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 31 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 OU TLOOK SOURCED PRODUCED CONSUMED With regards to raw materials we will focus on expanding In 2016, we will further work on the integration of Russell We will continue to take our responsibility towards our our Farming Program – both in terms of intensifying the Stover, which operates four chocolate factories in the US, consumers very seriously. This entails the constant review existing Programs as well as expanding it geographically. into our processes and stepwise adapt it to our sustainabilof all our efforts internally with regard to product quality In 2016, we aim at including the remaining 6,000 cocoa ity standards. Further, we will start the new Lindt Marsden and safety as well as ensuring a transparent consumer infarmers in Ghana in our training program and to pilot the Park warehouse / small production facility in Australia. In formation externally. Thanks to efficiency increases in the farm shops for which we developed a community-based both cases, Lindt & Sprüngli will make use of the vast exprocess of handling consumer inquiries, we will be able to business model in 2015. In Ecuador, we want to increase perience it has acquired in the past to ensure that chocolate reply to them in a reduced timeframe. Additionally, it is the number of farmers participating in the Program and is sustainably produced. We will continue to ensure replanned to continue the transparent communication with improve the services delivered to them. Concerning cocoa sponsible behavior towards the environment and make our our consumers about sustainability and will therefor create butter and cocoa powder, we will continue our research on employees’ safety our top priority. Additionally, we will an independent webpage with information about our Lindt finding more sustainable solutions to this challenging task. analyze new ways to reduce waste in a more holistic man& Sprüngli Farming Program. These and other measures In Turkey, we want to increase our share of hazelnuts from ner and determine next steps to reduce the environmental will ensure that we continue to deliver the Lindt & SprüngSustainability Programs. And for certain fillings, we want impact of our packaging material. Regarding our employli Promise and increase consumer satisfaction in return. to maintain our certification and continue to purchase only ees, our priorities are to further develop our Senior RSPO certified sustainable palm oil according to the segManagement Leadership program at IMD and extend regation model. the International Traineeship. Concerning our packaging material, Lindt & Sprüngli will integrate additional key suppliers into the Supplier Sustainable Practice Program and increase the support activities for suppliers assessed in 2015. It is the goal of Lindt & Sprüngli to systematically develop the sustainable production practices of all key packaging suppliers in Asia in the coming years. L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 SUSTAINABILITY GOVER NANCE The significance Lindt & Sprüngli attaches to responsible corporate behavior is reflected in the way it is dealt with: at the top management level and monitored by a Board of Directors’ committee. The Sustainability Committee of the Board consists of three LINDT & SPRÜNGLI SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE members of the Board of Directors. It is responsible for the development and adaption of all globally valid corporate policies in this area, and monitors compliance with legal Lindt & Sprüngli Group aspects. The committee has advisory as well as preparatory competences and meets as often as business requires, at least once a year. Sustainability Committee of the Board The Group Management and the Extended Group Management ensure the implementation of the strategic decisions taken in the Sustainability Committee of the Board. A dedicated Sustainability Manager coordinates all sustainability activities within Lindt & Sprüngli and supports Sustainability Executive Team the Sustainability Executive Team, comprising HR, Marketing, Legal, Quality, Research & Development / Quality Group Management / Extended Group Management Assurance, Operations, as well as Corporate Communications departments, in implementing activities. The Sustainability Executive Team meets every 2–3 Sustainability Manager months and reaches out to Lindt & Sprüngli subsidiaries, to ensure implementation in line with guidelines from Lindt & Sprüngli International. Each Lindt & Sprüngli Group company has one sustainability representative to HR Marketing Legal R&D / QA Operations Corp. Comm. ensure consistent communication channels between the Group and the respective subsidiary. In addition, each subsidiary has appointed one responsible for health & safety and one for environmental management. Subsidiaries L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 33 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 015 ABOUT THIS R EPORT This Sustainability Report is Lindt & Sprüngli’s sixth UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. It takes into account the UN Global Compact’s ten principles as well as the six UN Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles. The Communication on Progress is being published to proUN Global Compact Principles Relevant Company Guidelines Report References vide stakeholders with information about Lindt & Sprüngli 1. S upport And Respect The Protection Of Internationally Credo pp 6, 10–17, 23 goals, measures, and progress. It relates to the period Proclaimed Human Rights Lindt & Sprüngli Promise 2. Make Sure There Is No Complicity In Human Rights Abuses Business Code of Conduct from 1 January to 31 December 2015; the effective date for Health & Safety Policy all facts and figures is 31 December 2015. All facts and Supplier Code of Conduct figures cover the Lindt & Sprüngli brands Lindt, Ghirardelli, 3. U phold The Freedom Of Association And Recognition Credo pp 6, 10–17, 22 Caffarel, Hofbauer, and Küfferle. The sustainability pracOf The Right To Collective Bargaining Lindt & Sprüngli Promise tices of Russell Stover (acquired in 2014) will be adapted 4. Elimination Of All Forms Of Forced And Compulsory Labor Business Code of Conduct 5. Effective Abolition Of Child Labor Health & Safety Policy to the norms of the Lindt & Sprüngli Group step-by-step, 6. Elimination Of Discrimination In Respect To Employment Supplier Code of Conduct and are therefore not yet integrated in this Sustainability And Occupation Report. Where not otherwise stated, the facts and figures 7. S upport Precautionary Approach To Environmental Challenges Credo pp 19–21 cover all production, distribution, marketing sites, as well 8. Undertake Initiatives To Promote Greater Environmental Lindt & Sprüngli Promise as regional Lindt & Sprüngli offices. Responsibility Environmental Policy 9. Development And Diffusion Of Environmentally Supplier Code of Conduct The Communication on Progress has been developed Friendly Technologies with due regard to materiality of the issues and stakehold10. Work Against Corruption In All Its Forms, Business Code of Conduct p 23 er expectations. The reporting principles of the Global Including Extortion And Bribery Supplier Code of Conduct Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 were considered for the development of this report. Global Compact Food and Agriculture Business Principles Report References Aim for food security, health, and nutrition pp 10–16 Publication: March 2016 Be environmentally responsible pp 10–16 Ensure economic viability and share value pp 10–26 Respect human rights, create decent work, and help communities to thrive pp 10–26 Encourage good governance and accountability pp 8–9, 23, 32 Promote access and transfer of knowledge, skills, and technology pp 10–16 L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845 CHOCOLADEFABRIKEN LINDT & SPRÜNGLI AG Seestrasse 204 Ch-8802 Kilchberg Switzerland www.lindt-spruengli.com/sustainability L I N D T & S P RÜ N G L I MAÎTRE CHOCOLATIER SUISSE DEPUIS 1845
