2014 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y REPORT 2014 Sustainabilty Report I. Message of General Manager II. Corporate Profile III. Çimsa and Sustainability Content A. Our Business Principles B. Sustainability Policy and Strategy IV. Our Sustainability Performance A. Our Economic Performance B. Working Environment, Occupational Health and Safety C. Climate and Environmental Management i. Emissions ii. Energy Efficiency iii. Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials iv. Wastes v. Biodiversity vi. Water and Wastewater Management D. Supplier Management E. Product Responsibility F. Stakeholder Relations G. Contribution to the Society V. Reporting Approach A. Scope and Boundaries of the Report and Presentation Format B. Compliance with Reporting Guidelines and Principles, Audit VI. Tables A. 2020 Objectives B. Performance Tables C. Corporate Memberships D. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and UN Global Compact Tables VII. Communication and Legal Notice 3 With its Sustainability Vision, Çimsa provides the materials required for the living spaces and infrastructure extending to future generations as a reliable business partner of its stakeholders, conscious of its responsibility for the future as well as for today. 2014 Sustainabilty Report I. MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT improve our performance. We incorporate the business ethics, compliance and human resources items that we specified in economic, social and management is covered in detail in our report. We environmental areas into our corporate policy with aim to improve our relations with stakeholders and to strategic objectives and we encourage all our staff improve and expand the potential cooperation areas to change their business practices in line with the in coming years. sustainability perspective. We review and revise if necessary our road map in As Çimsa, we are aware that a sustainable economic the light of our sustainability-based 2020 objectives, development can not be possible without conserving global trends, expectations and our past performance. natural resources in an environment where the resources become scarcer every day. Therefore, efforts In 2013, we had carried our achievements to focused on sustainability continued to maintain their international platforms. In 2014, Çimsa participated Dear stakeholders, significance in our investment plan. We closed the year in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), in which 2014 with important achievements. We prioritize the we can monitor our performance in achieving our Çimsa is a global actor operating in cement and sustainability of our performance, while we steadily objectives and which facilitates our harmony with building materials sector in Turkey since 1972 and continue to improve our operational performance. In other organizations; just as the United Nations Global currently makes a significant part of its corporate 2014, we made a total investment of 14.4 million USD, Compact, and Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) investments with the aim of improving not only its 6.7 million USD of which was used for sustainability, established under the World Business Council for economical performance but also its environmental environment, occupational health and safety projects. Sustainable Development (WBCSD), to which we and social performance and managing the became a party. stakeholder expectations. In 2014, we dedicated significant amount of time to receive feedbacks from our stakeholders about We encouraged our staff to develop sustainability Every year we review all sustainability issues in order our efforts and to listen to their expectations. The based projects in our Learning Organization efforts, to predict the impact created by our activities and to priority sustainability issues for our company and in order to allow them to internalise sustainability specify our objectives in line with the international our stakeholders were defined as business ethics, consciousness. During Learning Organization, standards and we specify the work items to further occupational health and safety. Our approach to Our staff carried out informative studies on the 5 2014 Sustainabilty Report I. MESSAGE FROM MANAGEMENT environmental and social impact of the matter the 1st and 3rd rotary kilns in Mersin and the 1st rotary objective to make Çimsa the first company to come that they have studied. In addition to this project, kiln in Eskişehir were converted into bag filters. When to mind an the matter of sustainability and to make the results of which we can see much more clearly we have a look at our Climate and Environmental our company’s name synonymous with sustainability. in 2015, we also conducted other projects, which Management performance, we see that the specific We believe that we will come back to you at the next can create differences in social life. With “Equality carbon dioxide emission decreased from 732 kg reporting period with our new accelerating projects at Work”, we incorporated human rights-based CO2/tonnes of cementitious to 726 kg CO2/tonnes of and success stories. principles in work life into our corporate procedures. cementitious compared to 2013, and thus we saved We made efforts to facilitate the lives of children with 21.964 tonnes of carbon dioxide at Exhaust Gas Heat Hoping to leave a better world for next generations, Cerebral Palsy with “Steptember” project conducted Electricity Generation Facility at Mersin Plant. The by Spastic Children’s’ Foundation of Turkey, and the dust emissions were decreased from 31 gr/ tonnes Yours faithfully, lives of physically handicapped adults and children clinker to 26 gr/tonnes clinker compared to 2013, by donating battery-powered wheelchairs. We thanks to the conversion to bag filters. We decreased Nevra Özhatay helped the people in need with the blood donation the amount of the primary fossil fuel by increasing the General Manager campaigns organized regularly in all our plants. We amount of alternative fuel in our plants to 7.11 %. As for made it possible for tens of children to spend their energy savings, we achieved a decrease of 2 % in total summer vacations with activities supporting their electricity consumption. social, emotional and physical development through our “Summer Kids” social responsibility project We hereby present our detailed report covering the implemented in the city of Niğde. above-mentioned points, last year’s progress and sustainability-oriented investments for the attention The Climate Change and Environmental Management of our esteemed stakeholders. continued to form an important part of our sustainability agenda. In the scope of our environmental Yet, we are not content with the point we achieved. investments in 2014, the electrostatic-precipitators of We are accelerating our efforts with an ambitious 6 CORPORATE PROFILE 2014 Sustainabilty Report G417 II. CORPORATE PROFILE ÇİMSA CORPORATE PROFILE TOTAL 8% 2014 CLINKER NUMBER OF EXPORT COUNTRIES PRODUCTION 52nd 1,2 MILLION WHERE OPERATIONAL MARKET SHARE 7 5,4 MILLION IN TURKISH RANKING IN TAX PAYMENT TONES TONES CEMENT INDUSTRY CEMENT PRODUCTION 12% NUMBER OF COUNTRIES 3rd 958 5,9 MILLION OF TOTAL CEMENT EXPORTING TO RANKING IN 60+ EXPORT OF GLOBAL WHITE CEMENT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES TONNES TURKEY PRODUCTION YEAR 1972 ÇİMSA WAS ESTABLISHED 8 2014 Sustainabilty Report G417 II. CORPORATE PROFILE ÇİMSA CORPORATE PROFILE Çimsa International Germany CIMSA Cement Sales North GmbH Italy CIMSA Adriatico S.R.L. Spain CIMSA Cementos Espana S.A.U. Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus CIMSA Cement Free Zone Ltd. Romania CIMSAROM Marketing Distribute SRL Russia OOO Cimsa Rus CTK Cement Plants Grinding Plant Cement Packaging Ready-Mixed Concrete Plants Facilities Adana, Afyon, Aksaray, Bilecik, Bursa, Denizli, Eskişehir, Mersin, Kayseri, Niğde, Eskişehir, Ankara Marmara & Malatya Kahramanmaraş, Karaman, Kayseri, Konya, Kütahya, Mersin, Nevşehir, Niğde, Osmaniye, and Sakarya provinces Afyon Cement Inc. Total 27 plants 9 2014 Sustainabilty Report G417 II. CORPORATE PROFILE Shareholder Structure of Çimsa Çimsa Board of (as of 31.12.2014) Directors 0,11% 36,38% 8,98% 5,11% 49,42% Çimsa Senior Management Sabancı Holding 49,42% Other Partners 36,38% Akçansa 8,98% Adana Çimento 5,11% Hacı Ömer Sabancı Foundation 0,11% 10 2014 Sustainabilty Report II. CORPORATE PROFILE Mission and Values Products Çimsa is an international cement and building materials company growing continuously by creating a difference in Çimsa offers special products and applications aimed the industry with an experience of more than 40 years, broad product range, innovative employees and a humane at the needs of its customers through its innovative and environmentally respectful approach. approach and technological infrastructure. With its Sustainability Vision, Çimsa provides the materials required for the living spaces and infrastructure extending to future generations as a reliable business partner of its stakeholders, conscious of its responsibility for the future as well as for today. CEMENT OUR COMMON VALUES Grey Cement WILLINGNESS TO TEAMWORK AND White Cement SUCCEED COOPERATION Calcium Aluminate Cement Self-Compacting Concrete CONTRIBUTION CUSTOMER TO THE Steel-fibre Reinforced Concrete ORIENTATION DEVELOPMENT Decorative Concrete OF THE SOCIETY Light Weight Ready Screed Sleeping Cement READY MIXED CONCRETE CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT Please refer to pp.24 to 27 of 2014 Annual Report or to http://www. cimsa.com.tr/cimento and http://www.cimsa.com.tr/hazir-beton for further information on products, production processes and standards, Please refer to http://www.cimsa.com.tr/tr/kurumsal-profil/misyon/misyon/i-2 or to 2014 Annual Report pp.3 for the details of Corporate Profile cement, ready-mixed concrete, product range and the sector 11 ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY 2014 Sustainabilty Report III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY A. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES All the operations at Çimsa are based on Corporate Governance Principles and Code of Ethics. Corporate Governance Business Ethics Çimsa’s understanding of corporate governance Çimsa is a company that is strictly committed to business ethics principles with all its employees. within sustainability is being transparent and Çimsa shapes its business practices in the frame of business ethics approach. The Audit Board accountable in decision-making processes. As a governs and follows-up all relevant matters at the highest management level. publicly traded company, Çimsa acts in compliance with the Corporate Governance Principles of the Code of ethics is elaborated under Sabancı ETHICS (SA-ETHICS) rules and constitutes the fundamentals of our Capital Market Board. business practises. The Business Ethics rules that Çimsa employees are required to comply are covered in Part III of Human Resources Guidelines under titles of integrity, confidentiality, conflict of interest and responsibility. This It was proven also with the shareholder dialogue set of rules is announced to all the employees through intranet as well. All the white collar employees attend to survey conducted with the customers that the most important element for our customers to prefer a training session on corporate ethics rules during the first month of their employment. The SA-ETHICS training working with Çimsa is our corporate structure and is repeated annually for all white collar employees, and they are required to read and sign SA-ETHICS document. business ethics approach. Çimsa is a company that has internalised corporate culture and ethics approach. Sabancı Ethics rules can be accessed from www.sabanci.com.tr Please refer to the Report on Compliance with Corporate Governance Principles, 2014 Annual Report pp. 43 and/or to http://www.cimsa.com. tr/tr/yatirimci-iliskileri/kurumsal-yonetim/kurumsal-yonetim-uyumraporu/kurumsal-yonetim-uyum-raporu/i-15 13 2014 Sustainabilty Report Audit Activities Çimsa gives utmost importance to comply with the laws and regulations to prevent any sort of corruption and non-competitive behaviour, and monitors and deals with these matters at the highest management level. The audit scope of Çimsa covers all departments (including foreign subsidiaries). Moreover, administrative and commercial audits are regularly conducted at all ready-mixed concrete operations. These departments are audited by the Internal Auditing Unit attached to the Audit Committee, which is appointed by Çimsa Board of Directors, typically biennially and as stipulated in the Internal Audit Regulations. In an official capacity delegated by the Board of Directors, the Internal Auditing Unit has various duties and responsibilities in order to protect Çimsa’s rights and interests, to contribute to the � to keep the Audit Committee continuously informed of the assessment of the Internal Audit processes improvement of risk management, internal control and regarding the audit activities and the adequacy of by Ernst&Young, one of the independent institutions the efficiency of the corporate management. Some of internal control systems; to provide consultancy accredited by International Institute of Internal Audit. these responsibilities are as follows: and support services to the Board of Directors With the said accreditation, Çimsa documented that and senior management through advisory studies it has been audited effectively, systematically and for purposes that will create added value, such as objectively and as per international standards and � to supervise the implementation of the company implementing the requests and recommendations reinforced its reliability in the eyes of the investors, regulations, procedures, circulars and unit-specific regarding the matter, increasing the stock values, shareholders and public opinion. instructions and provide for them to remain in improving the corporate processes and activities effect, to make recommendations on matters and enhancing the service quality and customer Çimsa, also received Award of Excellence in corporate requiring refinement, satisfaction. category at Internal Audit Awareness awards, � to follow-up the implementation of all activities presented annually by Turkey Institute of Internal and transactions of all the units according to the In the past, Çimsa achieved “Generally compliant Audit to sector-leader companies that implement legislation, regulations, procedures, circulars and with standards” certification which is the highest of international internal audit standards. instructions, the three ratings that can be achieved as the result Please refer to 2014 Annual Report pp. 43-48 and to http://www.cimsa.com.tr/tr/surdurulebilirlik/surdurulebilirlik-odak-konulari/surdurulebilirlik-odak-konulari/i-34 14 2014 Sustainabilty Report III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY B. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability and the Cement Sector The cement sector accommodates three separate lines of work, since it addresses mining, building materials and ready-mixed concrete sectors in terms of production process and fields of use. The cement sector, which provides the required infrastructure for the living spaces and became one of the leading sectors of countries’ economies, creates value of many stakeholders. The prediction that the world’s population will exceed 10 billions and two thirds of the population will live in cities by 2050 only add to the importance of the sector. Today, the activities of companies related with corporate governance, ethics and transparency are closely monitored as well as their business processes. Besides compelling circumstances such as production costs, profitability and It is predicted that the pressure from competition, the sector also has risks that have to be addressed sensitively in terms of sustainability due to its effect on environment and community. world’s population will exceed 10 billions In order to remain attractive for the investor capital, the sector needs to pay attention not only to the elements of and 2 out of every 3 cost, profitability and risk, but also to its actions to convert its environmental and social impacts created during persons will live in the production into positive values. The sustainability practices in cement sector bring along important opportunities for the sector. cities by 2050. 15 2014 Sustainabilty Report III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Çimsa and Sustainability Strategy Our sustainability policy aims to make the sustainability approach a part of the corporate culture, and to integrate it in the decision-making, implementation and business practice processes of individuals, teams and stakeholders through products and services. Çimsa makes efforts with the objective of becoming a leading cement and building materials company that creates values for a sustainable future. ÇİMSA NİĞDE PLANT 16 2014 Sustainabilty Report G418 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Approach ÒÒ To create an economic value for our stakeholders by becoming an example with our discourse and actions in Four areas of improvement focused on in sustainability corporate governance and business ethics practices, efforts to reach our objective, ÒÒ To create value for the world with our presence through effective management of social and environmental risks and opportunities, ÒÒ To improve the present and future living standards of our society by ensuring the participation of all the ÒÒManagement of social and stakeholders with our leading approach. environmental risks and opportunities The success of Çimsa is based on the productive use ÒÒStakeholder dialogues and transparency of not only financial capital but also the Management of Social and environmental and social capital. Utmost ÒÒContribution to society Environmental Risks and attention is paid to keep the corporate Opportunities value created as a publicly traded ÒÒIntegration of supply chain 1 Management Innovation and company operating in international Policies and Innovative markets in equilibrium with Leadership Investments social benefits. Stakeholder The important domains in in-house efforts for relations are the other important factor affecting the development advancing in the selected areas of improvement Becoming a Leading and results of this process. are management policies and leadership, Integration Cement and Building Stakeholder At Çimsa, the integration of efficiency, spreading of the sustainability culture of Supply Materials Company that Dialogues and the sustainability principles within the company as well as in the supply chain, Chain Creates Value for a Transparency and goals in the corporate and innovation and innovative investments. Sustainable Future flow for a sustainable future and incorporation of the related performance indicators in tracking systems are parts of Çimsa aims at improving the quality of life of all Sustainability Efficiency Culture our sustainability management stakeholders with the responsibility to create a system. This understanding reflects on everything, from company’s sustainable future. Contribution to Society organization structure to its business processes and from its products/services 1 The work plan for supply chain integration is recently included in the to its communication policies. agenda. Clear plans will be implemented after 2015. 17 2014 Sustainabilty Report G419 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Çimsa and Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN RAW PRODUCTION MATERIALS SALES CUSTOMERS Occupational Health Occupational Health Occupational Health Innovation in and Safety and Safety and Safety Products Dust Emissions Dust Emissions Dust Emissions Relations with Greenhouse and Other Customers and End Biological Diversity / Gas Emissions Relations with Local Users Mining Areas Community Use of Alternative Fuels Noise, Tremors and and Raw Materials Supply Chain Supply Chain Management Vibrations Management Energy Efficiency Relations with Local Use of Natural Resources Customer Satisfaction Community Water Usage / Waste Water Supply Chain Management Relations with Local Community 18 2014 Sustainabilty Report G423 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Management At Çimsa, sustainability issues are scrutinized under the responsibility of the Sustainability Committee that GENERAL meets regularly all year around under the leadership of the General Manager. The Committee is composed MANAGER of Operations and Investments, Finance, Human Resources, Purchasing and Logistics, Sales (Grey Cement), Sales (White Cement and special products), Ready-Mixed Concrete, Strategy and Business Development and Corporate Communication functions. Sustainability Committee The goal of the Committee is to improve corporate objectives, by associating the sustainability issues with the feedbacks from stakeholders, internal performance and global and local trends. Additionally, the Committee tracks Operations and Investments, Finance, the year-in performance of and prioritizes the issues in the “Sustainability Issues Matrix” and makes the relevant Human Resources, Purchasing and performance indicators a part of the sustainability management system by incorporating them in the tracking system. Logistics, Sales (Grey Cement), Sales (White Cement and Special In 2014, the efforts of the Sustainability Committee were carried out with a two-level management model. Products), Ready-Mixed Concrete, Strategy and Business Development, 1) Vice general managers, directors and managers (Management Group) Corporate Communication 2) Operational members (Operation Group) Sub-committees and Affiliated Units Production Sub-committees Centres Affiliated Units Çimsa Sustainability Efforts Management Chart In 2014, the sustainability efforts at Çimsa were carried out interactively under the leadership of Vice General Manager responsible for “Strategy, Marketing and Sustainability”. 19 2014 Sustainabilty Report G4-18 G4-19 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Çimsa Sustainability Issues Identifying and managing the sustainability issues is a critical process for a company. While this process continues, efforts are made to identify the economic, social, environmental and managerial issues on a single matrix. This ÇIMSA SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES procedure, which requires a perspective different than the classical business models, needs to be reviewed annually by the Sustainability Committee. The RELATIONS WITH strategy we followed when identifying the issues in 2014 is given below: STAKEHOLDERS ETHICS AND CORPORATE Economic value created to the stakeholders GOVERNANCE Stakeholder dialogues ÒÒ The sustainability issues were reviewed again at the evaluation meeting. Based on the sustainability strategy identified in previous years and the WORKING ENVIRONMENT, SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT efforts made within the year, they were consolidated with the feedback OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH from internal and external stakeholders. AND SAFETY ÒÒ As a stakeholder-oriented company, prioritization and evaluation were CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT carried out. The most important criteria during this evaluation were: Reduction of emissions (CO2 release, PRODUCT LIABILITY reduction of dust and gas emissions), •• The performance in sustainability issues inherited from past years, Increasing the use of alternative fuel and raw materials, Ensuring energy efficiency, •• Headings identified by the stakeholders during stakeholders meetings, Wastes, Biodiversity, Water Management •• A progressive agenda based on global and local trends. ÒÒ Efforts were carried out in line with the basic principles of business ethics, transparency and accountability for the content and elaboration of the report, as was the case in past years. ÒÒ Finally, the decisions made jointly at the Sustainability Committee were finalized with the approval of the General Manager. 20 2014 Sustainabilty Report G418 G4-19 G4-23 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY Çimsa Sustainability Issues Voluntary Initiatives The Report shares the sustainability issues and limits, the negative and positive impacts resulting from the and Commitments activities and remediation efforts made to reduce the negative impacts with open and transparent information. In order to further advance its sustainability All the sustainability issues are explained in relevant chapters for the integrity of the report. Çimsa started initial efforts, Çimsa orientates its sustainability preparations and efforts regarding sustainability practices in supply chain, based on the developments in global sustainability practices and GRI principles. efforts by participating in the working groups of some initiatives recognized in the world Çimsa 2014 Sustainability Issues and in Turkey and preparing relevant reports. High Ethics and Corporate Governance Stakeholder Relations Climate and Importance for stakeholders Environmental Management (Emissions) Energy Occupational Efficiency Health and Safety Supplier Management Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials Water Management Biodiversity Low Importance for Çimsa High 21 2014 Sustainabilty Report G420 G4-21 III. ÇİMSA & SUSTAINABILITY ÇİMSA SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES and BORDERS Sustainability Issue NonG4 Category GRI G4 Sustainability Çimsa Association with External Stakeholders for Çimsa Çimsa Compliance with Sabancı Business Ethics and corporate governance rules is Anti-corruption, public policy, considered as sustainability issue for the continuation of operations in every Code of Ethics and Society anti-competitive action, X X sense. It is the fundamental principle for the implementation of sustainability, it Corporate Governance is relevant for many stakeholders of the company due to its impact on business harmonization relations. Continuous, mutual and good relations with all internal and external stakeholders Society Stakeholder Relations Local groups X X are important for the solid continuity of the operations and the improvement of the sustainability performance. Economic Performance, Market Çimsa delivers numerous positive outputs through the economic impact Economic Value Created Economic Position, Indirect Economic X X created for stakeholders. Suppliers, general public, investors and shareholders, for Stakeholders employees, financial institutions and the society are the primary stakeholders Impacts Workforce Occupational Health and practices and Occupational Health and Safety X decent work Safety Restricting the release of C02 and other gas emissions into the atmosphere will decrease the environmental pollution and contribute to the climate change Reduction of C02 ,Dust efforts; such emissions are relevant for many of Çimsa’s stakeholders. The value Environment Emissions X X attached to environment, human life and the sustainability of the planet and and Gas Emissions maintaining the dust and gas emissions under the limit values specified by regulations enable us to be a respected company valuing sustainability and to fulfil the expectations of investors. Energy efficiency is a way of fighting the climate change. Given the fact that our country is dependent on import for energy supply, the efficient use of energy will represent a positive change for national economy as well as for the sector. Environment Energy Efficiency Energy X X As a member to a sector that utilizes primary energy sources intensively, Çimsa aims to make positive contributions to the energy efficiency efforts and climate change. Use of alternative fuels and raw materials contributes to the decrease in the mining activities and consumption of primary fossil fuels. As the result of using the hazardous and non-hazardous alternative fuels resulting from raw material production at cement plants prevents environmental pollution and provides a Increasing the use of solution for the waste problem of the industry. Additionally, efforts are made for solution partnership with Metropolitan Municipalities for the combined Environment Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials X X incineration of the domestic refuse-derived fuels to be produced by Mechanical Raw Materials and Biological Treatment Plants to be established on the solid waste landfill areas and the sewage sludge thermally dried by Domestic Waste Water Treatment plants of Metropolitan Municipalities in cement rotary kilns. All these efforts will create a positive impact for environment and human health and will bring positive results for the planet and the society. Please refer to 2014 Annual Report pp. 34 for further information on shareholders and public awareness raising activities on sustainability. 22 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE A. OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management Approach Çimsa aims to be an international cement and ready-mixed concrete company, which creates value for a sustainable future and leads the sector while growing profitably. For Çimsa, economic performance is a significant tool in value creation. However, the integration of with the efforts of the global actors in the sector. The Çimsa, while creating financial value for the stakeholders, the understanding of sustainability is fundamental sustainability-based efforts have significant effects on acts in an understanding in equilibrium with the resources for success. the value, reputation and profitability of the company. used. The business model, in which the positive value These efforts are instrumental also with respect to the created may be more than the environmental and social Çimsa is aware of the fact that a sustainable economic value created for stakeholders by Çimsa as a publicly impacts, is developing. development is not possible without protecting the traded company. environmental resources in a world where the resources At Çimsa, the capacity, productivity, employment, are becoming scarcer and more expensive. Especially The management of Çimsa assumed an active role in values created for the society, value of the company given that the energy costs constitute more than the spreading sustainable development. and the shareholder expectations are parts of the half of the cement production cost, using alternative economic agenda. fuels and raw materials, discharging the treated Since its establishment, Çimsa has been creating value water in compliance with relevant regulations and for all stakeholders by offering high quality products The long-term future expectations, such as the preventing soil pollution and protecting biodiversity in and services needed by the society. The employment urbanization trends expected for 2050, indicate an order to use the resources efficiently, reduce energy opportunities created by Çimsa, welfare, taxes paid, important economic benefits opportunity for Çimsa costs and decrease the amount of carbon dioxide commercial operations and the contributions made to and its shareholders. The investments to be made to emissions released to the atmosphere emerge as the society and the country are the most outstanding meet the future capacity will provide opportunities major issues also for Çimsa, as it is the case for the activities as all of them are of economic value. However, for new employment areas and contribute to world. The objective is to provide solutions not only the sustainability awareness and practices, which are the economic development of the employees. for the problems of Çimsa but also for the problems of recently being integrated into company strategy and Nevertheless, the capacity increase also brings along our country and of the World. efforts with the understanding of value creation, have some challenging issues, with the expectation that a much different meaning and importance for the the resource utilization volume needed will reach In the cement sector, it is fundamental for the increase in the financial, competitive and innovative significant dimensions. companies to be aware of their social and environmental strength of the company. For Çimsa, the main responsibilities. As an important actor in international components of profitability are the investments made The numeric data regarding the value created through markets, Çimsa’s policy is to closely monitor and comply in the employees, the society and the environment. sustainability awareness is shared in this report. 24 2014 Sustainabilty Report Risk Management At Çimsa, the risks are managed annually through risk evaluation methods in a wide range of areas from operational risks to environmental impacts, from competition to financial risks, from business continuity to crisis management. The annual risk evaluation enables us to closely monitor the risks and to take measures quickly when needed. Çimsa’s Corporate Risk Management is defined as “a systematic process established in order to identify the potential events that may impact the company, to manage the risks in line with the corporate risk taking profile of the company and to provide a reasonable implemented throughout the company”. All kinds of hazards, and necessary actions are taken to mitigate level of assurance in relation with the attainment of circumstances and incidents, which may prevent the the effect of possible hazards. corporate objectives, used by the Board of Directors, senior management and all other employees of company from achieving its operational, strategic and financial objectives, are defined before they become Just like every year, in 2014, the developments in the the company in determining the strategies, and sector in which Çimsa operates and at the regions covered by Çimsa were monitored and the risk status of the company was updated in line with the information obtained. The effect of the climate change on the company and the financial outcomes were addressed on this course and the necessary precautions were taken. Aware of the fact that the risks are not only investmentand operation-based, but that sustainability-based matters such as occupational health and safety, energy costs, emissions, water resources and the compliance of the supply chain with these matters may also become risk areas, Çimsa included these matters in the scope of risks. 25 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Investments in the Scope of Sustainability In 2014, Çimsa made a total investment of 14,4 million At Kayseri plant, 1,5 million USD was spent until At Mersin Plant, an additional investment of 400.000 USD, 6,7 million of which was used for investments on 2014 for the investment for the dedusting of clinker USD was made for “Exhaust Gas Heat Electricity occupational health and safety and environment. dispatch lines, which started in 2012. Following the Generation Plant”, for which the investment was completion of the project in 2014, the dispersion of completed in April 2012. The boiler of the cooling unit Some of the investments completed and commissioned the dust resulting from pozzolana dried in clinker of the second line was modified and an additional in 2014 are as follows: cooler was prevented. electricity generation of 500 KWh was achieved. ¾¾ Mersin Plant: Conversion of electro-filters The investments made in 2014 in the field of of rotary kilns into bag filters at the first and Ready-Mixed Concrete were the environmental third lines. MERSİN KAYSERİ ESKİŞEHİR investments for Afyon Ready-Mixed Concrete plant, the investments for the conversion of ¾¾ Eskişehir Plant: Kahramanmaraş Ready-Mixed Concrete plant into •• Conversion of electro-filters of rotary wet system and the environmental investments, kilns into bag filters at the first line, Mersin Plant Kayseri Plant Eskişehir Plant the replacement of İnegöl Ready-Mixed Concrete •• Modernization of kiln feeding system at Conversion of Replacement Conversion of electroplant pan-mixer, the procurement of containers the first station, electro-filters of stack filters of rotary kilns into for Başakpınar Ready-Mixed Concrete plant and of rotary kilns gas fan and bag filters at the first line, •• Transformation of the mills and kilns of procurement of equipment for quality management into bag filters improvement Modernization of kiln the first and second line for unattended and customer support directorate. at the first and of dispatch feeding system at the operation through “advanced third lines. lines. first station, supervision systems”, Transformation of the Investments were made for occupational health ¾¾ Kayseri Plant: Replacement of stack gas mills and kilns of the and safety at Afyon Ready-Mixed Concrete plant; fan and improvement of dispatch lines. first and second line for and environmental investments were made for unattended operation the automation of filters, recycling pool, and the As the result of “uptime”, “maintenance through “advanced enclosing of aggregate closed stock hole and supervision planning” and “lean 6 sigma” systematic mixer platform. Kahramanmaraş Ready-Mixed 1 2 3 systems” used at all plants, efficiency-enhancing Concrete plant was converted from dry system to investment projects were implemented wet system; and again investments were made for and improvements were made in the the aggregate closed stock hole and for enclosing operational performance of the plants. the recycling unit with boundary walls and panels. 26 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE The Economic Value Created and Distributed In an environment where the expectations for the dividends distributed to the shareholders and In 2014, Çimsa was ranked 52nd in Corporate Tax better and modern living spaces increase every investors, and the salaries of employees. rankings with a tax payment of 48.131.602,67 TL, and day, Çimsa is well aware that the objective is always listed near the top among the companies of improving the quality of life can only be Beside its direct economic contributions, Çimsa is that pay the highest amount of tax. achieved through sustainable products and indirectly contributing to the national economy services. Through this perspective, Çimsa which is foreign-dependent with respect to energy One of the indicators of the direct contribution made creates value for all its stakeholders by sources with its energy efficiency policy and with to national economy by Çimsa, the value-creating providing quick solutions with its employees its activities for generating energy from alternative cement company of Turkey, is the exports made. and business partners for differentiated needs. fuels, and such savings are registered as gains for the national economy. Another benefit for the national The contribution of Çimsa to the economy is made economy is the elimination of the need for additional through the payments made to companies from cost associated with the disposal of the wastes that different sectors supplying goods and services, have to be disposed of. Please refer to 2014 Annual Report and to www.cimsa.com.tr ÇİMSA ESKİŞEHİR PLANT 27 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of employees working at Çimsa work Total Çimsa Work Ratio Contributions to Suppliers places and registered at number of Places (%) the province where the employees work place is located Given the characteristics of the sector and the and some other investment items, for which local Ankara 14 28 50,00% products, contributing especially to the growth of supply possibilities are limited. Eskişehir 129 183 70,49% local economies is the priority. Additionally, the company started to work with İstanbul 3 42 7,14% Çimsa aims to continue its contribution to the economy corporate local service providers for cleaning, Kayseri 81 109 74,31% through a model that allows a balanced income security, technical and other auxiliary services for distribution by supporting local supply. At Çimsa, plants and ready-mixed concrete facilities with a view Mersin 279 396 70,45% large portion of the purchases are made from local to support the development and institutionalization suppliers, except for items such as petroleum coke, of local suppliers. In this way, the legal rights and Niğde 88 106 83,02% coal, craft paper required for paper bag production personal benefits of the employees of the companies Total 594 864 68,75% from which services are procured are fully Economic Value Created for the Shareholders and Its Distribution respected, and compliance with the laws is monitored. Through Category Management practises, the supplier 2014 Million TL (%) market is better managed, and an effective demand The e-commerce platform, management and important savings in resources are which was developed achieved. The opportunities are better utilized, while together with the solution the risks in procurement policies are minimized. partners in order to increase the opportunities Through the job opportunities created at regions for local supply and where Çimsa operates, 594 persons are employed to supply in a more by the subcontractors. Economic contributions will transparent and quicker continue at every region where the company operates. way, was used much more effectively and efficiently. Çimsa is a company preferred by the local suppliers In doing so, an open, due to its predictability and compliance with ethic transparent and quickrules. The contribution made to the institutionalization responding structure was of local suppliers is high as a result of the business provided for all the systemrelations developed. Thanks to predictability and member suppliers that are compliance with ethic rules, our local suppliers are * Operational Costs: Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization and personnel costs) ** Economic Value Retained = Created Economic Value Net (-)Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders (+)Benefits Paid willing to offer goods and able to make better decisions economically and they to Financial Institutions services to Çimsa. are able to manage their companies in a better way. 28 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE B. WORKING ENVIRONMENT, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH and SAFETY Actions regarding the Human Resources are shaped in a way that enables the employees to behave in compliance with sustainability principles. The audit sphere of Çimsa covers all locations within year in order to follow up Çimsa business network, including foreign subsidiaries, the latest status of the and all operations in cement and ready-mixed concrete findings in the reports businesses. In this scope, audits are conducted as issued, and follow-up stipulated in Internal Audit Regulations by the Internal audits are carried at least Auditing Unit subordinated to the Audit Committee, biennially by carrying which is appointed by the Board of Directors of Çimsa. out on-site studies and In addition, status reports are prepared three times a tests. In this frame, all the practices regulated with written regulations and Enhance leadership characteristics, and the Çimsa’s Corporate Development and Human Resources procedures are shared with Çimsa employees via knowledge and skills of Vision and Mission OBJECTIVES OF HUMAN internet and with meetings. The expectations and employees at all levels opinions of all employees are compiled and assessed at the organizational climate workshops and year-end open sharing meetings, which are held since 2007. Measure the RESOURCES PRACTISES organizational climate During 2014, the Human Resources regulations and regularly TO ESTABLISH TO PROVIDE procedures (Salary and Benefits Procedure, Recruitment A HIGHORGANIZATIONAL and Placement Procedure, Training Procedure, Performance Management Procedure, AppreciationPERFORMANCE CHANGE AND Recognition and Rewarding Procedure, Corporate CULTURE DEVELOPMENT GSM Line Procedure, Subcontractor Management Establish the organization and human resources Procedure, etc.) were reviewed and updated in the infrastructure to support corporate strategies VISION MISSION scope of organizational requirements and employee expectations. 29 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Employment and Fundamental Rights At the headquarters, regions and provinces where announcements. More than one Article 17 of Labour Law No. 4857 for it operates, Çimsa carries out practices increasing candidate are interviewed for the white collar employees based on their employment, assigns employees in similar posts with announced vacancies, and different employment periods. For blue collar equal conditions, and provides equal rights for female managers interview the candidates employees, notification time periods and male employees. and their opinions asked for are determined in accordance with selection. The percentage of local the related article of the Group people among Çimsa personnel is Collective Labour Agreement in The recruitment process at Çimsa is carried out in 69% across Çimsa. force based on their employment compliance with the Recruitment and Placement periods. Regulations, by impartial and objective evaluation of all the applications received for vacancy All practices regarding employment are conducted according The related personnel are informed at to corporate standards in an least one week in advance regarding the operational changes. Employment in the sector objective way and these practices are defined through in-house procedures Cement Plants in Turkey* 2014 and regulations. As of 2014, Çimsa provided an economic value of 73,23 Total number of employees 11.335 million TL to its 958 employees. Many additional benefits are also provided Employees of contractors 5.401 for improving the living conditions of the employees and their families. Çimsa Cement Plants 2014 Total number of employees 958 The organizational and operational changes are finalized and shared Employees of contractors** 1.066 with the organization one month *The figure for cement plants is approximate as of 31.12.2014. It include in advance in order to allow for the employees of subcontractors working in auxiliary jobs. necessary preparations. **The figure includes all permanent subcontractor and outsourcing company employees within the structure of Çimsa in the scope of Labour Law No: 4857. At Çimsa, notification time periods are determined in the scope of 30 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Employment and Fundamental Rights Çimsa Employees Blue Collar/White Collar Distribution (Persons) Number of employees working at Çimsa work Total İstanbul Ratio Headquarters 42 Çimsa Work Places places and registered at the province where the work place is located number of employees (%) Ankara 11 Ankara 14 28 50% Plant 17 Eskişehir 129 183 70% Kayseri 33 İstanbul 3 42 7% Plant 76 Kayseri 81 109 74% Mersin 147 Mersin 279 396 70% Plant 249 Niğde Ready-Mixed Concrete 88 106 83% Eskişehir 54 Kayseri-Niğde 16 33 48% Plant 129 Ready-Mixed Concrete 29 38 76% Niğde 27 Adana-Mersin Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant 79 İstanbul-Eskişehir 14 23 61% Toplam 653 958 68% Ready-Mixed Concrete 89 Aggregate 2 Employee Turnover Ratio (Consolidated Recruitment+Quitting) Inside the Scope Outside the Scope Total Terminal 3 2014 Employee 15,3% 10,4% 13,2% 408 (Total number of persons employed + Total number of persons quitted)/2] Turnover Çimsa Calculation ----------------------------------------------------------Total 550 Formula (Number of persons at the beginning of the year + Number of persons at the end of the year)/2 White Collar Blue Collar 31 2014 Sustainabilty Report Side Benefits for Employees All matters in force regarding the side benefits are all Expert/Engineer and higher positions, as well as regulated in detail and shared with our employees in private health insurance and private life insurance the salaries and side benefits procedure, which was starting from the date of employment, are provided. revised and issued on November 1st, 2011 and which Approximately 60% of our white collar employees is reviewed annually. have corporate GSM lines and/or devices depending on their positions and job descriptions. All employees All permanent employees at Çimsa work under (white and blue collar) at the plants are provided Collective Labour Agreement in force for blue collar full-time (45 hours a week) employment contracts with meals and personnel transportation vehicles. employees, are separately provided. with indefinite duration. Regarding side benefits, The personnel working at work places other than an individual pension practice with a company the plants are given meal cards. Personnel transport Through the Individual Pension System, which is an contribution equal to 3% of the gross salary for vehicles are available at Headquarters. The social optional system on volunteer some officer roles depending on job size and for and in-kind benefits, stemming from the Group basis, it is aimed to reinforce the commitment of the employees by providing a rich and longterm side benefits package. In 2014, the number of employees (potential and entitled), who can benefit from the Individual Pension System with 3% company contribution in the scope of the relevant procedure, was 286; and the number of employees who actually benefited from the system was 225. Thus, the actual benefiting percentage was 78%. The “Çimsa Privileges” project still continues as in the previous years. Please refer to 2013 Sustainability Report 2013, pp. 45 32 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Individual Performance Management System For all (100%) white collar employees, there is for the employees in this group. The ratio of this an individual performance management system group to all white-collar employees is 42%. conducted every year besides the measurement of business and competence objectives. For blue-collar employees, there is no individual performance assessment and career development At the end of every year, the objectives given at the programme pursuant to the Group Collective Labour beginning of the year are assessed and the results Agreement in force. For this personnel group, the are reflected on the individual development plans. probation period performance assessment followAn Organizational Success Plan is elaborated every up is carried out at the 2nd and 6th months after the year for Expert/Engineer and higher positions; and date of employment. a development planning and back-up is carried out 33 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Our Approach of Equal Opportunities and Human Rights Çimsa offers opportunities at management and Total number of employees 2014 representation levels, and necessary flexibility White collar employees 408 and openness regarding participation at Blue collar employees 550 Employees of subcontractors* 1.066 different committees. Çimsa employees under contract Number of permanent contracts 958 Equal opportunities and internal equilibrium between Number of temporary contracts 0 employees are considered as basis in company Full time employees 958 practices, and the rights and freedoms secured in Part time employees 0 the scope of the Labour Law and Constitution are Gender Male 913 monitored in parallel with company regulations and Female 45 procedures. Age Between 20 29 184 There was no discrimination case or a relevant Between 30 39 482 complaint within Çimsa so far. The company, which Between 40 49 260 has a vast and diverse employee profile coming from Between 50 60 32 Employees in Minority Groups** different regions of Turkey, carries out its management Posts activities fairly and objectively by operating with Senior management 16 respect for diversity and the principle of “differences Middle level management 31 are our richness.” Line Managers 95 Expert/Engineer 127 Other white collar employees 139 As of 31.12.2014, the number of male employees is 913 Blue collar employees 550 and female employees is 45 at Çimsa. The number *The figure includes all permanent subcontractors and outsourcing company employees within the structure of Çimsa in the scope of Labour Law No: 4857 of female white-collar employees is 45. The number **In Lausanne Peace Treaty, the minorities were identified as the non-Muslims. All the minorities were accepted as Turkish citizens and it was stated that no privileges of female employees working at management level would be given. Article 40 of the Treaty contains the following provision: Turkish nationals belonging to non-Muslim minorities shall enjoy the same treatment and is 3. The performance table shows the distribution of security in law and in fact as other Turkish nationals. In particular, they shall have an equal right to establish, manage and control at their own expense, any charitable, religious and social institutions, any schools and other establishments for instruction and education, with the right to use their own language and to exercise their own employees by age group. The average age of whitereligion freely therein”. In this context and in the scope of Lausanne Treaty and protection/confidentiality of personal data, we prefer not to provide any information on minorities. collar employees of Çimsa is 36. 34 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Our Approach of Equal Opportunities and Human Rights Across the company, equal pay for equal At Çimsa, the matters related with human Pursuant to compliance with the relevant law and work approach is adopted and rights are generally evaluated within the provisions in case of significant operational changes, implemented on the basis of market frame of OH&S (occupational health the notification time periods stipulated in the Labour values and internal harmony. and safety) and social security. All the Law are taken into consideration for the white-collar The gross salaries of female matters regarding discrimination employees based on their employment periods, and and male employees, and employee rights are the notification time periods stipulated in the Group who perform same/ monitored by the Corporate Collective Labour Agreement in force are taken into similar works and tasks Development and Human Rights consideration for the blue-collar employees again according to employee Unit, SA-Ethics Rule Consultant based on their employment periods. category, are handled and Disciplinary Committee. with an equalitarian and Çimsa employees and the employees of subcontractor fair approach that completely The blue-collar employees and companies providing services to Çimsa in the scope depends on the principle of the suppliers have the freedom of procurement service contracts must have social equivalence. The ratio of of organization. There is security in the scope of Law no. 5510 on Social Security. the average salary of a male no obstruction whatsoever employee, who performs the regarding this matter. same job at the same location Regarding the suppliers that the and who has similar experience company makes business with, it is and educational qualifications, to the preferred that such suppliers to manage their average salary of a female employee is 1. own employees with the best legal rights in the This equality approach applies not only for scope of Law on Trade Unions. Regarding the blue-collar salaries, but also for other side benefits (fringe (inside the scope) employee groups, Çimsa depends on benefits) and total reward package. and applies the Group Collective Labour Agreement still in force at all cement plants, in the frame of the principles In all lines of business and locations where Çimsa of labour peace and in the scope of Law No. 6356 on is operational, respect for human rights especially Trade Unions and Collective Labour Agreements. Due in the frame of social security law is of utmost to the presence of labour and employer unions in the importance for investment agreements and in the sector, the labour-employer relations and trade union selection of the suppliers. matters are conducted smoothly without any conflict. 35 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Our Approach of Equal Opportunities and Human Rights Çimsa makes the social security contributions and The responsibilities of the service salaries of its employees without any disruption or delay. provider subcontractors under labour law and social security For Çimsa, the most critical matter regarding labour practices are periodically audited practices is subcontractor companies. In this context, in the frame of legal requirements. the selection and evaluation of subcontractors is The service contracts and an area of priority. During the selection process of specifications concluded with subcontractors, the assessments regarding industrial subcontractors contain in detail relations in the scope of their previous Social Security all the necessary provisions, rules and Labour Law practices and references are taken and sanctions to be observed into account. regarding these matters. Since the subcontractors are included in the audits carried out by the occupational health and safety officers at Çimsa work places, they are warned in case of a noncompliant act. Persistence in improper practices may All the companies providing services to Çimsa result in the cancellation of the contract. By means of go through periodical audits in the scope of the the detailed agreements made with subcontractors provisions of the contract and are selected on the and regular audits, the risk of employing child labour basis of company selection guidelines specified in and forced labour is eliminated. the procedures., Although an assessment is not made concerning compliance with human rights when The private security services at the work places selecting the suppliers, all the suppliers of services of Çimsa are supplied from subcontractors in the and goods are supervised regarding the creation of scope of Law No. 5118 with auxiliary job status. The employment in accordance with labour laws and the procurement agreement concluded with the related fulfilment of the arrangements in compliance with security firm contains provisions requiring the the laws, thanks to the detailed selection procedure private security personnel to receive relevant human applied. rights trainings. 36 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Trainings and Development Communication with Employees The in-house training and education programmes are Supporting training courses are also given to achieve The most important environments of communication determined with the defined procedures and policies, perfection in occupational health and safety. with the employees are the meetings, training courses, and the programmes devoted at the competence seminars, etc. carried out face to face. In 2014, an internal management and development of the employees Çimsa Employees Development Programmes stakeholders dialogue practice was carried out by creating are organized in the scope of annual budget and •• Çimsa Management Way Development Programme such environments especially for the matters regarding according to the needs of the employees. (Development Programme for Middle Level Managers) sustainability. •• Development Programme for Team Leader and Please refer to Stakeholder When providing job opportunities for young people Maintenance Technical Experts through employment of newly graduates, with its •• Development Programme for Process Improvement Relations development programme called “Yeni Çimsalılar” Engineering (“New Çimsa Employees”), Çimsa enables new •• Development Programme for New Çimsa Employees Regarding university graduates who started working at Çimsa •• Development Programme for Lean 6 Sigma Green Belt communication with to realize their own knowledge and skills, and to •• Basic Competencies Training for Blue Collar Employees employees, Çimsa become experts in fields where they can achieve •• Environment and Waste Management Trainings for Staff Representatives maximum benefits for themselves, for the company Process Improvement Engineers Initiative is continued in and for our country. order to hear the voice Professional Knowledge Development Training of the field, to solve The development programmes organized by Sabancı Groups the problems together Holding for employees with high potential are carried •• Information Technologies Trainings •• Environment and Sustainability Trainings with the employees, out regularly every year. The competence of our •• Finances, Accounting and Tax Trainings and to reflect manpower is enhanced with extensive training and •• Quality Trainings and augment the development programmes for all our employees •• Foreign Trade Trainings developments and achievements on from senior management to blue-collar. •• Maintenance Trainings the field again with the voice of the employees. A total of 31 •• Automation Trainings Staff Representatives from different locations continue their Occupational Health and Safety Trainings •• Process Trainings efforts. Professional Development Trainings •• Sales and Marketing Trainings •• Energy Management Trainings Personal Development Trainings •• Lean Production Techniques Trainings Quick and constructive solutions are provided for the Foreign Language Trainings •• Management Systems Trainings demands of the employees through regional meetings held quarterly with the Staff Representatives. The annual average training hours per employee was The trainings required by laws and legislation 40,7 in 2014. This figure was 54,1 hours for female (Occupational Health and Safety trainings, employees and 40,0 hours for male employees. It Additional information regarding corporate practices is Professional competence trainings, etc.) are was 48,8 hours for white-collar employees and 34,4 provided for the employees with periodical Human implemented regularly every year. hours for blue-collar employees. Resources bulletins and Aile (Family) Magazine. 37 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) In the field of occupational health and safety, Çimsa has adopted an understanding that constantly improves the corporate standards in parallel to the policies and practices in the sector, determines proactive development areas and implements continuous follow-up systematic in OH&S processes. Çimsa internalizes and turns OH&S into company culture with practices such as informing the employees of the actual employer and the subcontractors regarding both occupational safety and occupational health, sharing the amendments in the legislation with the organization through effective communications, incorporating OH&S metrics into company and employee objectives, accepting the values of audit, near-miss notice and number of non-compliances as key performance indicators, and regular reporting activities. 2014 OH&S REALIZATIONS Mersin Plant Unit 2014 Niğde Plant Unit 2014 Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities Person 0 Accident Frequency Ratio 2,39 Accident Frequency Ratio 6,63 Lost working day Day 65 Lost working day Day 3 Absentee days excluding accident Day 2534 Absentee days excluding accident Day 353 Eskişehir Plant Unit 2014 Ankara Plant Unit 2014 Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities Person 0 Accident Frequency Ratio 7,97 Accident Frequency Ratio 8,61 Lost working day Day 1162 Lost working day Day 10 Absentee days excluding accident Day 1101 Absentee days excluding accident Day 16 Kayseri Plant Unit 2014 Ready Mixed Concrete Birim 2014 Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities Person 0 Accident Frequency Ratio 4,09 Accident Frequency Ratio 23,53 Lost working day Day 60 Lost working day Day 47 Absentee days excluding accident Day 355 Absentee days excluding accident Day 0 38 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) Management in Cement OH&S results and objectives are regularly tracked, these Union (Türkiye Cam-İş) for the period between 1 January Occupational health and safety is the opening matter of are evaluated at OH&S committees and performance 2013 and 31 December 2015. the Senior Management meetings, as it was the case in reporting is carried out. The trends and changes at the previous years. company are analyzed, and their causes are studied with 1-Protective measures root cause analyses. 2-Notifications of accidents and sickness The most significant policy followed to achieve OH&S 3-Rules to be implemented for occupational safety performance objectives is sharing the short-term and In order to define the conditions to be met to increase long-term objectives with the employees. It is the duty occupational safety awareness, to control the occupational All Çimsa plants have OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health of all employees, including contractor personnel, to health and safety risks and to improve the performance and Safety system certificate. The OH&S management comply with OH&S instructions, and to notify all kinds of the company, the OH&S activities are managed in system is continuously supported with training, briefing, of work accidents, risky situations and near-misses. The the frame of a management system that complies with supervision and improvement activities. Çimsa is well most important tools in achieving the objectives are the Turkish Standards-18001 specifications. In the scope of aware of the fact that one of the most important factors practices such as systematic site supervisions, the notified behind its success is its understanding of carrying the near misses, and the site supervision results of other site the new Occupational Health and Safety Law No. 6331 practices related with occupational health and safety officers. In addition to these, the annual internal audits and its related regulations, Çimsa carries out proactive beyond compliance with laws and regulations. The with OHSAS 18001 system, the external audits of the activities devoted at the new legal regulations and operational responsibility for OH&S management at certificate-issuing institutions such as Turkish Standards requirements. In this context, for Çimsa in particular and in Çimsa pertains to top level management. Institute (TSI) and Sabancı Holding’s insurance external the scope of joint responsibility, the issues such as OH&S audits also follow and measure the OH&S system. It is Board structure within actual employer/subcontractor The plant managers present the reports that they prepare the routine objective to take the improvement actions, employer structure, staff representatives, support staff together with their management teams to the senior aimed at the deviations specified as the result of the arrangements, appointment of OH&S Expert and on-site supervisions, as soon as possible. doctor (via İSG Katip software), risk analysis, fire drills and management at monthly technical coordination meetings and necessary actions are taken as soon as possible. emergency action plans are implemented in the frame of The main objective of Çimsa is to decrease the number legal requirements. of total accidents by 50% every year and to reach “0” accident goal by 2020, and make this sustainable. The The official agreements concluded with the trade unions sub-goals are improving the tidiness of the premises, cover health and safety issues, and detailed information enhancing the occupational safety awareness of the regarding these issues is listed as three items in Group İŞ SAĞLIĞI employees and decreasing work-related musculoskeletal Collective Labour Agreement signed by the Cement ve diseases. The main OH&S programmes implemented at GÜVENLİĞİ Industry Employers’ Trade Union (ÇEİS) with Turkey the work places for achieving these main and sub-goals Cement, Ceramics, Soil and Glass Industries Workers’ can be summarized as follows: 39 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Site Responsibility OH&S Database Behavioural Audits The site responsibility practice first started at Mersin The OH&S activities are monitored Audit teams of 2-3 persons were formed; Plant; it was later implemented at all locations as of strictly in order to constantly improve these teams supervise the activities at April 2008, and still continues. The site responsibility the OH&S policy. In order to allow the site within a certain plan and remind is a system kept alive by constant updates, in which an all employees to benefit from all the employees to work safely, and stop area is divided by the engineers or experts into sites relevant information, the company the work immediately and provide for without any gaps and the selected persons are taught OH&S database was launched in taking of measures in case of nontheir duties-tasks and responsibilities. This system is electronic medium in 2012, and the compliant work or a hazard in work based on controlling the risks in the medium and all database was designed to cover all environments. The person responsible kinds of activities, including those of contractors, to OH&S assets of the company. for the site and the number of audit be carried out at sites of responsibility primarily by teams are determined according to the the own teams of the plant, and taking measures. size of each plant. 40 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE OH&S Scorecard Practice Occupational Health and Safety Management in Ready-Mixed Concrete Occupational safety scorecard practice was Green and Safe Plants Project launched at all plants in 2010 with pilot activities. The operational control mechanisms such as EKED (Tag The occupational health and safety ÇİMSA OH&S PERFORMANCE out – Lock out – Secure – Try again = LOTO (Lock out activities are carried out fastidiously 2014 GRI REPORT MERSİN NİĞDE KAYSERİ ESKİŞEHİR ANKARA READY MIXED CONCRETE – Tag out) are also being developed at all plant sites. also in ready-mixed concrete NUMBER OF WORK 4 3 2 8 1 36 operations as in cement production. ACCIDENTS In addition, in the scope of local practices, the Çimsa conducted “Green and Safe ÇİMSA 3 1 1 4 1 4 Plant” and “Caution! Conscious SUBCONTRACTOR 1 2 1 4 0 32 employees continue to internalize the importance of OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS 0 0 0 0 0 0 OH&S and incorporate it in corporate culture through Employee” projects in 2014. With this ÇİMSA 0 0 0 0 0 0 practices such as “BEKİR before work *” at Kayseri projects, Çimsa aims to train readySUBCONTRACTOR 0 0 0 0 0 0 Plant, “Occupational Safety Employee of the Month” mixed concrete employees who provide ABSENCE FROM WORK 65 3 120 91 10 47 at Ankara Plant and “You get as much occupational high quality, reliable and continuous ÇİMSA 60 3 60 61 10 0 safety as you set an example” and “Principle of production for the business partners SUBCONTRACTOR 5 0 60 30 0 47 Operation Host” at Mersin Plant. and all segments of the society, creates FATALITIES 0 0 0 0 0 0 value for the customers, complies with ÇİMSA 0 0 0 0 0 0 legal regulations, respects the nature, SUBCONTRACTOR 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 BEKIR corresponds to initials of a male name in Turkish achieves objectives beyond those set by standards, abides the traffic rules, demonstrates exemplary behaviour regarding occupational health and safety B E K İ R and environmental matters and makes such behaviour sustainable. All the ready-mixed concrete plants were audited 160 times under the headings “Occupational Safety”, “Traffic”, “Environment” and “Construction Think Is LOTO Is personal Did you get Did you Site”. As the result of these audits, Kozan Plant won FOR a needed? protection work permit? make risk the first place, Osmaneli Plant won the second place minute equipment assessment? and Tece Plant won the third place, and they were enough? entitled to bear “Green Safe Plant” and “ Caution! Conscious Employee” titles for one year. 41 2014 Sustainabilty Report Occupational Health and Safety Management in Ready-Mixed Concrete “Caution! Conscious Employee” Approach for Çimsa The objective is to contribute to and make sustainable the level reached with green and safe plant project CONSCIOUS EMPLOYEE within Çimsa ready-mixed concrete function by improving the behaviour of the employees with ÒÒIs safe (risk and hazard-free) “Caution! Conscious Employee” approach. ÒÒIs in harmony with the environment ÒÒCreates a positive impression with the customer ÒÒDifferentiates the product and service ÒÒProvides competitive advantage ÒÒComplies with legal regulations ÒÒEnsures the highest level of quality and standards ÒÒIs clean, neat and tidy ÒÒRespects the nature ÒÒContributes to the corporate climate/culture The objective is to train ready-mixed concrete ÒÒAbides the rules in traffic, respects people employees who provide high quality, reliable and and the traffic continuous production for the business partners ÒÒAvoids accidents and all segments of the society, creates value for the customers, complies with legal regulations, respects ÒÒHas exemplary vehicle and driving the nature, achieves objectives beyond those set knowledge by standards, abides the traffic rules, demonstrates ÒÒHas cause-effect consciousness regarding exemplary behaviour regarding occupational health environment and OH&S behaviour and safety and environmental matters and makes such behaviour sustainable. 42 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE C. CLIMATE and ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Çimsa is well aware of the fact that environmental issues have important impacts not only on the profitability of the company, but also on the social agenda. Environmental sustainability constitutes an important made in this field and the relevant details are shared environmental issues that concern the company due part of the company agenda. Since 2010, studies with all stakeholders in the sustainability report as to many environmental effects stemming from the have been conducted every year in order to improve well as in other media in compliance with principles material quarries, production and sales processes our environmental performance. The investments of transparency and ethics. There are several of the sector. Çimsa therefore is well aware of the fact that environmental issues have important impacts not only on the profitability of the company, but also on the social agenda. The main raw material of the sector relies on natural resources. Given that energy resources constitute the highest cost in production inputs, the investments should be focused on mitigating the environmental impacts. For this reason, a significant portion of the company’s sustainability issues focus on environmental impacts. In this chapter of the report, in the scope of “Sustainability Issues Matrix”, the potential areas that can maximize the benefits while minimizing the environmental impacts are considered, also taking into account the comments and feedbacks from the stakeholders. Since environmental sustainability efforts also create value in the scope of the struggle against climate change, ÇİMSA ESKİŞEHİR PLANT they are discussed under the heading “climate and environmental management”. 43 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Emissions Gas Emissions Stemming from Production Given the amount and characteristics of the energy used, the cement sector is a Using alternative fuels, increasing the use of alternative raw materials and additives sector with intensive carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The expectation of reducing and providing thermal and electrical energy efficiency are important factors that CO2 emissions, which constitutes the basic issue of the struggle against global result in the reduction of CO2 emissions in the sector, and such practices also enable climate change, imposes a significant responsibility on the sector. At all plants, the use of sustainable resources. Depending on the importance attached to the protection activities required for struggling against climate change are implemented gradually. of climate at Çimsa, the CO2 emissions stemming from the production activities Çimsa also cooperates with other institutions under the umbrella of Turkish Cement at the plants are calculated and monitored in compliance with the methodology Manufacturers’ Association (TÇMB) in order to accelerate the compliance of the developed by the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) of World Business Council cement sector of the country with the relevant laws, regulations and commitments. for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). This practice reflects an understanding and responsibility that goes beyond the local regulations. Total Direct Gross CO2 Emission of Çimsa Cement Plants and Grinding Facilities 4,000 3401 3471 3091 3115 3116 3392 3386 3,000 Total Gray Cement Gross CO2 Emission 2,000 Total White Cement Gross CO2 Emission 1,000 1025 1030 982 991 869 880 500 835 Total direct gross CO2 emission stemming from 0 our Calcium Aluminate Cement production is 13.181 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 tonnes CO2 /year. 44 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Emissions Gas Emissions Stemming from Production The most important factor that effects the reducing of specific CO2 emission is of Domestic Waste Water Treatment plants of Metropolitan Municipalities-in rotary increasing the additives (per ton of cementitious products). Customer demands play kilns of our plants by combined incineration will lead to an increase in the amount an important role in blended cement sales. Increases in the market demand on this of alternative fuels we use and to the continuity of such fuels. Total direct gross CO2 course will result in increases in the production of blended cement, which in turn will emissions and specific CO2 emission in 2014 decreased compared to previous year. result in reductions in CO2 emissions on the basis of specific cementitious product. The dust and gas emissions of Çimsa are regularly measured in compliance with the The second factor effecting the reduction of specific CO2 emission is increasing the laws and regulations in force by an institution accredited by the Ministry of Environment use of alternative fuels. At the regions where cement plants are located, utilization and Urbanization, and the measurement results are reported. of the domestic refuse-derived fuels-to be produced by Mechanical and Biological Treatment Plants to be established on the Metropolitan Municipality solid waste landfill The dust and gas emissions are monitored in terms of specific (gr/tonnes clinker) and areas-and the dried sludge-produced by thermally drying the wet sewage sludge total mass value (tonnes/year). Specific CO2 Emission* 740 ÇİMSA KAYSERİ PLANT 720 732 711 726 700 709 706 701 Specific CO2 emission 680 699 660 (kg CO2 / ton cementitious) 640 620 600 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 *Value given only for Gray Cement 45 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Emissions Dust Emissions The dust emission values dropped below the values of previous year with 26 gr dust/ton clinker and 12 mg/Nm3 dust emission as Çimsa Cement Group average, so these values remained under the limit values in the relevant regulations and the objectives were achieved. ÇİMSA NİĞDE PLANT In 2014, the average dust emission of the ready-mixed concrete plants was 1,39 mg/Nm3. The results of the measurements carried out by a company accredited Nox Emissions by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization at all ready-mixed concrete In 2014, the Nox emission at the rotary kiln stacks was 1465 gr/ton clinker. The plants the results remained below the limit value specified in the Regulations average Nox emission of the cement plants decreased in 2014 compared to for the Control of Industrial Air Pollution. previous year, and was measured as 718 mg/Nm3. Specific Dust Emission gr dust/ton clinker Specific NO x Emission gr NO x /ton clinkerr 60 50 2500 47 40 37 2000 1731 1659 36 31 30 1500 25 25 26 1451 1460 1430 1465 20 1000 1227 10 500 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 46 2014 Sustainabilty Report Emissions Other Emissions Pursuant to relevant regulations, periodical measurements are carried out at the rotary kiln stacks quarterly for Volatile Organic Compounds, biannually for HCI, FH and Heavy Metals and annually for Dioxins-Furan, and the emission are presented to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. As the result of the measurements carried out at the rotary kiln stacks of the plants in 2014, it was determined that the Volatile Organic Compounds, HCI, HF, Heavy Metals and Dioxin-Furan are below the limit values specified in the Regulations on Incineration of Wastes. Results of Volatile Organic Compounds, HCI, HF, Heavy Metals and Dioxin-Furan Specific Measurements across Çimsa Cement Plants Specific (gr/ton clinker) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Heavy Metals* 0,02 0,02 0,016 0,018 0,02 Volatile Organic 47 31 28,5 31,7 43 Compounds HCl 1,78 0,50 0,53 0,94 0,52 HF 0,98 0,49 0,54 0,47 0,33 Dioxins/furan specifics (µg/ 0,031 0,017 0,028 0,018 0,019 ton clinker) *Cd + Tl + Hg 47 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Energy Efficiency 16000 Çimsa Cement Plants Gray Cement Total Thermal Energy Consumption (TJ)* 13113 13217 13402 13343 Another way to combat with climate change is 14000 12004 12054 11833 energy efficiency. Given that the energy resources 12000 become increasingly scarcer and more expensive, it is necessary to decrease the use of energy generated 10000 from fossil fuels and use alternative energy resources Total Thermal Energy 8000 instead. For this reason, it became more important in Specific Kiln Thermal Energy cement production to decrease energy consumption 6000 by using more efficient equipment that consumes less energy, optimizing the crushing, grinding and 4000 3410 3367 3292 3293 3292 3334 3416 incineration processes and investing in energy 2000 recovery projects. * Specific Kiln Thermal Energy 0 in MJ/ton clinker Çimsa aims to minimise the carbon dioxide emissions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 resulting from energy utilization by means of modern production processes that consume less energy. With Çimsa Cement Plants and Grinding Facilities Total Electrical Energy Consumption (TJ)** the Exhaust Gas Heat Electricity Generation Facility installed at the 1st and 2nd production lines in Mersin 3000 by Çimsa, it is aimed to generate half of the energy 2500 consumed at these two lines and to decrease the 2000 electricity consumption. The largest resources used 2090 2294 2251 are coal, petroleum coke, natural gas, lignite and fuel 1500 1949 1986 2056 oil, which are primary (fossil) fuels. 1902 1000 500 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ** Total for Gray cement + white cement 48 2014 Sustainabilty Report Energy Efficiency Çimsa aims to reduce the energy consumed for cement production by decreasing the use of clinker through substitution of clinker the production of which requires a high amount of energy with alternative raw materials such as volatile ash, iron-steel industry cinder and cementitious materials. The clinker-cement ratios by years are given in the table below. Gray Cement Clinker / Cement Ratio (%) %82 %82 %82 %82 %81 %81 %80 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 49 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials ÇİMSA ESKİŞEHİR PLANT Since the sector is characterized by intense use of energy and raw materials, it is always important to substitute fossil fuels and natural raw materials with alternatives. In this way, the natural resources are protected and carbon emissions are decreased, and contribution is made to the disposal of wastes, which causes a serious environmental pollution and social problem. In 2014, the ratio of alternative fuels in gray cement line increased compared to 2013. In order to incorporate the alternative fuels and raw materials into the system safely and to protect process efficiency, the waste pre-treatment and waste feeding investments are completed rapidly and the ratio of alternative fuels is increased every year. Çimsa Cement Plants, Gray Cement Production, Alternative Çimsa Cement Plants, Total Use of Alternative Raw Materials Raw Materials Substitution Ratio (%) (thousand tonnes)* %3,05 322 %2,47 %1,99 266 263 %1,63 164 %1,30 128 %1,01 %0,76 90 87 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 * Total for Gray cement + white cement 50 2014 Sustainabilty Report Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials Conscious of our responsibility for the environment and the society, solutions are provided for the disposal of the industrial and municipal wastes primarily at the regions where our cement plants are located. It is aimed to increase the amount of alternative additives with the use of volatile ash and cinder in ready-mixed concrete production. The ratios of alternative raw materials for individual plants and across Çimsa cement group are calculated in compliance with the Methodology of Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) of World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Çimsa Cement Plants, Gray Cement Production, Ratio of Use of Alternative Fuels (%) Çimsa Cement Plants, Gray Cement Production, Total Use 49 of Alternative Fuels (thousand tonnes) 43 42 %7,50 %7,02 %7,11 24 %4,60 %3,36 15 %2,65 8 11 %0,33 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 51 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Wastes A waste management system is implemented for the National Waste Transport Forms. The incinerable The amount of packaging recovered (%) hazardous and non-hazardous wastes produced by wastes are incinerated jointly in our rotary kilns Çimsa. There is a person responsible for the waste in compliance with the waste license codes of the 42 44 storage area in order to conduct the actions related cement plants with waste incineration licences for 40 40 with the wastes produced at every plant centrally energy recovery. Regular records concerning the and smoothly. Every type of waste produced at the actions taken are kept at the facilities. plant is identified, and the amount and frequency of production of such wastes are determined. At Çimsa, There are different storage containers at the facilities the issues such as the legislation that the mentioned for packaging wastes and domestic wastes. Measures wastes are subject to, the method and frequency of are taken in order to prevent such wastes from collection, transport and temporary storage and the scattering due to factors such as rain and wind. maximum storage time are determined. It is very important to prevent the formation and to 2011 2012 2013 2014 The area where the hazardous wastes are to be stored prioritize the reuse of packaging wastes, to recycle and temporarily is an area within the plant site, with a recover such wastes and to use them as energy source sustainable development principles and to reduce the leak-proof concrete floor, a roof and with measures in order to protect the natural resources, to produce amount of wastes to be stored. against spills and leakages. The names and codes of them on the course of sustainable environment and the stored wastes are written Regardless of the materials used, the packaging on the sections in this area. wastes produced as the result of consumption are separately collected at every plant and these are Researches are carried out sent to the municipal waste collection facilities for the disposal / recycling and recycled in order to decrease environmental Nonof hazardous wastes, and Hazardous TOTAL pollution, to send less waste to landfills and to contracts are made for each Hazardous WASTE + = Wastes contribute to the economy. waste type according to Wastes Packaging Wastes the type and codes of the Domestic Wastes Çimsa covers the expenses for the separate collection, waste and these are sent to separation, recycling and recovery of the packaging the disposal facilities with wastes as the result of the use of its products. 52 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Biodiversity In order to prevent the negative impacts of its mining Law and the Environment Law. The mining operations Ecological Restoration Plans are developed with the operations and to minimize such impacts to a level are monitored by the Directorate of Raw Materials, approval of public agencies in order to carry out the that will not harm the environment, Çimsa carries and the raw materials group of each cement plant. mining operations with environmental, social and out environmental impact assessment (EIA) studies economic impacts in a way respecting the nature and before commencing its operations and prepares Great care is paid to raw material extraction to restore the utilized areas to the nature. plans for the rehabilitation of the areas after the operations at the sensitive and protected areas in operations. order to protect natural life. In this context, Eskişehir EIA reports are prepared for the areas for which EIA Plant Quarry is in “Short Protection Distance” and is required; the ecosystems are examined in these All the production operations are carried out in Mersin Factory Sucular Quarry is in “Protection Area reports and the impacts of mining operations on accordance with the related regulations of the Mining at Medium Distance to the Lake Area”. such areas are determined. Every year, provisions are reserved for quarry ÇİMSA MERSİN PLANT rehabilitations and these are updated annually. In order to make mining operations sustainable and to rehabilitate the areas where the ore is extracted as soon as possible, exemplary practices are commenced for the afforestation of such areas with social responsibility before the completion of the operations according to the license. In 2014, afforestation of a total area of 12 hectares was completed. The licensed excavation area of our active quarries is 277 hectares and the area affected by our operations is 32 hectares. The distribution of these areas on the basis of land ownership is as follows: 130 hectares owned by Çimsa, forest area 96 hectares, state owned (Treasury) area 15 hectares and pasture are 45 hectares. 53 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Water and Wastewater Management The water used in bed-cooling for the production activities at our plants is recycled and reused. Water is fed to the cooling towers for cooling the gases moving towards rotary kiln bags and electro-filter, this water evaporates and is released to the atmosphere. The surface waters within the plant are collected in sedimentation ponds for physical treatment, and such water is fed to the coal stock areas for dedusting. The waste water produced from ground water used at the ready-mixed concrete plants after production is treated in sedimentation pools and reused in production. Industrial waste water is not produced at our plants, waste waters with domestic qualities are treated at Mersin and Kayseri Plants by means of compact Biological Waste Water Treatment Facility, and discharged to the receiving environment. At Eskişehir Plant, the waste waters with domestic qualities are treated by means of compact Biological Waste Water Treatment Facility, and recovered in the production process. At Niğde Factory, the domestic waste water is discharged directly to the city sewage; and the domestic waste water of Ankara plant is collected in the cesspool to be transported by the Municipality. 54 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE D. SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT Logistics Big companies generally have a broad supply chain Çimsa reviews the entire supply chain structure. Given the business model of the cement for assessing the environmental impacts sector and the business volume of Çimsa, it is inevitable stemming from logistics activities and for Çimsa to have an intensive supplier utilization continues to take preventive measures. model. As is the case for all other sectors, the supplier companies within the sector have environmental and In the contracts of all our suppliers social impacts. The fact that some of the large suppliers providing material and personnel have their own supply systems makes this issue more translation, the provision for compliance complicated. Therefore, establishment of supply chain with all the laws and regulations imposed structures is an effort that requires great care, as well by the State regarding environment as it is troublesome and time-consuming. is already included. However, with its membership to CSI, Çimsa is no longer Çimsa started incorporating business rules into restricts itself with the provisions of contracts regarding taking measures, raising awareness law and began to act on the course of in suppliers and minimizing environmental impacts, generalizing the good practices of CSI at the points where the environmental impacts of member companies. the suppliers result from Çimsa’s business demands. For this purpose, transportation services, which are In order to “raise awareness” on this intensely utilized, were selected as the first field of matter, meetings were held in 2014 study, and the studies carried out on this matter were principally with Çimsa Procurement included in 2013 Sustainability Report for the first time. and Logistics personnel. In addition, economical driving, efficient vehicle maintenance, stakeholder meetings, in which all Çimsa prevention of noise and dusting and safe driving, employees and the representatives of the supplier which have an important contribution in raising companies in Eskişehir and Mersin participated, were the awareness of the drivers and which became a organized. standard at ready-mixed concrete plants. The first step of the activities concerning supply chain was to Besides this, in 2014, Çimsa began to provide a series review the supply chain studies and to focus on the of trainings for the drivers who provide transport areas which Çimsa can rapidly regulate. services at cement production locations concerning 55 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Optimisation of Logistics Transportation for Supply and Delivery In order to reduce the negative effects such as delivery, and “Central Delivery System” software hazardous gases, spillage and dusting resulting at ready-mixed concrete plants. from transport operations, it is important to optimize the distance and amount transported and In 2014, some of the activities carried out to to utilize the resources efficiently. For this purpose, decrease the negative impacts of the transport Çimsa makes use of SAP-APO (Advanced Planner operations were as follows: and Optimizer) application at cement production locations for the optimization of supply and 1. In two-way travels (round-trip) in transport operations, most of the vehicles carry loads at only one ÇİMSA ANKARA PLANT direction. Besides inefficiency, such unproductive travels without load lead to increases in the negative environmental impacts resulting from transport. With this consciousness, Çimsa optimized the roundtrip loads in 2014 so that vehicles can provide two-way transportation services. activities at the raw material quarries are carried out in a broader range. As a result of these efforts, the 2. In 2014, with the supplier amount of raw materials stored at the intermediate change and operational storage was decreased by 30% average. Besides the improvements carried out by increase in efficiency, the negative environmental Procurement and Contract impacts such as dusting and spillage were reduced. Management Department, 56 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Optimisation of Logistics Transportation for Supply and Delivery 3. The entire furnace bricks, average 20% of which distance of 1 km and transferred to the containers. dusting, spillage) as well as inefficiency. In order to used to be supplied from abroad by “sea and land” With arrangement carried out and the ramps installed improve correct filling at the first time, the cement until 2014, are now supplied from an average within the plant in 2014, loading is made directly to and clinker filling operations at Kayseri and Eskişehir distance of 550 km to the plants. Hence, the the containers. Thus, the intermediate transportation, were supported with 8 in-silo weighting systems emissions resulting from transportation are reduced storage and handling operation, which had no added (tippler weighbridges). and a contribution is provided for domestic economy. value, are eliminated to a great extent. 6. At all locations, the paper bag supply batch sizes 4. Until 2014, the loads to be exported used to be 5. The deficient/extra loading and the reloading/ were optimized in a way to utilize the payload of the loaded to tractor trailers from the site inside the unloading operations required to correct these vehicles to the maximum limit allowed by laws. plant, and then transported to another site at a involve OH&S and environmental risks (extra CO2, ÇİMSA ESKİŞEHİR PLANT 57 2014 Sustainabilty Report E. PRODUCT SAFETY AND RESPONSIBILITY Product safety and responsibility is the most important social commitments of Çimsa. At Çimsa, the environmental impacts and health and safety issues are considered when improving the quality of the products. The performance of the company in such matters is continuously supervised within production processes and improved on the course of our continuous improvement philosophy. The customers and end users are stakeholders who are directly or indirectly exposed to the environmental impacts of the products and to health and safety concerns. Therefore, the customers and end users are continuously informed and trained concerning the products. In accordance with the sustainability approach and quality policy, production is carried out in compliance with national and international standards, with high reliability and customer satisfaction oriented quality and offered for the use of customers in time. Çimsa’s priorities are: ;; Demonstrating a management approach which is customer-oriented and which can meet evolving needs and demands, ;; Development of new products and services, ;; Following and implementing new technologies, ;; Efficient use of the systematics which provide inputs for continuous improvement mentality and continuous improvement of management processes, ;; Increasing Human Resources competence and make contributions to business processes through creative ideas, ;; Periodic assessment of the risks concerning information security, OH&S and environmental management in order to provide continuity of business processes. 58 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Product Safety Management in Cement Production In the frame of product quality, the management representatives. The management representatives British Standards Institution) and AENOR (Spanish standards implemented at all plants are OHSAS are responsible for the sustainability and audit of Association for Standardization and Certification). 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management the systems. The training and awareness raising System), ISO 9001 (Quality Management System) activities concerning these issues are carried out The quality of the products manufactured using and ISO 14001 (Environmental Management regularly every year, the internal audit teams are cement is effected also by other inputs used System). These management systems are audited trained and internal audits are carried out by these together with cement. As Çimsa, although we are annually by Environmental Quality Board (EQB) and teams semi-annually. not directly involved in these processes, we aim to Turkish Standards Institute (TSI) according to the raise awareness in customers by means of technical relevant regulations. Besides the management systems, Çimsa has REACH seminars, site applications and laboratory support certificate registered with European Chemicals activities in processes concerning cement and The operational responsibility regarding these issues Agency (ECHA) and CE and G certificates. Moreover, products made of cement in the scope of customeris shared by appointing senior level management Mersin plant is audited regularly every year by orientation and after sales services. 59 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Product Safety Management in Ready-Mixed Concrete Production The policies followed at our ready mixed concrete All ready-mixed concrete facilities, consisting stability throughout its service life and which will plants to achieve product safety performance of Sakarya-Eskişehir, Kayseri-Niğde and Mersin be least affected by microclimate, and thus provide objectives are: and Adana Regional Directorates have TS EN product safety and continuous customer commitment. ISO9001:2008 Quality Management Standard ÂÂ To ensure that the supply, production and followCertificate, OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health ÂÂ TSI Turkish standards compliance certificates and up activities are carried out in accordance with and Safety Assessment Series) certificate, which ÂÂ EC Certificates for cement and ready-mixed the standards and legislations, is closely linked with working life, and ISO 14001 concrete products, ÂÂ To frequently analyse the data obtained from Environment certificate. ÂÂ Detailed information on Çimsa Cement products the studies carried out with “best in class” and with CE mark, which have free circulation right “best in best” principles and to follow-up and All ready-mixed concrete plants are audited six within the European Union borders, and implement new technologies. times a year in the scope of “Green and Safe Plant” ÂÂ The plants that have TS EN ISO 9001:2008 quality and “Caution! Conscious Employee” projects, which management system certificates implemented The operational responsibility regarding these were initiated with a view to raise awareness on matters is distributed at senior management level according to international standards, and the Occupational Health and Safety and to provide better between Quality Management and Customer Support working conditions. The actions taken as the result information concerning these plants can be Directorate (Compliance with the Regulations of the audits are followed by the accessed from at www.cimsa.com.tr web site and Our Quality Policy, Customer Satisfaction, management team and their status Product Innovation), Regional Sales Directorates of completion is regularly reported. ÇİMSA BAŞAKPINAR READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANT (Production and Compliance with OH&S Policy, Customer Satisfaction), Ready-Mixed Concrete Planned R&D activities are carried Technical Support Directorate (Machinery and out at A1 type laboratories available Equipment Maintenance and Control) and OH&S at all Çimsa plants and custom-made and Administrative Affairs Management (Auditing, products are designed and put at the Follow-up and Reporting). disposal of our customers. Çimsa’s objective is to produce the ready27 ready-mixed concrete facilities were issued G and mixed concrete, which will meet the KGS certificates by Turkish Association of Ready quality parameters such as endurance, Mixed Concrete (THBB). This agency conducts workability and functionality at the product inspections without notice 6 times a year highest level in line with the needs and a general inspection once a year at the plants and expectations of the customers, and laboratories. which will have high thermodynamic 60 2014 Sustainabilty Report G424 G4-25 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE F. STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS Çimsa respectfully listens to its stakeholders and advances sustainability development by Customers (Vendors and Users) considering their opinions. In parallel with Çimsa’s sustainability Employees Suppliers and strategy, the stakeholder meetings were Shareholders Subcontractors further strengthened in 2014 in order to achieve a continuous communication with NGOs & the stakeholders and to get their Trade Bodies opinions and recommendations Public agencies on the activities carried out. The ÇİMSA operational performance of Çimsa was shared transparently, Sector and other sector agencies not only economically but also in a way Local community to cover the environmental and social & Public opinion benefits, and the comments, requests and Financial recommendations of the stakeholders Institutions Group Companies were heard. Those in compliance with Academic Institutions company objectives were noted to be assessed for future periods. 61 2014 Sustainabilty Report G426 G4-27 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Stakeholder Meetings 2014 EMPLOYEES LOCAL EXTERNAL SUPPLIERS STAKEHOLDERS Considering that the stakeholders are the most important subjects in Çimsa’s business processes and value chain, establishing communication with stakeholders using effective mechanisms is adopted as a part of the Corporate Communication Strategy of the company. Dialogue with Employees The employees, who are the basis of Çimsa’s corporate Blue Collar Seminar Stakeholder meeting Survey success, are the primary stakeholders in corporate (Mersin, Kayseri, Afyon, (Mersin and Eskişehir) (carried out with selected sustainability efforts. The corporate sustainability Niğde, Eskişehir) group suppliers in order strategy and the actions concerning human resources White Collar Workshop to determine their current required the employees to be equipped in relation with (Mersin, Kayseri, Afyon, 1-to-1 dialogues status in sustainability sustainability issues and act in line with sustainability Niğde, Eskişehir) practices) principles in their activities. As supported by Çimsa’s Human Resources vision and objectives, seminars and workshops were organized at Afyon, Niğde, Mersin, Eskişehir and Kayseri plants in 2014, in which a total of 109 blue and white collar employees participated and which aimed at raising sustainability awareness. 62 2014 Sustainabilty Report G426 G4-27 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Dialogue with Employees Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials %7 Subjects Although these gatherings, with the employees, Recommended were in fact designed as training activities, it was Waste Management %4 by the also aimed to inform the employees about corporate Employees sustainability activities and to get feedback from the employees and to them motivate to take action. Biodiversity %3 During these seminars and workshops, it was Integration of External Stakeholders %11 observed that the employees are excited and eager Sustainability Contribution of for achieving Çimsa’s sustainability objectives. As it can be seen in the relevant graphic, the opinions and Economic Performance %6 recommendations mentioned by the employees at the meetings overlap with Çimsa sustainability issues. Energy/Water/Resource Efficiency %6 In addition to these, the issues such as waste management, biodiversity, efficiency in water Integration of Internal Stakeholders %18 Climate and Environmental %26 utilization, training the employees for sustainability consciousness, informing the suppliers, customers Management and other regional stakeholders on sustainability practices and getting them to cooperate were other prominent sustainability issues. Innovation %3 OH&S %3 (Please refer to Contribution to the Society) Supply Chain Management %8 Contribution to the Society %4 Sustainability Management %1 63 2014 Sustainabilty Report G426 G4-27 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Dialogue with Local External Stakeholders “Being reliable” is the most important value of Çimsa. In order to make this reliability continuous, Subjects Recommended by the Local Stakeholders the communication channels with the local and authorities are always open at the regions where Çimsa is operational. Their requests and suggestions Waste Management %19 are immediately inspected and the necessary improvement actions are taken. Biodiversity %6 Integration of External The cement plants, which were located at far Stakeholders %13 distances from settlements pursuant to the laws Sustainability Contribution of and regulations, became closer to settlements as Economic Performance %6 cities expanded to large areas. Pursuant to laws and Climate and Environmental regulations, the ready-mixed concrete plants are Management %19 constructed and operated in industrial zones located at certain distances to settlements. The limited Innovation %6 number of complaints received throughout the year by the plants and ready-mixed concrete facilities, which are more nested with the community, are Supply Chain Management %6 examined by the plant and facility management and the related persons are duly informed. Contribution to the Society %25 During 2014 reporting period, local stakeholder meetings were held for the first time with the Information was provided about the sustainability journey of Çimsa, together with achievements in general and its stakeholders in Mersin and Eskişehir in order to hear stance in challenging conditions; opinions were asked regarding the areas of improvement and the stakeholders these demands and opinions in a more professional were invited to cooperate. The customers, NGOs, suppliers, vendors, public agencies, trade chambers, municipalities atmosphere and to share the efforts transparently. and provincial environmental directorates participated in the local stakeholder meetings. 64 2014 Sustainabilty Report G426 G4-27 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Dialogue with Local External Stakeholders During the meetings, the stakeholders became aware that Çimsa in fact has activities for Distribution of the Subjects at Mersin and Eskişehir improving and developing many areas. The stakeholders observed that Çimsa could act Stakeholder Meetings as a leader to have more comprehensive local results. They also asked support for the %12 compliance of other businesses. 100% of the participants considered the meeting as useful and expressed their willingness to participate in the meetings to be held in future years. Efficient Use of %46 Resources Although most %19 MERSİN Environmental Policy of the issues mentioned at Contribution to Social Development at the meeting the meeting are %8 ol de r ex pe ct at ions mentioned %15 Stakeh sa for sharing er sh ip an d co operation of Çim already within the ÎÎ Lead ess with Employment lit y kn ow le dg e and consciousn scope of company the sustaina bi Policy , tions in the region Innovative R&D the other institu activities, the Activities gs regularly rg an iz in g th e st akeholders meetin ÎÎ O feedbacks rticipation, with broader pa ith the received have te m an ag em en t, cooperation w %14 ÎÎ Was gy, es an d us e of re fuse-derived ener been guiding Municipaliti es at mining te nd in g th e aff orestation ac tiviti for the activities Efficient Use of %24 ÎÎ Ex areas, Resources sites to broader in 2015 and garding e performance re ÎÎ Impr ov em ov en is io t n of of th su pp or t for the compl iance of beyond. For %20 ESKİŞEHİR Environmental Policy emissions, pr the upcoming in the region , other businesses e suppliers . years, Çimsa ov is io n of th e compliance of th Contribution to Social ÎÎ Pr Development plans to %14 extend the %28 stakeholder Employment Policy meetings to the regions where its plants are Innovative R&D Activities located and organize them systematically. 65 2014 Sustainabilty Report G426 G4-27 IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Dialogue with Suppliers Dialogue with Non-Governmental Organizations The compliance of suppliers with the sustainability activities was included in the Communication with Cement Industry Employers Union (ÇEİS), Turkish Cement agenda after the signing of UN Global Compact in 2014. A survey was conducted Manufacturers’ Association (TÇMB), Association of Building Materials Industrialists with a group of suppliers selected among Çimsa stakeholders for the determination (İMSAD) and Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) continues of their current status. As the result of the survey carried out with the sample group uninterruptedly. selected among suppliers raw materials, energy and logistics, it was determined that important activities of are being carried out on matters such as freedom of labour, In 2014, the activities of Business World and Sustainable Development Association (SKD) were closely followed and a report was submitted for “Energy Efficiency in anti-corruption, child labour, human rights and discrimination, and some areas are Buildings (EEB)” project. It was decided to build a pilot building at Çimsa Eskişehir still in the process of improvement. plant in the scope of Energy Efficiency in Buildings and the activities were started. Please refer to “Benefits to the Society” chapter for other dialogues and activities with NGOs ÇİMSA ESKİŞEHİR PLANT 66 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE G. CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY The social responsibility projects are an integral part of sustainability at Çimsa. As the sustainability awareness and understanding teamwork and team spirit. During ÒÒ Personal Mastery: develops, the practices and cooperation regarding the Learning Organization activities, Having a personal vision sustainability increase. The new business models of which was defined as “a group of and continual developing the 21st century companies have a far more different people who continually expand oneself to achieve it. understanding than the classical business models. their capacity both jointly and ÒÒMental Models: To see From now on, the companies are expected not only individually to reach a common the effects of view of life, to create financial values for its shareholders and the future they desire” by Peter Senge, assumptions and beliefs on economy, but also provide solutions for the problems the teams composed of employees relations, decisions and actions of the society through their business models. In this working at different levels as white and and to be able to talk about these. context, providing benefits to the society becomes blue collar employees implement projects that ÒÒ Shared Vision: A shared vision a part of their company business. Cimsa carries its will improve business processes. The teams is closing ranks for an objective. social contributions, from a donation based support continue their activities on the course at different regions, towards more systematic and of the principles defined in “The Five ÒÒ Team Learning: more inclusive model. The social responsibility Disciplines” philosophy stated below: Achieving much more than activities carried out in 2014, targeting performance personal results as a team by improvement and contribution to the society can be expanding the social relations networks, summarized as below. by practicing skills of rhetoric, seeing the bigger picture and developing common objectives, 1 Personal Mastery and by accepting personal differences as elements Learning Organization that enrich and strengthen the team. Through “Learning Organization” Implementation Mental Models 2 ÒÒ System Thinking: Seeing the bigger picture, Teams that have continued for 12 years, Çimsa aims focusing on the root causes and on actions with to provide permanent solutions for problems with 3 Shared Vision high leverage instead of quick solutions with a holistic point of view, as well as strengthening substantial side effects. Team Learning 4 5 System Thinking 67 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Learning Organization For 2015 Learning Organization , new teams formed ÒÒ Viscosity Team Eskişehir Plant: aims to in October 2014. The senior management identified decrease the average consumption of the industrial Sustainability as a theme. In this scope, the visions oils (hydraulic fluid, grease and reducer oil), which of the Learning Organization Implementation Teams, was 32 g/ton clinker in previous December May for which the activities were completed in 2014 at period, to 26 g/ton clinker in the upcoming 6 Çimsa, are as follows: months period (December May), to establish a ÒÒ Chat Team Kayseri Plant: aims to increase system that will provide continuity and to improve the implementation and provide continuity of 5S OH&S and environmental conditions. in SAP and to provide 80% permanent information systematic approach and raise the 5S systematic ÒÒ1 TRACK Team Mersin Plant: in order to improve for users by determining the areas of development approach implemented at 14 areas at the plant the utilization effectiveness of systems such as “SAP, of NGATE and QDMS systems. to 90 points and reducing the number of work NGATE, QDMS” used within the company, aims to accidents stemming from lack of neatness to zero The 2014 Learning Organisation Implementation establish the systematics that will provide 30% on May 2014. Teams achieved their planned visions at the end of ease of use for the most needed operation codes their activity periods with the support they received ÒÒ Leakage Team Ankara Plant: aims to reduce from the cause analysis activities and the social the specific amount of energy consumed for relations networks. With the activities carried out, pressurized air production at the plant in January the teams made significant contributions to Çimsa’s 2014 May 2014 period at least by 10% compared sustainability vision, as well as creating added value to January 2013 May 2013 period. for the business processes. For example, Ankara ÒÒ Success Team Afyon Plant: aims to increase Leakage Team prevented 114 tons of CO2 emission MTBF the shifting average value of 2nd Rotary Kiln, with the energy saving they achieved as the result which was 8.5 in October 2013, to 11.5 until the end of their activities. Similarly, Eskişehir Viscosity Team of May 2014. successfully decreased the consumption of industrial ÒÒ Good Works Team Niğde Plant: aims to reach oils by 6 gr/ton and saved 6000 litres of water from to 75% of the customers, and cooperate with 51% of being unusable and 30.000 litres of water from being reached customers on 3 separate projects involving undrinkable. Based on the needs of the stakeholders, mutual learning, and maintain the continuity of Niğde Good Works Team carried out activities aimed these activities. at raising awareness on occupational health and safety and on environment. 68 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Learning Organization For the 2015 Learning Organization new teams formed and to achieve 20% saving in the amount of energy November 2014, to average 3 Risk Notifications per in October 2014 for activities. the senior management used for illumination in January-May 2015 period, person per month between November 2014 and identified Sustainability as a theme. In the scope of compared to January-May 2014. May 2015 and to provide continuity of notifications. this theme, the implementation teams formed the ÒÒ Rainbow Team Afyon Plant: aims to eliminate ÒÒ Take Care Team Mersin Plant: aims to increase following visions: at least 70% of the main dust sources identified at the number of risk notifications, which was 0,6 ÒÒNot Residue Team Ready-Mixed Concrete: aims the plant. per person between January 2014 and September to decrease the amount of residual cement to be ÒÒ Risk Team Ankara Plant: aims to increase the 2014 (414 notifications) to 2 notifications per disposal and to increase amount of recycled water number of risk notifications, which was average person between October 2014 and May 2015 (1400 used in production. 0,5 per person per month in 2013 and average 0,5 notifications), and to increase the ratio of solution of ÒÒ Deleteam Eskişehir Plant: aims to establish per person per month between January 2014 and the notified risks from 33,4% to 80%. a sustainable waste management system in ÒÒ Zollu Team Kayseri Plant: aims to reach at compliance with OH&S and environmental least 300 persons from the stakeholders between legislation for 100% of the hazardous and nonOctober 2014 and May 2015 and organize 3 hazardous wastes at Çimsa plants until May 2015, activities to increase OH&S awareness and a to implement this system at Eskişehir plant and to campaign that the stakeholders can participate become a model for the other plants. to increase environmental awareness, to make ÒÒNine Powers Team Niğde Plant: aims to optimize observations on behavioural changes on 30% of the the illuminated areas across the plant without target audience and to establish the organization sacrificing OH&S, to provide standardization required for ensuring the continuity of change. 69 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Social Responsibility Projects and Activities Recycling Providing Support for Spastic Children’s Foundation of Turkey Through Steptember Project Çimsa continues to act in line with a sustainability Çimsa employees conditions. In 2014, the nursery classroom of Çarıklı perspective in every field in daily business processes, voluntarily supported Village Mehmet Babar Primary School, where 10 offices and sites. Easily accessible recycling bins the “Steptember” students are enrolled, was reorganised in a way to are provided for the recycling of materials used at social responsibility provide a better education and the classroom of the administrative offices and plants. So, the paper, project conducted the primary school was renovated. In addition to plastic, glass and batteries used at the offices are by Spastic Children’s improving the physical educational conditions of the Foundation of Turkey. students, the need for stationary materials and toys regularly recycled. Total 12 employees was met. in 3 groups took In 2014, a total of 3.834 kg glass and paper was sent 10.000 steps per day for recycling at Niğde Plant. While a total of 340 kg in different activities waste paper, plastics and glass was recycled at Ankara during September to make a difference in lives plant, 5.500 kg of waste was recycled at Kayseri of children and adults with cerebral palsy. At the plant. At Afyon Plant, 1.600 kg of glass, plastics and same time, different campaigns were carried out cans and 1.250 kg of paper were collected. to collect donations for the project. On September 27-28, Çimsa 1 Team was the winner of the week A total of 18 kg of waste batteries was collected in 2014 by collecting the highest amount of donations and and was sent to Portable Batteries Manufacturers outperformed the teams of other companies that and Exporters Association. The waste batteries participated in the project. collected at Niğde Plant were used in the waste battery campaign organized by Niğde Provincial Environment Directorate. At the end of the campaign, Contribution to Education from Çimsa stationary materials were supplied for Çarıklı village Çimsa carries out activities contributing to education primary school. It is aimed to raise the awareness at provinces where it operates. In this context, the of employees by providing regular recycling of the nursery classroom of a village school is renovated every year in order to improve preschool educational materials used. 70 2014 Sustainabilty Report IV. OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Social Responsibility Projects and Activities Çimsa Volunteers collaborated with NGOs Summer Kids Corporate Social Responsibility Project Since 2011, Çimsa is a member of Private Sector Since 2012, Çimsa has been implementing the Volunteers Association, which was for the adoption Summer Kids project at Niğde Plant, in order to of volunteerism by private sector employees and to contribute to the social, emotional and physical provide systematic sustainability. The volunteers were development of children between 7 and 12 and to help introduced to the concept of volunteerism through them spend their summer vacation more efficiently. During creative writing sessions they create their own the training provided by the Association. books, by writing stories using their imagination. Çimsa participated in the activities of United Nations Global Compact Turkey Women’s Empowerment The children of Çimsa employees and children from Sub Working Group, which was signed in 2013. On Kolsuz and Hüsniye Villages of Niğde participated in the course of the information obtained during the the Summer Kids project in 2014. The Summer Kids activities, the “Equality at Work” article was added project, in which 99 children participated, in 2014 was to the corporate procedures in order to contribute to carried out at the Guest House of Niğde Plant between gender equality. June 16 and July 25. At the end of two-week terms, children were presented certificates of participation Çimsa sponsors the activities of Environment Friendly on the closing day held with their families. Green Buildings Association, which aims to increase ecological awareness and sustainability approach in The program, consisting of creative drama, creative building industry. writing, basketball, volleyball and coordination sessions, is prepared by pedagogues specifically for Çimsa employees supported “Donate Blood, Donate age groups. The program lasts for two weeks, with Life” campaign of Kızılay (Turkish Red Crescent) and their donations were passed to the people in need. the participation of children at ages 7-8, 9-10 and The project, which was supported by all blue and 11-12 as separate groups. The Summer Kids project, white collar employees, was carried out with the aims to develop self-confidence, problem solving and collaboration with Kızılay Branches at the provinces communication skills of children as well as raising where Çimsa plants are located. awareness about their physical characteristics. The children have fun throughout their summer holidays. 71 REPORTING APPROACH 2014 Sustainabilty Report G417 G4-18 G4-22 G4-23 V. REPORTING APPROACH Reporting Approach Çimsa’s sustainability report, which includes the A. Scope and Boundaries of the Report The report may include expectations, plans and economic, environmental and social performances objectives regarding Çimsa’s future-oriented financial This report is prepared for the stakeholders of of ÇİMSA Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (Çimsa) in 2014, is and operational performances and some comments Çimsa, taking into consideration the economic, presented on the basis of openness, transparency and and assumptions beyond 2014. However, since future environmental and social impacts that Çimsa created accountability criteria in the light of Çimsa’s business performance expectations may depend on some during its operations in cement and ready mixed principles as in previous reports. The report covers assumptions, uncertainties and judgements, they are concrete sectors in Turkey, and the relevant business the criteria reported also in previous years, with the open to risk factors that may affect the consequences. principles. The report aims to provide information on data and areas of development pertaining to 2014. the activities carried out and planned to be carried During the identification of strategic matters and out by the company in order to minimise the likely While conducting its current business and operations, collection of data, all cement plants and ready-mixed impacts of its operations. Thus, the stakeholders Çimsa places the human factor and concrete facilities of Çimsa were examined. The data will be able to monitor the measuring, follow-up and sustainability awareness at is presented separately for cement and ready-mixed improvement steps of the sustainability performance the heart of all its concrete in the annexed tables and it covers only the in Çimsa’s triple reporting process. activities. In data pertaining to Çimsa and affiliated operations. this regard, Çimsa pays Since the sustainability activities at Afyon Çimento utmost care to Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., which was acquired in June 2012, take the actions are currently being structured and the plant site and that positively infrastructure are being renovated and constructed, respond the the information on Afyon Çimento was included only future needs and in “Corporate Profile” chapter of this report with a expectations of the view to provide a coherent performance regarding the stakeholders. 2014 data provided by years. Afyon Plant is not included in Sustainability Report the data on sustainability performance. In addition, is an important work in all operations of Çimsa, except for logistics activities which the sustainability carried out with Çimsa’s terminals and suppliers priorities of the abroad, are included in the scope of this report. stakeholders are observed more closely and their The matters of priority in the report and the other suggestions and solutions limits regarding the described items are presented in are shared. “Sustainability Strategy” chapter. 73 2014 Sustainabilty Report G4-18 G4-22 G4-23 V. REPORTING APPROACH Reporting Approach Report Presentation Format Definition of Report Content and Stakeholder Dialogue As it can be followed from Çimsa’s web pages, the Sustainability Reports are made available During the preparation and determination of content of Çimsa Sustainability Report, the in the web site in PDF format every year, and printed copies are sent to the addresses of the globally applicable principles of GRI concerning materiality, importance, stakeholder stakeholders. This year, unlike previous years, the report is made available only in the web page participation, sustainability context and integrity were applied. The headings in the in a dedicated section and the executive summary is shared with the stakeholders. The pages at report were identified as the result of Çimsa’s existing activities and the comments www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik.org contain summary information about the report, and detailed made at the seminars and workshops in which the employees the most important content and information will be available via links. Moreover, these pages currently contain a stakeholder group and mixed local stakeholders participated, and they were examined downloadable and printable PDF version of the report. Considering that the technology advances and approved at the workshops and meetings held with senior management. every year, making the report available for the access and use of the users on the internet will provide practicality for all stakeholders in order to access information rapidly and from its source. At the activities where the stakeholders shared their opinions and recommendations, the economical, social, environmental and management impacts of Çimsa in the frame B. Compliance with Reporting Guidelines and Principles, Audit of sustainability were considered for the entire company. The identified headings are presented according to their importance and priority and together with data Çimsa Sustainability Report was prepared in compliance with “Core” level, on the basis of G4 appropriate for the reporting period. standard principles of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, which have global applicability. These Guidelines establish a frame in which the companies can report the environmental, economic and social impacts in the scope of sustainability, the corporate management principles, their objectives and activities devoted at such impacts and the results of such activities. www.globalreporting.org The report also contains the principles of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which was signed in 2013, again in GRI reporting format. www.unglobalcompact.org In the calculation of some of the data presented in the report, especially the principles of Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) of World Business Council for Sustainable Development were taken into account. www.wbcsdcement.org The emission performances figures in the report are in compliance with CDP reporting data, for which reporting was commenced in 2014. www.cdp.net 74 2014 Sustainabilty Report G4-18 G4-22 G4-23 V. REPORTING APPROACH Reporting Approach United Nations Global Compact The summary information on compliance with reporting principles is given in the table below. TOPIC CONTENT Çimsa works with a holistic view on sustainability and the programs it participated. Çimsa believes Principles What we understand How we respond that the United National Global Compact signed The report should define the stakeholders of the Included in Sustainability Strategy chapter and across Report Stakeholder content Participation company and elaborate how the company responds the report, with Dialogue with Stakeholders being the in 2012 integrates the sustainability activities and to stakeholder expectations essential part. makes them more meaningful. The complementarity Sustainability The report should explain the sustainability activities Included under Our Sustainability Performance of the United National Global Compact is a natural Context of the company in a broad perspective The report should reflect the important outcome, as Çimsa is a company that integrated environmental, social and economic impacts of the Materiality company and it should also substantially reflect the Explained in detail under Sustainability Strategy. Sabancı Holding Corporate Governance Principles assessments and decisions of stakeholders and SA-Ethics business principles to its business The report should reflect the impacts of economic, social and environmental sustainability issues during process since a long time. In this context, the report The scope and boundries of Çimsa sustainability issues Completeness reporting period of the company and it should outline the content and framework of these issues for are explained in Sustainability Strategy chapter. was also prepared as UNGC reporting, and relevant stakeholders explanations can be seen in GRI Content Tables and Report Balance The report should include the performance data on Challenges and opportunities encountered during the in the report and the web pages can be visited. Quality negative and positive impacts with reasons sustainability activities are reported in the report. The data included in the report should provide The issues explained in the report is broadened since continuity information to allow the stakeholders to 2012 reporting period and reported every year in Comparability assess the changes in the company's performance order to allow the stakeholders to compare company over time performance retrospectively and with other institutions The reported content should include accurate All data included in the report is elaborated and Accuracy information, in a manner allowing the stakeholders to presented to the stakeholders in compliance with the assess company performance principles of ethics, transparency and accountability The reporting should be done on a regular basis to Timeliness allow the stakeholders to assess the information Çimsa sustainability reporting is carried out annually. presented The report can be downloaded from The report should be comprehensible and accessible www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik.org along with Çimsa Clarity for the use of stakeholders website and the printable pdf version is available for the information of stakeholders The company should gather, record, compile, analyze The report is not subjected to a specific type of audit. and disclose information and processes used in the Yet since the completeness and transparency of the data Reliability preparation of the report in a way that they can we present are important for us, the audits conducted be subject to examination and that establishes the for certain principles of the report are included in GRI quality and materiality of the information Content Tables and within the report itself. 75 TABLES 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES A. 2020 OBJECTIVES 3 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ÇİMSA CEMENT PLANTS’ ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND REPORTING Systematic collection and monitoring of environmental data INCREASING USE OF ALTERNATIVE FUELS Realized Realized Definition of Objective Key Performance Indicator Unit Objective 2015 Objective 2020 2013 2014 Ratio of fuel substituted with waste Decreasing fossil fuel use % 7 7.11 6.5 10.6 (on calorific basis) RESTORATION OF LANDS TO THE NATURE AND QUARRIES AND MINIMIZING LOCAL IMPACTS Key Performance Indicator Realized Realized Definition of Objective Unit Objective 2015 Objective 2020 (Cumulative) 2013 2014 Rehabilitation of mining quarries Amount of area rehabilitated ha 12 12 12 16 CLIMATE CHANGE AND PROTECTION Realized Realized Definition of Objective Key Performance Indicator Unit Objective 2015 Objective 2020 2013 2014 Çimsa's CO2 reduction objectives after 2012 will be in compliance with the international agreements to be signed by Turkey and the decisions to be made by Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ CO2 emission Association (TÇMB). 3 Çimsa is not manufacturing aggregate as of 2013. Therefore, the relevant objectives were excluded from the report. 77 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ÇİMSA CEMENT PLANTS’ ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES MANAGEMENT AND REDUCTION OF EMISSIONS Definition of Objective Key Performance Indicator Unit Realized 2013 Objective 2014 Realized 2014 Objective 2015 Objective 2020 At plants incinerating waste <30 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit Dust level mg/Nm3 14 < 50 12 At plants not incinerating Values waste < 50 At plants incinerating waste <800 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit NOx level mg/Nm3 732 < 1300 718 At plants not incinerating Values waste <1300 Provision of compliance with environmental regulations 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit through constant control of Volatile organic compounds mg/Nm3 17 < 150 22 < 150 Values emissions 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit Heavy Metals (Hg+ Cd+ Tl) mg/Nm3 0.006 < 0.05 0.011 < 0.05 Values 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit Dioxin/Furan ųg/Nm3 0.007 < 0.1 0.087 < 0.1 Values 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit HCl mg/Nm3 0.57 10 0.32 10 Values 2020 Environmental Regulations Limit HF mg/Nm3 0.21 1 0.20 1 Values Online monitoring of dust and Ratio of kilns where dust and NOx % 43 43 100 100 100 NOx values values can be monitored online Conversion of electrofilters to bag Ratio of conversion of rotary kiln % 57 57 86 86 100 filters electrofilters to bag filters PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Unit Realized 2013 Objective 2014 Realized 2014 Objective 2015 Objective 2020 Percentage of recycled paper/cardboard packaging % 42 42 44 44 60 78 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES ÇİMSA OH&S Sustainability Objectives (2014+) Cement Unit 2014+ Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities (Subcontractor) Person 0 Fatalities (3rd Party) Person 0 Accident Frequency Rate Ratio 0 Lost Working Day Day 0 Absentee Days Excluding Accident Day 0 Ready-Mixed Concrete Unit 2014+ Fatalities Person 0 Fatalities (Subcontractor) Person 0 Fatalities (3rd Party) Person 0 Accident Frequency Ratio 0 Lost Working Day Day 0 Absentee Days Excluding Accident Day 0 79 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES B. PERFORMANCE TABLES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DATA ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED AND DISTRIBUTED Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Economic Value Created (Net Sales) Million TL 765.75 805.58 875.40 982.95 EC-1 Economic Value Distributed to the Stakeholders Operational Costs* [Cost of goods sold (excluding amortization and personnel costs), Million TL 513.04 525.01 571.48 596.52 EC-1 General Administrative Expenses, Non-Strategic Investments, Copyrights, etc.] Benefits Paid to the Government (Taxes, etc.) Million TL 61.60 70.74 101.93 118.74 EC-1 Benefits Paid to the Investors and Shareholders (Dividend, etc.) Million TL 94.83 106.72 98.07 155.89 EC-1 Benefits Paid to the Financial Institutions (Interest, etc.) Million TL 15.91 34.3 25.07 16.65 EC-1 Benefits Paid to the Employees (Salaries, etc.) Million TL 55.97 57.17 65.41 73.23 EC-1 Benefits Paid to the Society (Donations, etc.) Million TL 1.45 0.2759 10.27 2.80 EC-1 TOTAL 742.80 794.22 872.24 963.83 Economic Value In Stock Million TL 38.86 45.67 28.23 35.77 Financial Aids from State Tax Deductions (R&D Deductions + Export Lump Sum Expenses) Million TL 0.93 0.8192 0.8648 1.0298 EC-4 Other Benefits Paid to Employees Contribution of Çimsa to Individual Pension System for the Million TL 0.30 0.34 0.34 0.43 EC-3 Employees Total number of employees in Individual Pension System Person 154 165 158 256 EC-3 80 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Gray cement production tonnes 4,543,044 4,715,042 4,759,454 4,397,941 EN 1 White cement production tonnes 965,926 902,293 984,975 979,982 EN 1 Calcium Aluminate cement production tonnes 27,320 28,644 EN 1 Aggregate production amount tonnes 3,300,000 2,436,000 3,337,000 1,664,956 EN 1 Ready-mixed concrete production amount m3 3,041,782 2,665,546 2,636,855 2,438,657 EN 1 MATERIALS Gray cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Gray clinker natural raw material amount tonnes 5,699,371 5,980,292 6,133,601 5,406,896 EN 1 Clinker produced tonnes 3,984,355 3,946,950 4,001,839 3,884,590 EN 1 Alternative raw materials tonnes 114,452 180,581 211,583 134,775 EN 1 Conventional fossil fuels tonnes 430,180 404,446 398,106 409,505 EN 1 Alternative fuels tonnes 23,998 43,099 42,380 48,906 EN 1 White cement 2011 2012 2013 Clinker natural raw material amount tonnes 914,664 1,064,718 955,098 948,511 EN 1 Clinker produced tonnes 875,929 895,923 1,041,091 1,050,454 EN 1 Alternative raw materials tonnes 49,465 85,454 110,711 128,583 EN 1 Conventional fossil fuels tonnes 122,027 115,402 142,399 144,050 EN 1 Aggregate 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total natural raw material (limestone) tonnes 2,795,000 2,700,000 3,900,000 1,664,956 EN 1 Ready-mixed concrete 2011 2012 2013 2014 Alternative raw material (volatile ash) tonnes 52,530 61,815 46,200 79,507 EN 1 Alternative raw material (cinder) tonnes 53,259 89,048 80,995 99,253 EN 1 Ratio of recycled materials used as inputs Gray Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Ratio of alternative raw material use percentage 1.63 2.47 3.05 1.99 EN 2 Ratio of alternative raw fuel use percentage 4.60 7.50 7.02 7.11 EN 2 White Cement Ratio of alternative raw material use percentage 3.42 4.77 6.09 7.46 EN 2 Direct energy consumption Gray Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total thermal energy consumption TJ 13,113 13,217 13,402 13,340 EN 3 Specific kiln thermal energy consumption MJ/clinker 3,293 3,292 3,334 3,416 EN 5 Clinker/cement ratio percentage 81.3 80.5 82.3 82.2 EN 3 White Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total thermal energy consumption TJ 4,155 4,631 4,835 4,894 EN 3 Indirect energy consumption Cement (Gray + White) Electricity consumption TJ/y 2,090 2,056 2,294 2,251 EN 3 Ready-Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 2013 2014 Electricity consumption TJ/y 12.7 15.9 15.85 14.6 EN 3 Aggregate 2011 2012 2013 2014 Electricity consumption TJ/y 20.2 16.4 29.5 14.5 EN 3 81 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA BIODIVERSITY Rehabilitation of mining quarries ha 9.5 11.5 12 12 EN 13 EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas emissions Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 1) million tonnes/y 4.3 4.3 4.5 4.40 EN 15 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 1) White million tonnes/y 1.03 EN 15 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 1) Gray million tonnes/y 3.38 EN 15 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 1) Calcium Aluminate million tonnes/y 0.01 EN 15 Gray Cement Specific CO2 Emission (Scope 1) kg CO2/tonnes cementitious 711 701 732 726 EN 18 Gray Cement Specific CO2 Emission (Scope 2) kg CO2/tonnes cementitious 52 44 EN 18 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 2)-Gray tonnes CO2/y 245,182 203,208 EN 16 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 2)-White tonnes CO2/y 65,335 69,907 EN 16 Total CO2 Emission (Scope 2)-Calcium Aluminate tonnes CO2/y 2,268 EN 16 CO2 Amount of saving (Amount of saving from waste heat) tonnes/y 23,919 21,964 EN 19 NOx, SOx, dust and other air emissions Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total dust emission tonnes/y 128 108 156 137 EN 21 Specific dust emission g/t clinker 25 25 31 26 EN 21 Grinding and Packaging 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Dust emission g/t cement 3.88 1.68 EN 21 Ready-Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 2013 2014 Suspended dust emission mg/N m3 1.47 1.33 1.39 EN 21 Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total NOx emission tonnes/y 7417 5368 7196 7608 EN 21 Specific NOx emission g/t clinker 1459 1227 1430 1466 EN 21 Total Heavy Metals tonnes/y 0.1 0.07 0.08 0.09 EN 21 Specific Heavy Metals g/t clinker 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 EN 21 Total volatile organic compounds tonnes/y 135 125 139 196 EN 21 Specific volatile organic compounds g/t clinker 31 29 32 43 EN 21 Total Dioxin/Furan g/y 0.076 0.125 0.079 0.087 EN 21 Specific Dioxin/Furan g/kg clinker 0.017 0.028 0.018 0.019 EN 21 Total HCl tonnes/y 2 2 4 2 EN 21 Specific HCl g/t clinker 1 1 1 1 EN 21 Total HF tonnes/y 2 2 2 2 EN 21 Specific HF g/t clinker 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.3 EN 21 82 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA WASTES Cement Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Hazardous waste tonnes/y 91 186 153 61 EN 23 Non-hazardous waste Recycled waste tonnes/y 323 1200 857 594 EN 23 Domestic waste tonnes/y 226 238 226 88 EN 23 Ready-Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 2013 2014 GRI Hazardous waste tonnes/y 12.6 5.4 EN 23 Non-hazardous waste Domestic waste tonnes/y 57.5 64.2 EN 23 Percentage of cement sold in packages and in bulk according to categories Gray Cement Bulk percentage 76.1 80.6 79.3 74.2 EN 28 Packed percentage 23.9 19.4 20.7 25.8 EN 28 White Cement Bulk percentage 48.7 43.7 38.2 47 EN 28 Packed percentage 51.3 56.3 61.8 53 EN 28 Ratio of packaging recovered percentage 40 40 42 44 EN28 GENERAL Cement 2011 2012 2013 2014 Expenditures for Environmental Protection Activities million TL 61.2 22.14 19.61 9.67 EN 31 Ready-Mixed Concrete 2011 2012 2013 2014 Expenditures for Environmental Protection Activities million TL 0.64 5.33 4.30 5.24 EN 31 Aggregate 2011 2012 2013 2014 Expenditures for Environmental Protection Activities million TL 0.29 1.01 0.97 0.10 EN 31 83 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES SOCIAL PERFORMANCE DATA Unit 2012 2013 2014 G4 Trainings Occupational Health and Safety Trainings Çimsa Employees Total OH&S Training Provided Hours/Year 12,500 6,395 16,635 LA9 Çimsa Subcontractors Total OH&S Training Provided Hours/Year 8,250 2,829 3,761 LA9 Business Ethics Trainings Çimsa Employees Managers Trained on Ethics Percentage 100 100 100 SO4 Employees Trained on Ethics Hours/Year 100 333 374 SO4 Ethics Training per Employee 1 1 1 1 SO4 General Trainings Çimsa Employees Average training per employee Hours/Year 18.57 21.3 40.67 LA9 Employee Turnover Ratios Consolidated (Recruitment + Quitting) Inside the Scope Percentage 4,4% 19,1% 15,3% LA1 Outside the Scope Percentage 7,9% 22,3% 10,4% LA1 Total Percentage 5,9% 20,9% 13,2% LA1 Labour force data Total Employees White Collar Employees Person 445 418 408 G4-10 Blue Collar Employees Person 558 542 550 G4-10 Employees of Subcontractors Person 348 1108 1066 G4-10 Çimsa Employees Under Contract Number of Permanent Contracts Person 1001 960 958 G4-10 Number of Temporary Contracts Person 2 0 0 G4-10 Full time employees Person 1003 960 958 G4-10 Part time employees Person 0 0 0 G4-10 Gender Male Person 956 911 913 G4-10 Female Person 47 49 45 G4-10 Age Between 20-29 Person 150 182 184 G4-10 Between 30-39 Person 514 489 482 G4-10 Between 40-49 Person 297 260 260 G4-10 Between 50-60 Person 42 29 32 G4-10 Employees in Minority Groups Person 0 0 0 G4-10 Distribution of employees according to positions Senior management Person 12 15 16 G4-10 Middle level management Person 34 34 31 G4-10 Line management Person 39 71 95 G4-10 Expert/Engineer Person 118 102 127 G4-10 Other white collar personnel Person 242 196 139 G4-10 Blue collar personnel Person 558 542 550 G4-10 84 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES SOCIAL PERFORMANCE DATA OUR SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Labour force data Distribution of Personnel (31.12.2014) (By age groups) Regional Distribution Age 20-25 Age 26-30 Age 31-35 Age 36-40 Age 41-45 Age 46-50 Above 50 Total Headquarters (İstanbul) 3 8 10 7 7 1 6 42 Mersin Plant 21 85 85 91 59 45 10 396 Eskişehir Plant 12 42 55 38 25 9 2 183 Kayseri Plant 5 19 38 23 11 12 1 109 Niğde Plant 2 22 22 20 24 12 2 104 Ankara Plant 0 1 5 15 3 2 2 28 Ready-Mixed Concrete 1 20 36 16 14 4 0 91 Aggregate 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 Terminal 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 3 Total 44 197 251 213 145 85 23 958 Distribution of Personnel (31.12.2014) (By positions) Regional Distribution Total Senior management Management (Director) Supervisor (Chief/Expert) Officer/Technician Blue Collar Headquarters (İstanbul) 42 8 9 24 1 0 LA1 Mersin Plant 396 2 14 108 23 249 LA1 Eskişehir Plant 183 1 3 39 11 129 LA1 Kayseri Plant 109 1 1 26 5 76 LA1 Niğde Plant 104 1 0 24 0 79 LA1 Ankara Plant 28 3 0 7 1 17 LA1 Ready-Mixed Concrete 91 4 34 53 0 LA1 Aggregate 2 2 0 LA1 Terminal 3 3 0 LA1 Total 958 16 31 267 94 550 Personnel Recruited and Quitted (01.01.2014-31.12.2014) : (125 persons in-127 persons out) Recruited Quitted Regional Distribution Number Ratio Number Ratio Headquarters (İstanbul) 7 6% 7 6% LA1 Mersin Plant 82 66% 62 49% LA1 Eskişehir Plant 18 14% 23 18% LA1 Kayseri Plant 11 9% 9 7% LA1 Niğde Plant 3 2% 6 5% LA1 Ankara Plant 1 1% 1 1% LA1 Ready-Mixed Concrete 3 2% 15 12% LA1 Aggregate 0 0% 4 3% LA1 Terminal 0 0% 0 0% LA1 Personnel Recruited and Quitted (01.01.2014-31.12.2014) : (125 persons in-127 persons out) Recruited Quitted Distribution by gender and age Number Ratio Number Ratio Number of Female Employees 6 5% 10 8% LA1 Number of Male Employees 119 95% 117 92% LA1 Age group 20-25 35 28% 3 2% LA1 Age group 26-30 56 45% 22 17% LA1 Age group 31-35 22 18% 35 28% LA1 Age group 36-40 7 6% 34 27% LA1 Age group 41-45 2 2% 13 10% LA1 Age group 45-50 3 2% 14 11% LA1 50 and above 0 0% 6 5% LA1 Ratio to General Employee Number 13,0% 13,3% LA1 Report Period Data Number Number of personnel who took maternal leave in report period 2 LA3 Number of personnel who returned from maternal leave in report period 2 LA3 Number of personnel who returned from maternal leave and still worked in past 12 months and in 0,2% LA3 reporting period and its ratio to total personnel who returned from maternal leave 85 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES C.CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS ACRONYM NAME OF ASSOCIATION/FOUNDATION/UNION/INSTITUTION REPRESENTATIVE IN MANAGEMENT DUTY SKD/TBCSD Business Council for Sustainable Development Nevra ÖZHATAY Member ÇEDBİK Association of Environment Friendly Green Buildings Nevra ÖZHATAY Member TÜSİAD Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association ÇİMSA (Corporate Representation) Serra SABANCI Member TÜSİAD Turkish Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association Hakan GÜRDAL Member TURMEPA Clean Sea Association Nevra ÖZHATAY Member CEMBUREAU Cembureau The European Cement Association Member PERYÖN Turkish Personnel Management Association Bilgen ÇAĞLI Member TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Nevra ÖZHATAY Treasurer of the Board TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Memduh GÜLLÜ Member TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Remzi KARATAL Member TKYD Corporate Governance Association of Turkey Ümit ÇETİN Member ÖSGD Private Sector Volunteers Association Bilgen ÇAĞLI Member ÖSGD Private Sector Volunteers Association Associate Member of Supervisory Board İMSAD Building Materials Industrialists Association Member TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Nevra ÖZHATAY Corporate Representative TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Hakan GÜRDAL Vice Chairman of the Board and Chairman of Sustainability Subcommittee TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Şahap SARIER Member of Technical Permanent Committee Member of Environment and Climate Change Committee, Member of Temporary Sub-Committee of Wastes and Petroleum Coke, Member of TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association (EÇKA) İsmail BOZ Temporary Sub-Committee of On-line Connection, Member of the Board of Directors of Environment and Climate Commission TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Önder KIRCA Member of Permanent Committee of Ready-Mixed Concrete Sub-Committee of Concrete Road and Concrete Barriers TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Çağatay AVŞAR OH&S Member of Board TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Member of Permanent Committee of Ready-Mixed Concrete Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Tolga KALE Member of Permanent Committee of Ready-Mixed Concrete Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Yeşim TEKNİKER Member of Permanent Committee of Ready-Mixed Concrete Sub-Committee of Environment and Occupational Safety TÇMB Turkish Cement Manufacturers’ Association Member of Permanent Technical Committee, Technical Expertise Committee Member of Standards ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union ÇİMSA (Corporate Representation) Member ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union Hakan GÜRDAL Member of Board of Directors ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union Bilgen ÇAĞLI ÇAİK (Board of Work Relations) Deputy President ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union Çağatay AVŞAR OH&S Member of Board ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union Caner TÜRKYENER ÇEİS Member of Cement National Competencies Board (ÇYK) ÇEİS Cement Industry Employers' Union İlhami BARILDAR (OH&S Leader) Member of ÇEİS Business Evaluation SAHOL H.Ö.Sabancı Holding A.Ş. İsmail BOZ Member of Environmental Committee THBB Turkish Association of Ready-Mixed Concrete Önder KIRCA Member of Board of Directors THBB Turkish Association of Ready-Mixed Concrete Corporate Representative, Member of Technical Committee THBB Turkish Association of Ready-Mixed Concrete Yeşim TEKNİKER Member of Environmental Committee THBB Turkish Association of Ready-Mixed Concrete Tolga KALE Member of Environmental Committee MAK.MÜH.ODASI Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Mustafa TURAN Member MAK.MÜH.ODASI Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Faruk ÖZERGİL (Planning Leader) Member ÇMO Chamber of Enviromental Engineers İlhami BARILDAR (OH&S Leader) Member MAD.MÜH.ODASI Chamber of Mining Engineers Enver AYAS (Raw Materials Leader) Member AKİB Mediterranean Exporters' Association ÇİMSA (Corporate Representation) Member OAİB Central Anatolia Exporters' Association Erbil KOÇAK Member of Board of Directors ÇİMSA (Corporate Representation)-Ready-Mixed TİC. VE SAN.ODALARI Chambers of Trade and Industry Corporate Membership of All Plants and Ready-Mixed Concrete Facilities Concrete Regional Directors MESİAD Mersin Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association Levent ÖNCEL (Corporate Representation) Mersin Plant Membership WBCSD CSI World Business Council for Sustainable Development Cement Sustainability Initiative ÇİMSA (Corporate Representation) Nevra Özhatay GC Turkey UN Global Compact Çimsa (Corporate Representation) 86 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES D.GRI INDEX TABLES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Message of General Manager p. 5-6 No Audit Made CORPORATE PROFILE G4-3 Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. p. 96 No Audit Made G4-4 Products p. 11, Çimsa 2014 Annual Report p. 24-27 No Audit Made G4-5 İstanbul, Türkiye p. 96 No Audit Made G4-6 Corporate Profile p. 9, Communication p. 96-97 No Audit Made G4-7 Corporate Profile p. 8-9 No Audit Made G4-8 Corporate Profile p. 8-9, Communication p. 96-97 No Audit Made G4-9 Corporate Profile p. 8-9, Economic Performance Data p. 80, Social Performance Data p. 84-85 No Audit Made Social Performance Tables p. 84-85, At Çimsa, for all employment except apprenticeship, permanent and full time work contract practices are the basis except for exceptional cases. The flexible employment G4-10 practices are carried out through the employees of subcontractor companies. The distribution of total No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 labour force by regions is directly proportional with the sizes of businesses and workplaces and permanent staff requirements. There was no important change in the number of employees. All the blue collar employees employed at Çimsa are in the scope of Collective Labour Agreement. As of G4-11 December 31, 2014, the total number of employees covered in the scope of Çimsa's Group Collective Labour No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 3 Agreement is 550; and the ratio of this to total number of employees is 57.4%. G4-12 Our sustainability matters in the value chain p. 18 No Audit Made Depending on the decision of Board of Directors no. 1532 dated October 7, 2014, the remaining 50% share of CIMSA CEMENT SALES NORTH GMBH resident in Germany, in which we had 50% share, was transferred to G4-13 No Audit Made Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. As the result of this operation, Çimsa’s share in CIMSA CEMENT SALES NORTH GMBH company increased from 50% to 100%. G4-14 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics p. 13-14, Risk Management p. 25, 2014 Annual Report p. 43 No Audit Made G4-15 Message of General Manager p. 5-6, Voluntary Initiatives p. 21 No Audit Made G4-16 Corporate Memberships p. 86 No Audit Made 87 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Corporate Profile p. 8-9; Communication 96-97, Cimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U. (Spain), Cimsa Cement Sales North GMBH (Germany), CimsaRom Marketing Distributie S.R.L. (Romania), 000 Çimsa Rus CTK G4-17 (Russia), Cimsa Adriatico SRL (Italy), Cimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. (TRNC), Afyon Çimento San. T.A.Ş. (51% No Audit Made partnership). The sustainability data pertaining to Afyon Çimento San. T.A.Ş. and terminals abroad is not included in the scope of the report. Reporting Approach p. 73-74 G4-18 Çimsa Sustainability Issues p. 20-21, Reporting Approach p. 73-75 No Audit Made G4-19 Çimsa Material Sustainability Issues p. 18, 20-21 No Audit Made G4-20 Çimsa Material Sustainability Issues p. 22 No Audit Made G4-21 Çimsa Material Sustainability Issues p. 22 No Audit Made G4-22 Reporting Approach p. 73-75 No Audit Made G4-23 Sustainability Management p. 19, Çimsa Sustainability Issues p. 21, Reporting Approach p.73-75 No Audit Made STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder Relations p. 61 No Audit Made G4-25 Stakeholder Relations p. 61, Çimsa 2012 Sustainability Report p. 23, Çimsa 2013 Sustainability Report p. 70 No Audit Made G4-26 Stakeholder Relations p. 62-66, The employees are the most important part of the process. No Audit Made G4-27 Stakeholder Relations p. 62-66 No Audit Made REPORT PROFILE G4-28 2014 No Audit Made G4-29 2013 No Audit Made G4-30 Annual No Audit Made G4-31 Legal Notice p. 98, surdurulebilirlik@cimsa.com.tr, www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik.org No Audit Made GRI G4 Core Reporting Standard, GRI Index Table p. 87, The report is not audited as a whole. Reporting G4-32 No Audit Made Approach p. 73-75 Our Business Principles p. 13-14, Reporting Approach 73-75, Internal audit activities are intensely included G4-33 No Audit Made in Çimsa operations. GOVERNANCE Our Business Principles p. 13-14, Material Sustainability Issues p. 19-20, 2014 Annual Report p. 43 and G4-34 No Audit Made www.cimsa.com.tr ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Our Business Principles p. 13-14, 2014 Annual Report p. 43, SABANCI Ethics Rules www.sabancı.com.tr No Audit Made 88 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Indicators PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Our Economic Performance and Management Approach p. 24 No Audit Made G4-EC1 Corporate Profile p. 8, The Economic Value Created and Distributed p. 28 No Audit Made G4-EC2 Risk Management p. 25, Message of General Manager, p. 5-6, Sustainability Strategy p. 15-18, 20-21 No Audit Made Economic Performance Data p. 80, Side Benefits for Employees p. 32, Contribution of Çimsa to Individual Pension System for the Employees in G4-EC3 No Audit Made 2014: 0.43 million TL Total number of employees in Individual Pension System: 286 Investments in the Scope of Sustainability p. 26, Economic Performance Data p. 80, The sum of export-oriented tax deductions that Çimsa benefited G4-EC4 No Audit Made in 2014 was 1,029,753 TL. MARKET PRESENCE G4-DMA Message of General Manager p. 5-6 No Audit Made G4-EC5 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made G4-EC6 Employment and Fundamental Rights p. 30-31 No Audit Made INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA Our Economic Performance and Management Approach p. 24 No Audit Made G4-EC7 Investments in the Scope of Sustainability p. 26 No Audit Made Economic Value Created and Distributed p. 27, Benefits to Suppliers p. 28, Benefits to Society p. 67, Learning Organization p. 68-69, Social Responsibility G4-EC8 No Audit Made Projects p. 70-71, Energy Efficiency p. 43, Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials p. 51 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Economic Value Created and Distributed p. 27 No Audit Made G4-EC9 Benefits to Suppliers p. 28 No Audit Made 89 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Indicators PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT MATERIALS G4-DMA Climate and Environmental Management p. 43, Alternative Fuels and Raw Materials p. 50-51 No Audit Made G4-EN1 Environmental Performance Data p. 81 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 G4-EN2 Environmental Performance Data p. 81 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 ENERGY G4-DMA Energy Efficiency p. 48-49 No Audit Made G4-EN3 Environmental Performance Data p. 81 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 G4-EN5 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Biodiversity p. 53 No Audit Made G4-EN13 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 EMISSIONS G4-DMA Emissions p. 44-47 No Audit Made G4-EN15 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 G4-EN16 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 G4-EN18 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 G4-EN21 Environmental Performance Data p. 82 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 WASTES G4-DMA Wastes Produced by our Plants, p. 52 No Audit Made G4-EN23 Environmental Performance Data p. 83 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Wastes Produced by our Plants, p. 52 No Audit Made G4-EN28 Environmental Performance Data p. 83 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 TRANSPORT G4-DMA Supplier Management p. 55-57 No Audit Made G4-EN30 Supplier Management p. 55-57 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 GENERAL G4-DMA Investments in the Scope of Sustainability p. 26, Message of General Manager, p. 5-6 No Audit Made G4-EN31 Environmental Performance Data p. 83 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 7, 8, 9 90 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES SOCIAL PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Contribution o Society p. 42, 43 No Audit Made G4-LA1 Social Performance Data, p. 84-85 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 G4-LA2 Employment and Fundamental Rights p. 30-31, Side Benefits for Employees p. 32 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 G4-LA3 Social Performance Data, p. 85 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 LABOR / EMPLOYER RELATIONS G4-DMA Labour Force Management Practices: The organizational and operational changes are finalized and shared with the organization one month in advance in order to allow for necessary No Audit Made preparations. G4-LA4 Employment and Fundamental Rights p. 30-31 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 3, 6 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety p. 38 No Audit Made G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety Management in Cement Business p. 39, Site Responsibility p. 40, Behavioural Audits p. 40, OH&S Scorecard Practice p. 41, Occupational Health and No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 Safety Management in Ready-Mixed Concrete Business p. 41-42 G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety p. 38, In 2014, there was no fatal accident involving personnel on Çimsa's payroll. G4-LA7 We do not have any employees with a high work accident rate. Controls and programmes oriented at risks are carried out with the planning of the work place physicians and medical personnel at the relevant work places. G4-LA8 Occupational Health and Safety Management in Cement Business p. 39 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Trainings and Development p. 37 No Audit Made G4-LA9 Social Performance Data, p. 84 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 G4-LA10 Trainings and Development p. 37 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 G4-LA11 Individual Performance Management p. 33 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made G4-LA12 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made G4-LA13 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety p. 38 No Audit Made G4-LA14 For Çimsa, the most critical matter regarding labour practices is subcontractor companies. In this context, the selection and evaluation of subcontractor companies is an area of priority. During the selection process of subcontractor companies, the assessments regarding industrial relations in the scope of their previous Social Security and Labour Law No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 practices and references are taken into account. G4-LA15 The most critical matter in Çimsa's labour practices is the active follow-up that the employees of subcontractors get their legal rights in time and in full. In this context, before paying the monthly progress payments, Çimsa investigates whether the company fulfills its liabilities to its employees and government agencies. Regular follow-ups aimed at occupational health and safety (OH&S) matters are carried out regularly, and the liabilities of the company are defined in detail in contract articles also with respect to OH&S. The contracts also No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 6 contain provisions for imposing administrative sanctions on the companies in case of conflict with OH&S. Due to non-conformities in practice, the contracts of 3 subcontractors were not renewed. In 2015, awareness raising trainings with legal and social content will be planned for subcontractors.. 91 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES HUMAN RIGHTS PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT INVESTMENT G4-DMA Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made G4-HR1 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 G4-HR2 For the private security personnel working in the body of subcontractor company, an average training of one day covers an average training of 1 hour on human rights. No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34 No Audit Made G4-HR3 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 34-35 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2, 3, 6 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: There is no practice like obstructing or discouraging aimed at freedom of association of suppliers. It is preferred that the suppliers, with No Audit Made whom Çimsa does business, to manage their personnel with the best legal rights. G4-HR4 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 35-36 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2, 3 CHILD LABOUR G4-DMA Child Labour: It is the principle not to work with suppliers who employ child labor, and necessary sanctions can be applied in the scope of the contracts of suppliers who demonstrate No Audit Made behaviours in conflict with the provisions of the contract G4-HR5 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 35-36 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2, 5 FORCED LABOUR G4-DMA Forced Labour or Compulsory Labour: It is the principle that the suppliers recruit and employ their employees with statutory contracts and legal conditions. Compliance with human rights No Audit Made and the quality standards are critical factors in the selection of suppliers. G4-HR6 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 35-36 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2, 4 SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA “Security Practices: This is compulsory for the subcontractor companies providing private security company services; it is aimed to provide this with a wider scope for the personnel of the No Audit Made other subcontractor and supplier companies as general training at regular intervals. Hence, it is planned to improve the general quality and training level G4-HR7 Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 36 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Rights of Local Communities: The demands, recommendations, opinions and feed backs of the local communities, who are one of the most important stakeholders, are considered and No Audit Made local sensitivities are observed in regulating the local policies. G4-HR8 There is no incident. No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Our Approach of Offering Equal Opportunities and Human Rights p. 36 No Audit Made G4-HR9 The ratio of the activities, in which human rights practices are periodically controlled and audited in the scope of Çimsa's subcontractor services, is 20%. Çimsa's operations are fully UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 No Audit Made compatible with the laws, regulations and legislation in force. HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Human Rights Grievance Mechanism: Necessary inspections are carried out for such notifications via SA-Ethics practices and company website. No Audit Made G4-HR12 Considering all of Çimsa's practices so far, there was no grievance concerning violation of human rights in the scope of the principle of full compliance with the Constitution and all relevant UNGC PRINCIPLE 1, 2 No Audit Made laws. 92 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES SOCIETY PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Stakeholder Relations p. 61 No Audit Made G4-SO1 Stakeholder Meetings p. 62, Dialogue with Local External Stakeholders 64-65 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1 G4-SO2 Stakeholder Relations p. 75 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 1 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption: The necessary control, monitoring and finding determinations are carried out with in-house G4-DMA No Audit Made audit channels. Çimsa's audit universe was reassessed and updated with a riskand process-oriented approach, and it G4-SO3 was modified to cover all processes and locations. The corruption and infraction risks are among the main No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 assessment criteria in the audit universe. In 2014, there was no business unit analyzed due to risk of corruption. Social Performance Data p. 84, Business Ethics p. 13, The ethics rules, which Çimsa employees are required to comply with, are covered in Chapter 3 of Human Resources directive under the main headings of Integrity, confidentiality, conflict of interest and responsibility, and are announced to all employees via intranet. 100% G4-SO4 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 of the white collar employees undergo training related with corporate ethics rules within the first month of their employment. All employees undergo ethics training every year, and they complete and sign the ethics commitment document again. The blue collar personnel are also included in the scope of ethics. G4-SO5 In 2014, no corruption incident was experienced. No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Our Business Principles p. 13 No Audit Made Such a material/moral contribution and/or support is not in the scope of our business ethics and corporate G4-SO6 No Audit Made UNGC PRINCIPLE 10 governance principles. COMPLIANCE Compliance: The legal risks and non-compliance notifications of the work places are monitored and the G4-DMA No Audit Made necessary requirements are met in time with pro-active measures. G4-SO8 In 2014, we were not given any such penalty. No Audit Made 93 2014 Sustainabilty Report VI. TABLES GRI INDEX TABLES PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PAGE NUMBER / DISCLOSURES EXTERNAL AUDIT GLOBAL COMPACT CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Not a priority No Audit Made G4-PR1 Product Safety and Responsibility p. 58-60 No Audit Made G4-PR2 No similar incident was present in the reporting period. No Audit Made PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-DMA Not a priority No Audit Made G4-PR3 Product Safety and Responsibility p. 58-60 No Audit Made G4-PR4 No similar incident was present in the reporting period. No Audit Made G4-PR5 Stakeholder Relations p. 63-65 No Audit Made MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Not a priority No Audit Made G4-PR6 Product Safety and Responsibility p. 58-60 No Audit Made G4-PR7 Product Safety and Responsibility p. 58-60 No Audit Made CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Not a priority No Audit Made G4-PR8 Product Safety and Responsibility p. 58-60 No Audit Made COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Not a priority No Audit Made G4-PR9 No similar incident was present in the reporting period. No Audit Made 94 COMMUNICATION AND LEGAL NOTICE 2014 Sustainabilty Report G4-17 VII. COMMUNICATION AND LEGAL NOTICE COMMUNICATION HEADQUARTERS Ankara Grinding and Packaging Facility Çimsa Osmaniye Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Karşıyaka Mah. Fırat Cad. Tüysüz Beldesi Yolçatı Mevkii D 400 Karayolu Kısıklı Cad. No: 4, Sarkuysan Ak İş Merkezi S Blok, No: 3 Lalahan Ankara Üzeri, Toprakkale Osmaniye Altunizade İstanbul T : (0312) 865 23 96 F : (0312) 865 23 95 T : (0216) 651 53 00 Çimsa Kahramanmaraş Ready-Mixed Concrete (0216) 651 05 00 Çimsa Marmara Terminal Plant (0216) 651 03 85 F : (0216) 651 14 15 Sahil Caddesi Rota Limanı İçi Yarımca, Körfez Kayseri Yolu Üzeri 2. km Galericiler Sitesi Bitişiği, Kocaeli Kahramanmaraş CEMENT PLANTS AND TERMINALS T : (0262) 528 42 33 F : (0262) 528 42 36 Mersin Plant Çimsa Kozan Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Toroslar Mah. Tekke Cad. Yenitaşkent Mersin Çimsa Malatya Terminal Kozan Organize Sanayi Bölgesi içi Kozan Adana T : (0324) 454 00 60 F : (0324) 454 00 75 TCDD Yanı Çimento Dolum Tesisi, Battalgazi Malatya MERSİN REGION Eskişehir Plant T : (0422) 841 36 77 F : (0422) 841 32 30 Çimsa Regional Directorate İstanbul Karayolu 22. Km Çukurhisar Eskişehir Çimsa Yenihal Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : (0222) 411 32 00 F : (0222) 411 31 31 READY-MIXED CONCRETE PLANTS Bahçelievler Mah. 1097 Sok. No: 2 Yenihal Yolu Yalınayak Kasabası Mersin Kayseri Plant ADANA REGION T : (0324) 235 73 14 F : (0324) 235 73 17 Kayseri Bünyan Yolu 35.km Bünyan Kayseri Çimsa Regional Directorate T : (0352) 712 16 07 F : (0352) 712 22 59 Çimsa Zeytinli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Çimsa Tarsus Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Adana Mersin Yolu Üzeri 17. Km Kestel Mevkii Çamlıyayla Yolu, Eshab ı Kehf Yol Kavşağı, Niğde Plant Zeytinli, Seyhan Adana Tarsus Mersin Hacı Sabancı Bulvarı, Niğde T : (0322) 441 19 01 F : (0322) 441 19 02 T : (0388) 232 36 30 Çimsa Silifke Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant F : (0388) 232 36 34 Çimsa İncirlik Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Kabasakallı Köyü Gökçeboyu Mevki, Silifke Mersin Güzelevler Mah. Girne Bulvarı Bossa 2. Fabrika Yanı, Afyon Çimento Türk A.Ş. Yüreğir-Adana Güvenevler Mahallesi Fatih Cad. No:22 03040 Afyonkarahisar Çimsa Misis Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : (0272) 214 72 00 F : (0272) 214 72 09 Hacı Sabancı Organize Sanayi Bölgesi 6. Cadde Misis, Yüreğir Adana 96 2014 Sustainabilty Report G4-17 VII. COMMUNICATION AND LEGAL NOTICE COMMUNICATION SAKARYA ESKİŞEHİR REGION KAYSERİ NİĞDE REGION Italy Cimsa Adriatico S.R.L. Çimsa Çukurhisar Regional Directorate ReadyÇimsa Regional Directorate Riva Cadamosto, 8 – 34147 Trieste Italy Mixed Concrete Plant Çimsa Başakpınar Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : 00 39 040 2820918 Bursa yolu 20. km Çukurhisar Eskişehir Malatya Yolu Üzeri 10.km Başakpınar Gaziler Mevkii T : (0222) 411 32 06 F : (0222) 411 32 07 Talas Kayseri Spain Cimsa Cementos Espana S.A.U. T : (0352) 224 67 40 (3 lines) F : (0352) 224 67 44 Carretera de la Esclusa S/N, Darsena del Batan Çimsa Adapazarı Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Notre, 41011 Puerto de Sevilla Spain Orta Mah. Plevne Cad. No: 31 Sakarya Çimsa Anbar Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : 00 34 95 427 50 68 F : 00 34 95 427 19 36 Ankara Karayolu Üzeri, Anbar Mevkii Bölge Trafik Çimsa Afyon Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Arkası, Kayseri Puerto De Alicante Organize Sanayi Bölgesi 4. Cadde 2. Sokak No:1 (Prolongación sur) Muelle 21 Parcela 1 03008 Afyonkarahisar Çimsa Nevşehir Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Niğde Yolu Üzeri 7. km Göre Nevşehir Alicante Spain Çimsa Osmaneli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : 00 34 965 107 707 F : 00 34 965 286 628 Camikebir Mah. Çörektepe Mevkii Osmaneli Bilecik Çimsa Aksaray Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Organize Sanayi Bölgesi, Aksaray KKTC Çimsa Cement Free Zone Ltd. Çimsa Bilecik Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Serbest Liman, Gazi Magosa TRNC 1. Organize Sanayi Bölgesi 8. Cadde No: 3 Çimsa Karaman Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant T : 00 90 392 365 49 80 F : 00 90 392 365 49 81 Merkez Bilecik Organize Sanayi Bölgesi, Karaman Romania Cimsarom Marketing Distributie S.R.L. Çimsa Eskişehir Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Çimsa Ereğli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant BdMamaia, Ofice Nr 5, Nr 251 Et 4, Muttalip Yolu 500. metre, Eskişehir Konya Yolu Üzeri 3. km Ereğli Konya Constanta Romania T : 00 40 241 585 333 F : 00 40 241 585 333 Çimsa Tufanbeyli Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Çimsa Kütahya Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Tufanbeyli Termik Santral Proje Sahası, Taşpınar Russia OOO Cimsa Rus CTK Zafer Tepe Mahallesi Selçuklu Caddesi No: 36 Kapısı Girişi, Tufanbeyli-Adana Kütahya Trading Company Limited TERMINALS ABROAD Malozemelskaya Str, No: 16, 353900 Çimsa Denizli Üçler Ready-Mixed Concrete Plant Germany Cimsa Cement Sales North GmbH Novorossiysk Russia Hacı Eyüpü Mah. 3125 Sok No:5 Üçler Denizli Nesserlander Strasse, 5 Emden Germany 26721 T : 00 7 918 66 49 344 T: 00 49 40 70 20 93 14 F : 00 49 70 20 93 20/22 97 2014 Sustainabilty Report VII. COMMUNICATION AND LEGAL NOTICE LEGAL NOTICE The Sustainability Report (Report) was prepared by Çimsa Çimento San. ve Tic. the scope of this Report, the use thereof, or for issues based on the information A.Ş. (Çimsa) ) in line with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) principles. herein or not included in this Report. Notwithstanding all the information and opinions included in this Report are The content of this report shall not be copied, altered or distributed without clear provided by Çimsa, Çimsa does not undertake and/or guarantee that such written consent of Çimsa. All rights of Çimsa are reserved. information and opinions are complete and verified. This report is for information purposes only and does not constitute any foundation for any investment Çimsa Çimento Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. decision, nor it is intended to orientate investors in the decisions they will make. Kısıklı Cad. No: 4, Sarkuysan – Ak İş Merkezi S Blok, Altunizade – İstanbul, Türkiye The information in this Report does not constitute any proposal, part of proposal, or invitation for a similar sales process regarding sales of Çimsa shares and the For information about Çimsa Sustainability Report; publication of this report can not be deemed as the establishment of such a legal Gürol Özer relationship. Vice President, Cement Operations and Investments As of date of preparation of this report, it is believed that all the information and İsmail Boz the related documents included in the report are accurate and the information is Director of Environment, Alternative Fuels and Alternative Raw Materials disclosed in good faith and depends on reliable sources. However, Çimsa does not make any statements, guarantees or commitments regarding this information. Burcu Türkay Corporate Communications Besides the information and analyses regarding the company, the report T : 00 90 216 554 71 00 also reflects the opinions containing future-oriented expectations of Çimsa F : 00 90 216 651 14 15 Management on the course of the predicted events. Although it is the conviction e-mail: surdurulebilirlik@cimsa.com.tr that the information and analyses provided are accurate and the expectations www.cimsadasurdurulebilirlik.org provided are realistic, depending on the change in the factors underlying the predictions, the outcomes in the future may deviate from the predictions herein. Sustainability and Reporting Consultant SVS Türkiye (Sustainability Value Services Turkey) In this frame, neither Çimsa, its affiliated companies, subsidiaries, mother T : 00 90 532 615 4301 company/holding nor their members of board of directors, managers, consultants www.svsturkiye.com and employees or other related parties can be held responsible for any direct or indirect loss and damage suffered as a result of any information disclosed in 98 We thank all ÇİMSA employees who made efforts in and contributed with their opinions to the preparation of this report. www.cimsa.com.tr facebook.com/CIMSACEMENT twitter.com/cimsacement linkedin.com/company/cimsa
