CSR Report 2016 C or p or ate S o cial Re sp on sibil it y Rep or t A new frontier, a new lifestyle. Sekisui Chemical Group — produce a better world with creative technologies. The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep. Sun Tzu Editorial Policy CONTENTS The pages of this report are structured in line with the Sekisui Chemical 2 Top Message Sekisui Chemical Group’s Group’s concept of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three Prominences—in Environment, Customer Satisfaction (CS) & Quality, 6 Key CSR Issues and the CSR Medium-Term Plan Philosophy for CSR SPECIAL ISSUE: Solving Social Issues through Products and Services and Human Resources—along with Three Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk Management, and Communication. 8 REPORT 1: Initiatives of the Housing Company ● We have decided on the information that should be covered in this Building Disaster-Resistant Homes for a More Comfortable Life report based on its importance both to society and to the Sekisui 12 REPORT 2: Initiatives of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Company Chemical Group, taking into consideration inputs, including surveys conducted within and outside the Group and independent review. Fiber-Reinforced Foamed Urethane (FFU) Materials Contribute to Safe and Reliable Transportation ● To ensure that information is both comprehensive and easy to read, 16 REPORT 3: Initiatives of the High Performance Plastics (HPP) Company data posted on the Sekisui Chemical Group’s website conforms to the Diagnostic Reagents Contribute to People’s Health Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Sekisui Chemical Group aims to meet the expectations of its stakeholders and contribute to This report is a digest version of this information, focusing on key CSR Three Prominences issues specified in the medium-term management plan. 20 Environment society through its business activities, and has embodied this ambition in its Corporate Philosophy called Principal text Management / Environment-Contributing Products High Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 CSR Report 2016 C or p or ate S o cial Re sp on sibil it y Rep or t the “3S Principle” (Service, Speed, and Superiority). Environmental Impact Reduction / Natural Environment Conservation 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For more information contact: CSR Planning, CSR Promotion Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) E-mail: csr@sekisui.com Importance to society A new frontier, a new lifestyle. This Sekisui Chemical Group — produces a better world with creative technologies. This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the 24 CS & Quality Our Group Vision clarifies that we will endeavor to improve the lives of the people of the world and environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, report which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, is used in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. Waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. The CSR Report 2016 (including the Data Book (PDF)) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third CS & Quality Management Initiatives party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; The onrush of a conquering http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. force is like the bursting of Corporate pent-up waters intoReport Social Responsibility a chasm a thousand CSR Report 2016 fathoms deep. Sun Tzu Data Book Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) 2 Environment-Related Data Sources 3 Published: June 28, 2016. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 25, 2015. Next edition planned for publication: June 2017 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data 3 Results of the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 4 Sekisui Chemical Group’s Environmental Accounting 6 Integrated Index: SEKISUI Environmental Sustainability Index 8 Report the Earth’s environment, while defining Creation of Housing / Social Infrastructure and Material Balance (in Japan) 8 Environment-Contributing Products 9 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact 9 9 Attractive Products, Technologies, and Services / Quality Improvement Biodiversity Global Warming Prevention 10 Resource Recycling and Saving 12 Environmental Performance in Offices 13 Website CSR Report 2016 Atmospheric and Water-Related Emissions 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 C or p or ate S o cial Re sp on sibil it y Rep or t Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses 14 version 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For more information contact: CSR Planning, CSR Promotion Department Chemical Substances 15 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Environmental Management 16 E-mail: csr@sekisui.com CS & Quality 17 A new frontier, a new lifestyle. Sekisui Chemical Group — produces a better world with creative technologies. Human Resources 19 Safety 21 This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper Compliance and Risk Management 23 produced from carefully managed forests. 23 (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, Compliance which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, is used in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. Waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the 23 binding process. Risk Management The CSR Report 2016 (including the Data Book (PDF)) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance The onrush of a conquering Environmental and Social Contribution 24 Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; force is like the bursting of 26 http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management System to assure the reliability of sustainability information. pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand fathoms deep. Sun Tzu Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Management Policies 27 Published: June 28, 2016. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 25, 2015. Next edition planned for publication: June 2017 Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators 30 28 Human Resources Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Disclaimer The environmental and social information contained in the Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not CSR Report 2016 (the Report version and PDF Data Book) is only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but subject to independent practitioner’s assurance for the also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ calculation results. Information that falls within the scope of from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this independent practitioner’s assurance is identified by a “ ” report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total Chemical Solutions as areas of society on which to focus our efforts. mark. figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in line with expansion in the scope of summation, High revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental load coefficients. Website version Data Book (PDF) Importance to the Diversity Management / Group Human Resource Capabilities Sekisui Chemical Group (Scheduled to be online by end of Sept. 2016) Safety and Security Web Web denotes there is more detailed information available Basis of CSR on our website. 32 Corporate Governance Our desire is to continue opening new horizons through prominence in Related data and materials are accessible on our website as the CSR 34 Compliance Report 2016 Data Book (PDF). technology and quality under our Group slogan 35 Risk Management Access the following URL to download PDF files: 36 Communication “A new frontier, a new lifestyle.” https://www.sekisuichemical.com/csr/report/ 37 External Evaluations Sekisui Chemical home page → CSR → Corporate Social Responsibility Report → Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 38 Environmental and Social Contribution Activities ● The calculation criteria for the key performance indicators (KPIs) used in 39 Continuing Report: Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake this report are shown in the PDF Data Book. 40 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance ● To ensure the reliability of this report, the content of environmental 41 Third-Party Opinion / In Response to the Third-Party Opinion and social reporting is subject to independent practitioner’s assurance. As globalization of our businesses advances and the stakeholders with whom we interact grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to Reference Guidelines Scope of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance ● The website version is presented in accordance with the “Core” The environmental and social information contained in the CSR Report 2016 stakeholders around the world the unchanging ideas and efforts of the Sekisui Chemical Group. standards of the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver. 4. (the Report version and PDF Data Book) is subject to independent practitioner’s ● A GRI Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemical assurance for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of Group website. calculation results. Information that falls within the scope of independent practitioner’s assurance is identified by a mark. ● In preparing this report, we also refer to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition) issued by Japan’s Environment Ministry. Disclaimer Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes Sekisui means “pent-up water” and is an expression used in Sun Tzu’s “Art of War,” an ancient Chinese not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates Scope of This Report but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management classic. “The onrush of a conquering force is like the bursting of pent-up waters into a chasm a thousand Entities Encompassed by This Report: The basic function of this report is to plans and management policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various fathoms deep” means “the victor of a battle is determined in a fell swoop with tremendous force, just as a factors could cause the results of business activities in the future and other Origin of the “Sekisui” comment on the activities of the Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and full body of water (pent-up water or “Sekisui”) drops into a deep gorge.” The expansion of business on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other Company Name activities will inevitably encounter problems and challenges. To overcome such difficulties, it is important Timeframe Encompassed by This Report: April 2015-March 2016 (Includes means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In some activities that occurred outside this timeframe.) addition, for some items data for past fiscal years has been revised in line with to gain a full understanding of and to analyze one’s opponent’s circumstances, to consolidate one’s own expansion in the scope of summation, revision of calculation methods, and changes structure, and then release the power of pent-up waters to be victorious in battle. to environmental load coefficients. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 1 Changes in the Business Environment Anticipated Over the Coming 10 Years TOP MESSAGE Politics, Resources, Society Environment Economy Energy Aging of society around the world Population growth in Asia drives global Issues arising related to We are committed to securing ● ● ● ● ● Rising social security costs and emerging markets economic growth limits on various resources, pressure on public finances ●Climate change, more severe ● Growing global economic ties including water, food, raw weather materials, and fuel ● Concentration of the the sustainable growth of the population in urban areas and aging urban infrastructure ●Degradation of ecosystems ●Diversification of energy sources Sekisui Chemical Group by helping to solve a wide range of global issues through our Initiatives of the Sekisui Chemical Group ongoing business activities and Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Environmental Products Company Plastics Company continuously creating new ● Housing ● Piping materials ● ● Electronics Automobiles and transportation ● Refurbishing ● Building materials ●Buildings and infrastructure value for society. ● Real estate ● Performance materials ●Life sciences President and Representative Director Framework of the New Medium-Term Management Plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016 (Fiscal 2014–2016) Three SHINKA business models Core Business SHINKA Global SHINKA 1 3 Operating Environment of the Sekisui Chemical Group Change Stage 1 ● Brush-up of existing businesses ● Reinforce expansion of existing businesses What are your thoughts on the business environment in fiscal 2015 and Q policies for the future? ● Specialization of strategic businesses and products A Operating income reached a record high in fiscal 2015. Frontier SHINKA Stage 2 2 “Co-creation” Localization of “prominent business models” Economic conditions outside Japan during fiscal 2015, by robust growth, the Company reported record-high the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, were mixed. On operating income in fiscal 2015. ● Pioneer new markets and new fields through ● Accelerate adaptation to local communities the one hand, the pace of economic growth slowed in Fiscal 2016 is the final year of our medium-term internal and external cooperation emerging countries including China. The economies of management plan SHINKA!-Advance 2016. As a resource-rich nations also suffered as a result of such result, our efforts throughout this 12-month period will factors as the decline in crude oil prices. On the other play a vital role in mapping out a vision for growth that hand, modest recovery trends were evident mainly in will take us to a higher plane. In order to ensure the M&A and Strategic Investment developed countries. Turning to the domestic market, Group's sustainable growth, I will continue to vigorously signs of instability began to emerge from the New Year. promote the three core policies that I introduced Monozukuri / Base Technology This was largely attributable to appreciation in the yen's following my appointment as president. Guided by value, a downturn in share prices, continued anxiety these policies, the Group will draw on the theme of toward financial conditions in Europe, and uncertainties “co-creation and innovation” to bring to market a steady surrounding the U.S. economy. Under these circumstances, strong performances by stream of new products and businesses, cultivate new markets by “opening frontiers,” and promote rigorous CSR SHINKA products in such strategic fields as Automobiles and management efficiency while implementing the careful Transportation as well as Life Science, helped to drive selection and concentration of businesses by “fortifying the Sekisui Chemical Group's overall results. Buoyed earning power.” 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 3 The Relationship between Business Activities and CSR CSR Encompassing the Group and Supply Chain How does the Group reconcile concerns for human rights, labor standards, and the Q What do you see as the Sekisui Chemical Group’s corporate social responsibility? Q environment with respect to the supply chain when carrying out its business activities? We are forging increasingly close ties with business partners while A Our mission is to create value for society through our business activities. A maintaining a deep respect for international norms. “Service,” or creating value for society through business position the environment as an important business Focusing on CSR across the supply chain is a basic the supply chain. From activities, is a key component of our “3S Principle” pillar from 2003. Working in unison, we reexamined prerequisite for gaining the acceptance of society. a CSR procurement Corporate Philosophy. This is in fact, the very essence those areas in which to increase our prominence, and The Sekisui Chemical Group maintains a deep perspective, we take of our corporate social responsibility. have made every effort to balance ecological concerns respect for international norms, standards, and steps to confirm the The Sekisui Chemical Group engages in a wide with economic development in order to contribute to initiatives including the Universal Declaration of extent to which range of business activities. Regardless of the merits, society. Put simply, our mission is to expand and create Human Rights, the ILO’s International Labor environmental and this wide range of business activities means that we not Environment-Contributing Products. Standards, the Ruggie Framework, and the United human rights concerns only have a considerable impact on society, but also a The Sekisui Chemical Group has opened the door Nations’ Global Compact, which form the basis of its are incorporated into significant responsibility. Recognizing the critical need in its efforts to reach a higher plane. In order to ensure CSR management policy. In particular, the Group has the activities of suppliers as well as the status of to ensure a common understanding of the importance a presence that is strong enough to last a century, we pledged its commitment to prevent global warming, compliance, health, and safety initiatives. We have of CSR across the Group as a whole, we have will ensure that all employees are united in their maintain biodiversity, and work with customers and already confirmed that all of the Group’s suppliers positioned CSR SHINKA as a core management commitment to help create a better society. Rallying to business partners to build a recycling-oriented society. surveyed in Japan comply with its standards. In fiscal strategy of our medium-term management plan. a common cause, our aspirations are embodied in the In addition, we have declared our opposition to human 2015, we began steps to survey overseas suppliers In identifying priority fields, we also took steps to Group slogan “A new frontier, a new lifestyle.” rights violations as well as forced and child labor across including those in North and Central America. The Sekisui Chemical Our Response to New CSR Indicators Group’s Principles Corporate Philosophy Service What are your thoughts on and how will you respond to the introduction of Japan’s Corporate The “3S Principle” Shareholder Customers Creating value for society* through business activities Q Governance Code and sustainable development goals (SDGs)* in fiscal 2015? Satisfaction First We maintain a flexible approach toward the introduction of new guidelines and are Contributing to Local Communities Employee Together with Speed A committed to realizing a sustainable society. and the Self-Realization Business Transforming markets with all the power and Partners Environment vitality of a mighty waterfall Sekisui Chemical disclosed details of its approach and initiatives development and the need to eradicate poverty with concerns toward the principles of the Japan Corporate Governance Code regarding the environment and its protection. For its part, the in October 2015. In addition to its Basic Policy for Constructive Sekisui Chemical Group is well positioned to address many of Group Vision Superiority Dialogue with Shareholders, the Company has disclosed details the world’s challenges. Moving forward, I will steer the Group Through prominence in technology and quality, the Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the Earning the trust of society* through of its Criteria for Independence of Outside Board Members. toward sustainable growth by putting in place a structure that is world and the Earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers prominence in technology and quality The decision has also been made to newly establish an advisory capable of taking acceptable risks in order to make the most of in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. committee on such matters as nomination and remuneration to every opportunity. Through our business activities, we will then *Society: All of society as a whole, including the five stakeholders : our “Customers,” supplement the functions of the Board of Directors. With the overcome many of the world’s immediate issues and achieve Management Strategies “Shareholders,”“Employees,”“Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and introduction of SDGs, companies are being asked to closely each SDGs. the Environment.” Business-specific strategies, function-specific strategies, CSR, etc. examine how they can help resolve issues confronting society. * SDGs: Sustainable Development Goals A set of global-scale sustainable development goals that the international community must This is especially true for efforts aimed at balancing economic collectively address over the next 15 years. Self-Evaluation and Overview of CSR Activities in Fiscal 2015 Compliance How would you assess the Group’s CSR activities in fiscal 2015? Reflecting on the Q A striking feature of fiscal 2015 has been the number of corporate improprieties reported by Q Group’s CSR activities over the past year, is there any one aspect that stands out? the media. What is the Sekisui Chemical Group’s stance toward compliance? We are focusing on the development of Environment-Contributing Products and maintaining A We continue to promote a corporate culture that strives to eliminate the risk of impropriety. A a high sales ratio. In fiscal 2015, the Sekisui Chemical Group worked efforts aimed at conserving and creating energy, the use of I have often commented to employees that “100-1 = 0.” In fiscal 2015, we focused on strengthening diligently to balance ecological concerns with economic renewable and clean energy is growing in importance. In A momentary incident or action by a single employee accounting compliance. In addition to conducting development while bringing to market a host of innovative fiscal 2015, Sekisui Chemical completed development of a can obliterate a company’s credibility and reputation educational seminars at business sites in Japan and products. As a result, the ratio of Environment-Contributing high-capacity film-type lithium-ion battery. In addition to years in the making. It is therefore imperative that we overseas, we revised a portion of our intra-company Product sales to total sales reached 44% helping the Group storing clean energy, this battery boasts high levels of safety eliminate the risk of impropriety to the greatest extent whistle-blowing system. As well as mandating the need achieve record-high profits. and a long service life. The battery is scheduled for possible. Putting in place the necessary structure and to report any breach of compliance, we bolstered At the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP21), a delivery to the housing sector in fiscal 2016. In the future, systems to eliminate any and all risks is a given. Of measures aimed at protecting whistleblowers while gathering organized by the United Nations on the subject plans are in place to extend application to the automobile equal importance is the need to ferment a corporate expanding the scope of the system. Through these and of climate change each year, participating nations agreed field. The Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to culture in which silence is considered unacceptable. It is other means, we took steps to eliminate complacency on initiatives designed to hold any increase in worldwide realizing a sustainable society by developing unique vital that employees understand the negativity of leaving and to reform an in-house culture that was prone to temperatures to not more than two degrees Celsius (3.6 Environment-Contributing Products for use throughout things unsaid. follow precedents. degrees Fahrenheit). With the urgent need to strengthen the world. 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 5 Management Key CSR Issues and the CSR Medium-Term Plan Identifying key CSR issues Promoting the CSR medium-term plan in line with The Process of Identifying Key CSR Issues (Materiality) Web priority issues extracted from a variety of challenges As venues for deliberation on CSR management, we have set up the CSR Committee and five subcommittees: the Environmental Subcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommittee, the Human Resources Subcommittee, the Safety Subcommittee, and the Compliance Subcommittee. Step1 Sort candidates for key CSR issues List used in assessing CSR Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2014–2016) Candidates for key CSR issues were identified through considering global the importance of CSR issues guidelines, SRI surveys, and developments at other companies, and then analyzing Key Measures Targets FY2015 Results the opinions and expectations of each stakeholder. These candidates and CSR issues already addressed were sorted into key CSR issues for the future. Overall Further penetration of CSR management Rollout into individual business plans Establishment of a CSR training structure A : Importance to stakeholders 1 Expand sales of Environment-Contributing Step2 Assess the importance of candidates for key CSR issues ● Percentage of net sales: 50% or more ● Percentage of net sales: 44.3% Key CSR issues Products The candidates for key CSR issues sorted in Step 1 were subjected to overall 2 Reduce environmental impact ● Identical targets in Japan and overseas evaluation along the two axes of their importance to stakeholders (A) and 1) Reduce greenhouse-gas emissions ● Maintain total volume (vs. FY2013) ● Reduced by 9.9% in Japan and 0.6% overseas importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management (B). Along axis A, candidates 2) Reduce waste ● 12% reduction per unit of output ● Increased by 4.4% in Japan and reduced were assessed from the perspectives of expectations of each stakeholder, world (vs. FY2013) by 9.1% overseas trends, and positive and negative impacts on the planet and society, while along Environment 3) Address water risks ● Ascertain current conditions and ● Completed inspections at 50 business sites draft countermeasures in Japan and 48 overseas business sites axis B they were assessed from the perspectives of consistency with management policies and management strategies, correspondence to CSR issues, risk and Three Prominences 3 Conserve the natural environment ● Participation of all employees in ● Sekisui Environment Week participation Sekisui Environment Week rate: 67% reputation, and priories based on a timeline. B : Importance to Sekisui Chemical Group management (Participation rate: 100%) ● 10-point improvement in the JBIB Land ● 8.0-point improvement in the JBIB Land Step3 Formulate the CSR medium-term plan Use Score Card® Use Score Card® 1 Improve Basic Qualities ● Zero major quality issues ● Zero major quality issues Following deliberation in the CSR Committee, key performance indicators (KPIs) CSR Medium-Term Plan (See p. 6) ● Halve external failure costs (vs. FY2013) ● Reduced by 5% (vs. FY 2013) were set by the responsible departments for the identified key CSR issues. The CSR CS & Quality medium-term plan was formulated and approved by the Committee. ● Issued VOICE, a compilation of feedback 2 Improve Attractive Qualities ● Increase customer satisfaction from customers 1 Strengthen Group human resources ● Increase internal job postings by 30/year ● Increased internal job postings by 43/year 2 Train global talent employees ● Number of global talent employees: 400 ● Number of global talent employees: 329 Human Resources 3 Promote diversity (Women, the elderly, non-Japanese ● Percentage of women among new hires: 30% ● Percentage of women among new hires: 27% Outline of the CSR Medium-Term Plan people, people with disabilities) ● Percentage of international hires: 20% ● Percentage of international hires: 25% Under CSR SHINKA, the basis of the medium-term management plan, Environment we will further advance CSR management in pursuit of greater vitality Ecology and economy among our human resources and the essence of Sekisui. Key Measures Targets FY2015 Results With regard to Prominence in the Environment, we will contribute to Three Prominences 1 Prevent corruption and fraud ● Zero occurrences ● Zero occurrences Human Resources CS & Quality Compliance returns on natural capital through Group-wide progress on expanding Rise to the challenge Provide exciting products Three Attitudes of Sincerity 2 Prevent major compliance issues ● Zero occurrences ● Zero occurrences net sales of Environment-Contributing Products, lessening and services ● Improve the quality of risk management 1 Thorough preventive measures activities ● Risk score reduced by 14% environmental impact, and conserving the natural environment. Risk Management 2 Strengthen risk management systems ● Disaster-prevention system utilization rate: ● Disaster-prevention system utilization rate: With regard to Prominence in CS & Quality, we aim to deliver (Japan) 90% 91% attractive products and services and the quality our customers require 3 Strengthen risk management systems ● Site-specific risk management manuals ● Site-specific risk management manuals (overseas) developed at 100% of sites developed at 92% of sites by improving both Basic Qualities and Attractive Qualities. 1 Enhance dialogue with stakeholders ● Maintain selection to key SRI indices ● Maintained selection to key SRI indices With regard to Prominence in Human Resources, we will increase the Communication Risk Management 2 Address human rights and supply chain ● Promote CSR procurement globally ● CSR surveys conducted at major strengths of human resources throughout the entire Group, based on Communication initiatives (child labor, discrimination) suppliers of Group companies in the U.S. 3 Promote environmental and ● Increase employee participation ● Increased the TABLE FOR TWO the three axes of Group, Global, and Diversity policies. To do so, we will social contribution activities (vs. FY2013) participation rate by 9.7% Compliance hire and train the human resources we need, deploy diversity manegement across the entire Group, and work toward centralized Three Attitudes of Sincerity management of Group HR data that supports these efforts, using information technology. 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 7 2 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services REPORT 0 01 Initiatives of the Housing Company Homes that maintain normal lifestyles INTERVIEW Development following a major natural disaster Building Disaster-Resistant Homes I am in charge of developing V to H* systems that power houses using the electricity stored in electric vehicles. While for a More Comfortable Life these systems already exist, they were incomplete products, unable to use electricity generated by homes to charge electric vehicles during power outages. Our development of a The frequent occurrence of natural disasters in recent years has become a major social issue not only system that makes it possible for electricity generated from in terms of the disasters themselves, but also maintaining people’s lifestyles in the aftermath of a catastrophe. Smart Heim home solar panels to charge electric vehicles is Sekisui Heim provides homes that are not only disaster-resistant, revolutionary, as it enables customers to continue living but also enable people to live comfortably following a natural disaster. normally to a certain degree during blackouts caused by major natural disasters. My dream is to spread V to Heim Smart Heim homes with V to H systems throughout Japan. Major natural catastrophes are a constant threat, with a large earthquake likely occurring in the not-too-distant future. In light of this, I am convinced that the useful feature of V to Toru Shiomi H provides high added value to HEIM R&D Housing Product Research & customers. Making these homes Development Department available to people nationwide Housing Company Social background allows us to contribute to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. society. An over 70% probability that a magnitude seven 70％ or above earthquake will occur in Japan in the *V to H: Vehicle to Home A system for daily use that delivers next 30 years power stored in electric vehicles to homes. OVER INTERVIEW 1 Planning Youko Sakagawa Product Planning Housing Product Research & Development Department Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Japan’s Earthquake Research probability of a major occurring in Japan years is over 70%. Committee estimates the magnitude seven earthquake within the next 30 INTERVIEW 3 Production Realizing disaster-resistant homes through precise construction and strict inspections only possible in factories Disaster resistance is necessary for selecting homes feature such highly sturdy structures. Homes Sekisui Heim homes offer exceptional earthquake resistance homes in Japan built on-site tend to vary in strength and quality owing to a hybrid structure equipped with both viscous-and depending on the skill of the carpenters, materials used, and strength-type seismic resistance features. Our factories play an When choosing a home, a key concern for many customers is how weather conditions. In contrast, all Sekisui Heim homes feature a important role to this end by offering customers with homes resistant houses are to earthquakes and other natural disasters. In uniform level of quality not dependent on people or weather, that are constructed through modules assembled according to particular, customers have stated that their minimum requirements resulting in homes with a high degree of structural strength. predetermined design criteria. when selecting homes are resistance to major earthquakes as well This high degree of earthquake resistance can only be as the ability to live with a sense of reassurance following a disaster. Spreading the word about living securely after enabled through factory manufacturing processes. For example, Customers focusing on the structural strength of houses goes a disaster through Sekisui Heim home construction at factories enables a level of quality that is without saying. impossible by other means owing to the use of computers to ensure Confident in the strengths of Sekisui Heim homes, our challenge uniform production of all components, eliminating mistakes and Using highly precise construction methods going forward is to convey to customers in an easy-to-understand Shirou Kondou waste, as well as welding using large-sized equipment to ensure General Affairs Department made possible only by factory production way the security and benefits offered by these homes after Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. precision and strength. natural disasters, just like we did when proposing Smart Heim V to In addition, full-time inspectors perform exacting and strict Applying factory production to most areas of home construction is H* systems. Searching for ways to explain these ideas in a way inspections that include house plan checks, accuracy checks, the main reason why Sekisui Heim homes are resistant to natural anyone can easily understand, we want to make the worry-free functional testing, and visual examinations. This level of quality disasters. Using factory processes to realize a level of precision lifestyles offered by Sekisui Heim homes the choice of an even control, precision, and testing not possible on construction sites impossible at a construction site is one reason why Sekisui Heim greater number of customers. is what makes Sekisui Heim homes resistant to natural disasters. 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 9 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services 01 REPORT Initiatives of the Housing Company Living normally even after a disaster The continuous flow of electricity is essential to everyday life. The power reserves stored by electric vehicles helps to prevent interruptions in people’s lives even during power outages as a result of a disaster. Factory production is the source of disaster-resistant homes Home manufacturing performed at factories offers a high level of precision with minimal errors and strict quality control not found at construction sites. Owing to this approach, Sekisui Heim homes feature a level of seismic resistance that far exceeds government standards. Building structurally strong homes Enhancing precision and quality Living normally even during power outages Maintaining normal power levels Though being low-rise houses, Sekisui Heim homes feature the Wind and rain cause building materials to deteriorate and warp It is standard for conventional home storage batteries to be used We expect customers to rely on the V to H system to meet their daily same “box-rahmen construction” design used in skyscrapers, during construction, potentially weakening a house’s for supplying electricity only to equipment connected to power power needs during blackouts lasting several days following a major which prevents collapses by absorbing seismic shock across the earthquake resistance. Conversely, these concerns are distribution boards intended as an emergency power source for natural disaster. To this end, we have developed a new Sekisui Heim system entire structure. The strength of this structure lies in the accurate eliminated when homes are manufactured indoors. Without the providing the bare minimum amount of lighting needed during that is able to use electricity generated from rooftop solar panels to charge and sturdy welding of pillars and beams. use of two types of automatic welding equipment to ensure blackouts rather than less critical home appliances. electric vehicles, which can then be used to provide power to homes Sekisui Heim homes also feature both viscous-and precise and strong welding, structural strength is impossible. Sekisui Heim’s V to Heim solves this issue by using electric during blackouts. As a result, solar panels can under certain weather strength-type seismic resistance not only resistant to standard In contrast to the world of carpentry, where carpenters able vehicle large-capacity storage batteries to ensure a maximum conditions continuously charge electric vehicle batteries, enabling an tremors, but also flexibly maintain structural integrity even in the to build four houses a year are considered top class, Sekisui 80% of normal energy self-sufficiency. This system allows ongoing supply of home power even if power outages last for several days. case of distorted vibrations by dampening the rate of Heim factories are able to residents to use TVs and PCs to stay abreast of the latest In addition, we have developed a new system that can be used as a earthquake acceleration. produce numerous disaster-related information as well as operate home-use storage battery to supply power even when electric vehicles are homes per day. The air conditioners and microwaves. being used. undeniable technical Ensures a Standard houses Sekisui Heim maximum 80% prowess created from the Solar panels can continuously charge electric vehicle batteries, experience accumulated of normal energy through these operations self-sufficiency enabling an ongoing supply of Major earthquake Major earthquake home power even if power is contributing to the outages last for several days improvement of Homes collapse suddenly when a Flexibly disperses construction precision major earthquake exceeds the limits of seismic shock and quality. Welding using automatic welding equipment structural resistance due to rigidity. V to Heim home allows simultaneous use IH cooking heater of these electric appliances 1,500w Microwave Electric kettle Air conditioner Over 200 homes 2,763 times Approximately Approximately 1,450w 1,250w 700w 10 inspectors 130,000~150,000 Home-use storage batteries Around 6,000w produced per month components (as of May 12, 2016) with around six times the Refrigerator LDC TV Lighting (12 LED lights) storage capacity 180w 150w 100w This is the number of homes Tokyo This is the number of certified This is the number of materials This is the number of times that modules have been subjected to seismic testing at The system based on the Nissan The total volume of electricity that Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd.’s Hasuda Plant inspectors who form the backbone /components that form a single an intensity level of 7 on the Japanese Leaf has a storage cell capacity of can be used simultaneously from manufactures monthly. Our experienced of our strict inspection system that Smart Heim home, with records for around 30kWh, which is around six power stored in electric vehicle PC Electric fan Mobile phone charger scale using the Hasuda Plant’s earthquake 30w 20w 10w engineers are able to produce extends across all processes, from every single item accurately cataloged simulation equipment. times greater than standard home-use storage batteries. approximately 10 homes per day. component delivery to shipping. using computers. batteries (5kWh). 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 11 2 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services REPORT 02 Initiatives of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Company As an industrial product, uniform INTERVIEW Production performance helps ensure safe and reliable Fiber-Reinforced Foamed Urethane (FFU) railway transportation Materials Contribute to Safe Since wood is a natural material, it is usually not included in strength calculations for structural engineering, owing to the wide variance in performance characteristics of wood. and Reliable Transportation FFU synthetic wood materials are a manufactured product, not a natural material like wood, so variations in strength and quality cannot be tolerated. It must have the same performance characteristics all the time. I believe this is vital Fifty years have passed since Japan went through a phase of advanced economic growth. within the context of safe and reliable railway transportation. The aging of social infrastructure that was quickly constructed back then has become a social problem. FFU is light and strong, thanks to its foamed urethane resin At Sekisui Chemical, we contribute to safe and reliable railway transportation through the development structure uniformly reinforced with long glass fibers. It is and sale of railway sleepers made from FFU synthetic wood materials. challenging to impregnate resins uniformly with glass fibers, and products with large cross sections are Takumi Murata Technology Department bonded, a process that we pay particular Shiga-Ritto Plant attention to. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. We engage in production activities with the awareness that our products provide value to Social Background society, by assuming that our Annual number of passengers on the products used in railways, a form of public infrastructure, Tokaido bullet train 1 55 are constantly fulfilling an important social need. About 3 Takashi Oguchi million 1 Performance Materials Division Sales Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Railways are used by people to commute to work and school, as INTERVIEW Development well as to take business and leisure trips. Any accidents, INTERVIEW service interruptions or delays in railway service causes severe economic losses over a broad spectrum of society. Synthetic railway sleepers support the main arteries of Japan’s economy It would not be an exaggeration to say that we supply synthetic Alternative materials for wood work efficiency. FFU also has excellent workability, railway sleepers to almost all of the major railway operators in making it possible to conduct repairs at the worksite, such Japan, including Japan Railway (JR) companies and private railway Our FFU synthetic wood materials are stronger than wood but are as making holes to match worksite conditions. companies. On the Tokaido bullet train, in accordance with a just as light, and do not corrode. They are also easier to fabricate project to increase the speed of rolling stock in 1992, wood railway to precise dimensions. Our FFU synthetic wood materials are a Delivering Japan-grade safety and reliability in sleepers were replaced with synthetic railway sleepers that perfect alternative for wooden railway sleepers, providing the transportation to the world combine light weight with strength and excellent workability. The same benefits as wood, plus more. Tokaido bullet train is a main transportation artery that supports Railway sleepers are used to fix rails in place, and any expansion, Preparing for the complete prohibition of creosote oil for the Japanese economy by connecting the two major contraction or warping in them can make the rails unstable. Wood industrial use in European countries in 2018, railway companies metropolitan areas of Tokyo and Osaka. Any service interruptions expands and warps when absorbing water, but FFU does not. have been searching for an alternative material to make railway Minoru Satou or delays, even a few minutes long, can have a major impact on sleepers instead of wood. Certifying a material for use in railway Business Promotion Department the economy. Railway maintenance work for the bullet train can Chubu Sales Headquarters Easier maintenance reduces onsite work sleepers requires 5-10 years of strenuous testing. We have set our Urban Infrastructure & Environmental only be conducted during the hours between the last and first sights on developing the business globally in order to deliver to Products Company trains every day. Sekisui Chemical's synthetic railway sleepers can Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Another major advantage of FFU is that they are easy to maintain. the world Japan’s renowned safety and reliability in transportation be efficiently replaced and repaired in a limited amount of time. I For bullet trains in particular, the space between rails and their systems. thus believe this material can help make railway transportation height are fine-tuned on a daily basis. Since FFU can be fabricated * Creosote oil for industrial use : A type of anti-corrosive agent made by distilling safer and more reliable. Since it is also a product that helps protect with a high degree of dimensional accuracy, it helps increase coal tar. In recent years, it has been designated as a carcinogen. people's lives on trains, I take care to accurately answer any technical questions about the material from customers. 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 13 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services Use of synthetic sleepers overseas REPORT 02 Initiatives of the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Company Around the world, amid growing awareness of environmental sleeper technologies created in Japan, highly regarded for their conservation, countries are reconsidering the use of natural wood environmental friendliness and contributions to safe and reliable Our lightweight, strong sleepers due to their consumption of natural forest resources and transportation, are starting to be used overseas. synthetic railway sleepers health risks associated with anti-corrosion agents. Synthetic excel in durability Our synthetic railway sleepers made from FFU synthetic wood materials are just as light as natural wood materials, are stronger than concrete sleepers, and resist corrosion. Germany Australia Switzerland Russia China They contribute to safe and reliable railway transportation systems. What are FFU synthetic wood materials? United Kingdom U.S.A. FFU stands for Fiber-reinforced Foamed Urethane (foamed urethane resin reinforced with glass fibers). Hard urethane resin foam Made from rigid urethane resin Overseas sales ratio for synthetic sleepers reinforced with glass fibers, it was mainly developed as an alternative Long glass fiber Taiwan 25 to natural wood materials. 21% The Netherlands 20 16% 15 11% FFU's features a perfect match for railway sleepers 10 8% 4% 3% FFU is a material that combines the advantages of natural wood railway sleepers, and it has also been deployed in other areas, 5 and plastic, namely light weight, strength, resistance to corrosion, centering on bridge and junction sections of railway. India Indonesia Australia 0 and workability. Railways recognize FFU as an ideal material for 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Special feature 1 Special feature 2 Special feature 3 Special feature 4 Sekisui Chemical's involvement in the Tokaido Shinkansen(Bullet Train) High durability Light weight High strength and no corrosion High workability The first full-fledged use of synthetic railway sleepers on a Tokaido Shinkansen track was It has roughly the same specific weight It has roughly the same strength It is at least three times more durable It can be processed like natural wood more than 25 years ago in 1989. Synthetic railway sleepers were deployed extensively on as beech, oak and other types of wood as concrete sleepers, and experiences than natural wood, does not rot and does (nails can be driven into it, screws sleepers, making it light and easy to handle. hardly any deterioration in strength. not need to be treated for anti-corrosion. fastened to it, holes made in it, and painted). bridges and junctions in particular, as well as on regular tracks, in accordance with an initiative to increase the maximum speed of the Tokaido Shinkansen to 270km/h in 1992. Synthetic railway sleepers were highly regarded for their light weight, strength, and workability, in addition to their stable performance and excellent durability as a manufactured product, on top of their contribution to steeply reducing the frequency of Many old bridges Wood tends to rot Replacement work Requires longer or Nail and screw Maintenance and replacements. Thereafter, Sekisui Chemical developed special railway sleepers more able were not designed in bridges above is harder on bridges shorter-thanlocations vary repair work takes time to withstand earthquake damage on railway tracks. Central Japan Railway Company (JR Track built on synthetic railway sleepers for Line No. 27 at Shin-Osaka Station to carry the rivers due to high than on land normal sleepers (improve maintenance Central) uses reflective sound absorbing panels in large-scale preventive maintenance* weight of humidity (less maintenance efficiency) * Preventive maintenance: Maintaining the performance of a structure before it requires repairs in projects for repairing and maintaining civil engineering structures. We continue to work the future. concrete sleepers frequency) together on such projects with the aim of ensuring safe and reliable transportation. TOPICS Bridges Junctions Letter of Appreciation from JR Central Reflective sound absorbing panels (bridge sleepers) (switch sleepers) In commemoration of the 50th In large-scale maintenance projects for anniversary of the Tokaido Tokaido Shinkansen civil engineering Other (short sleepers, joint sleepers, regular sleepers, etc.) Shinkansen, Sekisui Chemical has structures underway since 2013, reflective received a Letter of Appreciation sound absorbing panels jointly developed from JR Central in recognition of by JR Central and Sekisui Chemical have its many years of contributions to been used to replace existing sound-proof Synthetic sleepers solve issues faced by railway operators, and help ensure safe and reliable transportation safe and reliable transportation walls as a solution with better on bullet train lines. noise-suppressing performance that puts less weight on concrete bridges. 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 15 2 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services REPORT 03 Initiatives of the High Performance Plastics (HPP) Company Providing products that fit local needs while INTERVIEW Domestic sales speeding up diagnostics Diagnostic Reagents Contribute to Sekisui Medical sells diagnostic reagents that measure blood-sugar levels and cholesterol, which offer a strong reading People’s Health on lifestyle-related diseases, such as blood clots, diabetes and high lipid. High readings indicate something may be wrong with a person’s health, and the test results are a basis for providing health In Japan, where the proportion of the elderly is rising, health becomes more important as people age, advice, such as exercising more and leading healthier lifestyles. raising interest in preventive medicine.The Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to healthy social lifestyles At medical institutions seeing a steady increase in patients as by providing diagnostic reagents and analyzers used in health exams. society ages, it has become imperative to quickly deliver testing results with the aim of increasing the efficiency of health examinations. Our customers have firmly requested faster processing with our diagnostic reagents and analyzers. It is our mission to figure out how to shorten turnaround times. For example, it used to take about an hour to get Mika Kurita Diagnostics Business blood test results. On its own accord, Sekisui Sales Department Medical developed a blood collection Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. tube with an agent that hardens blood samples, thereby shortening the amount of time before it can be Social background put in the testing equipment. In Difference in average and healthy life expectancies this way, we aim to provide products that meet the needs 9.13 years 12.68 years of medical practitioners. Males Females 1 3 The difference between average life expectancy and healthy life Overseas development expectancy implies the period in people’s lives when they are not R&D healthy. Many people, both men and women, spend ten Hiroaki Inoue years of their lives with conditions that impair their INTERVIEW INTERVIEW Research Lab. R&D Division EIDIA Co., Ltd. daily livelihoods. Source: Health Sciences Council’s Reference Materials for Promoting Health Japan 21 (the second term) Promoting the spread of diagnostic reagents helps solve the problem of patient concentration Diagnostic reagents aid in the early detection treatments through academic and research In China, the market for diagnostic reagents has expanded of disease conferences, and enlisted their cooperation in evaluating the clinical efficacy of diagnostic reagents. This close-knit considerably amid growing interest in health as lifestyles For example, people with liver cancer express a special protein in their cooperation with medical institutions has led to the development improve. As this interest in health grows, however, patients have bodies called a marker. We conduct research into reagents that detect of original antibodies with proven efficacy and highly sensitive congregated at general hospitals in droves, causing problems. this marker. The purpose of these reagents is to discover the disease at measurement methods. By combining these excellent antibodies Since most people want to go to general hospitals with the an early stage, thereby giving patients more opportunities to receive and measurement methods, we are able to develop diagnostic latest technologies and systems, patients are forced to wait better treatments. reagents that can detect extremely minute markers. several hours before they can be seen by a doctor, even if they EIDIA has developed diagnostic reagents that utilize original arrive at the hospital in the early morning. At Sekisui Medical Technology (China), we are working to antibodies, and specializes in the production of reagents that can be Contributing to preventative medicine through solve this problem by spreading the use of diagnostic reagents also used with analyzers made by other companies. By partnering with early detection makers of diagnostic reagents, Sekisui Chemical gains the advantage of and analyzers at mid-scale hospitals in outlying regions. being able to supply diagnostic reagents to a larger number of hospitals. Having become a rapidly aging society, Japanese citizens are As the sales manager and marketing chief for six provinces in increasingly interested in preventive medicine and ways of Guan Xiaoyan the Hedong area, I take the initiative to foster opportunities to Sales Department communicate with hospital staff by actively participating in and R&D that emphasizes relationships of trust detecting possible ailments as early as possible. Through my daily Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. sponsoring academic conferences and exhibitions. We aim to with medical institutions work in research and development, I aim to bring diagnostic reagents into the world that are easier to use and help people help solve medical problems by providing hospital staff with Left: Guan Xiaoyan Sales Department Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. knowledge and experience in our products. EIDIA has built relationships based on trust with specialists in liver fight disease. Right: Wang Qiang CEO President Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 17 SPECIAL ISSUE | Solving Social Issues through Products and Services Global business development 03 REPORT Initiatives of the High Performance Plastics (HPP) Company The Sekisui Chemical Group China, Asia, North America, Europe Business domains of the life sciences field in the High Performance Plastics Company (As of June 2016. These two operating companies plan to merge together in April 2017.) Early detection of disease EIDIA, which specializes helps prolong healthy life in the cancer field, will become a subsidiary. expectancies Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Diagnostic reagents Diagnostic reagents EIDIA Co., Ltd. In order to extend the period of time that the elderly are healthy Pharmaceuticals Development, production and sale of Immune serum diagnostic reagents Medical (healthy life expectancy), it is important to detect disease at an & clinical diagnostic reagents and vacuum (for cancer), chest pain marker diagnostic equipment Fine chemicals collection tubes for blood coagulation, reagents and hematological diagnostic early stage when the risk is still low, and to work to prevent the diabetes, obesity, rheumatism reagents disease from occurring. and infectious diseases Drug development One-stop solution for Bioscience solutions the early detection of various diseases that have become a social problem, such as serious diseases and lifestyle-related ailments like cancer, heart disease and cerebrovascular disease. Realizing healthy lives via the early detection of disease A healthy life expectancy* that is shorter than average life The mortality rates for serious diseases, such as cancer, heart Specific initiatives expectancy means that people are unable to live a normal lifestyle, disease and vascular brain disease, can be reduced the earlier the and spend time instead in nursing care facilities or hospitals. This is an disease is detected. It also gives patients more options for treatment, 01 Shorten testing times issue that affects the individual, such as their health and quality of life. which may improve their prognosis and shorten recovery times. Early Any widening in the gap between average and healthy life detection requires people to go to annual physical examinations that expectancies implies an increase in medical expenditures and take advantage of diagnostic reagents and analyzers. nursing care benefits, a social issue that must be addressed. A major issue at medical institutions is being able * Healthy life expectancy: Period in people’s lives when they are not healthy to convey to patients the test results as quickly as Turnaround time Gap between average and healthy life expectancies (fiscal 2010) Five-year survival rates by stage of cancer possible. The quickness of this response is called turnaround time. Fast turnaround times are desired Cancer only affects a single organ Blood Introduce for diagnostic reagents and analyzers. The Sekisui collection, etc. Test on Calculate test Convey test Cancer has spread to neighboring organs and lymph nodes diagnostic equipment results results Average life expectancy Chemical Group has shortened turnaround times reagent 79.55 years Cancer has spread throughout the body by about 75%, less than the one-hour time that Healthy life expectancy All types of had been considered impossible for some testing, Male 70.42 years cancer by improving reagents and coating collection Gap tubes with a coagulating agent. Inside of collection 9.13 years tube is coated with a coagulating agent. Esophageal 02 Completely 03 Diagnostic cancer Average life expectancy internalize development, reagents that can be used 86.30 years production and sales with equipment made by other companies Stomach cancer Healthy life expectancy By being involved in the development, production and sale of Even if it becomes possible to improve diagnostic reagents and rapidly Female 73.62 years diagnostic reagents, Sekisui Medical is able to precisely address produce results from smaller amounts of samples, the latest in diagnostic Gap Colorectal the requirements and needs of its customers via marketing technology is not adopted if it requires replacing equipment with costlier 12.68 years cancer activities and feed this information back to R&D. By sharing the diagnostic equipment. Many companies sell diagnostic reagents that (Years) 60 70 80 90 (%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 raw opinions of customers throughout the value chain, the only work with the equipment that they sell. EIDIA has partnered with Company has put in place a system that can provide products many diagnostic equipment makers to develop diagnostic reagents for Gap between average and healthy life that helps solve actual issues at medical institutions. their measurement methodologies and diagnostic procedures. We are Early detection is key expectancies a cause of social problems able to supply diagnostic reagents to a wide range of hospitals and testing centers without regard to the type of testing equipment they use. Source: Reference materials for the promotion of Health Japan 21 (the second term) Source: Foundation for Promotion of Cancer Research’s Cancer Statistics 2013 (five-year relative issued by the Health Science Council of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare survival rates by clinical stage of cancer) 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 19 CSR Management in Practice Management Environment-Contributing Products Prominence Continuing to provide prominent value toward the Create and expand markets for products that Three Prominences in Environment realization of the Earth with maintained biodiversity display significant environmental contribution effectiveness during customer use Long-Term Environmental Management Vision Web ■Environment-Contributing Product certifications Web Data Book P4-5,9 The internal certification screening committee undertakes certifications based on criteria Sekisui Environment Sustainability Vision 2030 established in cooperation with internal committee members as well as receives opinions and Toward the realization of “the Earth with maintained biodiversity” advice on the validity of results from the External Advisory Board. Environment The Sekisui Chemical Group is aware that its business activities depend on resources (natural capital). Each and every executive and employee is working to evolve into a pool of talented personnel with excellent environmental activity promotional skills and will e Natural Capital promote environmental management based on Utiliz External promotion using pamphlets and exhibitions Web contributions in three areas in order to “give back Details of the significance behind and degree of contribution by products listed in the more to the Earth than is taken” in 2030: Environment-Contributing Products pamphlet (updated in fiscal 2015) are as follows. Expand and create markets for ●Solving both environmental and social issues using Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Products Products EnvironmExpand and creatgeProducts ent-Contributin Reduce environmental impact Reduce env act ●Types and scope of contributions in a virtual community based on each product’s ironmental imp CS & Quality Conserve the natural environment Earth with A talented group with excellent environmental contribution level Conserve natural environment maintained biodiversity activity promotional skills Eco-Products 2015 In addition, the Group is generating prominent Contribute to return of Natural Capital (Sekisui Chemical Group) Moreover, we again held the Eco-Products Exhibition, an initiative that began in 2006, Sekisui Chemical Group booth Environment-Contributing value toward the realization of “the Earth with maintained biodiversity” by contributing to the return of natural capital. under the theme “V to H future lifestyle criteria to be realized by Sekisui Chemical,” Products pamphlet displaying 14 products and technologies that utilize V (vehicles), T (towns), and H (homes). We are undertaking initiatives aimed at resiliently and sustainably solving climate change and energy issues raised as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Environment-Contributing Products, from intermediate materials to Integrated index Web Data Book P8 products, services, and construction Web Human Resources In fiscal 2015, 15 products were registered. Particularly Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index overseas, we identified approaches for area contributions Other Environment-Contributing Products ●Smart Towns that assist in the creation of communities consisting of The Sekisui Chemical Group has been using the Sekisui Environment Sustainability Index since fiscal 2014 as a single that take into account the circumstances of each area. The homes installed with home energy management systems (HEMS) products that play a leading role in promoting featuring solar power generation systems and storage batteries indicator of the level of environmental impact by its corporate activities (i.e. use of natural capital) and contributions back environmental contributions in various areas of the Sekisui ●Fireproof materials that reduce fire damage to the environment (i.e. return of natural capital). Chemical Group are registered, such as houses in Thailand ●Decorative plastic laminate sheets ■Results of calculation and plastic rain gutters in Europe. Based on fiscal 2015 performance, the Sekisui Environmental Sustainability Index was calculated as follows. With environmental impact equal to 100 representing the use of natural capital, the return of natural capital as contributions back to the environment came to 76.4 (+11.9% vs. FY2014). Personal View (summary) (1)Quantify environmental impact and outcomes of activities by category Environmental contributions through SCG-HEIM 100 Use of natural Raw materials Production Other Volume of raw materials used, greenhouse gas emissions, waste capital 36.7 26.8 36.5 volume, water usage, emissions of chemical substances, area of land used, environmental contribution of each product,1 participation Basis of CSR Calculation rate in activities to conserve the natural environment, etc. SCG-HEIM homes are highly insulated and for reducing cooling costs and has received Impact reduction method (2)Apply a coefficient2 calculated using environmental impact and 0.9 airtight and feature heat-exchange ventilation positive evaluation for air cleanliness and contributions in each category, and calculate environmental impact in each category systems to provide residences in Thailand that exterior durability. Return of natural capital Contribution from products 74.3 76.4 (3)Add environmental impacts and contributions (integration) are very durable and comfortable based on We will work to spread SCG-HEIM to satisfy 1. Environmental contribution of each product: Included contribution levels for products technologies and leading quality control customers in our pursuit of value found in Conservation of the natural environment equivalent to an Environment-Contributing Products sales ratio of 84% in fiscal 2015. 1.2 systems developed in Japan. SCG-HEIM has sustainable lifestyles that are healthy, Takahiro Ariga 2. Coefficient: Calculated using a customized version of LIME2, an environmental International Business Promotion Department impact assessment method developed by Professor Norihiro Itsubo at Tokyo City garnered a high level of customer satisfaction comfortable, and environmentally friendly. Housing Company University. The coefficients use a database based on the research and knowledge Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. of experts that developed MiLCA. (See website for details.) 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 21 CSR Management in Practice Environmental Impact Reduction Natural Environment Conservation Prominence Working to return to the planet natural Our employees undertake activities to conserve the natural Three Prominences in Environment capital used in business activities environment at Sekisui Chemical business sites worldwide SEKISUI Environment Week Web Developing personnel with excellent Combating climate change Web Data Book P4-5,10-11 environmental activity promotional skills Steadily reducing greenhouse gases in all business activities The Sekisui Chemical Group holds the SEKISUI Environment Week education at Aiming to keep the overall volume of greenhouse gas overseas, where energy consumption has increased in annually during the week starting on August 1 as an opportunity for all elementary schools. In Environment emitted during manufacturing pegged to the fiscal 2013 recent years. As a result, we reduced total emissions by employees to participate in environmental contribution activities. addition, the European Children's Eco Summit 2015 held in Germany level and reducing by 1% every year the amount of 4.5% in fiscal 2015. Looking ahead, we will continue SEKISUI Environment Week was held for the third time in fiscal was an event that symbolized the Group’s efforts. Executives led by the energy consumed per unit of output, we focus on energy reducing greenhouse gases at every stage of our business 2015, with 19,677 employees taking part. This event comprised a wide chairman and president along with about 80 employees and their conservation activities particularly at our business sites activities with the aim of reaching COP 21 objectives. array of activities, such as local cleanup drives, energy conservation families took part in tree planting and environmental training during initiatives in offices, tree planting, and providing environmental SEKISUI Environment Week. ■Business site initiative case studies We are taking thorough steps to ensure not to waste or leak steam, which accounts Improvement of business site green space quality Web Data Book P4-5,9 for a large portion of the Shiga-Minakuchi Plant’s energy sources. We have significantly reduced energy use at our plant by inspecting steam traps installed at Initiatives to improve green space quality at all domestic production sites and laboratories CS & Quality 497 locations and improving bypass valves and pipes at 42 locations. Volunteers removing nonnative plants We are moving forward with efforts to improve green space quality with score on the Land-Use Report the aim of maintaining flora and fauna habitats, building ecosystem Card® by 10 points compared with fiscal 2013. As a result of removing Resource efficiency Web Data Book P4-5,12-13 networks that connect regions and business sites, and invigorate nonnative plants and installing bird nesting boxes, we improved our New waste reduction initiatives regional partnerships. In the current fiscal year, we aim to improve our average score by 8.0 points (compared with fiscal 2013) in fiscal 2015. The Sekisui Chemical Group sets the ambitious target of overseas production sites. While reducing the amount of waste generated per unit of output by domestic Group facilities have been Activities in partnership with regions Web 4% every year compared with the fiscal 2013 level. Changing certified under standards calling for Providing synthetic wood remnants for Shiga Human Resources our perspective on reducing waste by improving production zero direct landfill waste and no efficiency, we are taking on the challenge of shifting our incineration without heat recovery Prefecture’s Sakana No Yurikago Suiden project A fish chute placed in a rice paddy emphasis from simply selling waste materials as valuable in Japan, many sites overseas still Shiga-Ritto Plant provides synthetic wood remnants produced at its Recognized for these activities, we received the Nature materials to generating additional value using resin processing bury or incinerate waste. Under these circumstances, five facilities as materials to make fish chutes that allow fish to access Conservation Society of Japan’s Nature Conservation Award technologies developed to date. business sites including our SPI Bloomsburg plant in America rice paddies as part of Shiga Prefecture’s Sakana No Yurikago Suiden (corporate/leader category) and a special award (environment, The Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting zero emissions at were certified in fiscal 2015. Project. In so doing, we are undertaking activities to preserve corporate category) in the Ministry of the Environment’s Good Life biodiversity in Lake Biwa in cooperation with local governments. Awards in fiscal 2015. Preservation of water resources Web Data Book P4-5,13-14 Personal View (summary) Identifying water resource risks and reducing consumption Deepening interactions with members of the local community Basis of CSR We have deepened our interactions with local participating in rice planting and harvesting. Water resources are a form of natural capital that is vital for fiscal 2013 and conducted additional Whole Effluent Toxicity residents through our CSR activities, which Receiving numerous awards has heightened maintaining sustainable business activities. Accordingly, we (WET) assessments regarding water discharge at four business include providing materials for fish chutes expectations that we will expand our are not only reducing the amount of water extracted, but also sites. As for water risk surveys, we confirmed that no business that are built and installed together with local environmental initiatives in order to preserve identifying risks posed to biodiversity and business sites require emergency measures after follow-up surveys government officials as well as Shiga-Ritto biodiversity through local-based activities. Plant employees and their families Koji Fujimoto sustainability by water discharge. In fiscal 2015, we reduced were conducted mainly at overseas facilities. Safety & Environment Division Shiga-Ritto Plant water usage at our production sites by 5.8% compared with Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 23 CSR Management in Practice CS & Quality Management Initiatives Attractive Products, Technologies, and Services Prominence Pursuing the quality always specified by customers, Advancing Development of Systems, Human Resources, Three Prominences in CS & Quality through maximizing the quality of human resources, and a Culture Enabling Creation of Attractive Qualities products, and systems Systems that evaluate and improve Attractive Qualities from the viewpoint of society Web The Medium-Term Plan (FY2014-2016) progress Web Data Book P17 Attractive Qualities screening system for evaluations by outside experts External failure costs essentially unchanged compared with fiscal 2014 The Sekisui Chemical Group has set up the Attractive Qualities Screening System for evaluating its Attractive initiative has made Sekisui Chemical Group employees more motivated to take on the challenge of developing In fiscal 2015, the second year of the medium-term plan, we We aim to further cut external failure costs by continuing to Quality products from an external third-party viewpoint, in new products despite the various hurdles they may face Environment achieved zero major quality issues. External failure costs were 1 2 enhance Group-wide quality assurance systems and to deploy order to accelerate the creation of attractive qualities. while providing helpful hints and raising awareness of roughly the same level as in fiscal 2014. To maintain zero major activities to reduce quality-related risks. Beyond amounts of sales and profits, the Attractive development initiatives. quality issues, we aim to improve Basic Qualities by ensuring Qualities Screening System evaluates products to In fiscal 2015, the Attractive Qualities Screening System 1 Major quality issues: Problems related to product and service quality that could cause thorough adherence to the Development Guidelines and significant damage to customers, society, or the Sekisui Chemical determine whether or not they provide value to customers conducted award evaluations for the third time, with three Group if not thoroughly resolved on an urgent basis. Everyday Management Guidelines throughout the entire Group. 2 External failure costs: Costs arising from responding to product-related complaints. and society at large. Under this system, 11 products have products receiving received awards. awards. Interviews Major Quality Issues External Failure Costs In order to notify Sekisui Chemical Group employees with those involved (Incidents) 3 (Indicator) 100 about what concepts and perspectives were used to in the development 100 commercialize award-winning products, the Company of these products 52 80 2 54 53 intranet features The Story of Attractive Qualities, which are listed on the 60 CS & Quality 1 40 reveals the secrets behind the development of these intranet. 1 products through interviews with those involved. This The story of attractive qualities interview 0 20 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2008 2013 2014 2015 Systems to confirm the degree of penetration of CS & Quality management initiatives Web Manufacturing education Web Expanding employee CS & Quality assessments to overseas business sites Rebuilding our manufacturing education system The Sekisui Chemical Group has been conducting Group’s culture is gradually being cultivated by identifying Since fiscal 2013, the Sekisui Chemical Group has been proactively sending instructors to provide on-site training. In customer satisfaction (CS) and quality assessments for issues concerning the spread of CS & Quality management, domestic employees once every two years since fiscal 2012. subsequently taking opportunities to review these issues at Human Resources rebuilding its employee grade-based training system for addition, we improved the program in such areas as updating managers in production departments in order to spread existing training courses and adding case study-method These assessments are intended to determine the degree each department based on results reports, and then using knowledge of manufacturing throughout all levels, from training for highly specialized areas including quality control of CS & Quality management penetration by gauging CS & these to set action goals for the next fiscal year. back-office staff to the plant floor. We offer 12 courses in the and safety management. Quality-related awareness and actions among employees In fiscal 2015, we conducted CS & Quality assessments at three fields of technical skills (policy management, quality The Sekisui Chemical Group also employs QC as well as stipulate action guidelines based on a overseas business sites, expanding this system to an even management, facility management, safety management, etc.), Certification* effectively to measure levels of quality consideration of related issues. The Sekisui Chemical greater number of facilities. human skills and conceptual skills, further dividing classes knowledge, and as of the end of fiscal 2015, over 3,500 into plant leaders, line managers, and front line supervisors. members of the Company had attained QC Certification. Systems that use customer feedback to increase CS & Quality Web Data Book P18 In fiscal 2015, 714 employees took classes thanks to our *QC Certification: A certification system conducted by the Japanese Standards Association efforts to expand opportunities to participate, including and certified by the Japanese Society for Quality Control. Publishing VOICE that summarizes customer feedback Sekisui Chemical Group Customer Information & Consulting by its Customer Information & Consulting Product safety Basis of CSR Web Services receive over 10,000 inquiries and feedback each year. Services. This booklet is published with the Compliance with laws and internal rules for product safety Beyond sincerely responding to customer inquiries, the Group identifies the hidden needs of customers by using unique aim of reflecting customer feedback in management activities, cultivate and instill When a legal violation related to product safety becomes and prevent a reoccurrence. This is also true if internal rules methods to analyze customer motivations based on these a culture of CS and quality in all employees, known internally or is pointed out from external sources, and standards for product safety have not been followed. In inquiries. and promote understanding of these issues the Sekisui Chemical Group rapidly discloses information fiscal 2015, there were no cases where we violated laws or As a new initiative starting in fiscal 2015, the Group in Group-wide businesses in a manner that about the incident and moves quickly to discover the cause internal rules related to product safety. published VOICE, which is a summary of the inquiries received transcends particular operational areas. 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 25 CSR Management in Practice Quality Improvement Prominence Pursuing the “three zeros” Design/development seminars Three Prominences Web in Development prevention seminar and DR* reviewer training seminar CS & Quality in accidents,waste, and complaints Continuing from fiscal 2013, we held the Development development with existing ones to verify changes in Prevention Seminar aimed at acquiring effective prevention measurements and shapes. methods as well as the DR Reviewer Training Seminar to We plan to hold these seminars again in fiscal 2016. improve DR skills. Both seminars are based on the topic of * DR = Design Review Quality management Web Data Book P17-18 preventing quality problems before they arise. In fiscal 2015, we held the Prevention Case Study Systems in each section reflect business characteristics Consultation Meeting once again in cooperation with Yamanashi Sekisui Co., Ltd. As part of the hands-on section The Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality control cycle. In developing products and making improvements Environment of the Development Prevention Seminar, participants systems covering every process from production through to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of learned and discussed methods for predicting/identifying product use by customers. Each section has developed a perspectives, such as those of quality assurance and safety. hidden risks by comparing new products under Development Prevention Seminar DR Reviewer Training Seminar quality assurance system, and in each process we promote *PDCA: P = Plan (planning), D = Do (implementation, operation), C = Check (checkup, corrective action), A = Action (improvement, review) controls on a daily basis following the PDCA* management ■Quality assurance system CS & Quality seminar Web Product development Design Production preparation Production Sales/services CS & Quality seminar: Basic Qualities edition held during quality month Production Complaints/claim resolution & analysis Since fiscal 2011 the CS & Quality Seminar: Basic Qualities Edition has been held during Quality Markets/product data/customer information Production design/preparation Mass-production trial screening Determining causes/prevention Design prototype screening Month every November with the goal of raising the level of Basic Qualities throughout the entire Product design screening Testing/evaluation items Trial production/trial runs Product development CS & Quality Sekisui Chemical Group. Complaints/claims Customer satisfaction surveys Verify results In fiscal 2015, the fifth time this seminar has been held, outside auditor Kazuyuki Suzuki, Design Inspection professor at the University of Electro-Communications gave a lecture on quality assurance to Sales maintain trustworthy, safe, and reliable products as well as preventing quality-related problems. Participants’ impressions included: “I gained a renewed awareness of the three concepts of assurance, verification, and evidence, and particularly the importance of processes,” and “I believe Shipping Kazuyuki Suzuki, professor at the that it is my mission to put into practice the specific ideas that were introduced, including error University of Electro-Communications, giving a lecture proofing concepts accumulated through research.” We plan to hold seminars in fiscal 2016. Human Resources Group KAIZEN activities on a global scale Web Formulating three quality guidelines Web Holding the Group KAIZEN Activities* Award/Presentations Meetings Maintaining uniform quality control from development to sales Group KAIZEN Activities are an initiative in which employees in each workplace form small groups to address various topics in real time to 17 business sites that notified us of their interest in advance. This meeting has become a valuable opportunity to Undertaking uniform quality control throughout the value by predicting quality risks that can arise after such as improvements in quality and productivity and deepen employees’ understanding of improvement activities, chain—from development, manufacturing, and sales— commercialization. increasing operational efficiency, and to take on various subjects which was underscored by participants who stated “I was able the Sekisui Chemical Group is working to improve the Guidelines for Daily Management Activities are a through policy management. These activities have a track to gain more details on announcement content,” and “I had a level of its quality control by formulating and issuing three collection of basic guides to management on a daily basis record of more than 40 years. They are under way at numerous chance to exchange information and opinions with those guidelines: Development that must be undertaken in manufacturing and business sites in Japan and around the world, centered on working at other business sites and companies.” production companies. Once a year in January, presentations Guidelines for Strengthening post-development processes. * Group KAIZEN Activities: Activities that began in 1966 as Quality Control (QC) Basis of CSR ᩥ᭩␒ྕ㸸   are made by the representative group in each area—Japan, groups and later evolved into small group activities   Quality Assurance, Guidelines for Contract/Specification Guidelines were added in fiscal  before taking the form they have today. ᙌԼᝤ٥ȷҾ஬૰᳽ᢿ஬ទλƴƓƚǔ North America/Mexico, China, Europe, and Asia/Oceania—to ‫ڎ‬ኖȷˁಮ୿ ƴ᧙ƢǔǬǤȉȩǤȳ Daily Management Activities, and 2015 with the aim of reducing expanded compensation*  Group Site   share information and help each other improve.  ᲫᲨᙌԼᝤ٥ƴƓƚǔ‫ڎ‬ኖȷˁಮ୿ƴ᧙ƢǔǬǤȉȩǤȳ Contract/Specification Guidelines. risks related to product sales. Gold Prize SAP3-Advance ᲬᲨҾ஬૰ȷᢿ஬ទλƴƓƚǔ‫ڎ‬ኖȷˁಮ୿ƴ᧙ƢǔǬǤȉȩǤȳ  Tokuyama Sekisui Co., Ltd. In the 50th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities   С‫ܭ‬Ჴ ࠰  உᲫଐ ોᚖᲴ ࠰  உ  ଐ  Development Guidelines are * Expanded compensation: Customers compensation in the case of product defects Presentation Meeting held in January 2016, a total of 21 Partying Wall Revolutionary Army Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. ᆢ൦҄‫߻ܖ‬ಅఇࡸ˟ᅈ ဃငщ᪃ૼǻȳǿȸ aimed at preventing Basic Qualitythat extend beyond returns and exchanges to include Silver Prize FS109 Shiga-Ritto Plant Ჽ᳍Լឋǰȫȸȗ compensation for processing/construction/items made representative groups (16 from Japan and five from other related problems from occurring with these products, and other related damage. Foam A Musashi Plant countries) made presentations. The proceedings were broadcast 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 27 CSR Management in Practice Diversity Management Improving Group Human Resource Capabilities Prominence Fostering a corporate culture where diverse Securing and training human resources in Three Prominences in Human human resources can work with enthusiasm aiming for sustainable growth Resources and make unique contributions Personal View (summary) Main career track feels rewarding every day Five years ago, I moved from a general to a more career-oriented Outside activities are increasing and there are many situations where Diversity management Web Data Book P28 track. Since then I have taken on the responsibility of recruiting I feel inspired by meeting women who are active in other companies. The Sekisui Chemical Group’s diversity management operations generally. I thought that preparing a recruitment plan and presenting a In the future, I will not limit myself to recruiting, but perform activities that contribute to promoting diversity from an environment The Sekisui Chemical Group started diversity management management-level employees of the domestic Sekisui recruitment seminar was men’s work, but I discovered that the work that fosters women in management positions and accepts a broad Fumiko Nagayama Environment General Affairs Department in fiscal 2015 and established a new Diversity Management Chemical Group and another study meeting for nearly is unrelated to gender and now I feel that every day is rewarding. range of differences. HINOMARU CORPORATION Policy. The Group also held a study meeting for about 200 1,900 managers of groups and sections. Developed training system that supports business Web Data Book P19-20 Diversity management policy Training business leaders at an early stage We have developed a consistent training system covering all stages from from such experience, we have developed a training system that links Based on the realization that diversity is essential to becoming a sustainable company that can maintain its strong corporate value for a new hires to management positions, in order to systematically train these two elements together. Through this system we will enhance each century, we understand and recognize that each and every employee’s orientation to work and life and their distinctive characteristics business leaders to power the Sekisui Chemical Group into the future. individual’s mastery of the skills required of business leaders, by running are different and thus we actively take advantage of that. To create an organizational culture, we will continue, through employee Based on the concept that the foundations of growth are the through the cycle of growth through experience (see illustration below). CS & Quality dialogue, to provide employment and participation opportunities and a variety of environmental improvements that support growth. experience gained through everyday business activities and learning Diagram of Grade-Based Training Programs Cycle to Encourage Growth through Experience As a specific initiative, we conduct diversity management with a focus on promoting women’s empowerment, Experience Learning the most familiar form of diversity. Manager Women’s empowerment Web Data Book P19-20 Support for young female employees Web Advanced Level 1 2 3 4 Grade-Based Training (Advanced Level) Reflection upon work experience Experience Reflection Conceptualization Application A first step in diversity Seminar held for managers 4 (past and present, self and others) management Intermediate Level 2 3 Specific experiences Objective reflection Verbalization of reflected Application of hypotheses Human Resources Pre-assignment training of new female staff, provided for gained from upon the experiences and and concepts The Sekisui Chemical Group continues a variety of efforts to staff responsible for training and support of new female 1 Grade-Based Training (Intermediate Level) new content of digesting down to new Reflection upon the elementary level period enable women employees to continue to work vigorously. employees, and management training for female 4 circumstances not experienced experiences and actions to personal hypothesis and circumstances to solidify As a result, we have achieved a substantial improvement in subordinates provided for their superiors, are intended as 2 3 in the past taken concepts personal Elementary Level experience the ratio of women employees and retention rates and the a means of raising the retention rate of young female 1 Initial three-year development program base number of women in management positions has increased. employees and helping them to thrive in the workplace. In fiscal 2015, we sought to become an organization Already a total of 526 people have undergone these where women can truly thrive throughout the entire Group training programs. The management training for female and established specific numerical targets for the ratio of subordinates had participants perform role playing to System aimed at strengthening abilities in the workplace Web Areas of Specialization that are Meister* Certified (FY2015) Com pany Sp e c ia liz atio n women employees including mid-career employment, and women in management positions. bring home the importance of having managers provide Training human resources to Housing ●Welding skills guidance to young female employees. After the seminars We also implemented educational programs for female ended, the participants applied the takeaways they support the workplace Urban ●Product design skills/CAE analysis skills/ Structural analysis skills Basis of CSR assistant managers and their managers. Women employee learned to their actual work, and reported to the training Infrastructure The human resources who will support the foundations of management in ●Pipe rehabilitation skills/Pipe rehabilitation & installation skills participants developed awareness about management center any issues or ideas that came up during their practical terms in the workplace must undergo self-growth as highly capable Environmental Products ●Pipe research and diagnosis/Business value chain positions and learned skills, shared growth challenges and implementation. With this feedback, we continue to practitioners by accumulating experience over the long term and acquiring design skills experiences with each other, and deepened their provide effective training. highly specialized knowledge and skills. Based on this concept, the Sekisui High Performance ●Fabrication skills/Extrusion molding skills understanding by sharing ideas. The managers of the Chemical Group hires human resources who will support the workplace as Plastics women employee participants learned new methods to full-time, permanent employees, creates an environment in which they can Headquarters ●Chemical plant safety technology effectively develop female managers. demonstrate their abilities with peace of mind over the long term, and *Meister: A person able to play a leading role in Companywide activities as a preeminent deploys the Meister* System to strengthen their abilities in the workplace. human resource in a technical area deemed key by the Company. 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 29 CSR Management in Practice Improving Group Human Resource Capabilities Safety and Security Prominence Securing and training human resources Targeting zero occupational accidents through risk reduction by Three Prominences in Human while aiming for sustainable growth all personnel, from top management to individual workplaces Resources Fiscal 2015 results and outlook Web Developing personnel who can succeed on the global stage Web Data Book P19-20 Implemented educational programs for key persons in charge of safety activities Fostering personnel with international experience to ensure sustainable growth We develop human resources who put business activities into practice with a high awareness of safety and who can As a disaster should focus particularly on prevention, we implemented emergency response training in the core In fiscal 2015, 25.8% of consolidated sales were generated products and services in tune with local needs. demonstrate this to their subordinates. In fiscal 2015, we planned processes for the following scenarios: getting caught or Environment overseas, and this ratio has been increasing every year. We Based on this belief, we train our employees so that and implemented an educational program with the aim of entangled at a production facility, tumbling or falling down at a have over 90 production and marketing sites in each and every one of them has the skills to succeed in fostering a sense of ownership among supervisors, managers, worksite, and a fire or explosion in the chemical process. We approximately 27 countries. We believe that all the their jobs. We have training and personnel systems in and assistant managers, and providing them with the skills to also promoted rigorous compliance with scaffolding work rules businesses of the Sekisui Chemical Group depend on place tailored to local conditions in North America/ revitalize business. at construction sites. each and every employee working around the world Mexico, Europe, China, and the ASEAN region. growing through their work and providing excellent Measures to prevent fires and explosions Web Emergency response measures Web Initiated emergency audits Ways to pass down accumulated The global trainee program Web Data Book P19 inviting outside experts knowledge of emergency preparedness Aggressively providing opportunities to succeed overseas CS & Quality To prevent fires and explosions that, once they occur, have a At the Sekisui Chemical Group, we conduct training to The Sekisui Chemical Group has established the Global overseas affiliates. major impact on the surrounding environment and on business fortify the decision-making abilities of all our employees in Trainee Program to enable participants to build up real-world In fiscal 2015, four employees enlisted in this program continuity, in addition to the safety audit performed thus far, we emergency situations. More specifically, emergency crews experience overseas. This program sends applicants with and were newly assigned overseas. In the future, we will began an Emergency Audit to which we invite outside disaster are given scenarios where equipment designed to sufficient levels of experience in specific positions such as strive to enhance these systems so that greater numbers of experts. We verify the storage of hazardous materials and prevent danger fails and challenges the trainees to ask handling status and the recovery system at the time of disaster questions to solve the problem on the spot. This training sales, accounting, and development to actual positions at employees can build up work experience around the world. including natural disaster, thereby detecting the risk of natural has been applied on various occasions including to disaster at an early stage and making improvements. handle problems, and in evacuation and emergency drills. In fiscal 2015, training has been held a total of 91 times Human Resources Global Saijuku School Web at six business sites including Created new systems to foster global management personnel Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., Okayama Sekisui Co., Ltd., and With the rapid expansion of business globalization, in North America/Mexico, Europe, Asia, and Japan, as well the Musashi Plant, 681 people overseas human resource development has become an as from our laboratories, took part in a program to have participated. urgent task. Therefore, in fiscal 2015, we implemented the enhance the management skills required for personnel to Global Saijuku School to develop the next generation of play an active role on the global stage by teaching them management personnel who will play an active role in about Sekisui’s values while reinforcing management and Safety audits at overseas business sites Web global markets. Twelve executives from Group companies business creation capabilities. Personal View Visualizing safety management (summary) Gained valuable experience that will become an asset conditions at overseas business sites Basis of CSR At the Global Saijuku School, I gained an with other Saijuku members and explore At our overseas production sites, which operate under the varying appreciation of Sekisui’s innovative history co-creation opportunities across Sekisui laws and regulations and awareness of safety issues in each country, 4RKY practice exercise (China) 4RKY practice exercise (South Korea) and corporate philosophy of 3S Principles. In Chemical Group companies. I am very since fiscal 2013, Sekisui Chemical has developed safety offices were audited. We have verified the compliance status with addition to strengthening my business skills grateful to Sekisui for helping me become a and strategic thinking, I was able to work strong leader. management rules as global standards and strictly follows these the safety management rules at each office. In addition, we have Lee Lipski rules in order to achieve the same level of safety at all business sites. supported 4RKY (4-Round Risk Assessment) practice exercises for Global Sales and Marketing The OHSMS evaluation chart establishes a framework for the safety the safety management activities of overseas business sites. Sekisui Diagnostics, LLC. audit. In fiscal 2014, 21 offices were audited, and in fiscal 2015, 18 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 31 Basis of CSR Corporate Governance Procurement policy Web Data Book P29 Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group has put in place its own corporate The Sekisui Chemical Group’s procurement policy governance system that reflects its division company structure The Sekisui Chemical Group procures materials based on the five fundamental concepts of openness; fairness and times, suppliers are requested to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and societal equity; legal compliance; mutual trust; and consideration norms, and ensure health and safety in their own for the environment. In addition to quality and delivery companies. Strengthening the business execution function Web Conducting CSR procurement surveys Executive Committee established to serve as the top Guided by its procurement policy, Sekisui Chemical began In fiscal 2015, nine Group companies in the United decision-making body in each division company conducting surveys as a part of the process to select new States took steps to initiate surveys of 68 major suppliers by Environment Together with assigning to each division company operating officers policies of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s management as well as suppliers in Japan from 2007. Through these surveys, the the end of March 2016. 11 of the 68 suppliers surveyed fell specializing in business execution, an Executive Committee has been high-level management decision-making and supervision of business Company works to ascertain the stance of each supplier below the required standards and are currently undergoing established to serve as the top decision-making body in each division execution. toward human rights and environmental protection as well further evaluation. company. As such, a broad range of authority has been transferred from In establishing a set of rules that pertain to outside directors, the as the status of each supplier’s CSR activities. the Board of Directors to the Executive Committee. Company has identified that it will not select candidates for the position The Board of Directors strives to achieve continual improvements in of outside director from such stakeholders as major shareholders and Respect for human rights Web Data Book P34 corporate value as an organization responsible for decisions on basic business partners. This is to ensure the independence of outside directors. Corporate Governance System Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. Caring about human rights issues across the entire supply chain Nomination and Board of Directors External Directors Along with its suppliers, the Sekisui Chemical Group engages issues among all of our employees. Remuneration Advisory Operating Officers in business activities that respect human rights as part of its Through CSR procurement with our suppliers, we make CS & Quality Committees President and CEO obligation to all stakeholders. sure our business partners respect human rights. In the event All Group employees are provided with a copy of the that a supplier does not meet the prescribed standards, a President President President Company’s Compliance Manual. We have set strict standards request is made to ensure that the necessary steps are taken Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer for respecting human rights, prohibiting discrimination, to resolve any issues. Sekisui Chemical works together with Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer preventing harassment, and protecting personal information. suppliers in the implementation of appropriate measures. We conduct training and e-learning sessions for employees Through surveys conducted up to fiscal 2015, the Company Housing Company Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Plastics Headquarters about the prevention of all forms of harassment. We work has confirmed that there were no incidences of a human Environmental Products Company Company diligently to raise the understanding and awareness of such rights violation by any of its major suppliers. Compliance with the Corporate Governance Code Web Human Resources Open and fair transactions across the supply chain Web Putting in place the SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles The Tokyo Stock Exchange set out and incorporated its version of a systematic manner. Guided by these principles, the Sekisui Chemical Addressing the issue of conflict minerals corporate governance code into its Securities Listing Regulations from Group will work to raise the level of its management foundation while Sekisui Chemical is concerned about the conflict mineral At the Company’s Headquarters, the Purchasing Group June 2015. In response, the Sekisui Chemical Group put in place the promoting increasingly transparent and fair business operations. problem, namely the mineral resources controlled by at the Total Manufacturing Management Center is in charge SEKISUI Corporate Governance Principles in an effort to lay out its stance * Corporate Governance Code: armed forces in the Republic of Congo and neighboring of Companywide procurement, and the procurement A set of codified principles that layout specific policies toward corporate governance and a code of conduct and provide details of the Group’s corporate governance activities in a that publicly listed companies should be expected to observe. Major nations outside Japan began adopting a countries that commit human rights violations and destroy sections of each division company have managers in corporate governance code from the 1990s. A corporate governance code was first introduced in Japan by the Financial Services Agency and the Tokyo Stock Exchange in March 2015 and took effect from June 2015. the environment. Since fiscal 2014, we have conducted charge of procurement. Through this structure, we are surveys on the use of conflict minerals at companies focusing the entire company on surveys to discover any use Respect for international norms Web throughout our supply chain. of conflict minerals. Declaration of support for the United Nations Global Compact Basis of CSR R&D Web The Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and standards regarding CSR, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ISO 26000, the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Assigning a fair value to valuable inventions ILO’s International Labor Standards, and the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human * United Nations Global Compact: The Company’s Headquarters and each business have R&D efforts to ensure researchers and engineers receive the Rights (Ruggie Framework). In March 2009, Sekisui Chemical signed the United Nations Global Compact*. A voluntary program in which top management of firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 sections that work to increase the speed of technological evaluations and treatment they deserve. The Invention In compiling and issuing its CSR Report, Sekisui Chemicals has also referred to the Global Reporting principles on subjects such as human rights, labor development and create outstanding technologies. The Grand Prize establishes monetary rewards for inventors Initiative’s (GRI’s) internationally recognized Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The CSR Report 2016 is in fact standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts within the scopes of influence of their firms Invention Grand Prize has been established as one part of recognized as having made major contributions to profits. presented in accordance with the “Core” standards of the latest GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver. 4. and participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 33 Basis of CSR Compliance Risk Management Three Prominences Aiming to remain a company trusted by society Aiming to further strengthen the risk management system to by strengthening compliance on a global basis increase sensitivity to risks and improve the quality of risk management activities Principal initiatives in FY2015 Web Data Book P23 A structure able to adapt to constantly changing risks and crises Principal initiatives toward reinforcing accounting compliance Risk Management at the Sekisui Chemical Group In fiscal 2014, we decided that October of each year would be mainly on implementing educational programs designed to Operations during normal times Operations during crisis Environment Compliance Reinforcement Month for all employees, as an prevent any recurrence. Among other measures, we implemented Centralized management Risk opportunity for them to reflect on their compliance awareness training sessions that specialized in accounting compliance based event Take steps to Ascertain status of organization Assessments (identify, analyze, evaluate) Select most important risks and actions. on cooperation with division companies. Targeting business sites Emergency response prevent risks Prevent Prevent Improper accounting practices were uncovered at Group inside and outside Japan, the training aimed to change director and (reduce Prevent risks secondary reoccurrence frequency) before they occur risk events companies in the previous fiscal year. In fiscal 2015, we focused employee ways of thinking with regard to compliance awareness. Take steps to Prevent spread minimize damage of damage Repair and Initiatives taken during Compliance Reinforcement Month (FY2015) Trends in class participation (All Sekisui Chemical Group Employees) and impact and impact recover Prepare for crises beforehand 1 Transmitted Top Message No. of participants Participation rates (%) Prepare for 2 Implemented Compliance Implementation Program 2015 30,000 82.4 90 hazards Disaster prevention and BCP 80.5 80.6 81.8 81.2 80.8 3 Conducted e-Learning 75.0 80 71.3 69.3 Risk management (broader meaning) Risk management Crisis management CS & Quality 4 Used of compliance awareness surveys 20,210 20,450 20,275 70 20,000 18,649 19,617 17,209 15,762 16,593 15,175 60 Main accounting compliance educational programs implemented in FY2015 50 Strengthening of risk management (preventing risks before they occur) Web Data Book P23 ● Compliance education programs for full-time directors and corporate auditors at affiliated companies 10,000 40 Enhancing risk awareness via a PDCA cycle 30 ● Compliance education programs for Group companies ● Accounting compliance education programs for executive officers Considering increasing employees’ sensitivity to risk to be essential in These activities began in fiscal 2011 at 27 organizations. The number of 0 20 ● Compliance education programs and e-learning during Compliance 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 addressing risks that are constantly changing, the Sekisui Chemical Group organizations employing these activities has increased from year to year. By Reinforcement Month Implemented on four sessions in fiscal 2015. However, as the third and fourth sessions are under way, continues to run through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle of risk the end of fiscal 2016, we expect a total of 150 participating organizations, ● Compliance education programs at meetings of overseas company presidents the abovementioned figures are averages of the results from the first and second sessions. management in accordance with ISO 31000, the international standard on consisting of affiliates in Japan and around the world. We forecast that these risk management. companies will account for about 93% of consolidated net sales. Human Resources S.C.A.N. intra-company whistle-blowing system Principal Revisions to Intra-Company Whistle-Blowing System Strengthening of the risk management system Web Data Book P23 Data Book P23 Web 1 Reporting of compliance violations made mandatory A new crisis management system System further enhanced, such as by making 2 3 Enhanced protection for whistle-blowers who report compliance violations Scope of whistle-blowers extended to principal domestic suppliers Having revised its crisis management system in light of the and emergency system upgrades at all its sites. the reporting of violations mandatory FY2015 Whistle-Blowing Reports and Consultations experience gained from the Great East Japan Earthquake in fiscal Overseas, the Group updated and revised the relevant 2011, the Group has continued to implement and enhance the manuals at every site. In addition, with the rise in the number of Reports/consultations Number of cases In 2002, the Sekisui Chemical Group developed the S.C.A.N. system in Japan. Other revisions were made based on emergency business trips to frontier regions, the Group is publishing and (Sekisui Compliance Assist Network) intra-company Power harassment 19 task force training, and the Group implemented employee training distributing crisis management handbooks specific to each region. whistle-blowing system, which is the mechanism that has been Working conditions 13 Personal View (summary) made available for use by all Group employees. Sexual harassment 3 Fostering a sensitivity to risk by activity visualization Basis of CSR The Group having set up a special intranet site and a Misuse of expenses 2 dedicated telephone line as well as having defined the protection As I firmly believe in what senior areas throughout the company and working of whistle-blowers in its internal reporting rules, employees can Workplace environment 2 management has said, namely that risk on the visualization of our activities. As a feel assured that they are able to make active use of the system. Improper accounting practices 2 management will be essential in new result, I feel that employees’ sensitivity is In fiscal 2015, the Group made revisions to part of its S.C.A.N. business development in the years ahead, at certain to increase by, for example, raising Other 8 Sekisui Fuller we are sharing each division’s new risk management themes at the system with the aim of creating an environment in which the Total 49 risk management progress charts with all monthly sales and production meetings. Hiroshi Nakanishi required information is more easily provided. HR & Administration Division Sekisui Fuller Company, Ltd. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 35 Basis of CSR Communication External Evaluations Three Prominences Improving corporate value by strengthening Main evaluations from society during fiscal 2015 dialogue with stakeholders CSR in general Dialogue with stakeholders Web ● Earned selection to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Industry Leader, World, and Asia Pacific Reflecting stakeholder opinions in corporate activities via ● Earned RobecoSAM sustainability ratings Industry Leader and Gold Class various methods of communication ● Earned selection to the FTSE4Good Index Environment We are working to reflect appropriately in our business where the president and top management talk directly the evaluations and comments we receive through with employees, the Employee CS & Quality Assessment, ● Earned selection to the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes dialogue with stakeholders. We are doing so through by which employees are surveyed on their awareness of ● Earned selection to the Ethibel PIONEER and Ethibel EXCELLENCE efforts including Customer And Top (CAT) Meetings, at CS & Quality and the results fed back, the Heim Mutual Investment Registers which top management in housing sales companies meet Prosperity Group and other venues of communication ● Earned selection to the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index customers to receive feedback directly (3,613 persons with suppliers, and through contact with investors and took part in fiscal 2015), Dialogue with Top Management research organizations. ● Ranked 56th in the Nikkei NICES ranking system ● Ranked 64th in the Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking Dialogue with socially responsible investment (SRI) agencies Web (as of January 4, 2016) CS & Quality Continuing to engage in direct dialogue in an effort to enhance understanding Interest in undertaking socially responsible investment in explain to each agency our wide-ranging businesses and companies that actively engage in CSR activities continues CSR initiatives in order to convey a sufficient and accurate Environment to mount in Europe and the United States. At the same understanding of our operations. In fiscal 2015, we talked time, ratings agencies are increasingly undertaking surveys. directly with four SRI ratings agencies in Japan and abroad. ● Ranked 68th in the Nikkei Environmental Management Ranking Every year, the Sekisui Chemical Group communicates With the concerns of investors and SRI ratings ● Earned selection to the CDP Japan 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) directly with SRI ratings agencies in Europe and other agencies very much in mind, Sekisui Chemical posts regions. We believe it is important to take the time to detailed information on its website. Direct dialogue between management and employees Web CS & Quality Human Resources Providing opportunities for top management to meet with employees ● Ranked 16th in the Nikkei Quality CS and Quality Management Ranking Since fiscal 2002, the Sekisui Chemical Group has provided image of the Company 10 years hence and where they opportunities for employees to communicate directly saw themselves a decade from now. with top management, based on its belief that it is essential to resolve problems faced by the Company as well as work-related issues through direct communication Human Resources between top management and employees. Basis of CSR In fiscal 2015, the Company’s president visited Group ● Ranked 63rd in the Nikkei Ranking of Companies that Fully Utilize Human Resources companies in Japan to provide an explanation of progress ● Earned selection to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry ’s Diversity under the Medium-Term Plan that began in fiscal 2014 and to address any questions. Through each visit, Management Selection 100 employees were provided with the opportunity to express their opinions and to engage in lively debate. Among a host of topics, employees commented on their ideal 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 37 Basis of CSR Environmental and Social Contribution Activities Continuing Report: Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake Three Prominences Proactively working to contribute to the environment and The Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is to provide housing and the infrastructure essential to support living. society as a company in tune with local communities Utilizing the characteristics of these businesses, we are carrying out a variety of activities to support recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. ■ Handover of disaster-affected area public housing to evacuees Main environmental and social contribution activities implemented in FY2015 In March 2016, Sekisui Heim Tohoku completed construction of Note: More details are given on our website Web HOME＞CSR Management＞Environmental and Social Contributions Data Book P24 disaster-affected area public housing for evacuees from the Great East Japan Earthquake built in the city of Higashi-Matsushima and held a ceremony to Environment mark the handing over of the keys to the residents. Environment Web Initially people were to have taken up residence in April 2016. However, having taken it as their responsibility as local businesses to construct the The Sekisui Chemical Group advances three approaches homes in a way that would give consideration to the providing of safe and toward the realization of its Long-Term Environmental comfortable homes for all who had been affected even one day sooner, Completed disaster-affected area public housing Management Vision, the Sekisui Environment onsite labor-saving was achieved by collaboration between the Miyagi Sustainability Vision 2030 (please refer to page 20). branch construction groups and Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry. They were Regarding specific initiatives toward the conservation of ■Main activities able to hand over the keys before marking the fifth anniversary of the disaster. the natural environment as one of those approaches, its Forest conservation activities/ Designed to embody features that take into account the needs of the employees are developing activities to conserve the Biodiversity conservation through the removal of non-native species/ elderly and safety, such as wide modular baths and sensor-equipped porch natural environment in various regions around the world. CS & Quality Environmental training on garbage segregation lights, the public housing succeeded in bringing delight to all from its occupancy schedule. Through our business activities, we will continue to contribute to the Key handover ceremony Next generation Web reconstruction and revitalization of regions affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Targeting communities where the children who will form the next generation can develop and healthily grow into ■ New energy joint research leading to the creation of post-reconstruction towns adulthood, we provide educational programs for middle and high school students that leverage our business In the city of Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, which was an area affected by the Human Resources activities. Including field trip lessons, for example science Great East Japan Earthquake, advances are being made in the creation of ■Main activities sustainable cities as well as in research into energy savings and new energy classes, given by Company employees as well as support Houses and the environment learning program/ and assistance for research based on innovations inspired that are leading to reconstruction and beyond. As part of that research, the Science class/Science classroom/Science lesson by nature, the Company conducts a wide range of activities. Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products (UIEP) Company has been conducting experimental studies jointly with the city of Sendai to effectively utilize heat energy taken from sewage conduits since 2013. Local communities Web Utilizing Sekisui Chemical’s underground water helix-type Esloheat Sewage conduit after Esloheat sewage heat construction work sewage heat recovery system, the research improves the ability of the As a member of the local communities in which it sewage conduits to withstand earthquakes, making them more resilient, at operates, the Sekisui Chemical Group proactively deploys the same time as adding heat recovery functions. Utilized for the research social contribution activities and thereby hopes to is the first private commercial facility in Japan to have recovered heat. contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The Basis of CSR The research up to March 2015 verified energy efficiency, cost and Group encourages activities that bring joy to local ■Main activities other aspects, as a result of which it was found that savings of more than communities, such as creating safe and secure cities in Activities to improve civic order in regions/ 30% a year could be made on electricity bills. collaboration with local communities and support TABLE FOR TWO/BOOK MAGIC/ Continuing in fiscal 2015, UIEP engaged in efforts toward the wider programs that assist developing countries. Heart+Action/ A briefing given to all the employees of a private commercial facility adoption of the system and conducted verifications related to the that utilizes hot water heated by sewage. Assistance in providing meals to schools management of sewage conduit maintenance after installation. 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 39 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Third-Party Opinion President Mitsuo Ogawa Craig Consulting Co., Ltd. Mr. Ogawa graduated from Waseda University and gained experience at a major manufacturer of automotive-related products before earning a The Sekisui Chemical Group CSR Report: Master of Business Administration at the University of Pittsburgh. He then worked at Sanwa Research Institute and PwC Consulting before striking out Linking CSR activities to the on his own in 2004. Engaged in the field of consulting through to the present day, Mr. Ogawa’s fields of expertise include organizational theory and the revitalization of human resources. Among a host of publications, he 䠄TRANSLATION䠅 Group’s ongoing evolution (SHINKA) has authored such articles as “How ISO 26000 Will Change Management” and “How to Raise CSR Corporate Value” both issued by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. Mr. Ogawa is a visiting professor of the Commerce and Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Business Graduate School of Management at Nagoya University. June 10, 2016 Mr. Teiji Koge, Why must companies engage in CSR activities? Quite simply, because the corporate for example the model set by general trading companies. In specific terms, I would like President and Representative Director, sector forms an integral part of society. As a member of society, it is vital that companies Sekisui Chemical to examine the benefits of adopting a two-story approach toward the Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Hiroshi Inanaga maintain a valuable presence. Recognizing that CSR is an essential component of a setting of objectives. One story would entail overarching objectives that apply to all Chief Executive Officer company’s business activities, it is by association therefore important that efforts aimed companies and the Group as a whole. A second story would comprise objectives that Deloitte Tohmatsu Evaluation and Certification Organization Co., Ltd. 3-3-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo at contributing to society and the environment help to generate corporate value. With are unique to each company. this in mind, maintaining a balance between social and corporate value is the A second issue with respect to Sekisui Chemical’s approach toward CSR is We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement of the material sustainability information (the “sustainability information”) indicated with for the year ended March 31, 2016 included in the “CSR Report 2016” (including the “CSR wellspring for sustainable growth. In his top message, Teiji Koge, president and stakeholder engagement. The Company could and should adopt a more aggressive Report 2016 Data Book(PDF)”) (the “Report”) of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. (the “Company”). representative director of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., outlined his thoughts toward this stance toward stakeholder engagement. Sekisui Chemical does actively engage in CAT The Company’s Responsibility The Company is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information in accordance with the calculation and balanced approach. From his perspective, creating value for society through business Meetings as a conduit to garner the opinions and comments of customers while reporting standard adopted by the Company (CSR Report 2016 Data Book(PDF): Calculation Standards of Key Performance Indicators) and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” issued by the activities lies at the heart of the Group’s “3S Principle” Corporate Philosophy. In working through the Heim Mutual Prosperity Group and other venues of Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (the “J-sus”). Greenhouse gas quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty for reasons such as incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine positioning the environment as an important business pillar, he also explained the communication with suppliers. With the ratio of overseas sales to total sales now emissions factors and numerical data needed to combine emissions of different gases. critical need to balance ecological concerns with economic development. Achieving surpassing 25%, however, it is vital that the Company examines how best to Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants both of these objectives is then the ultimate goal of the Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR communicate with a growing number of new overseas stakeholders and to undertake issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. We apply International activities. appropriate risk management. I am confident that the Company would gain invaluable Standard on Quality Control 1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control On page 7 of the report, Sekisui Chemical outlines its process for identifying key insight into the shape of its CSR activities as it enters a new stage by seeking the candid including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. CSR issues (materiality) as well as details of its CSR Medium-Term Plan. In doing so, the opinions and comments of external stakeholders. Our Responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the sustainability information based on the procedures we Company has introduced a unique, but easy-to-understand framework that comprises A third issue is internal penetration and the degree to which employees are aware have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (“ISAE”) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or “Three Prominences” and “Three Attitudes of Sincerity.”This effort to announce key of and understand CSR. No matter how hard the CSR Promotion Department tries, the Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (“IAASB”), and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the IAASB, and the performance indicators while disclosing numerical targets is indicative of the Group’s success in fulfilling its corporate social responsibility will depend on the ability Practical Guideline for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, issued by the J-sus. The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and included inquiries, observation of processes Company’s earnest and sincere stance toward fulfilling its corporate social responsibility of each division to take the initiative. Given the focus placed on environmental performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. These procedures also included the following: and is most impressive. The external evaluations listed toward the end of the report are management, the potential exists for divisions to mistakenly equate CSR with the 䞉Evaluating whether the Company’s methods for estimates are appropriate and had been consistently applied. However, our procedures did not include testing the data on which the estimates are based or reperforming the estimates. also a measure of the positive manner in which Sekisui Chemical undertakes its CSR environment. Broad-ranging measures are vital in increasing internal penetration. It 䞉Undertaking site visits to assess the completeness of the data, data collection methods, source data and relevant assumptions applicable to the sites. activities. Looking ahead, I would hope that the Company continues its vigorous may, for example, prove fruitful to allow more and more employees to freely participate The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, approach toward the disclosure of information. in and observe the aforementioned stakeholder engagement. The same can be said for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance Meanwhile, how Sekisui Chemical flows through the objectives set out under its the active disclosure of information. Unfortunately, the report has not provided a full engagement. Limited Assurance Conclusion CSR Medium-Term Plan to its Medium-Term Management Plan, SHINKA!-Advance 2016, disclosure of the Group’s activities in detail. As an integral part of its CSR activities, the Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Company’s sustainability information is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance is likely to become an important issue in the future. As previously mentioned, the Company is encouraged to disclose details of its Story of Attractive Qualities, identified with the calculation and reporting standard adopted by the Company and “Appendix: Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria” (issued by the J-sus). Company must work to fulfill its corporate social responsibility in order to carry out its on page 25, to external parties. I am sure that this story is one in which employees can The above represents a translation, for convenience only, of the original Independent Practitioner’s Assurance report issued in the Medium-Term Management Plan, and in turn help to generate corporate value, for as take great pride. Japanese language. Member of㻌 long as CSR is an integral component of its corporate activities. Given the Company’s In closing, I would like directors to become more involved in creating CSR learning Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited㻌 horizontal structure and its organization into numerous operating companies, the opportunities. Attitudes toward and understanding of CSR are changing at a rapid pace. potential exists for difficulties to arise in the roll out of measures that cut across each Taking into consideration the Company’s ongoing globalization, Sekisui Chemical can company. In order to resolve this issue, it may be helpful to look at other industries and be expected to confront new management issues as it learns more about global CSR. In Response to the Third-Party Opinion I would like to thank Mr. Ogawa for his valuable input. history. As well as our 70th anniversary, this particular fiscal year Summary of Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Procedures At Sekisui Chemical Group, we strongly believe that in represents the start of our next medium-term management Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 fulfilling our corporate social responsibility we are better plan. Making the most of this milestone, we will ramp up Check of placed to enhance our corporate value. This is in turn the very efforts to carry forward those attributes and initiatives that Quality control Submittal of Formulation of plan Performance Reporting final edition of check assurance report essence of our efforts to help ensure a sustainable society. With have held us in good stead and further increase in-house CSR Report this in mind, we will very much take to heart the advice of Mr. awareness toward the Group’s CSR activities. With every level Ogawa. While taking into consideration the endeavors of of management working in unison, we will channel our • Confirmation of scope of • Assurance procedures carried assurance, subject items, out at Sekisui Chemical companies that engage in a broad range of activities including energies toward completing all appropriate initiatives. information collection Headquarters and visited • A professional outside the • Obtaining management general trading companies, we will lend an ear to the With our sights set firmly to the future, we will endeavor methods, etc. business sites (performance • Reporting results of • Follow-up on items such as assurance engagement confirmation letter • Decision on assurance of procedures including field completed procedures, matters pointed out in team checks • Submittal of Independent comments of external as well as global stakeholders. By to achieve SDGs, COP21, and other key targets. Both Yoshiyuki Hirai procedures, schedule observation, analytical matters for comment, etc. Step 3 appropriateness of the Practitioner’s Assurance Director Executive Officer (Headquarters, business procedures, documentary assurance procedures Report reflecting these features and input in our efforts going forward, management and all employees will think long and hard, and Responsible for CSR Promotion Department sites to be visited for verification, inspection of we will work to enhance the level of the Group’s CSR activities. work in unison to build a robust structure that is capable of Head of Business Strategy Department verification), etc. materials, and inquiries) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Fiscal 2017 marks a critical juncture in the Company’s enhancing corporate value. 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 41 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For more information contact: CSR Planning, CSR Promotion Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) E-mail: csr@sekisui.com This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, is used in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. Waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. The CSR Report 2016 (including the Data Book (PDF)) has been reviewed for assurance by an independent third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. This demonstrates that this report satisfies the necessary criteria established by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, intended to assure the reliability of sustainability information. Published: June 28, 2016. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 25, 2015. Next edition planned for publication: June 2017
