2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT according to the G4 Guidelines of the Global reporting Initiative (GRI), core option 2 About the report Contents One of the prerequisites for participaAbout us Economy Society tion in the supply chain of the world's car manufacturers is adherence to high 4 Statement by the President 36 Economy 53 Employment standards for environmental protection 5 AD Plastik Group 57 Occupational health and safety and business sustainability. 6 Research & development Environment 58 Education and training 7 Tehnologies 59 Rewarding By issuing a third Sustainability Re8 Products 39 Environment 61 Diversity and equal opportunities port , we would like to emphasize that 11 Countries in which we operate 40 Materials 63 Human rights raising the level of social responsibility 12 Ownership structure 41 Energy 64 Society is an important segment of the busine13 Corporation matrix 43 Water ss of AD Plastik Group. In this manner 14 Overview of the market and customers 44 Emissions United Nation Global Compact we continue to encourage and develop 16 Overview of the top 10 stockholders 49 Waste waters and waste Communication on Progress two-way communication with all our 17 Income from sales by market 50 Expenditures and investments into stakeholders, fully aware of our role and 17 Income from sales by sites . environmental protection 68 Comparative table of GRI and responsibility towards the society and 18 Employees 51 Supplier assessment with regard to their . Global Compact indicators the environment in which we operate. 20 Supply chain . impact on the environment 22 Obligations with regard to foreign Annexes Full screen mode . initiatives PDF is set to open in full screen mode. 23 List of identified material aspects 71 Tasks for 2015 accomplished If you want to exit a full screen mode, 24 Stakeholders 71 Tasks for 2016 press Esc (escape) to restore the tool29 Report profile 72 Opinion of the HRPSOR commission bar. 30 Management 34 Ethics and integrity Please consider the enviroment before printing. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 About us About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 4 Statement by the President of the Management Board Despite the market challenges and difficult economic environThe establishment of partnerships with our customers counts ment, particularly the complex and demanding situation in Ruamong the top priorities in our business, which primarily messia, in 2015 we achieved goals we had set for ourselves both ans participation in all phases of new project creation. in the economic aspect and other sustainable development In the previous period, we participated in multiple professional aspects. and economic conferences and round tables to promote the industry we are part of, but also to highlight the problems and The reporting period was marked by the beginning of changes solutions of exporters and entrepreneurs in the environment within the company. Our first task is to have employees who we operate in. are satisfied and motivated. Therefore we have been working systematically to improve our internal communications, emThe Report you see before you is intended for all stakeholders ployee training, establish a quality rewards system, and moof the AD Plastik Group, our employees, partners, customers, tivation. Investment into our employees and their know-how, suppliers, stockholders, investors, creditors and all those who recognition and rewarding of their efforts and work, being are interested in our business of a socially responsible econoup-to-date, motivation, health and security are very important mic operator. In our day-to-day business, we strive to conduct components of our business. Therefore we have introduced a ourselves socially responsibly, and to manage all our procesnew rewards system, improved information flows and commuses in a quality manner. We are sure that our improvements nication with our employees, and invested significantly more will be noticed. We are satisfied with what we have achieved, Dear stakeholders, resources into their education and training. We have also starbut we have set the bar high because we want to continuously ted cooperating with universities for the purpose of education, work on the contributions of our company to the world around I am pleased to present to you the third Sustainability Report professional practice, and recruitment of young employees. us. In order to achieve our desired goals as regards sustainable of the AD Plastik Group for 2015. It was prepared according to business, we value the opinions of all individuals and groups the G4 reporting guidelines on the sustainability of the Global Our aim is to develop a successful and long-term cooperation interested in our work. We wish to establish a two-way comReporting Initiative (GRI). Most of the aspects are shown as with all our stakeholders, and that is why we are always finding munication channel, and that is why your assessment of the consolidated data on the level of the group, while a part of the and modifying ways of establishing higher-quality communicaSustainability Report is extremely valuable to us, so that we aspect is shown separately for each AD Plastik Group member tion and relationships. We have been continuously working to can be better to mutual satisfaction. to facilitate comparison and trend monitoring. improve the development and quality of our products, in accordance with the demands of the market we are operating on, to In order to participate in the procurement chain of the automothe satisfaction of all our stakeholders. We invest significant tive industry, the extremely high standards of quality, environresources into research & development to keep abreast with mental protection and sustainable business are the prerequisiour competition. Any natural or semi-natural recyclable matetes for establishing cooperation. Therefore it is not surprising rials, reduction in the fuel consumption of the finished product, Marinko Došen that sustainable business is one of the key components of the and, consequently, reduced harmful gas emissions, are an imPresident of the Management Board business and development policy of our company. perative in today’s automotive world. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 1 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 5 AD Plastik Group The AD Plastik Group is a multinational company with more on tradition, knowledge, capacities, excellent expertise and diliment, which in turn increases the competitiveness of the prothan 30 years of experience in the world of automotive indugent work of each individual. Its cooperation with customers is duct. stry, with eight manufacturing sites in four countries. present from the early development phase to the final product, Car manufacturers and all their suppliers are aware of their using contemporary tools and techniques, with the application responsibility towards the environment. Therefore, they are It is the leading company for the development and manufaof specific expertise, skills and experience. Continuous invescontinuously working on the development and improvement of cture of car interior and exterior components in Croatia, and tment into the development and improvement of technology, the materials and products. That is one of the prerequisites for one of the leading ones in Eastern Europe. Apart from Croaas well as maintenance of a high quality and competitiveness survival in the key chain of global car manufacturers, which tia-based factories in Zagreb and Solin, where the company of our products and services, are the main prerequisites for the the AD Plastik Group belongs to. Respecting high quality and headquarters are situated, the AD Plastic Group owns factories survival and development of the company. competitiveness standards, following global trends and marin Serbia, Russia and Romania. ket developments, and continuous investment into reinforceBy improving the manufacturing process, the resource conment of environmental standards and criteria is what makes The 30 years of history and survival on the demanding car sumption is reduced, along with a more efficient use of energy our company different, and what it bases its advantage on in market serve as testament to the quality of business founded and materials in order to reduce the impact on the environrelation to the competition. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 3 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 6 Research & Development Research & development significance and activities The dynamic car industry market is always on least as quality and intensive as those underthe lookout for advanced products because it taken by the competition. is a way for car manufacturers to gain advanThe AD Plastik Group invests significant retage over their competition, and increase thesources into research & development as the ir sales and profits. Therefore, it is extremely foundation of the future and growth of the important to monitor trends, and offer similar company. That is why today it is a reliable and or better solutions to customers, while the stable partner for almost all global car maresearch & development activities must be at nufacturers. Ecology Harmful gas emissions are a global problem, handling characteristics. Car weight can be so in the recent years companies have been reduced by modifying the weight of each indimanufacturing cars with low harmful gas vidual component, particularly as regards car emissions, while the reduction trend is rapidinterior or exterior. The AD Plastik Group is ly moving toward zero emissions. In order to ready to respond to the new market demands achieve the desired objective, it is necessary through its research of new and lighter mato reduce the weight of the cars of the fututerials, as well as the development of lighter re. The priority is thus to select the so-called components. lightweight materials and improvement of AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 7 Research & Development (continued) Composite materials Components made of composite sandwich car interior and exterior. Non-woven textiles panels have a special significance when it and components manufactured from them comes to reducing the weight of are the subject of the research done by dithe vehicle. Our experts have been ligent engineers. One of our conducting research into more important goals is such materials for the mathe improvement of the nufacture of interior parts, company in this segment. as well as the exterior parts By following the trends of the in the future. The foamy and muldevelopment of such mateti-layered materials have a great potential rials in the automotive indufor weight reduction in the existing products, stry, the AD Plastik Group can offer innovative so the AD Plastik Group continues to improve solutions to its customers. Non-woven textiits products by adopting new processes and les have excellent insulation properties. The manufacturing techniques. same is true for sandwich panels made of foMaterials recycling We already have components manufactured amy materials for the manufacture of interior from lightweight materials on offer, such as ceilings currently manufactured for the Smart In order to protect the environment, every parts are already being manufactured with a components made of non-woven textiles for electric vehicle. part of a car whose lifespan has expired must certain percentage of natural materials, whibe usable as a raw material in manufacturing ch reduces the negative impact on the enviin the near future. Therefore, it is extremely ronment due to the possibility of reuse. important to substitute the existing materials The development guideline of the company is with new recyclable materials, with natural to offer a product to clients that will ensure an materials having a special role. The AD Plaadvantage for them compared to their comstik Group has recognised the research into petition through research & development. the processing of natural, “green” materials as Such business policy is a guarantee of succean important element of its business. Many ss and longevity. The technologies used by the AD Plastik Group in its business operation include the following: injection moulding, painting, non-woven textiles, thermoforming, extrusion and blow moulding. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 8 Examples of products – exterior Front Fender Protector Rear Fender Protector Hood Wheel Arch Housing Upper Grille Rear Bumper Front Extender Bumper Rocker Cladding Lower Grille Rear Bumper Front Skirt Diffuser Front Fender Rear Skirt Front Bumper Extender Deflector AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 9 Examples of products – interior Instrument Headliner Panel Console Door Headliner Panels Trunk Side Parcel Trim Shelf Trunk Carpet Sunvisor Floor Grab Carpet Handle AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 10 Examples of products – sealing systems Roof moulding Windshield finisher Glass run channel Inner belt Door hidden frame Bellow belt Outer belt AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 11 Organisation headquarters AD Plastik d.d., Matoševa 8, Solin AD Plastik..............Solin, Croatia 1 •• Headquarters, R & D •• employees............................. 638 •• floor area of facilities.26 618 m2 Countries in which we operate AD Plastik.........Zagreb I, Croatia 2 •• employees..............................413 •• floor area of facilities.24 136 m2 AD Plastik........Zagreb II, Croatia 3 •• employees..............................152 •• floor area of facilities.. 7 336 m2 ADP..............Mladenovac, Serbia 4 •• employees............................. 169 •• floor area of facilities.13 952 m2 AD Plastik Kaluga............ Russia 5 •• employees............................. 225 •• floor area of facilities...8 524 m2 AD Plastik............. Vintai, Russia FADP.......................Luga, Russia EAPS...............Mioveni, Romania 6 •• employees............................. 520 7 •• Joint Venture JV 8 •• Joint Venture JV •• floor area of facilities.24 500 m2 •• AD Plastik............................. 40% •• AD Plastik............................. 50% AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 5, 6 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 12 Ownership structure AD Plastik d.d. (Parent company) is a joint-stock company founded in the Republic of Croatia and entered into the court register of the Commercial Court in Split under the company registration number (MBS) 060007090, company identification number (OIB) 48351740621. 30.00% 100% The share capital of AD Plastik d.d. amounting to HRK 419,958,400 has OAO Holding, Russia been divided into 4,199,584 stocks with the nominal value of HRK 100.00 each. Its stockholders are legal and natural entities from Croatia and abroOAO Holding, Russia....................................... 30.00% ad, who pursue their interests through the General Assembly and the SuPension funds...................................................19.46% pervisory Committee in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Small shareholders......................................... 20.28% Croatia. Management and employees......................... 16.01% Other institutional investors...........................14.25% Pension funds Management and employees Other institutional investors 19.46% 16.01% 14.25% Raiffeisen OMF category B......................6.42% ADP ESOP...................................................5.07% PBZ d.d. / State street client....................2.65% PBZ CO OMF category B...........................2.85% AD Plastik d.d............................................. 0.76% Erste bank / Joint custodial account..... 2.51% Capital fund................................................2.78% Others........................................................ 10.18% Zaba / State street bank...........................2.07% Erste Plavi category B...............................2.75% PBZ d.d. / Joint custodial account.........1.40% AZ OMF category B...................................2.24% ZABA / ZB Aktiv..........................................1.14% Others..........................................................2.42% Others..........................................................4.48% AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 7 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 13 Corporation matrix AD Plastik d.d. Parent Company Matoševa 8, 21 210 Solin, Republic of Croatia Daughter companies / subsidiary Joint Ventures companies Bjelokranjska cesta 4 Percent of ownership: 100% AD Plastik d.d. AD Plastik d.o.o. 8000 Novo Mesto Percent of ownership: Republic of Slovenia Unizel 2A Euro Auto Plastic 50% AD Plastik d.d. Mioveni 50% Faurecia Automotive Romania Systems S.R.L. Holdings S.A.S. Samarskaya oblast Percent of ownership: 99.95% AD Plastik d.d. AO AD Plastik Vintai, Samara Percent of ownership: Russian Federation Rue Heinnape 2 Faurecia ADP 40% AD Plastik d.d. Nanterre 60% Faurecia Automotive France Holding S.A.S. Holdings S.A.S. 248016 Skladskaya St. 6 Percent of ownership: ZAO AD Plastik Kaluzhskaya oblast, Kaluga 100% AD Plastik d.d. Kaluga Russian Federation Bolshaya Zarechnaya 1a Percent of ownership: Luga, Saint Petersburg OOO Faurecia ADP 100% Faurecia Automotive Russian Federation Holdings S.A.S. Kralja Petra I Percent of ownership: 100% AD Plastik d.d. ADP d.o.o. 334 Mladenovac Russian Federation AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 7 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 14 Overview of the market and customers Argentina France •• Sochaux •• Saarlouis Poland •• Moscow Serbia Spain Turkey •• Córdoba •• Batilly Germany •• Wolfsburg •• Gliwice •• Naberezhnye •• Kragujevac •• Barcelona •• Bursa •• Buenos Aires •• Douai •• Bochum Italy •• Tychy Chelny Slovakia •• Madrid UK Brazil •• Hambach •• Cologne •• Cassino Romania •• Nizhny •• Bratislava •• Palencia •• Ellesmere Port •• Pernambuco •• Mulhouse •• Eisenach •• Melfi •• Craiova Novgorod •• Trnava •• Valencia USA •• Porto Real •• Poissy •• Kassel •• Mirafiori •• Mioveni •• Saint Slovenia •• Valladolid •• Detroit Czech Republic •• Rennes •• Mosel Mexico Russia Petersburg •• Ljubljana •• Vigo Uzbekistan •• Kolín •• Sandouville •• Regensburg •• Cuautitlán •• Izhevsk •• Togliatti •• Novo Mesto •• Zaragoza •• Asaka •• Mladá Boleslav •• Sevelnord •• Ruesselsheim •• Kaluga •• Ulyanovsk AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 8 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 15 Overview of the market and customers (continued) Europa + Serbia Euro APS, JV Romania ALFA ROMEO AVTOVAZ BMW Customer Sales market Customer Sales market FCA Serbia, Italy, Poland Dacia Romania Ford Spain, Germany, Romania, Russia CHRYSLER CITROËN DACIA Grupo Antolin Slovenia Russia Hella Slovenia AvtoVaz Russia France, Spain, Czech Republic, Slovakia, ArgentiFord Russia PSA na, Brazil, China, Russia GM-VAZ Russia DAEWOO DAIMLER FIAT Reydel Slovenia, France Nissan Russia RSA Slovenia, France PCMA (Peugeot Citroen Mitsubishi Automotive) Russia VW Germany Renault Russia FORD GM JEEP Webasto Germany, Slovakia VAZ Russia KAMAZ MASERATI MITSUBISHI NISSAN OPEL PEUGEOT RENAULT SMART ŠKODA TOYOTA UAZ VOLKSWAGEN AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 8 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 16 Overview of the top 10 stockholders as of 31 December 2015 The company does not have a majority owner, and the largest stockholder is the open joint-stock company “HolOwner/account holder Balance % ding Autokomponenti” from Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation, which owns 1,259,875 stocks, which represent 30% of the interest in the stock capital of the Company. In 2015, there were no significant changes in the ownership OAO HOLDING AUTOKOMPONENTI 1,259,875 30.00 structure. HYPO ALPE-ADRIA-BANK d.d. 269,462 6.42 / RAIFFEISEN OMF B CATEGORY ADP-ESOP d.o.o. 212,776 5.07 HYPO ALPE-ADRIA-BANK d.d. 119,640 2.85 / PBZ CO OMF B CATEGORY HRVATSKA POŠTANSKA BANKA d.d. 116,541 2.78 / KAPITALNI FOND d.d. SOCIETE GENERALE SPLITSKA BANKA d.d. 115,353 2.75 / ERSTE PL OMF B CATEGORY PBZ D.D. 111,366 2.65 ERSTE & STEIERMARKISCHE BANK D.D. 105,349 2.51 SOCIETE GENERALE SPLITSKA BANKA d.d. 93,900 2.24 / AZ OMF B CATEGORY ZAGREBAČKA BANKA d.d. 86,777 2.07 TOTAL 2,491,039 59.34 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 9 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 17 Income from sales Overview of sales by sites EU and Serbian market Russian market (subsidiaries) 1,002 mkn The markets of the EU and Serbia have in 2015 reported an Total production and sales realised in Vintai (Samara) and 27% 870 mkn +15. increase of revenue of 36.35% compared to the year 2014. Kaluga factories are intended for Russian market. The deRussia 25% An increase in sales compared to the previous year was the crease of 35.7% on the total automotive market in Russia result of a further increase in utilization of production cain 2015 was significantly higher than the decrease of sales Russia 37% pacities in Croatia achieved within the project Edison and in our factories due to smaller decrease in production of other projects for customers PSA and Ford in plants Solin makes and models of vehicles by manufacturers with EU + Serbia and Zagreb in Croatia, as well as in plant Mladenovac in Serwhom we cooperate. To this we must add new projects EU + Serbia 75% bia. In addition, Serbia had, compared to the same period of whose production began this year Renault Duster Phase 63% the previous year, expanded product portfolio and started 2, new Qashqai and Lada Vesta, which are now not only in the delivery of grab handles and blow moulded products to demand on the Russian market but also winning nominanew destinations in Italy and Poland. tions for new Ford operations. Overview of sales by technology Income from sales by market Injection moulding + Blow moulding......... 55% Painting......................................................... 23% Extrusion........................................................11% Thermoforming + Non-woven textile.........11% Russia Slovenia Germany France Other countries AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 9 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 18 Employees Number of employees by region and type of employment contract for 2015 The key to success of the AD Plastik Group lies in recognising the importance and potential of its employees. Each year, an Temporary and Total number of Country Site Indefinite term Fixed term occasional ememployment plan and individual new employee development employees ployment programmes are developed for the purpose of optimal and quality management of human resources within the Group. Croatia Zagreb, Solin 779 424 2 1203 The company's business plan, foreseeing the need for new Serbia Mladenovac 169 0 17 169 employees, serves as the basis for the creation of such a document. When selecting new employees, their motivation for Kaluga 222 3 0 225 Russia growth and improvement, innovation, preference for team Vintai 520 0 0 520 work and creation of a relationship filled with respect and Total 1690 427 19 2117 trust are extremely valued. Equally important are their skills, knowledge and experience. The company tends to employ younger professionals, while at the same time holding respect for Proportion of different types of employment contracts in 2015 persons with life and work experience. Indefinite-term employment...................... 79% Fixed-term employment............................. 20% Temporary and occasional employment.....1% Proportion of employees by country in 2015 Proportion of employees by type of work in 2015 In the aforementioned reporting period, as well as in the previous years, most of the employees of the AD Plastik Group worked in Croatia. In the total employee structure by sex, there Croatia..................... 57% Management..............8% were no significant changes compared to the previous period, with no significant changes in the age structure of the em>2100 Russia.......................35% Serbia.........................8% Indirect employees..37% Direct employees....55% ployees either. In the reporting period, the company has hired fewer people compared to the previous period due to its stable serial manufacturing. Furthermore, the number of fixed-term AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 10 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 19 Employees (continued) Age structure of the employees in 2015 contracts was 12% lower compared to the previous period. With regard to the basic business activity of the company, most of the employees are employed in direct manufacturing, with a slightly fewer percent of staff being indirect employees supporting the manufacturing, while the fewest number of employees is in management. Company management includes the members of the Management Board, executive direMen Women Total Sex structure of the employees ctors and directors, indirect employees are overhead workers and manufacturing overhead, while direct employees are emMen ployees engaged in manufacturing. On 31 December 2015, there were 2,117 people employed at Women the AD Plastik Group. All employees in Croatia and most of the employees in Russia, namely employees in Vintai, are signatories of a collective agreement. Collective agreements regulate the employment of a total of 81.39% employees. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 10, 11 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 20 Supply chain The business of the AD Plastik Group depends largely on the supply chain and its performance due to the fact that, apart from financial effects, it has an impact on the total status of the company on the car market. Together with suppliers, it offers its customers innovative solutions and improved products not only according to price and quality parameters, but also sustainable development, namely impact on the environment. All suppliers that have a direct impact on the quality of the Group’s products are subject to the prescribed rules for choosing and supervising suppliers in accordance with the car industry standards. One of the main criteria for the selection of new suppliers of materials and components is the possession of the certificate and adherence to the ISO TS 16949 and ISO 14001 standards. If the suppliers do not possess the aforementioned standards, the minimal requirement is ISO 9001, upgraded with the Self-Evaluation Questionnaire. The Questionnaire contains clearly defined environmental protection standards and guidelines for a socially responsible business. In order to maintain the status of a supplier of the AD Plastik Group, they agree to work on improving their business systems, with a clearly defined plan and realistic deadlines in which the aforementioned standards are to be achieved. Routine supplier audits are also carried out in order to determine whether they comply with the standards and the Self-Evaluation Questionnaire. The aim is to gradually increase the number of local suppliers while meeting the customers’ quality demands AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 12, 13 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 21 Supply chain (continued) that need to be satisfied. Due to the specificiLocal and foreign suppliers ty of the industry in which the company operates, it is often impossible to find adequate local suppliers. That is a particularly promi712 nent issue in Croatia, a country without a developed car industry and thus no necessary local suppliers. With regard to local suppliers, they are suppliers located in the countries of 420 448 428 the company’s individual manufacturing si359 359 tes, which are paid in the domestic currency. 320 324 Although the local-foreign suppliers ratio in every site is in favour of local suppliers, foreign suppliers have a much greater financial 60 41 77 41 35 35 impact due to the greater purchasing value of goods and services. There were no major changes in the structure of the supply chain in the reporting period. The total numbers of suppliers per sites were AD Plastik ADP AD Plastik Kaluga AD Plastik Local suppliers S Croatia M Mladenovac, Serbia K Russia V Vintai, Russia the following: Foreign suppliers •• AD Plastik, Vintai: 41 foreign and 324 local suppliers •• AD Plastik Kaluga: 35 foreign and 428 local suppliers The suppliers within the Group are divided into several categories: •• AD Plastik, Croatia: 448 foreign and 712 local suppliers •• suppliers of basic materials, such as polymers of different kinds •• ADP, Mladenovac: 77 foreign and 359 •• suppliers of components, such as various metal and plastic parts, and insulation materials local suppliers •• suppliers of moulds, tools, equipment and spare parts •• suppliers of services AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 12, 13 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 22 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives The AD Plastik Group actively participates in the work of national and regional economic institutions which represent strategic interests of Croatian economy. The President of the Management Board Marinko Došen is a member of the Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce (CCC), while the member of the Management Board Mladen Peroš is Deputy Chairman of the Economic Council of the County Chamber in Split. As the leader in its sector, the AD Plastik group has a leading role in the work of the Plastics and Rubber Industry Association of the CCC, whose first vice-president is the member of the Management Board Mladen Peroš. The company also participates in the work of the Professional Plastics and Rubber Manufacturers’ Group of CC in Split, where Mirko Zeljko is the president. As the largest manufacturer of car parts in Croatia, the company is the founder of AD Klaster, a cluster of car part manufacturers. The President of the Management Board of AD Plastik is the Chairman of the Assembly of AD Plastik. The head of AD Klaster is also the President of the Management Board of ISO TS ISO OHSAS the Croatian Cluster of Automotive Sector Competitiveness. 16949:2009 14001:2004 18001:2007 valid till valid till valid till Through its membership in the Institute for A membership in the Croatian Business CounSolin, Croatia 20. May 2016 1. June 2016 9. October 2017 Industrial Development, a think tank organicil for Sustainable Development is extremely sation, the AD Plastik Group is actively conimportant for the development of socially resZagreb, Croatia 20. May 2016 1. June 2016 9. October 2017 tributing to smart, sustainable and inclusive ponsible business of the AD Plastik Group. At growth and development, by improving the the same time, it represents an efficient platSamara, Croatia 1. April 2017 18. October 2017 theory and policies of industrial development, form for promoting social responsibility in all as well as the supporting policies, through an segments of the society. Kaluga, Croatia 19. December 2016 interdisciplinary approach. Mladenovac, Serbia 14. September 2018 15. June 2018 20. December 2018 In the reporting period, an innovation cluster AD Plastik is a signatory of the United Nations called the Centre of Competences for the Deinitiative called the Global Compact, whereby velopment of Car Parts for the Automotive we undertook the obligation of promoting the the basic guidelines for ethical behaviour of The AD Plastik Group applies the principle Industry was founded and one of its founders ten principles of the GC in the areas of human businesses in the Croatian economy. It is a of precaution, avoiding any possible risk in is also a member of the AD Plastik Group. The and labour rights, environmental protection, member of the Community for Socially Resthe application of new technologies until the company plays an active role in associations and eradicating corruption in our business. ponsible Business of the CCC, Community for complete knowledge or understanding of its abroad – it is a member of the Croatian-RuEnvironmental Protection in the Economy of impact on the environment and human health ssian business club in Moscow, and the AssoAs a member of the Croatian Chamber of the CCC, and the Community for the Developis gained. ciation of European Business with headquarCommerce, AD Plastik is a signatory of its ment of Human Potential of the CCC. ters in Moscow. Code of Business Ethics, which lays down AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 14 16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 23 Identified material aspects and limits List of identified material aspects The consolidated financial report of the AD Plastik Economic aspects •• Diversity and equal Group includes the following operators, while more •• Economic impact opportunities detailed data can be found in the Annual Report for •• Presence on the •• Equal pay for men and 2015, available on the company’s website. market women •• Indirect economic •• Assessment of •• AD Plastik d.d. Croatia impacts suppliers as regard •• ADP d.o.o. Serbia •• Procurement practice employment relations •• AD Plastik d.o.o. Slovenia •• Employment •• AO AD Plastik, Russia Environmental aspects dispute resolution •• .ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia •• Materials mechanisms •• Energy •• Investment The selection of material aspects and limits was •• Water •• Non-discrimination made by a team responsible for the sustainable •• Biodiversity •• Freedom of development of the company’s business. The team •• Emissions association and first gathered at a training session for the ap-pli•• Waste waters and collective bargaining cation of new reporting principles. After the initial waste •• Human rights meeting, the members held three more consultative •• Adherence to dispute resolution sessions within the team in order to make the final regulations mechanisms selection of the material aspects. The limits of the •• General •• Combating corruption material aspects were created on the basis of the as•• Assessment of •• Public policies sessed importance of individual aspects for identisuppliers as regards •• Conduct in violation of fied stakeholders. The specific characteristics of the impact on the the free competition industry and business process, including the sites in environment principle which the business was conducted, were taken into •• Adherence to consideration. Due to the improvement of reporting Social aspects regulations and sustainable business in general, there is a plan •• Zapošljavanje •• Health and safety of to set clear goals for individual aspects in the futu•• Employment customers re in order to be able to monitor their realisation in •• Employer-Management •• Product and service a quality and more transparent way. According to relationship labelling the changes in external and business impacts, and •• Health and safety at •• Marketing in accordance with the sustainable development work communications priorities, the companies will adapt and update the •• Education and training •• Customer privacy material aspects. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 17 23 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 24 Stakeholders The key stakeholders of the AD Plastik Group in accordance with the company’s business strategy and sustainable development strategy are customers, employees, unions, suppliers and partners, owners and stockholders, the financial public, local and national authorities, community (universities, associations, organisations) and media. The most important stakeholders are defined in the Group’s mission and vision statement, which contributes to the understanding of the environment in which it operates. The company is continuously working to improve the involvement of stakeholders and connecting with them. Involving stakeholders in the drafting of the sustainability report is still a great challenge; there is much room for development in that area. Understanding the needs of stakeholders is considered to be very important. The company strives to achieve that through routine consultations and communication with individual groups. Transparent and routine communication is the only way to achieve mutual understanding aspired to in the future business development of the company. Most of the stakeholders have been involved so far by organising consultations from time to time, while others have been involved in open discussions in the community. Customers are stakeholders who are the most involved in the preparation of the sustainability report, which has to meet the required sustainable development standards of the customers. In the reporting period, the company passed the sustainable business assessment by the company EcoVadis, ordered by the customer Renault. In case of irregularities, it is necessary to create an improvement action plan, which has to be implemented within the required time. There were no corrective measures in the reporting period. Most customers ask the Group to sign agreements or adopt guidelines on compliance with the rules of socially responsible business in the automotive industry, which reflects how a large part of this Report is based on consultations with customers as one of the most important groups of stakeholders. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 25 Stakeholders (continued) Customers Customers are an extremely important groTypes of consultations and frequency up of stakeholders in the car industry. One of •• Visits/meetings (regularly) the highest priorities of the AD Plastik Group •• Audits (where necessary) is the establishment of partnerships with its •• Written communication (where customers in all phases of new project devenecessary) lopment. By cooperating with its customers •• Satisfaction survey (regularly via from the early development phase to the final specialised portals) products, innovative solutions and constant •• Official website (regularly) research improvement, the company strives •• Sustainability Report (annually) to contribute to the quality of final products and customer success. Employees In the reporting period, mutual visits were more frequent to promote networking and building Employees are the greatest value of the comsuggestions for improvement daily. even stronger partnerships. pany. Their knowledge, experience and skills are the key to the success of the AD Plastik Types of consultations and frequency Group. The company encourages mutual co•• Survey of the organisation climate and operation on all levels as well as team work, satisfaction (annually) the latter being necessary for the develop•• E-mail announcements (where ment and growth of not only the company, necessary) but also each individual. Sharing knowledge •• Bulletin board notices (where necessary) and ideas, a multicultural environment, mu•• Internal newsletter (every two months) tual respect and solidarity are the key princi•• Intranet (regularly) ples of a developing community. Employees •• Sustainability Report (annually) are expected to adhere to the standards of •• Informal gatherings (regularly) excellence. They participate in making new In the reporting period, communication with employees was improved by changing the appear-ance and contents of the internal newsletter, doubling the number of yearly issues, introducing mailboxes for anonymous questions and comments, introducing a new employee reward system, organising informal gatherings with employees, and creating additional communication instructions for an easier understanding and unambiguity of interpretation of individual terms. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 26 Stakeholders (continued) Unions Unions, as a part of the public, participate Types of consultations and frequency in the decision-making at the company via •• Meetings/negotiations (where the worker’s council, and in supervising the necessary) company’s operations via membership in the •• Internal newsletter (every two months) Supervisory Board. Collective bargaining as •• Intranet (regularly) a model of conducting business in the com•• Sustainability Report (annually) pany has proven to be very successful and effective. In the reporting period, unions met with the employer three times during collective negotiations, which resulted in the adoption of three annexes to the collective agreement. Suppliers and partners Suppliers and partners are an important part suppliers have to meet the required standarof the public in the business of the AD Plastik ds, starting from the very selection of mateGroup, while the creation and management of rials, equipment and services, and further in commercial relationships with suppliers for the course of development, particularly in sethe purpose of ensuring a competitive price rial manufacturing. and quality of the materials, tools, equipment and services are one of the key strategic goTypes of consultations and frequency als of the company. Our business depends lar•• Supplier evaluation (twice a year) gely on suppliers because we have to jointly •• Quality criteria evaluation (monthly) offer new and improved products to custo•• Visits (where necessary) mers with the aim of reducing our impact on •• Sustainability Report (annually) the environment. Just as the company needs to meet the standards of its customers, the In the reporting period, the continuous cooperation and consultancy with the suppliers continued for the purpose of improving their business system, and meeting the required standards of the car industry. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 27 Stakeholders (continued) Owners and stockholders The financial public Owners and stockholders are an important out attractive dividends. The financial public, which includes investors Types of consultations and frequency part of the public whose trust we have been and creditors, is an important stakeholder of •• Notifications (where necessary) building for years, with business results serTypes of consultations and frequency the AD Plastik Group. With transparent, routi•• Financial reports (quarterly) ving as proof of the orientation towards a •• Notifications (where necessary) ne reporting and interactive communication, •• Official website (regularly) increasing the value of the company and •• Financial reports (quarterly) we build relationships based on mutual trust. •• Conferences (twice a year) creating added value. Via reporting, transpa•• Stockholders’ Assembly (annually) •• Roadshow (annually) rency and interactive communication with •• Official website (regularly) •• E-mail communication (where the aforementioned stakeholders, we are bui•• E-mail communication (where necessary) lding trust as the foundation of our long-term necessary) •• Annual financial report (annually) relationship to our mutual satisfaction. It is a •• Annual financial report (annually) •• Sustainability Report (annually) long-term strategy of the AD Plastik Group to •• Sustainability Report (annually) increase the satisfaction of the stockholders by increasing the value of stocks and paying In the reporting period, the financial reporting method was improved, the practice of regular letters on the occasion of the publication of quarterly reports was introduced, and presentations In the reporting period, the financial reporting and regular notifications were improved along with intended for the financial public were improved graphically by introducing more indicators and everyday communication with stockholders by training new personnel. information. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 28 Stakeholders (continued) National and local administration bodies The media National and local administration bodies are national authorities in the countries in which The media are among the stakeholders with Types of consultations and frequency a part of the public the company cooperates it operates, in accordance with their requirewhich the company is developing a success•• Press releases (regularly) with regularly. As a renowned and respectaments. ful cooperation with the aim of informing the •• Press conferences (where necessary) ble economic operator, the Group has a reswider public and all the other stakeholders re•• Visits (where necessary) ponsibility to improve the business environTypes of consultations and frequency garding changes and events within the comment in the communities it operates in. By •• Participation in specialised congresses pany in a timely and transparent manner. employing the local populations and paying and conferences (where necessary) local charges, the Group directly participates •• Memberships (regularly) In the reporting period, a proactive and structured communication with the media was establisin improving the quality of life in that area. It •• Visits (where necessary) hed, resulting in an increased number of press releases which mention the company. cooperates with all institutions of local and •• Sustainability Report (annually) In the reporting period, the representatives of the AD Plastik Group have participated in several conferences organised by the national and local administration bodies, where used their knowhow and experience to contribute to the development and improvement of the business conditions in the area, particularly in connection with exporters. The community and employing young professionals, cooperating with and supporting citizens’ association, The community (universities, NGOs,...) in whias well as participating and joining various ch it operates and creates new business and professional associations. economic standards is an important part of the corporate culture of the AD Plastik Group. Types of consultations and frequency Apart form occasional support to local initia•• Participation in conferences (where tives and associations through donations and necessary) sponsorships, a part of the strategy is a con•• Memberships (regularly) tinuous cooperation with the university com•• Visits (where necessary) munity with the aim of sharing knowledge •• Sustainability Report (annually) In the reporting period, the cooperation with several faculties was formalised, while professionals employed at the Group mentored students who created seminar papers and final theses, and participated in the work of various associations and organisations. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 29 Report profile This is the third Sustainability report of the AD Plastik Group and it covers the year 2015. The fiscal year matches the calendar year in this case. Up until now, the company has been issuing reports in biannual cycles. From this year onwards, it will issue reports annually. The previous report covered the years 2013 and 2014, and was published in December 2015. This is the first report drafted in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines. The core option was chosen, while the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) was asked to verify the contents of this Report. The AD Plastik Group gathers data for the Sustainability Report in all countries and locations it operates in, while the CBCSD was chosen to verify the Report as an independent institution. The Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) is the most competent institution for the verification of the Sustainability Report in the Republic of Croatia. Contact person: Zoja Crnečki Assistant Director of the Zagreb WU Matoševa 8, 21 210 Solin informacije@adplastik.hr AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 28 33 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 30 Management The AD Plastik Group bases its business activities on its good practice of corporate management. With its day-to-day business practice, strategy, company policy and internal acts, it strives to contribute to transparent and efficient business, as well as higher-quality relationships with the environment in which it operates. All company employees must aim at honest and frank relationships with all stakeholders in order to ensure, above all, respect for human rights, avoiding conflicts of interest, and any form of corruption. Since the stocks of AD Plastik have been officially listed at the Zagreb Stock Exchange, the Code of Corporate Management of the Zagreb Stock Exchange will apply, with annual detailed reporting on the dedication to the principles of corporate management and social responsibility. Account is taken of the implementation of anti-corruption measures within the group. In the following period, additional effort will be made to adopt an internal anti-corruption policy. AD Plastik is also a signatory of the Code of Ethical Business of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the obligation of responsible and ethical conduct as the necessary prerequisite for an efficient functioning of the market. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 31 Management structure General rage monthly gross salary to the Chairman The Audit Committee Supervisory for each session of the Supervisory Board, is responsible for monitoring the efficiency Shareholders' The corporate management structure of AD Board and 1 average monthly gross salary to other of the internal control system, internal audit Assembly Plastik is based on a dual system comprised members for each session of the Supervisory system and risk management system, suof the Management Board and the SuperviBoard. pervising the implementation of the review sory Board. The Management Board and the In the reporting period, the members of the of annual financial and consolidated reports, Management Board Supervisory Board, together with the General Supervisory Board were the following: Josip and discussing plans and the annual internal Assembly and Audit Committee, comprise the Boban, President, Nikola Zovko, Vice Presiaudit report, as well as discussing significant four key functions of the company. dent, and Marijo Grgurinović, Dmitrij Leoniissues connected with this area. In accordance with the laws and rules of prodović Drandin, Nadežda Anatoljevna Nikitina, The Supervisory Board cedure, two commissions have been appoinIgor Anatoljevič Solomatin and Dolores ČeriThe internal supervision is carried out by the oversees the company operations, including ted to support the work of the Supervisory na, members. In 2015, five regular sessions of controlling and internal audit services. Conthe examination of business accounts and Board by preparing decisions to be adopted the Supervisory Board were held. trolling informs the Management Board, and documents, of which it reports to the General by the Supervisory Board and overseeing theinternal audit informs the Management BoAssembly. The Supervisory Board makes deir implementation. The Remuneration ComThe General Assembly ard and Audit Committee of the supervision cisions for certain types of activities that may mittee proposes to the Supervisory Board appoints and dismisses members of the Sucarried out. The scope of the internal audit not be carried out without their prior consent. the Management reward policy, rewards for pervisory Board, appoints the company aucovers assessments and recommendations The Supervisory Board can convene the Gethe members of the Supervisory Board deciditor, and resolves on the ratification of the for corporate management process improveneral Assembly, and all its members share the ded on by the General Assembly, as well as members of the Management Board and Sument, evaluation of adequacy and effectiveresponsibility of supervision, oversight and the appropriate form and provisions of the pervisory Board. Their responsibilities include ness of controls in organisation management, sustainable business. agreements concluded with the members of increasing and reducing the amount of the business operations and IT system, supervisithe Management Board. The Appointments capital stock, deciding on how the profits are on of the realisation of aims and compliance The Supervisory Board consists of seven Commission proposes candidates for the to be used, amending the Statute, and deciwith the prescribed policies, procedures and members: Management Board and Supervisory Board, ding on the dissolution of the Company. work instructions, reporting and giving opini•• four members of the General Assembly considers the Management policy regarding In 2015, a regular session of the General Asons on applications by areas of activity, antiwith the mandate of four years and the recruitment of senior management, and sembly was held, on which it adopted the cipating and managing risks, and protecting eligible for a re-appointment evaluates the performance of the Supervisory Annual Financial Report of the Group for the company property. •• one member is appointed by the Board and Management Board. 2014, report of the Supervisory Board on the Workers’ Council for the period of four completed supervision of the operations for General Shayears The amount of rewards for members of the 2014, decisions on the use of profits for otSupervisory reholders' Committees Board •• two members are appointed by the Supervisory Board is set by the General Asher reserves, resolution on the ratification of Assembly stockholder Holding Autokomponenti, sembly depending on the business results the members of the Management Board and open joint-stock company, Saint and status of the Company. The decision Supervisory Board, decision appointing the Petersburg, Russia, for the period of four sets out the remuneration for the members auditor and two members of the Supervisory Management Board years, eligible for a re-appointment of the Supervisory Board as follows: 1.5 aveBoard. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 32 Management Board and mission of the organisation, its strateGeneral ShareholSupervisory gies, policies and goals. It is responsible for The Management Board of the AD Plastik Committees quality management of potential business ders' Assembly Board Group is responsible for conducting businerisks, while the economic, environmental and ss, including defining corporate functions social impacts and circumstances are discusand their tasks, representing the company sed at regular sessions. individually; preparing draft decisions (econoPresident of the Management Board mic, development, social and environmental), Management Board The corporate functions are the following: general acts and agreements within the pur•• controlling view of the General Assembly; implementing •• internal audit, decisions adopted by the General Assembly •• Marinko Došen, President of the •• human resources, within its purview, reporting to the SuperviManagement Board, appointed in 2015 •• research & development, Advisers Secretary sory Board, submitting consolidated annual •• Ivica Tolić, member of the Management •• sales, reports to the General Assembly, affairs relaBoard for Legal Affairs, Safety and •• strategic procurement, ted to the management of subsidiaries, and General Affairs •• finance participation in the management of affiliates. •• Mladen Peroš, member of the In the reporting period, 34 sessions of the Ma•• central logistics, Management Board for Commercial nagement Board were held. •• legal affairs, The Management Board consists of 3-8 memAffairs, Research and Development The Management Board defines tasks of •• corporate communications, bers appointed and dismissed by the Super•• Katija Klepo, member of the corporate functions, and each individual cor•• business organisation, visory Board. They determine the number of Management Board for Finance and porate function has a defined position on •• IT, members, and appoint one member President Accounting the executive level that corresponds to the •• safety and security, and of the Management Board. They can also •• Denis Fusek, member of the highest management body or appropriate •• quality system. appoint the Vice President. The mandate of Management Board for Business positions on the management level (directors, the members of the Management Board is Organisation, IT and Controlling managers) that report directly to the ManageThe President of the Management Board of five years, with the possibility of re-appoin•• Hrvoje Jurišić, member of the ment Board on the plans, progress and task AD Plastik is the executive manager for the tment with no restrictions on the number of Management Board for Production and completion. The Management Board directly areas of human resources, quality system mandates. The members of the Management Logistics participates in the development, approval and and executive committee management. The Board have executive status. Each member updating of statements on the purpose, value reason for the assignment of those managerepresents the company independently and ment functions to the president of the higindividually, and is appointed on the basis of hest body is the reduction of the information his/her expertise and the necessary experientransfer level as regards human resources ce. management and strategic decision-making In the reporting period, the Management Boin connection with the quality system of the ard of the AD Plastik Group had six members, Group in the sense of the system, and devenamely: lopment and manufacturing quality. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 33 Management Board (continued) The Management Board occasionally orthe other contracting party is his/her relative ganises consultations with individual staor spouse, extramarital partner or relative by keholders of the Group, while the regular Management Board President of the Management Board marriage to the second degree. A member of consultations with individual stakeholders the Management Board may not participate are delegated to the management, which is in decision-making related to any legal tranobliged to send feedback to the Management saction in connection which there is a conflict Board. By adopting strategies and plans, the Board Member for Legal Affairs, Safety and General Affairs of interest between the member of the Manaexisting management methods are analysed, gement Board and the company. The memand new advanced ones are proposed, whiber of the Management Board is obliged to le the corporate functions routinely suggest notify the other members of the Management improvements in individual areas. The ManaBoard and the Supervisory Board of such cirBoard Member for Commercial Affairs, Research and Development gement Board is continuously working on the cumstances, regardless of whether he/she advancement of the collective knowledge on is involved in decision-making or conclusion all relevant topics. of the legal transaction. He/she is obliged to state all the relevant facts about the nature Board Member for Finance and Accounting The performance of the Management Board of his/her relationship with the other contrais evaluated by the Supervisory Board at recting party, as well as his/her assessment of gular sessions. The evaluation is based on buwhether there is a conflict of interest. siness success indicators, as well as the maBoard Member for Business Organization, Informatics and Controlling intenance and creation of a positive company The Management Board of the AD Plastik image in all relevant public spheres. Group, namely the President of the Management Board, is responsible for approving the Pursuant to the Companies Act, a member sustainability report of the Group. of the Management Board may neither be Board Member for Production and Logistics a member of the management board nor a The total remuneration for the members of member of the supervisory board in another the Supervisory Board, Management Board company whose business activities fall witand executive directors for 2015 amounted to hin the scope of the business activities of the HRK 11,605,880. company. Furthermore, without the consent of the Supervisory Board, he/she may not participate in decision-making or conclusion of a legal transaction if the legal representative, authorised signatory or the attorney-in-fact of AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 34 Ethics and integrity Code of business conduct of the AD Plastik Group Vision Statement Apart from the Code of Business Ethics of the Croatian Human rights of the United Nations, International Labour OrChamber of Commerce, the AD Plastik Group, as an interganisation, and the Global Compact initiative of the United To be the market leader in the development and manufanational company, and all our employees implement the Nations, which the AD Plastik Group adheres to. The Code cture of car components on the territory of Eastern Eurocorporate responsibility guidelines of the Code of Business was published on the company’s website in three languape, and to expand the business to new markets. Conduct of April 2013. The Code defines the rules of the ges. In case of a violation of any provision of the Code of business conduct of the Group that have to be applied in Business Conduct, the procedures prescribed by the internal Mission Statement day-to-day interactions within the company and with exterprocedure are applied in addition to measures prescribed by To contribute to the quality of the final products and to nal parties. The company employs people of various natiothe relevant laws. In agreements with suppliers, we ask that the success of our customers with innovative and creative nalities, cultures and religions, which requires jointly agreed they respect the essential provisions of the Code of Busisolutions, as well as with constant advancement of the ethical standards and practices. The Code lays down the ness Contact, Global Compact initiative of the UN, and ILO product research & development. We meet our goals by standards of conduct in various areas in order to preserve conventions against child labour and forced labour (ILO138, applying the principles of socially responsible and ethical the reputation of the company with a high level of integriILO29 and ILO105). business to the satisfaction and welfare of all our stakety and reliability. It is divided into five basic topics: human The mission statement, vision statement, key company vaholders – employees, business partners, customers and rights, working practices, environmental protection, good lues and Code of Business Conduct of the Group are integral stockholders. business practice, and business partners. The company parts of the brochure that each person receives upon recruwas guided by the principles of the Universal Declaration of itment to the AD Plastik Group. Key values Innovation Dedication With our own ideas and creativity, we are working to improLoyalty, productivity and satisfaction are the indicators of the Reliability ve the development of the company and each individual sededication that we wish to encourage with a conscientious We base our relationships with all our stakeholders on trust, gment within it daily, simultaneously following the developapproach to the company. We wish our employees to identify and honest and frank communication. ments and trends on the global market. with the company and its values. The continuous establishment of long-term partnerships with all our stakeholders is based on mutual respect. Responsibility Community The responsibility is ours. It is an important prerequisite for We encourage mutual cooperation on all levels, as well as Excellence the development, growth and results of the company. We team work, which is necessary for the development and In every business segment, we strive to meet the highest quexpress it daily in our relationship with each individual, work, growth of not only the company, but also each individual perality standards, be it products, working methods or employee partners, stakeholders and our actions with regard to the soson. Sharing ideas and knowledge, a multicultural environcompetences. ciety, nature and community in which we operate. ment, mutual respect and solidarity are the key principles of community that we are developing. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • 56 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Economy About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 36 Economy Direct, generated and distributed economic value in thousands of HRK 2015 2014 2013 The business results in the reporting period show the achievement of the goals set by the Directly generated economic value 1,025,395 897,477 835,771 Management Board. There is a strong growth Income from sales 1,002,363 869,553 817,591 of business income on the Group level of 14% compared to the previous period, while the Other income 23,032 27,924 18,180 business expenses saw a milder growth of Distributed economic value 934,820 896,847 822,856 9%. The year 2015 was marked by rationaliBusiness expenses 716,810 653,826 601,777 sation and reorganisation of business as the foundation for generating added value for all Employee wages and benefits 187,560 182,196 165,658 our stakeholders. The result of such activity Payments to capital providers 29,653 59,106 53,561 is the return of the EBITDA margin to the levels appropriate to the industry in which we Payments to the state 647 1,484 1,746 operate. Thus we have achieved the EBITDA Investments into the community 150 235 114 margin of 11.20%, or EBITDA in the amount of HRK 114.9 million. Increased income, busineSustained economic value 90,575 630 12,915 ss efficiency and cost rationalisation have resulted in a significant increase of the Group’s vities were fully achieved. The credit obligatiIn accordance with the regulations of the ReThe minimum initial wage within the AD Plaprofits after tax, with a rise in net profit from ons were reduced by HRK 69.4 million in the public of Croatia, all employees are registered stik Group is higher than the minimum local HRK 4.9 million in 2014 to HRK 46.2 million reporting period, which significantly improved and included in the national pension fund. wage in all sites, but in different percentages. in 2015. the company’s liquidity indicators. The Group The rate of pension contributions is 20% of Thus in Serbia, the minimum initial wage is Significant effort was invested into reducing increased its profitability, improved its total the contribution basis, and the pension conhigher by 5.4%, in Croatia by 11.7%, in Kaluga the credit indebtedness of the Groups, while cost efficacy, achieved greater income from tributions are paid by employers on behalf of by 66.6%, and in Vintai by 90%. There are no the set goals in the domain of financial actisales, and increased the usability of its capatheir employees and at their expense. In the differences in salaries between the sexes in cities in Croatia and Serbia, which attests to Russian Federation, all employees are registeany site of the AD Plastik Group. the fact that the goals set for the reporting red and included in the national pension fund. period were successfully achieved. The rate of contributions is 22%, but no more In Russia, the minimum wage is laid down by than 711,000.00 roubles for 2015, after which the state, but each region can set its own miThe sustained economic value in 2015 is as up to 10% is paid in. In the Republic of Serbia, nimum wages that have to be higher than the much as 16 times higher compared to the all employees are registered in the national national minimum wage in accordance with previous year. The main reason for that, apart Retirement and Disability Fund for which it is the costs of living in that region. Thus the mifrom the non-payment of dividends in 2015, mandatory to pay 14% at the expense of the nimum wage in Kaluga is higher than the one is a significant increase of income and cost employees and 12% at the expense of emin Vintai, or the Samara District. rationalisation. ployers from the gross wage. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EC1 EC9 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 37 Economy (continued) Recruitment and employment of the local population is suployees. There are employees who have been appointed to key In the reporting period, 91% of employees in the senior manapported in all countries in which the company operates. Thefunctions in other sites within the AD Plastik Group through gement (members of the Management Board, executive direrefore, the local population comprises the greatest proporticareer advancement and promotion. The Group encourages ctors and directors) come from the local communities, meaon of employees in all sites. As a multinational company, the the mobility and potential for improvement of its own experts, ning persons who live in a county, district or region in which AD Plastik Group offers many opportunities for international who often transfer their knowledge to colleagues in different individual Group members operate. growth, mobility and promotion within the Group to its emmanufacturing sites of the Group. In the reporting period, there were no major indirect economic impacts on the business and stakeholders of the AD Plastik Financial aid received from the government in thousands of HRK Group. AD Plastik, Croatia AD Plastik, Novo Mesto AD Plastik, Vintai AD Plastik Kaluga ADP, Mladenovac Total 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Tax relief 2,651 5,190 677 3,328 5,190 Aid 3,095 3,774 543 1,023 2,077 4,661 5,851 Total 5,746 8,965 677 0 543 0 0 0 1,023 2,077 7,989 11,041 The financial aid from the Government in the reporting period concerns tax relief and subsidies for financial and capital investments, as well as investments into high-degree technologies. The proportion of local suppliers in the total procurement value S AD Plastik Croatia 29.68% 27.00% 33.40% 27.30% 39.02% 37.30% 42.30% 39.70% M ADP Mladenovac, Serbia K AD Plastik Kaluga 70.32% 73.00% 66.60% 72.70% Kaluga, Russia 60.98% 62.70% 57.70% 60.30% V AD Plastik Vintai, Russia Local suppliers Foreign suppliers AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EC1 EC9 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Environment About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 39 Environment Environmental protection is the result of the harmonisation of the activities of all business processes. The ecological orientation and developed environmental consciousness of the AD Plastik Group is visible in the very choice to establish the Environmental Management System according to the ISO 14001 standard, which was implemented more than 10 years ago at some manufacturing sites. The application of this international norm enables the shaping of the business management policy and goal setting, taking into consideration the legal and other binding requirements, as well as the data on significant impacts on the environment that our business activities, products and services have. The supervision and measurement of the impact on the environment are being continuously monitored so that they can be managed well for the purpose of preserving the environment and the surroundings in which we operate. The Group is implementing its strategy of continuous improvement of its impact on the environment; through regular monitoring and analysis, the realisation of the planned goals is checked. Where the goals are not realised, additional measures are defined and implemented. At the end of the year, an annual activity plan is defined as a part of the preparation of the business plan of the Group, which is confirmed and adopted by the Management Board. Some of the environmental aspects are shown by product unit. However, the specificity of the industry and the wide range of different products manufactured using different technologies must be taken into account, and therefore the impact is different as well. For example, the manufacture of certain products requires the utilisation of multiple technologies, so the energy consumption for such a range of products can be significantly higher. Nonetheless, all environmental aspects are managed continuously, depending on the specificity and complexity of individual products. By introducing an energy management system in 2016, the efficiency of energy use at the company will be monitored through energy consumption indicators by kilogramme of material spent. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN1 EN2 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 40 Materials The raw materials used in manufacturing processes are obtained from non-renewable sources. Granulated synthetic materials polypropylene, polyethylene, paints, varnishes and organic solvents are used. Out of the total amount of granulated synthetic materials used, depending on the vehicle type and category, some plastic products are made of recycled synthetic materials. Materials used by weight or quantity Material Site 2013 2014 2015 Solin 2,632 3,045 3,379 Zagreb 4,371 5,269 5,965 Mladenovac 1,070 1,014 1,097 PP/PE/PES (t) Percentage of used material consisting of recycled Vintai 2,910 2,780 5,882 Recycled input materials (t) input material (%) Kaluga 1,940 1,850 1,239 Material Site 2013 2014 2015 Material Site 2013 2014 2015 TOTAL 12,923 13,958 17,562 Solin 1,800 1,920 1,349 Solin 68 63 40 Zagreb 222 278 157 Zagreb 0 0 896 Zagreb 0 0 15 Mladenovac 122 324 394 Mladenovac 478 219 28 Mladenovac 45 22 3 Paints, PP/PE/PES (t) PP/PE/PES (t) varnishes, Vintai 0 0 10 Vintai 226 241 240 Vintai 8 9 4 solvents (t) Kaluga 0 0 1 Kaluga 22 167 128 Kaluga 0 9 10 TOTAL 344 602 562 TOTAL 2,526 2,547 2,641 TOTAL 20 18 15 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN1 EN2 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 41 Energy The total energy consumption in the reporting period amounts to 178,417 GJ, out of which 79% is electric energy consumption, which is the main source of energy in the manufacturing processes. The remaining energy consumption refers to the consumption of natural gas, fuel oil and liquefied natural gas. Total energy consumption within the organization 2013 2014 2015 Liquefied TOTAL Liquefied TOTAL Liquefied TOTAL Site Fuel oil Natural gas Electrcity Fuel oil Natural gas Electrcity Fuel oil Natural gas Electrcity natural gas 2013 natural gas 2014 natural gas 2015 Solin 1,005 0 838 27,951 29,794 804 0 1,370 31,949 34,123 80 0 1,544 33,747 35,371 Zagreb 0 20,007 2,075 29,620 51,702 0 20,748 3,050 46,153 69,951 0 20,749 3,519 48,337 72,605 Mladenovac 0 938 330 10,538 11,806 0 4,644 85 7,687 12,416 0 4,028 89 10,835 14,952 Vintai 0 0 6,032 30,906 36,938 0 0 6,048 32,122 38,170 166 6,654 0 36,253 43,073 Kaluga 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 12,414 12,416 TOTAL 1,005 20,945 9,275 99,015 130,240 804 25,392 10,553 117,911 154,660 246 31,433 5,152 141,586 178,417 Total energy consumption outside the organisation (GJ) 2013 2014 2015 The data we monitor refer to the consumption of non-renewable Site Diesel Petrol Total 2013 Diesel Petrol Total 2014 Diesel Petrol Total 2015 energy sources, or fuel consumption for the purpose of business trips by company-owned cars. Solin 1,195 1,170 2,365 689 1,787 2,476 753 1,601 2,354 Zagreb 116 347 463 152 341 493 108 427 535 Mladenovac 128 53 181 231 58 289 205 54 259 Vintai 4,535 3,711 8,246 695 4,387 5,082 435 4,546 4,981 Kaluga 0 0 0 0 0 0 93 192 285 TOTAL 5,974 5,281 11,255 1,767 6,573 8,340 1,594 6,820 8,414 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN3 EN4 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 42 Energy (continued) The energy intensity diagram shows the ratio of the total enerEnergy intensity in kJ/product 4.20 4.13 gy consumption (the sum of energy spent within and outside 4.10 4.04 the organisation) in relation to the total number of products Site 2013 2014 2015 4.00 manufactured. With the introduction of the energy manageSolin 3.90 ment system in the next period, it will be measured according 4.73 4.55 3.44 Zagreb 3.80 to the energy consumption efficiency indicator EnPi, i.e. energy 3.70 consumption in kWh per kilogramme of material spent (kWg/ Mladenovac 3.18 3.77 3.09 3.59 3.60 kg) will be measured. Vintai 3.57 3.22 4.00 3.50 Kaluga 0.00 0.00 4.36 3.40 TOTAL 4.13 4.04 3.59 3.30 2013 2014 2015 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN5 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 43 Water Water is supplied from the local water supply system, and in Water use by source ( m3) smaller part from the company’s own well. One such well is located at AD Plastik in Zagreb. The volume of water drawn W. consumption from the public water supply (m3) Water consumption from own well (m3) from such sources is determined by the water meter. The maSite 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 nufacturing plants do not recycle their waste water. Solin 41,464 23,095 27,184 0 0 0 Water use by source ( m3) Zagreb 17,009 9,733 14,134 3,400 5,712 5,713 2013 2014 2015 Mladenovac 1,446 8,671 11,975 0 0 0 The local water supply 67,411 51,429 70,858 Vintai 7,492 9,930 13,296 0 0 0 The company’s own well 3,400 5,712 5,713 Kaluga 0 0 4,269 0 0 0 TOTAL 70,811 57,141 76,571 TOTAL 67,411 51,429 70,858 3,400 5,712 5,713 AD Plastik, Solin ADP, Mladenovac AD Plastik Kaluga The company obtains water from the internal water supply The company obtains water from the JKP Mladenovac town The company obtains water from the internal water supply system of the town of Solin, which is supplied from the sourwater supply, which draws water from bored artesian wells. system of the town of Kaluga, which draws water from underce of the river Jadro. As a significant water habitat, the upper There are 55 of them, with depths ranging from 5 to 200 m. ground and surface sources. The water supply currently proviflow of that river has been declared a protected natural area in The capacity of one source is 2-5 l/s. All sites with wells on des the water volume of 180 m3/h from three artesian wells, the category of a special ichthyologic reservation. The average them have been declared protected areas. Brestovica, Kokorin, with the possibility of increasing the water flow by 3,360m3/ annual discharge of the source of the river Jadro is 9.0 m3/s. Serava and Kovačevac are the most significant ones among day. them. AD Plastik, Zagreb AD Plastik Group does not own, rent or administrate any land AD Plastik, Vintai in protected areas or in their immediate vicinity, nor in high-vaThe company obtains water from the internal water supply lue areas with regard to the biodiversity outside the protected system of the City of Zagreb. Nowadays, Zagreb draws water The company obtains water from the internal water supply areas, and thus its business activities do not produce any from eight pumps with a total of around 30 wells. The most system of the Vintai settlement, which draws water from wells impact on the protected areas. Furthermore, the plants have significant ones are the following: Mala Mlaka, Petruševec, whose depths ranges from 270 m to 275 m and whose capacineither direct nor indirect impact on the biodiversity in the proSašnak and Strmec and Zapruđe (Bundek); the total capacity ty is 1.5 m3/s. The distance from the river Volga is about 8km. tected areas or high-value areas with regard to the biodiversity of the water supply system is 4.5 m3/s. outside the protected areas; there are no examples related to protected and renewed habitats, endangered species according to the IUCN’s red list and national list. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN8 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 44 Emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions are the consequence of the Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ( t CO2* ) combustion of energy sources used to fire furnaces. This involves the combustion of fuel oil and natural gas. Indirect 2013 2014 2015 emissions come from the consumption of electric energy used Direct greenhouse Indirect greenhouDirect greenhouse Indirect greenhouDirect greenhouse Indirect greenhouto run machinery and equipment in the manufacturing plants, Site gas emissions by se gas emissions gas emissions by se gas emissions gas emissions by se gas emissions as well as the consumption of electric energy necessary for weight by weight weight by weight weight by weight the operation of the equipment designed to heat and cool the Solin 301 2,149 327 2,456 276 2,594 work premises. Zagreb 1,040 2,277 1,120 3,548 1,425 3,796 Total direct and indirect emissions of Mladenovac 87 810 287 591 250 833 greenhouse gases by weight ( t CO2* ) Vintai 987 2,376 752 2,469 750 2,787 2013 2014 2015 Kaluga 0 0 0 0 21 954 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases by weight 2,415 2,486 2,722 TOTAL 2,415 7,612 2,486 9,064 2,722 10,964 Indirect emissons of greenhouse gases by weight 7,612 9,064 10,964 * t CO2 Data on the emission amounts obtained using calculations according to the national standard TOTAL 10,027 11,550 13,686 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN15 EN18 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 45 Emissions (continued) The greenhouse gas emission intensity diagram shows the 0.30 proportion of total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissiGreenhouse gas emission 0.29 0.29 intensity (kg CO2/product) 0.29 ons in relation to the total number of manufactured products. 0.29 Site 2013 2014 2015 0.28 Data on the consumption of direct and indirect energy vary; Solin 0.28 they are directly related to the manufacturing quantity. Howe0.32 0.32 0.25 0.27 ver, a series of initiatives undertaken at the AD Plastik Group Zagreb for a more efficient and rational energy consumption do have 0.27 0.26 Mladenovac 0.24 0.26 0.22 0.26 an impact on its reduction. Vintai 0.27 0.24 0.29 0.26 Initiatives undertaken to reduce the energy consumption Kaluga 0.00 0.00 0.33 0.25 0.25 •• Turning off lights and working equipment after leaving TOTAL 0.29 0.29 0.26 2013 2014 2015 the working premises, and replacing the lights with LED lighting •• .Installation of central cooling (heat risers) •• .Installation of new, more energy-efficient manufacturing equipment •• .Setting up heat insulation on plastics injection cylinders •• .Programmed turning on and starting up of machines at the beginning of the working week •• .Entrances into the manufacturing halls and warehouses equipped with high-speed doors and an automatic opening and closing system •• .Replacement of the wooden carpentry with PVC on buildings AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN15 EN18 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 46 Emissions (continued) The manufacturing processes employed by Refrigerant contained in the equipment (kg) AD Plastik Group do not emit any substances 2013 2014 2015 that damage the ozone layer. However, for the purpose of maintaining the necessary climate R22 R407C R134A 227ea R22 R407C R134A 227ea R22 R407C R134A 227ea in its manufacturing and other working roSolin 240 32 133 40 240 32 133 40 240 32 133 40 oms, the company uses cooling and air condiZagreb 198 301 0 0 120 863 0 0 120 863 0 0 tioning devices that operate using substances Mladenovac 7 70 0 164 8 70 0 164 8 70 0 164 that affect the ozone layer. The maintenance Vintai 0 17 0 0 0 1316 0 0 0 40 0 0 of those devices and systems in operation is entrusted to authorised contractual partners Kaluga 0 220 0 0 0 980 0 0 0 120 0 0 whose duty, among other things, is to dispose TOTAL 445 640 133 204 368 3261 133 204 368 1125 133 204 of replaced refrigerants in an environmentally friendly manner. In 2015, due to an equipment malfunction in the manufacturing plant in NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into the air by type and weight (t) Vintai, 10kg of R407C were accidentally rele2013 2014 2015 ased into the atmosphere. NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC NOX,SOX,CO are generated due to the conSolin 0.092 1.000 0.002 0.000 0.073 0.800 0.002 0.000 0.095 1.000 0.080 0.000 sumption of energy sources used to heat the Zagreb 1.084 0.000 0.084 87.260 1.335 0.000 0.134 55.740 1.255 0.000 0.950 17.060 working rooms (fuel oil, natural gas) and due Mladenovac 0.036 0.000 0.002 0.000 0.176 0.000 0.008 0.000 0.050 0.000 0.030 0.000 to the use of energy sources in manufacturing Vintai 2.058 0.000 3.871 0.000 5.650 0.024 12.071 0.000 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 processes. VOC is emitted from the finishing Kaluga 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.018 0.009 5.191 0.000 plant in Zagreb. TOTAL 3.270 1.000 3.959 87.260 7.234 0.824 12.215 55.740 5.941 1.033 6.678 17.060 * The data on the emission amounts have been obtained using calculations according to the national standard. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN20 EN21 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 47 Waste waters and waste Solin, Zagreb system, as are the service waste water following treatment in a separator. Atmospheric waters are released into the River VeIn Solin, the internal drainage system was constructed sepaliki Lug. They are controlled regularly by sampling according rately, so the sanitary and service (cooling) waste waters are to the water permit requirement. The waste waters meet the connected through the public drainage system to the town wamaximum permitted concentration (MPC). ter treatment plant, while the atmospheric waters are released through collectors draining into the Bay of Kaštela. Vintai In Zagreb, sanitary, service and atmospheric waste waters The internal drainage system was constructed in the form a are generated. The service waste waters are drained through cooling tower, and the sanitary and process/cooling waste settlers and oil and grease separator into the internal drainage waters are drained into the town sewer. Atmospheric waters system, while the waste waters from the finishing plant are not are released into a collector with a drain into the atmosphereleased. The waste waters are drained to the public drainage ric sewer of the town of Vintai. The factory has filters in the system of the City of Zagreb through sewers to the city water cooling tower for the treatment of waste water prior to their treatment plant. Separators and grease catchers have been release, which are checked and cleaned twice a year. The aspinstalled to treat waste waters prior to their release into the halt and concrete surfaces are regularly cleaned in order to public drainage system in Solin and Zagreb. The sewer system drain the waste waters into the sewer. The waste waters are is tested for impermeability every five years. The asphalt and controlled by sampling according to the water permit requireconcrete surfaces are regularly cleaned in order to drain the ment. All waste waters comply with the maximum permitted collected water toward the gutters. The collected sediment concentration (MPC) for release into the public sewer. The wafrom the grease catchers, separators and drains is removed ste water control is carried out by a contracted waste water regularly. The sediment, mud and grease are stored in the organisation. appropriate place prior to their transport from the site. The waste waters are controlled by sampling in accordance with the Kaluga water permit requirement. All waste waters comply with the maximum permitted concentration (MPC) for release into the The internal drainage system was constructed separately so public drainage system. that the sanitary and process/cooling waste waters are drained into the public drainage system, i.e. the town water treMladenovac atment plant. Atmospheric waters are released via a collector with a drain into the public drainage system. The internal drainage system has been constructed so as to separate sanitary and service waters from atmospheric waters. Sanitary waste waters are drained to the public sewer AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN22 EN26 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 48 Waste waters and waste (continued) Waste is collected separately, disposed of according to the Quantity of water released ( m3) regulations, and delivered to authorised waste collectors for further disposal. Records of the generated waste delivered for Site 2013 2014 2015 disposal are kept according to the documentation required by Solin 37,701 18,645 27,184 law, while the data on the weight of the waste delivered for Zagreb 10,763 4,050 5,336 disposal are obtained by weighing prior to its delivery to authorised collectors. They are used in reports to the competent Mladenovac 1,446 8,671 11,975 national authorities. Vintai 7,492 9,930 13,296 The significant increase in the quantity of non-hazardous waKaluga 0 0 4,269 ste in 2015 in Solin and Zagreb was due to the disposal of old TOTAL 57,402 41,296 62,060 manufacturing equipment and machinery as metal waste. In Vintai, the increase in the quantity of hazardous waste was due to the introduction of a new waste classification. Waste weight (t) Total waste weight by type (t) Disposal methods 2013 2104 2015 2013 2014 2015 Recycling 519.92 809.08 862.58 non-hazardous hazardous non-hazardous hazardous non-hazardous hazardous Waste warehousing prior to the application of any 142.67 298.42 275.31 Solin 106.67 14.1 126.13 25.58 219 20 disposal process Zagreb 114.03 146.39 213.56 301.01 301 237 Use of waste mostly as 7.83 12.55 27.68 fuel or other energy source Mladenovac 9.7 2.35 159.28 6.66 180 5 Physical and chemical Vintai 1,221.26 2.29 1,055.69 8.60 1,099.00 334.00 processing of waste 4.11 18.27 27.08 Kaluga 225.88 0.00 450.00 0.50 62.00 7.00 Waste incineration on land 7.38 35.83 55.66 1,677.54 165.13 2,004.66 342.35 1,861.00 603.00 TOTAL Waste disposal on landfills 1,160.76 1,172.86 1,215.69 1,842.67 2,347.01 2,464.00 TOTAL 1,842.67 2,347.01 2,464.00 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN22 EN26 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 49 Waste waters and waste (continued) Weigh of transported, imported, exported or processed waste considered hazardous according to the Basel Convention, Annexes I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of waste transported abroad 2013 2014 2015 Weight of haPercentage of Weight of haPercentage of Weight of haPercentage of Hazardous zardous waste hazardous waste Hazardous zardous waste hazardous waste Hazardous zardous waste hazardous waste Site waste weight (t) transported transported waste weight (t) transported transported waste weight (t) transported transported abroad (t) abroad (%) abroad (t) abroad (%) abroad (t) abroad (%) Solin 14.1 1.73 12 25.58 3.279 13 20 20 100 Zagreb 146.39 137.11 94 301.01 287.55 96 237 220 93 Mladenovac 2.35 0 0 6.66 5.5 83 5 0 0 Vintai 2.29 0 0 8.6 0 0 334 0 0 Kaluga 0 0 0 0.5 0.2 40 7 0 0 TOTAL 165.13 138.84 84 342.35 296.529 87 603 240 40 There were no significant spillages of hazarare not released into protected areas. dous substances that could have significant negative impact on the environment with On manufacturing sites in Solin, Zagreb and possible harmful consequences for the soil, Mladenovac, environmental protection inspewater, air, biodiversity and human health. Sysctions are routinely carried out, once a year tematic efforts to avoid major spillages of haas a rule. There were no major pecuniary or zardous materials are directly connected with non-pecuniary penalties for violations of the internal regulations and working instructions, laws and regulations in the area of environwhile their implementation is routinely monimental protection. In Vintai and Kaluga, there tored. were no environmental protection inspections in the reporting period. Waste waters released from manufacturing plants have no negative impact on the biodiversity and connected habitats. Waste waters AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN22 EN26 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 50 Expenditures and investments into environmental protection Total expenditures and investments into environmental protection (EUR) Expenditures for environmental protection include the costs of hazardous and non-hazardous waste disposal, costs of emis2013 2014 2015 sion testing, and costs of discharging and cleaning. The invesExpenditures for Investments into Expenditures for Investments into Expenditures for Investments into tments included the purchase of more efficient equipment (coenvironmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental oling central, distiller, tempering devices, oil filtering aggregate, protection protection protection protection protection protection safety cabinet, crushing machinery, water meter) and energy Solin 103,000 8,000 38,200 13,300 29,200 10,360 efficiency testing of buildings. Zagreb 108,200 5,300 112,000 86,200 106,800 240,640 Mladenovac 14,700 800 31,840 2,000 27,100 1,600 Vintai 85,902 4,605 90,448 5,727 60,102 3,218 Kaluga 34,000 0 28,000 0 22,000 0 345,802 18,705 300,488 107,227 245,202 255,818 UKUPNO 364,507 407,715 501,020 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN31 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 51 Supplier assessment with regard to their impact on the environment All new suppliers in the reporting period were checked in The proportion of suppliers checked according to the environmental impact criteria and ISO 14001 connection with the environmental impact criteria by means those who possess an ISO 14001 certificate Questionnaire of the Questionnaire on the Compliance with the Quality Management System ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, Enviromental management system ISO 14001 and Corporate Social ResponsiAD Plastik, Croatia ADP, Mladenovac, Serbia bility Guidelines. 100.00% 100.00% 76.47% 77.78% 57.98% 59.66% 0.00% 0.00% AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia AD Plastik, Vintai, Russia 37.84% 40.54% 25.00% 25.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • EN31 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Society About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 53 Employment The trend of the number of employees at the AD Plastik GroNumber of employee trend in the past five years up is an indicator of the adaptation of the Group’s business to changes and the specificities of the industry in which it operates. Despite the realisation growth in the reporting period, a slight drop in the number of employees was recorded. This was due to the adaptation to the economic circumstances on the Russian market. The greatest number of new recruitments was also recorded in the Russian Federation. The proportion of new recruits by sex is traditionally in favour of men, but it is necessary to note that the percentage of women in the AD Plastik Group is significantly above the EU average of women employed in the automotive industry. Full-time, part-time and fixed-term employees of the AD Plastik Group have the same privileges and rights. Number of employees recruited and those who left the Group for 2015 by months Recruited Left AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 54 Employment (continued) Total rate of employee fluctuation for 2015 by months Total recruitment of employees in 2015 by sex 5.00% 4.00% 3.00% Men..................... 62.93% 2.00% Women................37.07% 1.00% 0.00% Departures of employees in 2015 by sex Men Women AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 55 Employment (continued) Fluctuation rate in 2015 by region Total recruitment of employees in 2015 by region 16.00% 14.00% 12.00% Russia................. 52.59% Croatia.................42.72% 10.00% Serbia................... 4.69% 8.00% 6.00% 4.00% 2.00% Total 0.00% Use of number of Parental leave parental employees leave Total fluctuation Serbia Russia Croatia by sex men 706 1 All employees of the AD Plastik Group have the right to parental leave in accordance with the regulations of the country in which AD Plastik, Croatia women 497 25 they are employed. In the reporting period, 92 female employees and 2 male employees used the right to parental leave. In the same period, 18 female employees and 2 male employees returned to work from their parental leave. Since this indicator only men 139 0 came into use in 2015, their stay at work following the use of their parental leave will be monitored in the next reporting period. The ADP, Mladenovac women 30 0 number of fathers who take advantage of a paid parental leave is on the rise. men 81 1 AD Plastik Kaluga Upon the expiry of their parental leave, regardless of their sex, employees almost regularly return to work in agreement with their women 144 35 managers. This points to the security that the company gives them. men 182 0 AD Plastik. Vintai The AD Plastik Group values the occupational health and safety of all its employees, particularly pregnant and breastfeeding women 338 32 women, which is laid down by the Collective Agreement in a separate provision. The Group’s internal documents, activities, encomen 1108 2 uragement of a positive climate and culture promotes the equality of sexes and particularly the employees’ right to use of parental AD Plastik Group women 1009 92 leave. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 56 Employment (continued) The Group continuously implements the practice of good relaBoard of the AD Plastik Group, who is informed of any major Agreement. Depending on the laws of the state in which the tions and social dialogue with its employees, who are always changes in the business that may have a significant impact on company operates, the deadlines range from eight days to up to date with all major changes in the business. In accordanemployees prior to making the final decision. three months. ce with the law and Collective Agreement, they are timely informed. Collective agreements as formal agreements with unions The deadlines for providing information are defined in the proHowever, communication with employees and their elected recover topics in the area of health and safety, in accordance visions of the laws on labour and employment relationships, presentatives on all matters related to changes in the business with the laws and regulations and customary good business as well as in the provisions related to consultations and neis more frequent than what the law prescribes. practice. Employees have a representative in the Supervisory gotiations. They are not defined separately in the Collective AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 57 Occupational health and safety There was a grand total of 21 injuries on the level of the Group fall on the ground level, three (14%) were caused by improper the cause of the injury, responsible persons were designated in the reporting period, out of which six injuries (29%) were due handling of tools, one (5%) by physical overexertion, and four and corrective activities were carried out. to a collision of a worker with an object, seven (33%) due to a (19%) fall under other causes of injury. Following an analysis of Rate of injuries, professional diseases, lost days or absences, and number of death cases connected with accidents at work 2013 2014 2015 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Site professional professional professional injuries days death cas injuries days death cas injuries days death cas diseases diseases diseases Solin 5 0 129 0 7 0 303 0 6 0 278 0 Zagreb 5 0 73 0 7 0 245 0 6 0 159 0 Mladenovac 0 0 0 0 3 0 45 0 6 0 225 0 Vintai 3 0 61 1 1 0 49 0 0 0 0 0 Kaluga 0 0 0 0 1 0 11 0 3 0 19 0 TOTAL 13 0 263 1 19 0 653 0 21 0 681 0 Injury rate by sex Parameter 2013 2014 2015 IR (injury rate) 0.74 0.87 0.99 ODR (occupational disease rate) 0.00 0.00 0.00 LDR (lost day rate) 0.06 0.11 0.19 AR (absentee rate) 0.05 0.00 0.00 Men Women AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 58 Education and training In the reporting period, the average duration of training per emtake provide them with expertise and competence in the auThere are routine internal training programmes published ployee was 25 hours. Investment into programmes for specific tomotive industry. In cooperation with the Group, Fiat and Daiannually on the Intranet in the Catalogue of Internal Training customer demands, managerial knowledge and installation mler organised courses that employees of the AD Plastik Group Programmes. Internal trainers and mentors are brought from of technologies was substantially increased. Investment into took in order to become fully acquainted with the customers’ different sites of the Group depending on their competences specific knowledge depends largely on the type of business demands for the purpose of ensuring the required quality. The and specific knowledge. activity, but concern for the health and safety of employees group regularly cooperates with the company Sneci Cee s.r.o. is common to everyone, so such programmes are carried out regading employee training. In 2015, a series of workshops Within the company, regular consultations are held in conneregularly. was held for the purpose of setting up Lean manufacturing. ction with retirement. Retired persons are involved in the mentorship programme so that they can continue contributing and In 2015, a cooperation was started with the consultancy firms The aforementioned workshops, training sessions and protransferring knowledge to their younger colleagues. Renault Consulting SAS and Renault Technologie Roumanie, grammes enable employees to educate themselves and increwhile cooperation with the consultancy firm Ford aus und wease their skills on the competitive automotive labour market, iterbildung e.v. was continued. Their courses that employees which increases the employability of each individual. Proportion of employees in training in 2015 by category Average number of training hours per employee category Proportion of different programmes in 2015 Management Management Training of manufacturing workers.............30% Expert staff Expert staff Installed technologies...................................25% Other staff Other staff Installed business processes....................... 24% Mod Mod Occupational safety...................................... 13% Managerial knowledge.................................... 4% Specific customer requests........................... 4% AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 59 Rewarding In the reporting period, two new reward models were introduced, and a series of activities connected with employee evaluation in the area of work quality and quality was carried out. The 360° method Company employees (with the exception of direct workers) munication, leadership and team management (Belbin Team work quality were evaluated at the Zagreb site. The status of their compeRoles, group dynamics and leadership theories), skill coaching tences was determined, talents identified, and development in employee development and management, discrimination, team work work quantity plans defined. The evaluation resulted in an overview of the and managing differences in the organisation. The training is current competences of the employees, their strengths and envisaged as a series of half-day or full-day workshops, at the areas in which further development is necessary. Based on rate of one workshop per month. The plan is for the education communication work discipline that evaluation, the development plan was defined, with a trato start in the third quarter of 2016. In the professional level ining plan being created for the management level, covering category, employees with excellent results have been recognicommunication skills, internal communication and organisatised. In the future, they will be assigned to the orientation of change acceptance knowledge and skills on culture, giving feedback to employees, personal efficiency new employees to teach them about good working practices. and organisation, management of conflicts and “toxic” comThe AD5 model In the final quarter of 2015, the new model was introduced to reward employees with excellent results related to the main business activities of the department/sector in the given period. 82 employees were rewarded at the Solin and Zagreb sites. A series of additional activities was launched with the aim of motivating and promoting employees. The programme is initially being carried out in Croatia in order to determine and remedy any weaknesses. The aim is to implement it in other sites as well in 2017. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 60 Rewarding (continued) Idea for Improvement rewarding At the Group’s factories in Russia, the Idea for Improvement rewarding moProportion of employees who receive regular ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga 185 225 82% del was designed and launched. An idea is every useful novelty which, when feedback on their performance and individuapplied, improves the quality of the working conditions and methods, and refers al development AO AD Plastik 280 520 54% 28% to all segments of business. According to the determined evaluation matrix, AD Plastik d.d. 113 1203 9% three best ideas are chosen every month, and the employees who proposed them are rewarded and publicly commended at a celebratory get-together. ADP d.o.o. 7 169 4% AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 61 Diversity and equal opportunities On 31 December 2015, there were 47.66% female employees Each potential candidate has an equal opportunity for employand 52.34% male employees in the Group. On the management ment regardless of the sex, which is attested by the fact that level, most of the women were in line management, followed the AD Plastik Group has been hiring an almost equal number by middle management, with the fewest number of them in top of women and men for several years. The basic wage of emmanagement. Inside the steering/leadership structure, women ployees on the Group level is determined exclusively according comprise a total of 38% of the management positions. to the job. There are no differences between basic wages and remunerations between men and women. In the entire steering and management structure by age for 2015, most of the employees are aged 30-50. That age group All employees of the AD Plastik Group are treated equally, with makes up 71.88%. In the top management, most of the emdignity and respect, regardless of their ethnicity, religion, lanployees are aged 30-50, while in middle and line management guage, sex, age or culture. Discrimination on any basis is not employees aged 30-50 are also prevalent. The proportion of tolerated. Competence is the only basis for decision-making employees aged 50+ in management positions is 19.79%. in all aspects of employment, including recruitment, development and promotions. Employee age structure in 2015 depending on the management line Top management Middle management Line management AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 62 Diversity and equal opportunities (continued) In the reporting period, all suppliers of AD Plastik in Croatia lines. The suppliers of the manufacturing sites in Russia and le in Croatia there were no disputes. They were filed through were checked according to the employment relationship criteSerbia were not checked in the reporting period, but a check is formal mechanisms. All of them were processed and resolved rion. The results show that all of them respect the aforemenplanned for the next period. in the same period. Furthermore, in 2015, three more employtioned criteria, and they make up a total of 48% of the Group’s ment disputes, which had been filed prior to the aforementiosuppliers. The check was carried out by means of a QuestioIn the reporting period, a total of ten disputes were filed on the ned period, were resolved in Mladenovac. nnaire on the Compliance with the ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, Group level in connection with employment. Eight disputes ISO 14001 systems and Corporate Social Responsibility Guidewere filed in Kaluga, one in Vintai and Mladenovac each, whiAge structure of steering/management positions in 2015 Management Board sex and age structure in 2015 18-30 30-50 >50 Men Women 18-30 30-50 Audit Committee sex and age structure in 2015 >50 18-30 30-50 >50 Men Women Men Women Men Women Top management Middle management Line management Men Women AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 63 Human rights The AD Plastik Group does not employ persons under 15 years of age, which is laid down by additional internal documents. In the reporting period, no employment contracts were concluded with persons under 15 years of age, which was also the case in the preceding reports. The Human Resources service takes special account of age in the candidate selection processes. Employee training on human rights aspects and policies was carried out at the Kaluga site – two hours per employee – so that a total of 450 hours of training in human rights were carried out in the reporting period. No discrimination complaints were received, nor have there been any disputes in connection with human rights. In the reporting period, all suppliers of AD Plastik in Croatia were checked according to the criteria of the freedom of association of workers and respect for human rights using the Questionnaire on the Compliance with the ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, ISO 14001 systems and Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines. Based on the Questionnaire, which contains questions from the field of the freedom of association and collective bargaining, all of the suppliers surveyed respect human rights and the freedom of association of workers. The suppliers of the manufacturing sites in Russia and Serbia were not checked, but a check is planned for the next period. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA16 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 64 Society Anti-corruption The anti-corruption policy has not been described in a separate document yet, but is an integral part of the Code of Business Conduct of the AD Plastik Group, available on the website of the company. According to the Code, employees must not participate in corruption of any kind, and each employee who has been asked for offered a bribe is obliged to report the situation to Legal Affairs. In 2015, there were no reports that would imply bribery and/or corruption. In the reporting period, no anti-corruption training was carried out within the company. Public policies The AD Plastik Group promotes a transparent and public advocacy of different public policies through business organisations and advocacy groups, public appearances, expert discussions or direct suggestions and comments submitted to the competent authority. The Group does not condone any material or financial support to political parties or political contributions. No legal proceedings have been instituted due to conduct violating the principle of competition on the market, anti-trust and anti-monopoly practices. In the reporting period, there were no significant pecuniary or non-pecuniary penalties due to breach of laws and regulations on the level of the AD Plastik Group. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • SO4 SO11 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 65 Society (continued) Customer health and safety Labelling of products and services For all products developed by the AD Plastik Group, from The quality and characteristics of the products manufactured together with customers in order to reduce the impact on the product design planning and development, through checks, by the AD Plastik Group are as declared. They are safe and environment following the expiry of the life cycle of the proverification and validation of each phase of design and deveacceptable for further use in terms of health. Continuous care duct. Customers have developed recycling indicators for their lopment, to disposal following the expiry of the working life, is taken of appropriate and useful labels, ensured disposal suppliers, which enable life cycle assessment and integration in accordance with the legal provisions, we adhere to all refollowing the expiry of its working life in accordance with the of the recycling possibility from the design phase, negotiations gulations and standards pertaining to customers, as well as regulations, and adherence to all other regulations and stanwith the customer, measurement of developments made, and directives of the automotive industry. dards. improvements with regard to environmentally acceptable desiAt the same time, all products are assessed for the purpose of gn. All products comply with the aforementioned requirements improving their impact on health and safety (taking into accoFor each product and service, the source of its components, set by customers. unt the purpose of the product or service so that they it does contents (particularly as regards substances that may have an not present a health or safety risk). impact on the environment or society), safety of use, disposal Special health and safety tests form an integral parts of actiand impact on the environment are listed. vities carried out with car manufacturers. All products must In the reporting period, there were no recorded cases of any pass them in order to be completely safe for the end customer, breach or regulations and voluntary codes in relation to the imSince the majority of the products are made of plastics, the all with the aim of protecting their health and safety. pact of the product on health and safety. Group takes care of the improvement of recycling possibilities AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • PR1 PR9 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 66 Society (continued) Customers One of the most important parameters monitored in the business process with the customer in the automotive industry is quality. The quality of products and processes is monitored by the customer using forms (special IT portals). The results are recorded for certain periods of time. The so-called manufacturer rating is the basic criterion for contracting new projects. In 2017 we plan to introduce an additional customer satisfaction questionnaire, which will contain questions connected with product quality, communication, logistics and finance. In the reporting period, there were no complaints in connection with customer privacy, violations of regulations and voluntary codes with regard to products and services. There were also no fines for violation of laws and regulations with regard to the offer and use of products and services. Marketing communications The AD Plastik Group adheres to the Croatian Advertising Code, and has its own Advertising Code, which is applicable to all forms of marketing communications. In the reporting period, there were no violations of regulations and voluntary codes in connection with marketing communications. The company refrains from selling illegal or disputed products on all markets, and such products are not the subject of queries by stakeholders or public debates. AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 GRI: G4 • PR1 PR9 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Communication on Progress About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 68 Comparative table of GRI and Global Compact indicators UNGC principle Page UNGC principle Page Profile G4-EC6 Principle 6 37 Strategy and analysis G4-EC8 37 G4-1 Statement of the President of the Management Board 4 G4-EC9 37 Organisational profile Environmental indicators G4-3 to G4-13 Principles 3 and 6 5 21 G4-EN1 Principles 7 and 8 40 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives G4-EN2 Principles 8 and 9 40 G4-14 to G4-16 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 22 G4-EN3 Principles 7 and 8 41 Identified material aspects and limits G4-EN4 Principle 8 41 G4-17 to G4-23 23 G4-EN5 Principle 8 42 Involvement of stakeholders G4-EN6 Principles 8 and 9 45 G4-24 to G4-27 25 28 G4-EN8 Principles 7 and 8 43 Report profile G4-EN9 Principle 8 43 G4-28 to G4-33 Principle 3 68 69 G4-EN10 Principles 8 and 9 43 Management G4-EN11 Principle 8 43 G4-34 to G4-53 30 33 G4-EN12 Principle 8 43 Ethics and integrity G4-EN13 Principle 8 43 G4-56 Principles 1 10 34 G4-EN14 Principle 8 43 Specific standard data G4-EN15 Principles 7 and 8 44 Economic indicators G4-EN16 Principles 7 and 8 44 G4-EC1 Principle 6 36 G4-EN18 Principles 7 and 8 45 G4-EC3 36 G4-EN19 Principles 7 and 8 45 G4-EC4 37 G4-EN20 Principles 7 and 8 46 G4-EC5 Principle 6 36 G4-EN21 Principles 7 and 8 46 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 69 Comparative table of GRI and Global Compact indicators (continued) UNGC principle Page UNGC principle Page G4-EN22 Principle 8 47 48 Subcategory: Human rights G4-EN23 Principle 8 48 G4-HR1 Principle 2 34 G4-EN24 Principle 8 49 G4-HR2 Principle 1 63 G4-EN25 Principle 8 49 G4-HR3 Principles 4 and 6 63 G4-EN26 Principle 8 49 G4-HR4 Principle 1, 2, 3 and 6 63 G4-EN27 Principle 8 65 G4-HR10 Principle 2 63 G4-EN29 Principle 8 49 G4-HR12 Principles 1 and 2 63 G4-EN31 Principles 7, 8 and 9 50 Subcategory: Society G4-EN32 Principle 8 51 G4-SO4 Principle 10 64 Social indicators G4-SO6 Principle 10 64 G4-LA1 Principle 6 53 55 G4-SO7 Principle 10 64 G4-LA2 Principle 6 53 Subcategory: Customer health and safety G4-LA3 Principles 3 and 6 55 G4-PR1 Principle 1 65 G4-LA4 Principles 3 and 6 56 G4-PR2 Principle 1 65 G4-LA6 Principle 1 57 G4-PR3 Principle 8 65 G4-LA8 Principle 3 56 G4-PR4 Principle 8 66 G4-LA9 Principle 6 58 G4-PR5 66 G4-LA10 58 G4-PR6 66 G4-LA11 Principle 6 59 60 G4-PR7 Principle 2 66 G4-LA12 Principles 2 and 6 61 62 G4-PR8 66 G4-LA13 Principles 1 and 6 61 G4-PR9 66 G4-LA14 Principles 1 and 6 62 G4-LA16 62 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Annexes About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 71 Tasks for 2015 accomplished Tasks for 2016 •• B. eginning of the implementation of the ISO 50001 •• I.mplementation of the ISO 14001 standard at AD Plastik standard (Energy Management System) for the sites in Kaluga Solin and Zagreb – activities initiated •• I.mplementation of the ISO 50001 standard (Energy •• B. eginning of the implementation of the ISO 14001 Management System) for the sites in Solin and Zagreb standard at AD Plastik Kaluga •• I.mplementation of the ISO 9001 at the ADP Mladenovac •• I.ntroduction of the OHSAS 18001 system for the site management of occupational health and safety for the ADP Mladenovac site – introduced on 21 December 2015. •• B. eginning of the implementation of the ISO 27001 standard (Information Security System) for the sites in •• I.ntroduction of the employee reward system – reward Solin and Zagreb system AD5 introduced •• D. evelopment of activities with the aim of increasing the •• D. evelopment of activities with the aim of increasing the employees’ motivation – ADP Day, team building events, employees’ motivation – improvement of the internal open days of the Management Board, launching the newsletter and introduction of an editorial committee, “Ideas and innovation” project ADP mailboxes for anonymous questions and comments, informal gatherings, additional communicational •• I.nforming and engaging other stakeholders in a better instructions, holiday programmes. way •• .Adoption of the Advertising Code •• A. doption of policies in relation to product quality, customer health and safety, and environmental protection •• .Realisation of the transfer to G4 reporting •• .Education of the management on anti-corruption issues •• A. ssessment of suppliers for the sites in Russia and Serbia according to the Compliance Questionnaire AD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 About us Economy Environment Society UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Annexes 72 Opinion of the Commission of the Management Council of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development (HR PSOR) on the Sustainability Report of the AD Plastik Group for 2015 With its contemporary approach and design, the third Sustaaspects – no fewer than 21 of them – are connected with the ting process as a process of impact analysis and evaluation. inability Report created by the AD Plastik Group has fulfilled social category: employees and human rights. This also serves as basis for the plan for its continuous improthe purpose of non-financial reporting in its entirety, which vement, which is the main goal of reporting. We will continue is to understand the needs and expectations of stakeholders Recognising material aspects is a very important aspect of this to follow that progress with great interest through upcoming for information, and to provide an overview of the company’s type of reporting. Those priorities constitute the greatest part reports, and we applaud the AD Plastik Group for the process non-financial result in accordance with their needs. The Report of the Report and focus the attention on topics important to all that it has rolled out successfully. is successful in showcasing the results that the companies stakeholders. However, too many material aspects can mean within the Group achieved in 2015, while its contents comply that the company failed to recognise the key impacts, and Commission of the Management Council of the Croatian with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global subsequently failed to focus on them. Therefore we applaud Business Council for Sustainable Development (HR PSOR) Reporting Initiative – Core Option. the process whereby priorities and key aspects are defined in accordance with the changes in the external and business imThe Group’s Sustainability Report for 2015 is written in a clear pacts. We hope that the development of the communication and comprehensible language, the data is shown so as to fawith the stakeholders will continue in the following years with cilitate review, while individual aspects are described in great the topic of the contents from the Sustainability Report. detail. In its Report, the Group respected the reporting principles, aiming to ensure a uniform overview of all the important The previous year yielded good financial results at the AD Plabusiness features connected with sustainable development stik Group, which were also reflected in increased investments and social responsibility. into employee training, with a new rewarding system being rolled out, while information provision and communication were The AD Plastik Group is a growing international company with improved. In the following reports, we would like to see a clean ambition to become the market leader in the development arer overview of the human potential management strategy, and manufacture of automotive components in Eastern Eurowhich is the basis for this successful practice of investment pe. On that demanding market, sustainable business is one of into employees. the most important elements of competitiveness, while understanding the expectations and interests of stakeholders is the The purpose of the Report is not merely to show understannecessary prerequisite for good communication. ding in the application of the social responsibility principle, but also attract its readers and draw their attention to the topics of Therefore it is not surprising that, in its Report, the AD Plastik sustainability. Therefore the announcement that the following Group highlighted as many as 34 material aspects that reflect Reports will be published annually, and that they will contain the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of clear goals for individual aspects so that their realisation could the Group, i.e. those that significantly influence the stakeholbe monitored better and more transparently, is particularly vaders’ assessments and decisions. The majority of the material luable. At the same time, the AD Plastik Group uses the reporAD Plastik Group • Sustainability Report 2015 Your needs. Our drive. Solin, November 2016 www.adplastik.hr
