Quality, environment and ethics Sustainability issues are integrated into NOTE’s business activities. NOTE has been affiliated to the Global Compact since 2011, which was created from a UN initiative. Overview raises standards NOTE conducts regular quality audits Taking an integrated approach to various of strategic suppliers. sustainability issues is highly significant to the effectiveness of overall outcomes. Environmental policy These issues cover everything from and working methods helping customers select components NOTE endeavours to secure long-term, with positive environmental and quality sustainable development by producing performance, to locating production close with the minimum possible environmental to final markets, and as far as possible, impact. NOTE endeavours to comply with, utilising shared transport to limit our or exceed, applicable legislation, and environmental impact. In tandem with pursues continuous improvement in the improving our customers’ impact on the environmental segment. environment and wider society, we endeaNOTE’s environmental work complies vour to conduct ourselves responsibly on with international ISO guidelines, under those markets where NOTE is active. the ISO 14000 family of standards. All the group’s manufacturing units hold Quality policy and ISO 14001 environmental certification, working methods and are audited by internal and external NOTE creates competitiveness for its resources. customers by delivering the right quality Despite variations in the environmental at the right time, and to a favourable legislation of individual countries, NOTE Ethics total cost. To achieve this, NOTE conhas the consistent ambition of all its NOTE has been affiliated to the Global tinuously develops and improves its units following a consistent line of Compact, started on a UN initiative, since services, and simultaneously endeavours environmental work. NOTE units exchange autumn 2011. The global compact has to satisfy customers’ relevant standards best practice, best-in-class actions and formulated 10 principles, which affiliated and expectations. Its production units all proposals for improvement. companies undertake to comply with. work towards consistent and measurable Manufacturing units sort the waste These principles apply to human rights, targets. For example, product quality and from consumables at source, and monitor labour law, the environment and anti-cordelivery precision are measured continuenergy consumption continuously. NOTE ruption. Each year, NOTE submits its COP ously for customers and suppliers. also applies environmental consideration (Communication on Progress) to the UN, NOTE utilises a range of quality assuto other parts of its business, such as in which reviews the work it has conducted rance tools and methodologies, originadiscussions with its customers regarding within the group, and with customers, ting in automotive and pharmaceutical sourcing materials and production setups. suppliers and other stakeholders. industry quality systems. Electronic scrap, glass and paper are In 2015, NOTE updated and consoliISO 9000 is a family of international recycled. NOTE conducts improvement dated its policy initiatives and conducted standards that are the foundation of projects to reduce waste, energy cona new employee satisfaction survey. In NOTE’s quality work. All the group’s prosumption and CO2 emissions. Corrugated 2016, the aim is to continue to strengthen duction units hold ISO 9001 certification. board and combustible waste is comthe policy work and encourage positive With its quality management system, NOTE pacted to minimise the amount of waste social progress in the locations where can track faults and continuously develop transport, which affects the environment. NOTE has a presence. the company’s methods and processes. In its transport segment, NOTE also coNOTE’s Code of Conduct is based on NOTE verifies that its efforts are working ordinates its freight agreements group the Global Compact, and a full version is through regular audits, where it follows up wide to optimise transportation, and available at www.note.eu. on standards and routines, which apply to thus limit energy consumption and CO2 A summary of the actions completed internal and external resources. Its manaemissions. and prepared by NOTE units related to gement system is approved and certified NOTE conducts regular environmental Global Compact principles follows on the by an external party. audits of strategic suppliers. next page. NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 15 INTRODUCTION OPERATIONS THE NOTE SHARE FORMAL ANNUAL ACCOUNTS UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS UN GLOBAL COMPACT NOTE’S APPROACH RESULTS 2015 GOALS 2016 Companies are NOTE has been using its Code of NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliance with its Influence customers to accept requested to supConduct since 2006. NOTE endeavours Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE encouraged existing customers NOTE’s Code of Conduct, or port and respect to develop business with companies that and suppliers to affiliate to, or support, the UN Global Compact by support the ten principles of the protection of have the corresponding ethical rules on communicating the significance of these issues. the UN Global Compact. PRINCIPLE 1 international human accountability. New business customers were informed of NOTE’s affiliation to Increase the share of rights in their spheres the UN Global Compact, its principles and benefits. sourcing from strategic suppliof influence; and NOTE has signed agreements with another13 suppliers, who ers and contracted suppliers accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent Code. by six percentage points. NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 16 suppliers in the context of Work to help children and the Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the Global Compact. uphold their rights. NOTE also supported UNICEF in its work with refugee children. ensure that their own NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliance with Further enhance implemenPRINCIPLE 2 company is not party since 2006. its Code of Conduct internally. tation of the human rights to breaches of In the year, NOTE worked actively to reduce the usage of conflict policy. human rights. minerals. The implementation of NOTE’s human rights policy was enhanced. LABOUR LAW UN GLOBAL COMPACT NOTE’S APPROACH RESULTS 2015 GOALS 2016 Companies are NOTE respects that its employees form and NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliance with its Influence customers to accept requested to maintain join labour organisations, and negotiation Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE encouraged existing customers NOTE’s Code of Conduct, or freedom of asis collective. Collective agreements are in and suppliers to affiliate to, or support, the UN Global Compact by support the ten principles of PRINCIPLE 3 sociation and make place at a majority of NOTE’s units. communicating the significance of these issues. the UN Global Compact. actual recognition of Some of NOTE’s subsidiaries use OHSAS New business customers were informed of NOTE’s affiliation to Increase the share of the right of collective 18001 as a guideline. OHSAS 18001 is a the UN Global Compact, its principles and benefits. NOTE signed sourcing from strategic supplibargaining; far-reaching, global and verifiable occupaagreements with another 13 suppliers, who accepted NOTE’s Code ers and contracted suppliers tional health and safety standard, which of Conduct or have their own, equivalent Code. NOTE conducted by six percentage points. includes auditing and certification by an follow-up audits on 16 suppliers on the Code of Conduct and the Implement OHSAS 18001 external party. ten principles of the Global Compact. as a guideline in more NOTE In the year, NOTE continued its work on reducing the usage of units. abolition of all forms As part of its business principles, NOTE and conflict minerals. of forced labour; its customers’ and suppliers’ employees The share of sourcing from strategic suppliers has increased by should enter employment and contracts some one percent. PRINCIPLE 4 of their own free will. The implementation of NOTE’s human rights policy, which deals Some of NOTE’s subsidiaries use OHSAS with issues including labour law, was consolidated in the year. 18001 as a guideline. OHSAS 18001 is a OHSAS 18001 was also implemented at the unit in Finland. far-reaching, global and verifiable occupational health and safety standard, which includes auditing and certification by an external party. abolition of child NOTE does not employ children and does labour; and not collaborate with companies that use children as part of their workforce. PRINCIPLE 5 Some of NOTE’s subsidiaries use OHSAS 18001 as a guideline. OHSAS 18001 is a far-reaching, global and verifiable occupational health and safety standard, which includes auditing and certification by an external party. abolition of discrimiNOTE believes in a workplace where everyone NOTE conducted a group-wide employee satisfaction survey in the Conduct a group-wide nation in employment has equal opportunities to work and progress. year. Staff satisfaction regarding the atmosphere and sentiment at employee satisfaction survey and at work. NOTE sees and benefits from all employNOTE as a workplace remained at a high level, especially in terms and use its results in business ees’ specific competence and developmental of collaborative spirit and respect between colleagues. processes to evolve as an opportunities, regardless of sex, ethnicity, NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliance with attractive employer. sexual orientation, disability, age and social its Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE encouraged existing customInfluence customers to acbackground. ers and suppliers to affiliate to, or support, the UN Global Compact cept NOTE’s Code of Conduct, NOTE’s units are encouraged to work on by communicating the significance of these issues. or support the ten principles PRINCIPLE 6 integrating equal opportunities and diversity New business customers were informed of NOTE’s affiliation to of the UN Global Compact. in all parts of their operations. the UN Global Compact, its principles and benefits. NOTE signed Increase the share of sourc­ Some of NOTE’s subsidiaries use OHSAS agreements with another 13 suppliers, who accepted NOTE’s Code ing from strategic suppliers and 18001 as a guideline. OHSAS 18001 is a of Conduct or have their own, equivalent Code. NOTE conducted contracted suppliers by six far-reaching, global and verifiable occupafollow-up audits on 16 suppliers on the Code of Conduct and the percentage points. tional health and safety standard, which ten principles of the Global Compact. Implement OHSAS 18001 includes auditing and certification by an The share of sourcing from strategic suppliers has increased by as a guideline in more NOTE external party. some one percent. units. The implementation of NOTE’s human rights policy, which deals with issues including labour law, was consolidated in the year. OHSAS 18001 was implemented at the unit in Finland. 16 NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT NOTE’S APPROACH RESULTS 2015 GOALS 2016 Companies are reNOTE’s units run improvement projects in the NOTE’s units work on the basis of individual targets and circumstances Continued progress towards PRINCIPLE 7 quested to support the environmental segment, and measure a series in the environmental segment. The consumption of energy, gas, paper still more environmentally principle of prudence of environmental factors such as electronic and water reduced, as did lead-content products. The number of friendly production and enviin terms of environscrap, energy consumption, CO2 emissions faults and reworked products in manufacture reduced, implying that ronmental transportation. mental risks; and transport. All units have environmental the waste from components, braze flux and PCBAs in production Increase the share of sourctargets, which are monitored regularly. decreased. ing from strategic suppliers More energy-efficient heating and lighting equipment was installed and contracted suppliers by take the initiative to NOTE works actively on developing policies in Torsby, Sweden and the UK. Equipment optimising the consumption six percentage points. NOTE PRINCIPLE 8 promote acceptance of and methodologies designed to minimise the of braze flux has also been installed at the UK unit. Additionally, has good insight into these far-reaching environcompany’s negative environmental impact. equipment to improve the indoor climate for casting, painting and suppliers’ environmental work, mental responsibility; Employees are encouraged to participate in surface mounting was installed in the UK, Estonia and China. These and can help them develop and this process. activities were audited by a third party. and make improvements in this The share of sourcing from strategic suppliers increased by some segment. encourage the NOTE takes a positive view of developing one percent. Follow-up audits of 16 suppliers on NOTE’s Code of development and environmental technology and actively Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact were dissemination of ensupports new manufacturing methods and conducted. vironmentally friendly components that are more environmentally technology. friendly. NOTE conducts environmental audits PRINCIPLE 9 when introducing new equipment, technology and logistics solutions. Experience is shared between group units. An environmental perspective is considered jointly with customers when tailoring product manufacture. NOTE has implemented a database for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict minerals in components. ANTI-CORRUPTION UN GLOBAL COMPACT NOTE’S APPROACH RESULTS 2015 GOALS 2016 Companies should NOTE encourages employees to resolutely NOTE conducted follow-ups and audits of its anti-corruption policy in Consolidated implementation counteract all forms of counteract all forms of corruption, blackmail the year, and verified that its authorisation procedures are functional. of NOTE’s anti-corruption policy. corruption, including and extortion. Simultaneously, NOTE expects NOTE signed agreements with another 13 suppliers, who accepted Enhance internal control PRINCIPLE 10 blackmail and extortion. the corresponding attitudes from its customNOTE’s Code of Conduct. NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 16 processes. ers and suppliers. suppliers on the Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the Global Continuously follow up on NOTEs purchasing policy ensures that Compact. NOTE’s Code of Conduct and its purchasing is handled ethically and prohibits ten principles during supplier bribery and corruption. audits. NOTE has group-wide and local authorisation procedures expedient for its business. The interest in the Global Compact’s principles and what they represent increases in the business world. We think that’s positive. Henrik Nygren, acting CEO and President NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 17
