Communication On Progress 2015 KINROSS 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS T O O U R S TAK E H O L D E R S Kinross has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact for six years. In keeping with that commitment, I am pleased to provide our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report as our 2015 Communication on Progress (COP). Our 2015 CR Report provides a detailed and well-being and sustaining responsibly and respectably, we will account of our Company-wide efforts to strong communities – which are well continue to generate sustainable value uphold and advance the ten principles documented throughout this report. for our shareholders, our employees and of the UN Global Compact. the communities where we operate. We remain committed to supporting the I encourage you to learn more about principles of the UN Global Compact, Kinross and our efforts to advance the and will continue to focus on maintaining broader goals of the United Nations – and exceeding the high standards we generating wealth in host communities, have set in key areas of health and J. Paul Rollinson reducing poverty, improving health safety, environment, governance and President and Chief Executive Officer community. By managing our operations Kinross Gold Corporation CO M M U N IC AT I O N O N P R O GR E S S – 2 0 1 5 COR POR ATE R ESPON SI B I LI TY R EPORT HI GHLIG HTS SUPPORT FOR THE BROADER OUR STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE HUMAN RIGHTS MANAGEMENT GOALS OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT • In keeping with our commitment • Created economic wealth in our • Advanced the integration of corporate to support the Voluntary Principles host countries through job creation, responsibility and business strategy on Security and Human Rights, we procurement and tax payments to through corporate reorganization. delivered annual training to 98% of help reduce poverty, and sustain Kinross’ “First Priorities” of safety and Kinross’ global security workforce in strong communities. sustainability are now embedded into 2015, as part of Kinross’ Human Rights Generating Economic Value (p. 38-44) Kinross’ operations group. Corporate Adherence and Verification Program • Promoted ongoing dialogue and Responsibility Strategy (p. 15) (HRA&VP). We also expanded our engagement with stakeholders. • Strengthened our Site Responsibility HRA & VP to include Human Rights Engaging Our Stakeholders (p. 63) Plan framework to include a formal Risk Assessments to be carried out as requirement for a Community Plan part of our annual site security audits. • With our host communities, contributed for Closure, further entrenching Human Rights and Security (p. 27) to strategic initiatives to support longterm community development. our commitment to responsible • Recorded zero substantiated human Empowering Communities (p. 60-101) mining over the life of mine. rights allegations and zero human Our Strategy for Empowering rights grievances filed through Communities (p. 61) formal grievance mechanisms. For more information, see Our Approach Human Rights (p. 25) to Responsible Mining (p. 13-29) For additional information, see Human Rights (p. 25-27) and Working with Indigenous Peoples (p. 72-77) 01 KINROSS 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABOUR MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION • Achieved best safety performance in • Strengthened our Tailings • Delivered anti-corruption training in Kinross history consisting of a 14% Management program and standard all three Kinross regions and provided reduction in Total Reportable Injury enhancing independent review and special training sessions to our Supply Frequency Rate and zero fatalities introducing new best practices to Chain, Projects and Global Security for the third consecutive year. the systematic evaluation and Groups. Ethical Conduct (p. 23-24) Health and Safety (p. 30-37) monitoring of our tailings facilities. • Had zero substantiated cases • Developed the Kinross Mine Closure Tailings Management (p.115-116) of corruption during the year. Planning Best Practices Guide for • Achieved Cyanide Code recertification Ethical Conduct (p. 24) Human Resources to help manage at Paracatu, Kettle River, Fort Knox • Provided a transparent account the impacts of mine closure, and in and Maricunga. Completed a Cyanide of political donations. all cases, adhere to Kinross’ values to Code certification review at Tasiast and Political Donations (p. 24) ensure that our employees are treated certified in substantial compliance. • Continued to require all suppliers fairly, with dignity and respect. Managing Cyanide (p. 118) to sign on to and adhere to Kinross Mine Closure Best Practices for • Continued to advance our CompanySupplier Standards of Conduct, comply Human Resource (p. 58) wide water strategy and achieved with the Kinross Code of Business • Approved the Kinross Way for improvements in water management Conduct and Ethics, applicable antiDiversity and Inclusion articulating our and reduced water intensity rates. corruption laws, as well as fundamental guiding principles for diversity and Our Water Strategy (p. 106-108) principles of the UNGC. inclusion and expectations across the • Implemented a wide variety of Managing Our Supply Chain (p. 28) Company. Workplace Diversity and energy efficiency initiatives across For additional information, see Local Hiring (p. 52-54) our operations. Energy and Climate Ethical Conduct (p. 23-24) For additional information, see Change (p. 110-114) Engaging Our Workforce, (p. 45-59) For additional information, see Managing Our Environmental Footprint (p. 102-123) 02
