Global Compact Communication on Progress About Vasakronan Vasakronan is the leading property company in Our mandate from the company’s owners is to Sweden. Our strategy is to focus on Sweden’s major generate a high, risk-balanced, long-term return from growth regions: Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg, property investments in Sweden. At the same time, Malmö and Lund. we must run our business both ethically and with consideration for the environment. This is why our We own and manage approximately 180 office and sustainability efforts are strategically critical to meeting retail properties with a total area of around 2,500,000 the targeted return. sqm (as of March 31, 2015). The portfolio is valued at SEK 106 billion (as of March 31, 2015). Sustainability work consists of financial and The organization has operations in four regions of environmental efforts, along with responsibility for Sweden – Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg and humans that are affected by us. All of these efforts Öresund. The number of employees is 352. are based on the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact, internal policies/guidelines and The organization has operations in four regions of Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct. The work is goalSweden – Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg and oriented and long-term. It also requires commitment Öresund. The number of employees is approximately from all employees in the organization. 350. Vasakronan is jointly owned by the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. Vasakronan is a carbon neutral company and is ISO 14001 certified. We were also Sweden’s first property In order to achieve our vision of future-proof cities, company to offer green leases and green offices. In where all individuals can thrive and companies are November 2013 Vasakronan was proud to be the first developing, we must contribute to a sustainable company in the world to issue a green bond. development of society – financially, environmentally and socially. Together with our employees, tenants We discourage all forms of corruption and all of and other stakeholders, we strive to ensure that our Vasakronan’s employees and suppliers are expected cities will be good societies over time. to comply with existing laws. There is a Compliance Officer to ensure that there is correct behavior throughout the company and its business. Along with that we have also established an external Whistle blower Mechanism which is accessible from our company web site. CEO-statement Reporting documents “ We support the Global Compact because we want run and operate our business in a sustainable way Annual report 2015 (only available in Swedish) GRI-supplement and accordingly, all discussions and decisions must consider sustainability aspects. We also support the UN Vasakronan has chosen not to seek external assurance Global Compact initiative because we are committed to for the GRI-report. The main reason for this is that environmental activities are audited within the taking responsibility in the areas of human rights, labor framework of ISO 14001 certification. standards, the environment and anti-corruption. With those principals as our starting point, we continually develop our way of working to ensure that we run a responsible business. I am personally very interested in sustainability issues and it is very evident to me that employees working in all parts of Vasakronan’s organization feel the same way. ” May 2016 Fredrik Wirdenius, CEO of Vasakronan
