communication on progress 2016 Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S Kalvebod Brygge 30 1560 Copenhagen V T 0045 4171 8200 W gottliebpaludan.com CVR number 1835 5949 Illustrations Gottlieb Paludan Architects: front page image, 8, 10, 16 18, 20, 24 Gottlieb Paludan Architects & Schmidt Hammer Lassen Architects: 6 Gottlieb Paludan Architects & Office Winhov: 12 Fortum AB / Hans Ekestang: 14, 15 Jens Markus Lindhe: 2, 26 Lars Rolfsted Mortensen: 22 UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2016 ˄ Nørreport Station, Copenhagen Nørreport Station is Denmark’s busiest transport hub. After the transformation, it is characterized as an urban space with firm focus on the needs of cyclists and pedestrians. Front page The Foot and Cycle Bridge, Byens Bro, provides a spectacular connection between the urban areas north and south of Odense train station. The design was solved by focusing on the core functions and the natural traffic patterns around the station. Statement of continued support Good and well-organized infrastructure is crucial to create sustainable and functional cities and landscapes. Communities rely on a wide variety of infrastructure services to support their populations: roads, public transport, water and sewerage, telecommunications, power and gas. With our new business strategy for 2015–2018, we aim to become a stronger and more focused company by prioritizing our main business areas within the infrastructure markets and utilize our professional competences by developing architecture of the highest technical and aesthetic quality. Our goal is to strengthen our profile as an architectural company with many years of experience within the fields of Transport & Mobility and Energy & Utilities and to contribute to developing a more sustainable and functional world. Gottlieb Paludan Architects continues to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Through our work with clients and partners, we always seek to find solutions that are environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. Copenhagen, July 2016 Kristian Hagemann CEO, Architect MAA Gottlieb Paludan Architects Table of content 1. Introduction 2. How we advance sustainability 3. Projects 4. Professional and organizational development 5. The four global compact focus areas 6. Measuring outcomes 7. Focus in 2016/2017 ˄ Shenzhen Waste-to-energy plant, China Located on the mountainous outskirts of Shenzhen the new Shenzhen East Waste-to-Energy Plant will incinerate 5,000 tonnes of waste per day equalling one third of the waste generated by Shenzhen’s 20 million inhabitants. 7 Introduction In 2015, we developed a new business at the end of the year to further strengthen the strategy ‘from the core and out’ focusing company’s profile and focus: Chief Operating on strengthening our professionalism, our Officer Pernille Stahlschmidt Tørning, Head of business areas, securing more extensive Department for Mobility & Transport Mette and closer collaboration with our business Neimann, Head of Design Thomas Bondepartners and customers, and simplifying Hansen, Head of Department for Energy & our administrative procedures and areas of Utilities John Strandfelt and Head of Design responsibility. All this combined is expected Tine Kjærulff Bay. The five new partners to result in a better profit performance and complement the skill sets of the three existing thereby a more sustainable company with partners: Head of Client Consultancy Frederik a greater impact in the field of sustainable Ejlers, Creative Director Jesper Gottlieb and infrastructure. Chief Executive Officer Kristian Hagemann. Over the last year, Gottlieb Paludan Architects The aim of the big partner group is to drive has won a number of significant infrastructural forward the new business strategies and to projects, such as: represent and market the company. The partner group reflects the diversity of the company and • The world’s largest ‘waste-to-energy-plant’ represents different fields, backgrounds and in Shenzhen, China genders. • Europe’s longest Bus Rapid Transit system in Stavanger, Norway In our day-to-day work, we especially tap into • A new biomass-fired CHP plant in Elsinore, some of the UN’s Sustainable Development Denmark Goals. For example goal #3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages, During 2015, we also signed the papers for goal #9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote a new lease. The new domicile is situated in inclusive and sustainable industrialization and Nordhavn – Copenhagen’s new sustainable foster innovation and goal #11 Make cities and urban neighbourhood. With this lease, we get a human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and much better indoor climate and better facilities sustainable. for the employees. All the above initiatives inspire our ambitions As a natural and necessary consequence of the to become a more sustainable company and positive development in the company, Gottlieb contribute to the goals and principles behind Paludan Architects appointed five new partners the UN Global Compact. ˄ Safe School Roads, Copenhagen The project focuses on improving the surfacing, surroundings and lighting on school roads in the western part of Copenhagen. The aim is to create a strong cohesive, green bicycle lane that includes wide traffic islands, parking pockets and offers comfortable and safe school roads. 9 How we advance sustainability Central to our sustainability strategy is an Environmental sustainability understanding of how we can contribute • We contribute to promoting and to advancing sustainability in our own strengthening public transport and cycling, projects as well as in collaborations and in thereby reducing transport-related CO₂ our daily lives at the office. We contribute emissions. to all three aspects of sustainability (social, • We contribute to lowering the environmental and economic), but our most environmental impact of construction by significant activities lie within the former two. proposing building materials that require fewer resources in production, recycling In the following, we will describe how we and disposal, and which last longer. In this believe that we can contribute to advancing way, the construction will leave a smaller sustainability through our work with urban carbon footprint throughout its service life. planning and architecture. • The least harmful construction is often the recycled construction, and we specialize in renovating and refurbishing. With a combination of architectural design, understanding of materials and respect for the construction and its history, we lift renovation and adaptive reuse to a level where it can compete with new constructions. The focus is not only on improving energy performances, but also on rethinking the purposes of the constructions to fit current and future use. A case in point is Vestre Elektricitetsværk in Tietgensgade in Central Copenhagen. It was a power plant which has now been converted into a district cooling plant, as part of a drive to supply Copenhagen with energy-efficient seawater cooling. • We integrate climate adaptation and rainwater management in all relevant projects. ˄ Lithuania Square, Copenhagen The new playground at Lithuania Square was successfully tested by children from the local Oehlenschlægersgade School. The redesigned square will be reopened at the end of the summer 2016 as a local meeting place with flexible opportunities for recreation, ball games and other activities. 11 Social sustainability economic sustainability • We contribute to improving the travel • Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ choices in experience on public train transport projects always aim for a socio-economic through better design of stations and we impact. Whether this means designing contribute to increasing the accessibility to urban spaces that encourage physical transport for all citizens. movement, developing public transport • We contribute to increasing the livability which decreases the use of cars, in turn of cities, towns and spaces through urban decreasing carbon emissions, or making it development and infrastructure projects. easier to commute by bicycle. The influence of these solutions leads to a healthier • We contribute to strengthening living population, lower health care costs as well conditions in peripheral regions through as lower CO₂ emissions. the development of provincial towns. • We focus on the overall financial viability of • We contribute to creating social cohesion constructions as we pay special attention to through infrastructure projects which link their entire lifespans and the use and reuse city and countryside, suburb and town of materials. centre, giving more people the opportunity to be employed, get an education and • We focus on designing with high quality participate in society. materials and assembly details resulting in low maintenance requirements. • We focus on creating safe environments – urban areas with good lighting and infrastructure that appeal to vulnerable road users. • We support public transport and energy supply. This has an impact on all three sustainable parameters. 13 Projects Last year, we worked on numerous projects waste-to-energy plant will incinerate 5,000 and quite a few stand out in respect of their tonnes of waste per day corresponding to one potential to advance sustainability. third of the waste generated by Shenzhen’s Many projects deal with more than one of 20 million inhabitants. The plant will utilize the three sustainability dimensions. Below the most advanced technology in waste we have listed some of the most important incineration and power generation and, at the projects that have taken shape since last same time act as a source of education for the year’s COP. citizens of Shenzhen. The plant is intended to showcase the waste-to-energy production as Carlsberg Station: Gottlieb Paludan Architects an important technical process that deals with has extensive experience designing hubs for the issues of growing amounts of waste as well sustainable public transport. Carlsberg Station as the issue of finding more environmentally in Copenhagen, Denmark is set to replace friendly ways of generating power. Visitors Enghave Station as the main station servicing learn about the challenge of the growing the new mixed-use quarter of ‘Carlsberg City’. amounts of waste and how every one of us can The station design also holds social dimensions contribute to reducing waste. as a legible public space affording positive experiences to every user. Focus is on lightness, Biomass-fired CHP plant, Elsinore: Gottlieb accessibility and legibility. Paludan Architects is responsible for the architectural design of a new biomass-fired Waste-to-energy plant, Shenzhen: As mentioned CHP plant in Elsinore. The new plant will be an earlier, we won the task of designing the addition to the existing Elsinore CHP and, with world’s largest waste-to-energy plant, planned a prominent location near the main approach for construction in Shenzhen, China. The new to the city, it is tipped to become a beacon for Elsinore’s green and sustainable ambitions. Lithuania Square: Lithuania Square in Copenhagen will gain a social sustainable < character when it becomes a social gathering Amstel Station, Amsterdam point for the diverse crowd in Vesterbro. The transformation of Amstel Station The new square will provide more flexible comprises an existing, preservation-worthy opportunities for recreation, ball games and station building from 1939 in the east and a new station building in the west which will be other activities for local residents and pupils connected as a cohesive whole and integrates at the local Oehlenschlægersgades School. The with the surrounding urban space. square will open during the summer 2016. ˄˃ Värtaverket Power Plant, Stockholm Värtaverket is surrounded by industrial, office and recreational areas. The major extension must show consideration for its neighbours and respect the presence of a number of protected royal oak trees and the function of the area as a fauna path between the northern and southern parts of Djurgården, a natural area that blends into Stockholm proper. 15 ˄ Bussveien, Stavanger The Bus Rapid Transit System (BRT System) brings stops, adjacent urban spaces and technical installations together into one integrated design solution. Bussveien will be Europe’s longest BRT system with 50 kilometres of dedicated bus lanes and will have a massive impact on travel patterns in the region. 17 Värtaverket: We designed Sweden’s largest Bussveien: Gottlieb Paludan Architects has won biomass-fuelled CHP plant which is an the design competition for Europe’s longest Bus extension of the existing Värtaverket. The CHP Rapid Transit system. The winning proposal plant is sustainable on different levels; it has a is an overall concept for the entire ambitious noise-absorbing façade which is structurally, public infrastructure project, Bussveien (The functionally and financially optimized. The Bus Route), in and around Stavanger in Norway. façade is flexible in the sense that parts from Bussveien, which is slated for completion the interior can easily be changed as well as around 2021, will be about 50 kilometres long parts of the façade itself. As it is situated in in total, have nearly 90 stops and is expected to an area where it is particularly important have a massive impact on the travel patterns in to consider the neighbours and respect the the region. The infrastructure project Bussveien presence of a number of protected royal oak is a so-called Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system, trees and the function of the area as a fauna where trolleybuses run in a dedicated lane. The path, the design blends naturally into the area. BRT system combines the high capacity and speed of the tram with the flexibility and lower Copenhagen Light Rail: Gottlieb Paludan capital expenditure of the bus. Architects is lead consultant on the architecture and landscape assignment for the new 27 km Amstel Station: In June Gottlieb Paludan light rail line through the Copenhagen suburbs. Architects won the competition for the overhaul Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ responsibility and expansion of Amstel Station in the Dutch extends from project management through to capital. The project includes renovation of an architectural detail design. It is estimated that existing, preservation-worthy station building the final light-rail line will be used by 13–14 as well as the construction of a new station million commuters annually, and this figure building and 3,800 new bicycle parking spaces. is expected to grow further to 17–18 million In addition, the project will ensure new and yearly users after the completion of the city’s enhanced connections with the area’s light rail current development areas. and bus lines, roads and bicycle paths as well as new, extensive bicycle parking facilities, both above and below ground. The design of the new station construction in the west will integrate with its surroundings by opening up towards the Amstel River and the new urban development area. 19 Professional and organizational development Professional development We are constantly improving our educational level in the office. We do this by offering further training in relevant disciplines, for example the Green Building Council’s LCA tool for life cycle analysis, DGNB certification, project management and process management courses and seminars. The further training of our employees taps into our strategy of strengthening our identity as a knowledgeable company with a portfolio of quality projects within sustainable energy and public transport. Organizational development In line with the new strategy, Gottlieb Paludan Architects appointed on 1 January 2016 five new partners to further strengthen the company’s profile and focus. There are now eight partners to represent the company and drive forward our strategies. Recently, we have also appointed three new team leaders to support the project leaders. < The team leaders undertake the quality assurance The Company/ process and secure transversal coordination Gottlieb Paludan Architects The extended partner group of eight partners of competences and staff. The result is a better represents the company and drives forward working environment and a more direct line to our strategies. the nearest day-to-day manager. ˄ Copenhagen Light Rail The Copenhagen Light Rail will run from Ishøj in the South, to Lundtofte in the North, creating closer connections between Copenhagen’s surrounding municipalities and the existing S-train lines. 21 Human Rights Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the “Funktionærloven” that supports the principles regarding human rights and labour. We take care to uphold the general principles of basic human rights for everybody through all our work. Labour Gottlieb Paludan Architects A/S conducts its business in accordance with Danish Law, including the “Funktionærloven” that supports the principles regarding both human rights and labour, including the prevention of child labour, forced labour and employment discrimination. All employees have the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Anthropogenic climate changes and their impacts on our world require the inclusion of new methods and new ways of thinking in the field of architecture. Our work is driven by our belief in the sound business sense of increased focus on ethics, sustainability and holistic thinking, and our goal is to continue to promote greater environmental responsibility through our work. Anti-corruption Gottlieb Paludan Architects’ main activities lie in Denmark and Scandinavia which The four global are traditionally topping Transparency International’s list of least corrupt countries. We compact focus areas never encounter corruption in our daily work and will continue to oppose any signs of it. ˄˃ Transformation of Postwar Industrial Landscapes PhD fellow Lars R. Mortensen has completed his PhD titled “Transformation of Postwar Industrial Landscapes” and is now reinstalled in the project organization and making use of his knowledge through different projects especially within the field of transformation. 23 Investments in research and knowledge Our PhD fellow Lars R. Mortensen has completed his PhD titled “Transformation of Postwar Industrial Landscapes”. He is now reinstalled in the project organization and maiking use of his knowledge working on different projects especially within the field of transformation. The direct outcome of the research project Measuring outcomes is a series of valuation tools that will now be presented to clients and included in various planning processes. We expect the work to During the past 12 months, Gottlieb reveal unseen and undocumented potentials Paludan Architects has made progress in the in postwar industrial buildings in Denmark following areas. and support a sustainable development of new urban areas. One location We have gathered all of the company’s activities Our second PhD fellow Anna Aslaug Lund at our Copenhagen location and closed down is underway with her PhD thesis “Room for our office in Aarhus. The direct result of Rain” evaluating solutions within rainwater having only one location is savings on facilities handling and SUDS with particular focus on management costs including less use of energy the architectural quality of these technical and a lower carbon footprint. solutions. During the spring, she studied for Even though we are now 97 full-time three months at Columbia University, New York. equivalents, we have saved energy by closing In May 2016, she spoke about her research and down our Aarhus office. The closure has findings at NACTO (National Association of City reduced our use of heating and electricity and Transportation Officials). NACTO is committed thereby our CO₂ consumption by 7.3 tonnes to raising the state of the practice for street per year. Having two locations also resulted in design and transportation. commuting between Aarhus and Copenhagen at least once a month. We have reduced our The PhDs support our efforts to increase our CO₂ consumption by at least 528 kg per year business focus on renovation and adaptive reuse by not commuting between the two offices. as well as the climate change adaptation market. Even though we have ongoing projects in western Denmark, we are commuting less As part of their role as PhD fellows at between the two regions. Workflow and Gottlieb Paludan Architects, they both share project management have improved by uniting their knowledge through articles and talks resources in Copenhagen. at seminars, events etc. Additionally their ˄ Carlsberg Station, Copenhagen Carlsberg Station plays an important part in the development of the entire Carlsberg City and the station will ensure a good and sustainable infrastructure in the new district. The new station which replaces the smaller Enghave Station is expected to get 24,000 daily users and will be a transport hub for outer Vesterbro and the new Carlsberg City. 25 knowledge is being used in different projects be of the same standard as a new building. and competitions and they are in-house experts Therefore, the renovated building will be more within their fields. energy efficient and will contribute to lowering our energy consumption. The entire building The focus on knowledge in our strategy has will be re-insulated, enhancing the acoustics also resulted in the launch of two new internal enormously; lighting conditions and indoor networks. One network focuses on bicycle climate will be improve to meet the demands of transport and the other on building materials, the Danish Working Environment Authority. especially sustainable materials. The role of the networks is to secure knowledge-sharing, During the month of May, half of all employees innovation and new inspiration for our participated in the national campaign ‘Vi employees. The aim is to support and expand cykler til arbejde’ (‘We Bike to Work’). This the knowledge inside the company and launch resulted in a saving of 1415 kg CO₂. It is our more networks in the future. ambition to encourage all employees to bike to and from the office and to and from all Our own environmental impact business engagements; if this is not possible, Based on numbers from our utility supplier, we aim to use public transport and only if our carbon footprint (i.e. heating and electricity absolutely necessary the company’s lowconsumption) for our office in Copenhagen emission petrol cars. was 93.4 tonnes of CO₂ for the calendar year of 2015. During the same period, the total Social and environmental impact number of employees amounted to 97 full-time As an architectural company, we are very equivalents. Thus, the average CO₂ emission per reliant on well-functioning IT equipment that employee was less than 1 tonne in 2015. can run the newest drawing software. For economic and environmental reasons, we strive Today, our office space is not ideal in regards to to keep our equipment as long as possible, saving resources. In November 2016, Gottlieb but we are regularly forced to replace it and in Paludan Architects will be moving the office December this year, we gave away a lot of our to new premises. The new headquarter will cast-off IT equipment to a small organization be situated in an existing warehouse which helping schools in Iraq and Nigeria. This will be subject to a total renovation. The way we support the social and economic renovation of the new facilities is required to development in developing countries, and fulfil the Danish building regulations (BR15), instead of becoming dangerous waste, our old which means that the renovated building will IT equipment becomes an eco-friendly re-use. ˄ Nørreport Station, Copenhagen The ‘bicycle beds’ at Nørreport Station secure unobstructed views across the area, and the light ‘dots’ from each bollard provide elegant and well-organized bicycle parking which stands in contrast to the old chaotic facilities. 27 Focus in 2016/2017 During this year, we will focus on the following ambitions: • Keep on reducing our use of materials (paper copies, model materials, etc.). A concrete initiative has been put in place in that the default setting on all computers is a two-sided B/W print as standard. • As our Ph.D. fellow Lars R. Mortensen has completed his Ph.D. we are looking for a new themes and collaborators to invest in a new Ph.D. fellow. • We are working on serving a more sustainable lunch at the new domicile. This could include more organic foods, meatfree days or fish days. • Our focus on constantly improving our work environment will continue in 2016. • Our focus on engaging our customers to recycle and use local and sustainable materials will also continue. • We will investigate the possibilities to change our petrol cars into some more sustainable electric cars. • We want to share our knowledge with young students. This will be done through the development of an ambitious internship – the plan is that the interns are trained in good architecture and basic construction.
