Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report Contents Click on page links Sustainability Responsible Connecting at Telstra business 25 communities 52 Our approach 02 Highlights and performance 26 Highlights and performance 53  essage from the Chairman M Ethics, values Digital inclusion 54 and CEO 02 and governance 27 E  nsuring our products FY16 highlights 03 Living our values 27 are affordable for vulnerable Our sustainability strategy 04 Working ethically 27 customers 55 FY16 performance 06 Governance at Telstra 28 Towards universal accessibility 56 Our reporting 07 Human rights 31 Our commitment to reconciliation 58 About our report 07 Supply chain sustainability 32 Improving digital literacy and online safety 60 Managing our most material topics 08 Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) 35 Digital innovation 61 Engaging with our stakeholders 09 Connecting communities 63 Our business 11 About Telstra 11 Our  upporting disaster relief and S C  ontributing to the Sustainable people 37 recovery Volunteering and giving 63 64 Development Goals 11 Highlights and performance 38 S  upporting communities M  anaging key impacts across Strengthening in the Philippines 64 our value chain 12 our workforce 39 Delivering social benefits 65 E  nhancing our culture and Customer engagement 39 experience 13 E  mbedding diversity and inclusion 44 Environmental Highlights and performance 14 E  nsuring the health and stewardship 66 Customer experience 15 safety of our people 48 Highlights and performance 67 Enhancing customer advocacy 15  mployment and E Environment strategy 68  onsolidating our network C workplace relations 51 Environmental customer leadership 18 value proposition 69 M  anaging and minimising Climate change and energy 71 TIO complaints 19 Our approach to climate change 71 Privacy and data protection 20 Energy use and efficiency 72 Digital innovation 22 Renewable energy 74  esource use, waste R and e-waste 75 Electronics stewardship 75  aste management, water use W and responsible paper use 77 Environmental risks and compliance 78 Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 01 Sustainability at Telstra Message from the Chairman and CEO In 2016 we saw ongoing advances With connectivity at the core of our More broadly, FY16 was a in technology and constant purpose we know our customers rely on landmark year in global innovation continue to reshape the our networks and services to help run telecommunications and technology their lives and businesses, and connect sustainable development. markets and transform customer to the people and things that matter to All member states of the United Nations experiences. As the world continued them. Stakeholders will be aware that this year endorsed the Sustainable to digitise, more and more people took we experienced a series of network Development Goals. As a major Australian advantage of the exciting and empowering service interruptions in the second half company with increasingly global possibilities of new technologies and being of the financial year. Notwithstanding operations, we welcome the introduction connected. our long track record of leading network of these goals and are optimistic about performance, these interruptions were the role technology can play in delivering Our Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability disappointing given the impact they this ambitious agenda. In line with our Report is designed to provide a deep had on our customers, something commitment to sustainable development, understanding of how Telstra is responding for which we sincerely apologise. We we remain committed to upholding the to important social, economic and continue to address these issues and are principles of the United Nations Global environmental issues within this climate, implementing the recommendations from Compact. as well as how we’re working to achieve our purpose to create a brilliant connected our core network and IT system review, Representatives at the United Nations future for everyone. addressing sources of potential risk and Climate Change Conference also building the durability and capability of our committed to maintain global average If we are to truly deliver on network. temperature rises to well below 2°C our purpose, we must ensure Telstra is fiercely proud of its networks and this year. We believe that business has that everyone can enjoy the we will continue to invest in providing the an important role to play in addressing benefits of being connected. network of the future and the best possible climate change and continue to minimise experience for our customers. For more our environmental impacts and work But while more and more people are information on this work, please see page with our customers to achieve better getting online, it is clear that some are 18. environmental outcomes. Thanks to a being left behind. To address this we range of factors, including our energy continue to invest in promoting digital Improving customer advocacy efficiency programs, this year our total inclusion and work with government and remains our most important greenhouse gas emissions decreased non-profit partners to build digital skills priority and our people are key by two per cent despite data load on and capabilities in the community. This year we helped more than one million to achieving this. our networks increasing by 62 per cent. This meant we achieved our three year vulnerable customers to stay connected This year we continued to build a greenhouse gas emissions intensity target through our Everyone Connected programs customer-centric culture and to equip a year earlier than planned. and reached more than 59,000 people with our people with tools and training to digital literacy training programs. improve customer service. To achieve this We hope you enjoy our Bigger Picture 2016 we invested $45 million in learning and Sustainability Report and welcome your Through the Telstra Foundation we development programs and continued to comments, feedback and ideas. invested in partnerships with non-profits like Code Club Australia and ReachOut build a diverse and inclusive workforce Australia who are changing the lives of to respond to the diverse needs of our young people using technology. We also customers and communities. launched the Telstra Imaginarium for NonWhile our overall health and safety Profits, a digital boot-camp designed to indicators improved this year, tragically a help reimagine how technology can change contractor died when he fell from a mobile the way they deliver products, services and tower in the Northern Territory. We offer our programs. sincere condolences to his family, friends Our third Reconciliation Action Plan was and colleagues. This incident is a stark launched with the priorities of facilitating reminder of the risks sometimes faced by Indigenous connection and capability, our people and our responsibility to ensure employment and employee engagement. they return home safely every day. At its heart is a $30 million, three year infrastructure co-investment agreement Andrew Penn Chief executive officer with the Northern Territory Government to connect more remote communities. John P Mullen Chairman Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 02 Sustainability at Telstra FY16 highlights $27.1b $5.8b $1.3b total net profit invested in our income after tax mobile network 31 $1.5b cent dividend per to be returned share for FY16 to shareholders via buy backs Reduced our greenhouse Recycled emissions intensity by 5,543 tonnes of e-waste 56% from our baseline year Provided Launched our third Reconciliation Action Plan $175m through our social and community investment programs Reached more than Lost Time Injury 59,000 through our digital literacy programs ≥ Frequency Rate of 0.66 33% Named as an Undertook Employer of Choice for Gender Equality by the WGEA 8,186 volunteering days in the community Achieved a Sustainable Engagement 58% 71% score of of customer interactions conducted online, up six percentage points 4G service now reaching 98% of Australian population Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 03 Sustainability at Telstra Our sustainability strategy Our approach At Telstra, our purpose is to create a brilliant connected future for everyone. The success of our business relies on it and our sustainability agenda is key to achieving it. As a large telecommunications and technology company, we are committed to finding innovative, tech-based solutions to our biggest social and environmental challenges. We work with our customers and suppliers, engage our employees and develop partnerships with government and non-profit organisations to deliver programs that create targeted value in our Nick, Team Manager Business Operations communities, particularly for those most vulnerable and for the environment. Governance of Telstra’s sustainability Everyone Connected Environmental leadership strategy and performance is provided by the CEO and Telstra’s Executive Committee. We believe that the more connected We continue to build a more Regular reports on our progress and key people are, the more opportunities they strategic approach to managing the developments are provided to the CEO and have. We want everyone – regardless of environmental risks and opportunities Telstra Board. Telstra’s Chief Sustainability age, income, ability or location to enjoy across our value chain. We are Officer provides strategic leadership and is the benefits that new communications using technology to minimise our responsible for the implementation of our technologies can bring. Our Everyone environmental impacts, and are helping sustainability approach and programs. Connected programs focus on making our customers and suppliers to do our products and services more the same. Our sustainability priorities accessible, enhancing digital literacy Our strategic ambition is to embed social and cyber safety, as well as supporting Employee involvement and environmental considerations into the technological innovation for social good. We aim to make Telstra a great place heart of the business in ways that create to work, enhance our reputation and value for our company and stakeholders. strengthen the communities in which As a large company in an increasingly we operate by providing opportunities dynamic industry, we are well positioned to for our people to get involved with make a difference. their local communities and the issues Our three strategic sustainability priorities that matter. reflect the areas in which we can have the most cultural, reputational, commercial and social impact: Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 04 Telstra’s purpose is to create a brilliant connected future for everyone. We are a proudly Australian telecommunications and technology company with a growing To achieve our purpose and ensure everyone enjoys international business. We operate in an industry the benefits of being connected, we must embed that’s transforming the way people live and connect. social and environmental considerations into the heart of our business in ways that create value. Our sustainability strategy is key to this. EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL LEADERSHIP We continue to build a more strategic We believe that with more than 33,000 of approach to managing the environmental risks us, Telstra employees can make a big and opportunities across our value chain. We difference by getting involved in the are using technology to minimise our community and the issues that matter. environmental impacts and are helping our customers and suppliers to do the same. EVERYONE CONNECTED We believe that everyone regardless of age, income, ability or location should enjoy the benefits of being connected to modern communications technology. We want everyone to have the confidence and skills to participate safely in the digital world. ICT HAS THE POTENTIAL TO ENABLE A 20% REDUCTION OF GLOBAL CO2E EMISSIONS BY 2030, HOLDING EMISSIONS AT 2015 LEVELS 600,000 NON-PROFITS IN AUSTRALIA RELY ON VOLUNTEER SUPPORT AND DONATIONS ELECTRICITY COSTS HAVE 52% MORE THAN DOUBLED IN THE PAST 10 YEARS OF TEENS REGRET POSTS THEY’VE MADE ONLINE ICT IS RESPONSIBLE 42 MILLION TONNES OF FOR 2% OF E-WASTE ARE GENERATED ANNUAL GLOBAL TELSTRA EMPLOYEES GLOBALLY EACH YEAR GHG EMISSIONS WHO VOLUNTEER TAKE BY 2030 20% FEWER SICK DAYS OF AUSTRALIANS PER YEAR AND ARE WILL BE OVER 65 MORE ENGAGED 3 MILLION AUSTRALIANS EXPERIENCE DIGITAL EXCLUSION ONLY 51% OF SENIOR AUSTRALIANS ARE INTERNET USERS ? IN FY16 • Our employees completed 8,186 days of • Our Everyone Connected programs delivered • Our greenhouse gas emissions intensity community volunteering $175 million worth of benefits to our customers decreased by 38% and communities • We increased the amount of e-waste we • We donated more than $1.5 million to over 350 charities via matched payroll giving • We reached more than 59,000 people through recycled by 40%, diverting 5,543 tonnes from landfill our digital literacy programs • We got involved in the issues that matter, • We diverted 16.0 tonnes of mobile phones and such as human rights, the environment and • Our Telstra Safe Connections program will accessories from landfill, exceeding our target anti-corruption, in line with our UN Global provide up to 20,000 smart phones over three of 14 tonnes Compact commitments years to help women impacted by family • We avoided 33,000 tonnes of carbon emissions violence to stay safely connected through energy efficiency initiatives Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 05 Sustainability at Telstra FY16 Performance Performance overview We achieved or made significant progress against 87 per cent of our stated targets in FY16. Progress 83% 4% 13% against our sustainability scorecard can be found in the table below, and information on our full range of FY16 targets can be found on the Performance and highlights pages located throughout this report. Achieved In progress Not achieved Our FY16 scorecard FY16 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FY16 TARGET PERFORMANCE FY15 FY14 FOR MORE INFORMATION SUSTAINABLE ENGAGEMENT: 71 N/A4 N/A5 SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYEE N/A2 ENGAGEMENT1 OUR PEOPLE Page 39 Score (%) STANDARD ENGAGEMENT: N/A 3 N/A 4 82 843 VOLUNTEERING OUR PEOPLE DURING TELSTRA TIME 10,000 8,186 7,225 5,122 Page 43 Total (days) PAYROLL GIVING OUR PEOPLE Participation rate (%) 6.0 5.5 5.8 5.3 Page 43 GENDER EQUALITY OUR PEOPLE Women in executive management (%) 30 25.5 25.6 25.9 Page 44 HEALTH AND SAFETY OUR PEOPLE Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) <1 0.66 0.98 1.12 Page 48 TARGETED DIGITAL LITERACY CONNECTING COMMUNITY PROGRAMS 406 596 117 143 COMMUNITIES People reached (000’s) Page 60 SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY CONNECTING TARGETED INVESTMENT INVESTMENT 175.4 213.5 216.6 COMMUNITIES Value ($millions) Page 65 ENVIRONMENTAL CARBON EMISSIONS INTENSITY 55% REDUCTION tCO2e per terabyte of data BY END OF FY177 0.26 0.42 0.58 STEWARDSHIP Page 72 ENVIRONMENTAL E-WASTE Mobile phones (tonnes collected) 14.0 16.0 15.6 15.3 STEWARDSHIP Page 75 1 This year we adopted Sustainable Engagement as our key metric. It provides a deeper understanding of the key drivers of performance and consists of three components: how engaged, enabled and energised our people are in their roles. 2 As Sustainable Engagement was introduced in FY16 no target was set. 3 As we adopted a new metric for employee engagement, our performance against this target was not measured.  4 Telstra did not undertake an Employee Engagement Survey in FY15. 5 Telstra did not measure sustainable engagement in FY14. 6 Our target and ‘people reached’ result for FY16 is lower than in previous years due to our increased focus on delivering face-to-face training. This training is more resource-intensive to deliver, but results in better learning outcomes for participants. 7 FY15 to FY17 target to reduce our GHG emissions intensity by 55 per cent to 0.261 tCO2e per terabyte of data, calculated from a baseline year of FY14. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 06 Sustainability at Telstra Our reporting About our report The GRI aspects and indicators we’ve We have obtained independent assurance reported on throughout the Bigger Picture over selected metrics in our report since Our reporting comprises this Bigger 2016 Sustainability Report, as well as their 2010 and focus on the metrics most Picture 2016 Sustainability Report and internal and external boundaries, have material to our business. On an annual our interactive online report, available at been determined through our materiality basis we obtain independent assurance www.telstra.com/sustainability/report. process and can be found in the GRI Index over our application of the principle of A concise summary of our approach and accompanying this report. In instances materiality, as outlined in the GRI G4 performance is also available in Telstra’s where aspect boundaries extend beyond Guidelines. This provides readers with 2016 Annual Report. the scope of our reporting, we are working comfort that we have identified and This year we have structured our to increase our disclosures. reported on all our material issues. We report and reporting website by our key obtain reasonable assurance each year sustainability topics, as defined through Our reporting scope over the environmental metrics that form our annual materiality process. Many of Our sustainability reporting covers the part of our regulatory reporting. Each these issues represent global challenges, financial year 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 year we also select a range of further such as responding to the threat of (FY16) for Telstra Corporation Limited sustainability metrics to assure, to gain climate change and promoting human unless otherwise stated. additional coverage of our reporting. We rights. Others are key challenges for our aim to assure each of these additional As our international operations expand industry, such as protecting our customers’ metrics on a three-year rolling basis. we are developing a global framework privacy and data security, and ensuring for sustainability data collection and For an overview of the metrics included all vulnerable customers can access the reporting. Starting with our most material in the assurance for this year, please see benefits of modern communications operations overseas we will continue to Ernst & Young’s assurance statement at technologies. broaden the scope of our reporting over www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/ For each topic we have provided an time. Wherever possible and relevant under downloads. overview of our approach and progress the GRI G4 Guidelines we have extended across the reporting period, along with the scope of this report to include our United Nations Global targets for FY17, with the aim of providing operations across the Telstra Group, Compact readers with a clear view of how we’re as well as a discussion of any broader addressing our most material impacts. You will find the icon above throughout impacts across our value chain. A detailed issue summary for each topic, the Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Information regarding the controlled Report. It indicates where we are along with related videos and performance entities in the Telstra Group can be found providing information on our progress infographics can also be found on our on our website at www.telstra.com/ in implementing the 10 principles of the reporting website. investor (Latest results). United Nations Global Compact. Reporting standards Transparency through Feedback We develop our sustainability reporting independent assurance We welcome your feedback on our in accordance with industry and Independent assurance supports our sustainability reporting, approach sustainability standards including commitment to transparency and and performance. Please email Tim the United Nations Global Compact accountability. Ernst & Young provides O’Leary, Chief Sustainability Officer (UNGC) Communication on Progress; limited assurance, in accordance with at sustainability@team.telstra.com. the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 the ISAE 3000 and ASAE 3410 assurance Core Sustainability Reporting Guidelines standards, over specified data and related Stay in touch (GRI G4 Guidelines); and AccountAbility’s performance disclosures in our 2016 AA1000 Principles Standard 2008. Annual Report and Bigger Picture 2016 @Telstra Sustainability Report. facebook.com/telstra s  ustainability@team.telstra.com Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 07 Sustainability at Telstra Managing our most material topics Ethics, values and governance issues that have the potential to become Digital inclusion more significant in the medium term. These issues are monitored and, where required, managed within Telstra to enable Customer experience us to respond proactively. Emerging issues Climate change and energy identified this year include the impacts of ICT on population growth, women’s empowerment and the growth of individual Stakeholder significance Resource use, waste and e-waste empowerment through education, healthcare and commercial opportunities. Strengthening our workforce This year we refined our materiality Digital innovation process to bring more focus to our reporting. While a broad range of issues Human rights Privacy and data protection were assessed to determine their Supply chain materiality, we have consolidated our list sustainability of key topics to focus on only our most material impacts. As outlined in the matrix above, this year our assessment identified Connecting communities our most significant sustainability risks and opportunities as being: Mobile phones, base stations and health Customer experience Climate change and energy Global growth and development Digital inclusion Business significance Ethics, values and governance Medium Priority High Priority Privacy and data protection Responsible business Environmental stewardship Our people Resource use, waste and e-waste Customer experience Connecting communities Annual report Strengthening our workforce We undertake a consultative materiality and business strategy, as well as insights Human rights process each year to ensure we identify gained from participation in industry and Digital innovation and respond to the sustainability cross sector initiatives, peer benchmarking Supply chain sustainability issues, risks and opportunities that are and future trends analysis. most important to our business and Connecting communities We assess and validate our findings stakeholders. internally each year, based on our ability M  obile phones, base stations In accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines to address or influence each issue. We and health and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Principles also test them externally through ongoing Global growth and development. Standard (2008), we review the engagement and feedback from key Detailed information on each of these sustainability issues impacting Telstra, our stakeholder groups. In FY16 we engaged risks, as well as how we are managing stakeholders and the broader Information more than 80 of our key community them can be found throughout this Bigger and Communications Technology (ICT) and industry stakeholders, government Picture 2016 Sustainability Report and industry. representatives, institutional investors and on our sustainability website (www. Telstra employees to get their view of our We prioritise topics according to their telstra.com/sustainability/report). For most material sustainability issues. relative impact on our business and our information regarding global growth and stakeholders, as determined through The results of our materiality assessment development, please see the Building new analysis of a wide variety of sources. help inform Telstra’s sustainability strategy growth businesses section of our 2016 Inputs include internal documents, such and programs. We also use our findings to Annual Report. as the Telstra Group material risk register identify emerging sustainability trends and Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 08 Sustainability at Telstra Engaging with our stakeholders As a company that connects with nearly every Australian in some way, we have many stakeholders. Our stakeholders are any group or individual that influences, or is impacted by Telstra’s activities, as identified through ongoing engagement, feedback and analysis. We want our stakeholders to be advocates for Telstra, so we work to develop quality relationships through meaningful engagement and dialogue. This helps us to keep abreast of evolving social and environmental expectations, to use stakeholder insights to develop targeted products, services and programs, as well as to drive advocacy. Our approach to stakeholder engagement is guided by the Telstra values, in particular ‘show you care’ and ‘better together’. Our engagement takes many forms, including face-to-face interactions, surveys, social We know that we build greater trust with media and market research. We are our stakeholders when we are transparent, Best practice active in industry groups, participate responsive and accountable. Monitoring, through collaboration in relevant networks and forums, and measuring and reporting on our approach have teams across the company that and performance – good and bad – helps To ensure continuous improvement manage relationships with specific us to achieve this as does talking with our and to guide, benchmark and assess stakeholder groups. customers and the community through our sustainability performance, we social media. The high-level topics and participate in the following voluntary concerns raised by our stakeholders this initiatives: year are outlined in the table below and • Australian Packaging Covenant are a key component of our materiality • Carbon Disclosure Project assessment. • FTSE4Good • Global eSustainability Initiative Detailed information on how we have • Global Reporting Initiative engaged on and responded to each of • MobileMuster these issues can be found throughout • Supply Nation this report. • Telco Together Foundation • Transparency International Australia • United Nations Global Compact. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 09 Sustainability at Telstra Engaging with our stakeholders STAKEHOLDER GROUP KEY SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS FY16 COMMUNITIES Digital inclusion Ethics, values and governance We engage with our communities wherever we operate, including non-profit organisations and Privacy and data protection program partners, as well as community groups and individuals local to our operations. Customer experience CUSTOMERS Customer experience Digital inclusion Our customers are residential consumers, small to medium enterprises, large companies and Resource use, waste and e-waste organisations, as well as government. Climate change and energy EMPLOYEES Strengthening our workforce Customer experience Our workforce is large and diverse, with more than 33,000 employees in more than 20 countries. Privacy and data protection Digital inclusion Climate change and energy GOVERNMENT Customer experience Digital inclusion We engage with government at local, state and federal level in Australia, as well as in other countries. Ethics, values and governance Engagement can be with minister and party leaders to department staff. Privacy and data protection Connecting communities INDUSTRY Privacy and data protection Digital innovation We engage with our sector peers and competitors, as well as ICT and telecommunications specific Digital inclusion associations. Customer experience Strengthening our workforce Climate change and energy SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTMENT COMMUNITY Customer experience Ethics, values and governance Our investment community comprises institutional investors, buy and sell-side analysts, as well as Privacy and data protection around 1.4 million retail shareholders, some of whom invest with social and environmental preferences. Strengthening our workforce MEDIA Customer experience Ethics, values and governance We regularly engage with representatives from print, radio, TV, social and online media at a local, Strengthening our workforce national and international level. Digital inclusion Digital innovation UNIONS Customer experience Privacy and data protection We work closely with the relevant employee trade unions including CPSU, CEPU and Professionals Mobile phones, base stations and health Australia. Strengthening our workforce Human rights Ethics, values and governance SUPPLIERS Supply chain sustainability Privacy and data protection We engage around 4,400 suppliers each year with total spend around $7.4 billion. Human rights Strengthening our workforce Ethics, values and governance REGULATORS Customer experience Digital inclusion We work closely with industry regulators in all our markets. Privacy and data protection Ethics, values and governance Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 10 Sustainability at Telstra Our business About Telstra We are a proudly Australian telecommunications and technology company with a growing international business. Our purpose is to create a brilliant connected future for everyone. The success of our business relies on it, and we are working to achieve it through both our business strategy and our sustainability strategy. We employ more than 33,000 people directly in more than 20 countries, facilitate access to more than 2,000 network points of presence across the growth and prosperity, improve health and G  oal 5: Achieve gender equality and globe and have one of Australia’s largest education, and protect the planet. empower all women and girls shareholder bases, with around 1.4 million The SDGs offer business a common G  oal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive shareholders. framework for considering and addressing and sustainable economic growth, full We have a diverse range of customers, the world’s most significant development and productive employment and decent including consumer, small business, large challenges. work for all enterprises and government organisations, Telstra welcomes the introduction of the  oal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, G and we strive to put them at the centre SDGs. It is clear to us that technology, as a promote inclusive and sustainable of everything we do. In Australia, our key enabler, will have a central role to play industrialisation and foster innovation services are offered through 358 Telstra in helping both business and government  oal 13: Take urgent action to combat G retail stores, 83 Business Centres and to work towards these targets. climate change and its impact. 16,500 retail points of presence managed With this in mind, this year we conducted by our partners. For an overview of the specific targets we a baseline assessment of how our current are working to achieve, and where they For more information about our business programs, initiatives and operations align are most relevant across our value chain, structure and strategy, see page two of our to the SDGs and the areas in which we please see the UNGC and GRI Index that 2016 Annual Report. have can make the greatest impact. We accompanies this report. identified opportunities to leverage ICT Contributing to the sustainable to achieve each goal, and assessed the Alice Cope, Executive Manager relevance of each target to our business development goals Global Compact Network strategy and values. We also considered In September the United Nations launched how the SDGs relate to our material issues Australia the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the key impacts and opportunities (SDGs). Developed with input from the across our value chain, as outlined in the The launch of the SDGs has been an business community and agreed by infographic overleaf. important global milestone. We are all member states of the UN, the SDGs seeing leading Australian companies comprise 17 ambitious goals and 169 We identified four initial priority areas incorporate the SDGs into their targets that seek to eradicate extreme that reflect our business context, key risks business and are encouraged by poverty and hunger, promote economic and impacts, as well as our social and Telstra’s considered approach . environmental focus: Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability at Telstra Our business Managing key impacts across well as our relationships with customers For more detail on the different stages and the community through to end of life. of our value chain, including our key our value chain stakeholders, SDG priority targets and Telstra’s influence extends beyond our As part of our annual materiality process, material topics, please refer to our own operations and as a result, so do we determine where along our value sustainability report website at our economic, social and environmental chain each of our material topics is most www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/ impacts. We have therefore taken a relevant. This year we also assessed how valuechain. broad view of how we create value these topics relate to our SDG priorities, for our business and stakeholders. In and where along our value chain our key More detailed information regarding the accordance with the GRI G4 Framework, impacts lie. We have represented the key social value we generate across our value the infographic below identifies the key outcomes from our assessment in the chain can be found in the Connecting stages of Telstra’s value chain, including infographic below. communities chapter of this report. our supply chain, our direct operations, as Purpose, Vision & Values Products manufacture Products & solutions Customer Service providers Network & operations Community End of life Supply chain Telstra Customers & community SDGs Material topics • Human rights • Strengthening our workforce • Global growth and development • Customer experience • Ethics, values and governance • Privacy and data protection • Connecting communities • Digital innovation • Digital inclusion • Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) • Climate change and energy • Supply chain sustainability • Resource use, waste and e-waste Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 12 Kelly Jamieson, Edible Blooms, Telstra SA Business of the Year Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience Digital technologies and enhanced connectivity have transformed the way we live and connect. Amidst a backdrop of constant technological change, innovation and competition, it’s more important than ever for us to deliver brilliant customer experiences. To achieve this, we must put the customer at the centre of everything we do. We must protect customer privacy and security, take proactive steps to ensure our customers have a positive experience online and innovate to improve our processes, products and service capabilities to better meet customer needs. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 13 Putting our customers at the centre Highlights Surveyed more than 27,000 customers on average 58 per cent of customer per day and used their interactions conducted feedback to improve online, up six percentage customer experience points Sent more than 81,500 messages Extended our per day to our customers with the 4G coverage to name and contact details of the 98 per cent of consultant they spoke to the population On average about 14 petabytes On average 55 million calls and of data travel over our fixed and 356 million data connections are mobile network each week day. made over our network each day That’s about 14 million hours of high definition video streaming Performance PROGRESS ON FY16 COMMITMENTS RESULT MORE INFO Reduce further the effort required for customers to do business with us Page 15 100% Achieved Deliver the second phase of our Digital First Program Page 17 Provide improved access to My Account and Telstra 24X7 App and enhance security and identification Page 17 options 0% In progress Simplify logistics and fulfilment processes to enable more customers to receive next day delivery of their Page 17 online purchases Extend our 4G coverage to reach 98 per cent Page 18 of the population 0% Not achieved Deploy the next generation of LTE technology, Page 18 delivering peak network speeds of up to 600 mbps Expand the footprint of our Wi-Fi network, Telstra Air Page 19 Continue to be vigilant in protecting our customers’ Page 20 personal information Continue to be transparent about how we’re managing customers’ personal information, Page 20 particularly in the development of new products and services Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 14 Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience We care about our customers and we’re putting them at the centre of everything we do. Enhancing customer advocacy approach Improving customer advocacy remains our number one strategic priority. By providing great customer experiences we can change the way our customers talk about us. Customers who become advocates for Telstra will stay with us longer, buy more of our services, and recommend us to others. We continue to listen to our customers to help us improve the way we do things. We ask our customers to complete a short survey after interacting with us and receive on average more than 27,000 responses, progress When customers are placing a new order, including 11,000 verbatim comments adding a service or recontracting, we have every day. Improving customer made changes to our order process to experiences ensure we set the right expectations at the point of sale, to help them understand While our aim is to get things right the first Our NPS what they have ordered, what will happen time, we know we don’t always succeed. next and what their bill will look like. We’ve We measure customer advocacy This year we continued to improve our also begun work to improve the way we using the Net Promoter System (NPS). processes, product and service offerings place orders and to provide a seamless NPS enables us to measure our to better meet customer needs. For activation experience for our customers. customers’ experiences and respond example, we have reduced the time it To support ongoing international growth, to their feedback. It’s a simple metric takes some customers to have their ADSL that shows how our customers feel we have enhanced our 24/7 Global service installed and the time it takes about us, based on their likelihood to Service Desk for our International Global customers to receive their hardware. We recommend Telstra. Our overall NPS Enterprise and Government customers also expanded our range of online selfscore declined four points since last with more support in multiple languages. service tools, which we estimate has saved year. The result was influenced by a We have created a new global approach number of factors, including system our customers from making and receiving with service desks in Hong Kong, London and process issues that lead to poor more than 400,000 calls and technician and Kuala Lumpur. service experiences for our customers, visits this year. network interruptions and the rate Throughout FY16 we sent on average To further save our customers’ time, of change in customer expectations more than 81,500 emails and SMS to our we introduced a process to proactively as new technologies emerge in the customers every day with the name and identify and fix unstable ADSL lines prior market. This result was disappointing, contact details of the consultant they to customers contacting us to report these especially given our good performance spoke to, continuing our focus on delivering reported in December, and shows issues. We estimate this process has personalised service. we have more to do to deliver a great delivered more consistent speeds for 2.2 experience every time. million ADSL customers, and avoided close to 280,000 customer calls and technician visits. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 15 Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience The Telstra team working with locals from Yuendumu Checking-in with games and 20 per cent off selected 2016 NRL tickets. In FY16, Telstra customers Advocate feedback our customers purchased more than 3.1 million tickets We continue to check-in regularly with our and experiences through Telstra Thanks™. Everything was changed the way I customers to make sure they have the best wanted. The staff members were products and plans to meet their needs. Delivering extra value helpful and polite. Now really happy This year we extended our Check-In In May, we began rolling out double with my new plan. The price is great program to include small and medium data allowances for all Telstra Business and I get a lot of extra I’m happy with. business customers. More than 1.1 million Broadband, Digital Office Technology™ personalised Check-In communications (DOT) and BizEssentials® customers. were sent to business customers between Providing this data boost will help businesses take up new ways of working, Passive feedback February and April, to help them identify the best plans for them, and ensure they’re such as video conferencing or setting up an receiving the best possible value from their online retail presence. We also doubled the Value for money. Fast data connection. Telstra service. data for new customers who signed up to a Would have rated higher if service was business broadband plan from May 2016. more reliable. Overall, we delivered 6.6 million personalised Check-In communications to We also increased the data available our business and consumer customers this through our popular mobile plans to enable year. We also invited customers to visit our our customers make the most of their Detractor feedback stores for a face-to-face account health experience. Telstra consumer mobile and check. More than 2.8 million Check-Ins fixed broadband customers get access The initial connection was not carried were completed in store this year, leading to a free 200GB Microsoft OneDrive out on the requested day. On complaint to an eight point increase to our in-store subscription to store, share and access the Telstra officer did her best to NPS results for our consumer customers important documents, photos and files at minimise the delays but we still ended and a two point increase for our business home or on the go. up being without a phone service or customers. In addition to providing free cloud storage internet for three days. To help us reach customers in regional we expanded our content services offered and remote areas we also undertook to customers. Mobile customers are now six Check-In Bus Tours, including a two able to access a range of free content week tour throughout remote Indigenous including Apple Music, AFL Live Pass and NRL Digital Pass. FY17 communities in the Northern Territory. Throughout FY16 issues raised via our In response to customer concerns about Targets Check-In program were followed up by international roaming costs, this year we our customer service representatives extended the number of countries covered Continue to improve all within two working days. by the Telstra Travel Pass. Available for aspects of how we deliver use in 54 countries, 15 more than was customer experiences. The Telstra Thanks program offers Telstra previously available, the new pass will Continue to improve how we customers a range of great rewards and make it even simpler for customers to use activate our products and extras. In entertainment, customers can support our customers and their Australian mobile overseas. access specially priced movie tickets, and our people, reducing the time get exclusive pre-sale offers for live music For information to help plan overseas trips, and effort required of our events and concerts. Telstra customers visit telstra.com/overseas. customers to engage with us. can also enjoy $20 tickets to select AFL Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 16 Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience Ted Tolfree, Crisp Creative Salad, Victoria Our customers are increasingly making Better service through Improving customer access to the choice to go digital. This year: digital experiences My Account and the Telstra 24x7 the Telstra 24x7 App was used regularly App for the 4.8 million customers by around The digital revolution is reshaping customer expectations – and the business with a Telstra ID. Continuing to enhance security and identification 2.9 million models that answer their needs. Our goal options across all digital channels customers is to be 100 per cent digitally enabled by Simplifying our logistics and fulfilment the end of FY17 so that our customers can always engage with us online. processes to enable more customers 2.6 million to receive next day delivery of their customers use the Telstra 24x7 Service transactions online purchases. These changes My Account online portal each month conducted online enabled 97 per cent of digital orders to More than be processed within 24 hours in FY16. 270,000 46% 52% 58% We have provided live chat sessions were held each month via Telstra 24x7 Chat 1,800 continuous days We responded to more than FY14 FY15 FY16 of customer service This year we undertook the second 24 hours a day, seven 8,500 phase of our Digital First agenda, aimed digital customer care requests at providing our customers with greater days a week via our on Facebook and Twitter each week access to our products and services, and digital channels. Our customer community, CrowdSupport, the flexibility to decide how, when and had over one million views and now has a from where they interact with us. Through member base of more than Australian Digital Summit digitisation, our customers are gaining greater control of their accounts and 300,000 people services, product features and support This year Telstra hosted the fourth options, all while saving valuable time. annual Australian Digital Summit, bringing together digital thought 546,000 Key initiatives in FY16 include: customers switched to Email Bill and more leaders from organisations such as than 80 per cent of customer payments were L  aunching a Customer Advisor Tool that Uber, Twitter, Lithium and the CSIRO. made via digital channels has redesigned the front line staff Designed to advocate Australia’s role experience for both our retail stores in the digital economy, the summit was Just over and global contact centres. 1,800 store staff and 7,000 contact centre staff use attended by more than 1,000 people and streamed live around the world 821,000 sales transactions were completed digitally to thousands more. It explored the this tool each day which represents a 51 per cent increase emergence of digital into the physical on FY15 I mplementing a Mobile Toolkit App world, examined how new technologies (MTA) for our field technicians to are disrupting traditional business increase productivity by providing easy models and showcased opportunities access to customer information on the for collaboration between big business go. The MTA enables our field team to and start-ups. conduct important activities such as ADSL/PSTN testing, Telstra ID password resets, easy customer logistics and accessing cable plans, all via the app. It’s actively used by 74 per cent of eligible field technicians Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 17 Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience Consolidating our network leadership Our commitment to network resilience Thanks to our long-term At Telstra we are fiercely proud of I mproving reliability and resiliency commitment to network our network leadership. Our mobile within our core network network supports more than 17.2 million investment, the Telstra customer services and carries around I ncreasing current ADSL broadband capacity to meet increasing mobile network currently 70 million voice calls every single day – customer demand. reaches 99.3 per cent of more than all other Australian mobile All network operators around the world networks combined. We know that the population and is the our customers rely on us and that’s face the risk of disruptions whether largest network in the why we were so disappointed to have they be the consequence of weather, accidental damage, hardware or other country, covering more experienced a series of network service failures. We are committed to continuing disruptions this year. than 2.4 million square to invest in building the durability and Following these events, a team of kilometres. internal and external experts undertook capability of our network, and in our ability to respond quickly if things a review of every aspect of our end-toThe rise of connected devices is driving an do go wrong to minimise the impact end network. We also completed an ongoing and insatiable demand for data on customers. For example, changes end-to-end review of our core network and our customers are relying on mobile already made mean that our recovery and IT systems, pinpointing sources technology more than ever. In order to time on the mobile network has been of potential risk. As a result of this keep up with this demand, we continue substantially improved. work we will be investing $250 million to innovate and invest in expanding our We know that we have work to do to refrom our existing capital program over mobile network. build our customers’ confidence in our the next six to 12 months to provide a This year we extended our 4GX coverage to higher degree of network resilience and networks, and we will not stop working a number of new regional and metropolitan improved network performance. This until we do. areas across Australia, taking our overall includes investment in three key areas: Throughout the year we have provided 4G coverage (4G and 4GX) to 98 per cent regular updates on the work we’re doing Enhancing the mobile network’s of the population an increase of four to improve our network resilience. resilience, to improve recovery time per cent, or one million people. We also For more information, visit and create more effective real-time deployed a range of Australia and world www.exchange.telstra.com.au. monitoring first innovations to our 4G long-term evolution (LTE) technology. In September 2015 we launched Australia’s first Voice over LTE (VoLTE) service, We also enabled the functionality to In a commercial world first, we delivered enabling voice calls to be carried on 4G support the next generation of LTE peak mobile network speeds of 600Mbps for the first time. This technology provides broadcast (LTE-B) technology across in September and then followed this up our customers with faster voice call setup our entire 4GX network. This emerging with a World First demonstration of 1Gbps times, the ability to surf the internet at 4G technology enables large numbers of peak network speeds on the live network speeds while also on a voice call, and adds customers to view the same content in in December. The Telstra network has high definition voice quality. It also enables the same location using a single stream now been enabled to support 1Gbps in us to serve new coverage areas more of data, enabling better video quality the Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane CBD efficiently, using 4G technology alone. while also keeping the rest of the areas, ahead of new mobile handsets being network free for other customers. launched later this year. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 18 Putting our customers at the centre Customer experience Extending our network The Programme is aimed at improving Managing and minimising coverage for customers in more than 400 coverage TIO complaints regional, rural and remote communities As part of our strategy to drive network across Australia. This year we constructed When it comes to delivering brilliant innovation, last year we launched mobile base stations in 50 communities customer service we don’t always Australia’s largest Wi-Fi network, Telstra across Queensland, New South Wales, get it right first time, but pleasingly Air. More than 1.1 million home broadband Victoria, Western Australia and Tasmania. first stage (Level 1) complaints to the and mobile customers are now activated Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman For information on our site locations to use Telstra Air, Australia’s largest Wi-Fi (TIO) have decreased this year. By June and roll-out schedule, visit telstra.com/ network. Our fixed broadband customers 2016 the number of Level 1 complaints blackspots. have created over 500,000 homespots had reduced by 3.2 per cent compared nationally, which Telstra Air customers can to last year. access across Australia. We now have over The average number of complaints we 4,500 public hotspots including selected received per 10,000 subscribers decreased Telstra pink payphones, most Telstra by 3.5 per cent in FY16, demonstrating the stores and other outdoor locations. Home positive impact of our focus on customer broadband customers can also access service. In FY16 we received an average Wi-Fi at more than 19 million hotspots of 1.95 first stage complaints per 10,000 overseas through our partnership with subscribers, compared to 2.02 in FY15. international Wi-Fi provider, Fon. We continue to closely monitor the root As a national carrier and long-term cause of customer referrals to the TIO. supporter of regional Australia, Telstra Common areas of complaint include is committed to delivering leading connection and order delays, charging telecommunications products and services disputes and fault and repair issues. to our customers in remote, rural and regional areas. Mike Wright, This year we made a multi-million dollar Group Managing Director investment in additional regional spectrum Networks that will increase the capacity of our 4G This year’s mobile network upgrade services in regional areas, and allow the at the MCG will help us to better delivery of more data at faster speeds. connect up to 100,000 sports fans to The Australian Government auctioned off the technology they crave. Spectators additional spectrum for use in 12 regional will be able to use their mobile device areas across the country, including Albury, inside and around the stadium to Cairns, Grafton, Mackay, Darwin and stream video, browse the internet, their surrounding areas this year. Telstra upload photos, receive and make invested $190 million through the auction calls and access content on the AFL and has secured more spectrum than any Live pass without experiencing slow other provider. speeds and network congestion. In June last year we announced that Telstra will spend $165 million over three years to FY17 build 429 new 3G and 4G towers as part of Target the Australian Government’s Mobile Black Spot Programme. Extend our 4G coverage to 99 per cent of the Australian population. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 19 Putting our customers at the centre Privacy and data protection approach Our customers trust us to protect their privacy and keep their data secure, and we continue to work diligently to respect this trust. Our priority is to ensure we keep customers’ information safe and secure, and that we’re transparent in the way we manage this information. We’ve learnt a lot from past privacy incidents and remain committed to managing privacy risks as technology, and the way we use it, continues to evolve. We continue to implement privacy controls throughout our business and supply chain to improve the protection of our customers’ information. We have in place comprehensive security and network controls, business-wide policies and In addition to this, in May 2015 the Privacy Contributing procedures, a network of business based Commissioner issued a determination privacy officers and mandatory training for to privacy legislation that Telstra had breached the privacy all employees. of an individual customer by failing to In December 2015, the Australian provide him with access to his personal Government published an exposure draft To view Telstra’s Privacy Statement, visit information. With the exception of of its Privacy Amendment (Notification www.telstra.com/privacy. incoming call records, we were ordered of Serious Data Breaches) Bill 2015, to progress to provide the individual with “all the provide industry with the opportunity to metadata information” held in relation comment on the proposed legislation. In Responding to privacy to his mobile phone service. We already our submission, we noted that our current reporting protocols are consistent with incidents and complaints provide our customers access to their personal information, but believed this the voluntary guidelines published by In FY16 there were two notable incidents decision could extend this practice to a the Office of the Australian Information regarding our customers’ privacy that also large range of network data, whether the Commissioner, and we support the attracted public attention. We worked data reveals anything about our customers Government’s efforts to translate these collaboratively with the customers or not. Given the broad implications of guidelines into a legislative instrument. We involved, regulators and other stakeholders this decision, we sought a review with also sought clarification on the practical to respond. We also improved the integrity the Administrative Appeals Tribunal implications of some requirements within of some of our processes and implemented (AAT). The AAT disagreed with the Privacy the bill, and emphasised the need for an technical responses to reduce the risk and Commissioner’s determination. The Privacy appropriate balance between delivering likelihood of future incidents occurring. Commissioner has now appealed the community safety and minimising the decision of the AAT to the Federal Court, regulatory burden imposed on industry. which will hear the matter in August 2016. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 20 Putting our customers at the centre Privacy and data protection Managing metadata Being transparent balanced and sustainable approach to the issue that also respects customer privacy. With digital technology now central to our with our customers lives, we are generating more data than Telstra’s Transparency Report is the first In FY15 a draft Copyright Notice Scheme ever before. Some of our customers and of its kind in Australia. Its aim is to give our Code was lodged with the Australian the broader community are concerned customers more information about our Communications and Media Authority about who has access to this data. Since legal obligations as a telecommunications (ACMA). Under the code, rights holders last year, we have offered customers carrier. may notify ISPs of alleged online copyright the same access to their data as we are infringements, and ISPs may be required Like all telecommunications companies to notify their customers of the allegations required to offer to law enforcement that provide services in Australia, we by sending them notices. The Code was not agencies in response to a lawful request are required by law to assist Australian registered due to a number of outstanding without a warrant. Government agencies for defined issues, and the ACMA has effectively This year Australian Government ’s Data purposes, such as investigating and solving suspended further consideration of the Retention Scheme came into effect, crimes. We also provide assistance to draft Code until April 2017. requiring Telstra and all other internet emergency services agencies in response service providers to collect and store a to life-threatening situations and Triple In mid-2015 legislation was passed to significant amount of customer data for Zero emergency calls. allow rights holders to apply to the Federal two years, and to make it available upon a Court to compel Carriage Service Providers, We take protecting customer data very including Telstra, to block overseas lawful request by certain law enforcement seriously and scrutinise any requests we websites alleged to infringe copyright. The and national security agencies. receive from law enforcement agencies first of these actions were filed this year In October, the Attorney General’s to ensure we only comply with lawful and are yet to be finalised. Department approved our Data Retention requests. Implementation Plan, which detailed the steps we will take to meet their Between 1 July 2015 and 30 June 2016, Promoting cyber safety Telstra received and acted on 92,882 Online safety is about more than protecting requirements, including our plans to build requests for customer information. us from online danger and personal a compliance system that will help us to manage ongoing requests, while meeting risk. It’s also about creating a sense of our customers’ privacy expectations. This TYPE OF LAW belonging and standards of behaviour that FY16 approval gives us until early 2017 to make ENFORCEMENT REQUEST enable us all to have a positive experience sure we have the right processes in place. online. At Telstra we want to empower Telstra customer information, people to participate safely in the online To read the conditions for requesting carriage service records and 82,748 world and provide the networks, products access to your personal data and to make pre-warrant checks and services that make it easy to do so. a request, visit www.telstra.com/privacy/ customer-access. Life-threatening situations and Triple For more information on our approach to 7,138 Zero emergency calls cyber safety and our performance in FY16, please see the Connecting communities Court orders 518 chapter of this report. Warrants for interception or access 2,478 to stored communications Total 92,882 FY17 What is metadata? Target Metadata is the data generated when To view our full Transparency Report, you use a telecommunications service visit www.telstra.com/transparency. Review and update our privacy – information such as the number framework to ensure it reflects you called, when you called and how Online copyright infringement this evolution and continues to long you spoke for. It does not include Internet Service Providers (ISPs), including comply with the requirements of the content of a communication, Telstra, have been engaged in constructive the global privacy landscape, as such as the detail of what you said or Telstra continues its transition to discussions with copyright owners (also a global technology company. wrote in an email or SMS. In certain known as rights holders) to address online circumstances the police and other copyright infringement for a number of enforcement agencies can lawfully years. access metadata. We believe that copyright infringement is wrong and that our industry needs a Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 21 Putting our customers at the centre Digital innovation approach In order to achieve our vision of becoming a world class technology company, we are committed to building innovative growth businesses in new markets and industries, along with promoting and nurturing innovation within our core business. We define innovation as new ideas, products and services that provide solutions to problems, or a better, simpler outcome for our customers. Technology plays a key role in this. We have created an innovation ecosystem at Telstra that brings together our support for startup incubation, early-stage investment, the development of new products and services and co-creation with Telstra’s startup accelerator program, muru-D® provides six months of tailored support to our partners. This creates opportunities selected technology entrepreneurs across Sydney, Brisbane and Singapore. Participants and new possibilities in regard to the in class three of our Sydney Program, pictured, began their muru-D® journey in February things that really matter, such as keeping this year. people healthy and safe, and creating a more sustainable and livable world. We also extended our Image and Data progress Management Service to enable the storage Telstra’s online employee Delivering integrated and sharing of data and radiology images innovation community, healthcare solutions between different systems and providers. through Telstra Health Telstra Health was selected by the the Innovation Hub, has Telstra Health is one of Australia's leading Commonwealth Department of Health more than 20,000 users. providers of ehealth services. We believe to deliver the National Cancer Screening More than 1,800 ideas that the power of connection can also Register under a five year contract. Telstra Health will build and operate the Register, have been submitted transform healthcare for all Australians and help to create a safer, more cost which will help manage bowel and cervical since it was launched, effective, convenient and productive cancer screening programs for more including 744 in FY16. healthcare system. than 11 million Australians by integrating existing databases and improving access We launched a number of new services for patients and practitioners to medical this year, including Telstra ReadyCare, a records as well increasing the screening 24/7 telemedicine service that connects rate by encouraging more people to Australians to an experienced GP by phone participate using technology. or video and is now used by consumers, business and government. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 22 Putting our customers at the centre Digital innovation Creating value for our customers through environmental innovation We’re helping our customers to reduce their environmental impacts and improve productivity through the use of ICT. A key element of our approach to environmental innovation is our Green ICT service. This service is designed to help our enterprise customers identify opportunities to reduce their carbon emissions and electricity costs. This year we completed research for a report due to be released later this year examining the opportunities from cloud services. The report, titled 'Connecting Jurlique reaps the environmental benefits of the cloud with the cloud, a low-carbon future is With a core brand value of sustainability gains. They introduced ahead', will quantify the financial and environmental stewardship, global cloud based video conferencing, which environmental benefits of Telstra’s skincare leader Jurlique set a target to along with aiding collaboration across Australian dedicated and shared cloud reduce its carbon emissions by 20 per their global locations has reduced services. Examination of the report’s cent over five years. Jurlique has moved the company’s travel related carbon research shows that removing unused closer to this goal by moving its core emissions by approximately 16 per cent. or underperforming infrastructure IT operations to Telstra’s cloud service, and moving to a dedicated sustainably The cloud is transforming the nature which has led to a large reduction in its of ICT services. As a key enabler of designed facility results in improved carbon emissions. energy performance. Supplementing the Internet of Things and Big Data this research, we will also be launching Making the switch has allowed Jurlique analytics, the explosion of cloud based a customer carbon calculator in the to shut down two large data servers services has redefined connectivity, first half of FY17 to assist customers and 15 smaller servers since 2011. This creating significant social and to estimate the energy and cost savings enabled Jurlique to save 130 tonnes of environmental benefits. For more of moving to Telstra’s cloud services. carbon emissions as well as $23,000 information on Telstra’s cloud services, annually thanks to reduced energy visit www.telstra.com/cloud. For more information on our Environmental costs. Jurlique is also making indirect Customer Value Proposition, see the Environmental stewardship chapter of this report. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 23 Putting our customers at the centre Digital innovation Enabling the Internet of Things possibilities for Smart Cities is a key part automation and energy solutions, assisting of our innovation strategy – it has a direct customers to improve the security and Telstra has made significant progress impact on how people live, work and play in sustainability of their homes. Telstra’s smart in the development of next generation Australia, with sustainability and efficiency products will include door and window connectivity for an Internet of Things at the heart. A total of 21 IoT apps and sensors, motion sensors, smart power (IoT) world. Along with extending our products were scoped and prototyped plugs, cameras, lights, smart locks and cloud capabilities this year, we supported during the challenge, and five teams went thermostats, all of which can be controlled the first purpose-designed IoT services on to work on their projects more closely remotely from anywhere, at any time. through our LTE network, leading us with the City of Melbourne. These included For more information about the one step closer to our aim of launching solutions to make rubbish collection more sustainability benefits of IoT, see the commercial IoT devices by the end of 2016. efficient and to help citizens choose the Environmental stewardship chapter of In June this year we also enabled a world right plants for their environment. this sustainability report. first Power Saving Mode capability across our entire LTE network. This technology will Creating smarter homes FY17 allow new IoT devices to operate on a small This year we announced the upcoming fraction of the power used by traditional launch of Telstra Smart Home. Telstra’s devices, preventing unnecessary energy use and enabling products such as remote Smart Home platform will enable customers to connect a wide range of Target sensing or monitoring devices to be left smart home devices that can be controlled unattended in the field for 10 or more years via a downloadable App. Customers can Launch Telstra Smart Home to without needing to be recharged. then access their smart home devices assist customers to improve the security and sustainability of We also worked with partners to at home or remotely from a smartphone, their homes. demonstrate the capabilities of Narrow desktop or tablet. The initial Smart Home Band IoT technology this year. The benefits package will introduce smart security, home of this technology include a dramatic extension of LTE coverage for applications that require only low data rates (such as sensors and meters) expanding both the geographic range and the in-building areas where our customers will be able to access IoT coverage. What is IoT? The Internet of Things (IoT) is the network of physical objects or ‘things’ that have electronics, software, sensors, and network connectivity implanted in The road to safety through IoT them to enable these objects to collect With more than 650,000 trucks on “If heavy vehicles can communicate their and exchange data. IoT allows objects Australian roads carrying freight on location with upcoming traffic lights, the to be sensed and controlled remotely a daily basis, the challenges around lights will be green at the right moment across network infrastructure, creating opportunities for integration between safety and efficiency are numerous and to allow the vehicle to move through the the physical world and computer-based proliferating. But thanks to the rapid system without slowing down,” Jamie systems. growth of IoT, innovators are uncovering explains. Small changes such as this will new opportunities to meet these have a profound impact on infrastructure, challenges with leading edge technology. emissions and fuel consumption. Creating smarter cities Jamie Smith, Telstra Business The added bonus is accident prevention. In November, Telstra hosted its first IoT Development Executive, says IoT is “We’re going to use advanced challenge in partnership with the City of revolutionising the transport and communications between vehicles to Melbourne. Over one week we brought logistics sector, resulting in smarter make sure we don’t have any collisions,” together 80 of Australia’s brightest motorways, smarter systems, and even says Jamie. “We’re going to put in developers and creatives, who worked the connection of heavy vehicles to technologies to allow for higher levels together to build original Smart City traffic lights. of productivity and efficiency”. devices for the Melbourne CBD. Exploring Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 24 Mike, GM EME Management Education & Compliance Conducting our business ethically Responsible business As a large telecommunications company with a presence across Australia and a global footprint, we recognise that our long-term success depends on how we respond to the changing social and environmental expectations of our employees, customers, investors, regulators and the community. These expectations extend beyond our own operations and into our supply chain and relationships with our business partners. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 25 Conducting our business ethically Highlights Sent out almost 17 97.7 per cent of Telstra Group employees million messages and contractors completed mandatory promoting safe annual compliance training mobile use Completed 2,642 mobile Purchased more than $900,000 infrastructure community of goods and services from consultation projects Indigenous businesses Employ more than 500 people with a disability and 32 people from a disadvantaged background Performance PROGRESS ON FY16 COMMITMENTS RESULT MORE INFO Continue our three year ethical behaviour risk assessment program Page 28 87.5% Achieved Asses compliance and training requirements arising Page 31 from our revised Human Rights Policy Asses all critical suppliers to confirm they are in compliance or working towards compliance with Page 33 Telstra’s Supplier Code of Conduct 12.5% In progress Hold mandatory sustainability workshops for all Page 33 procurement and supply chain staff Introduce energy efficiency metrics and targets for our suppliers of selected categories of network Page 34 equipment 0% Not achieved Develop a multi-lingual version of the ITU consumer Page 35 guide to electromagnetic fields Continue our mobile safety SMS campaign to keep our Page 35 customers informed of the latest information on EME Develop videos and fact sheets on ‘how to read an EME Guide’ and ‘working safely around antennas’ as Page 36 part of our EME awareness program Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 26 Conducting our business ethically Ethics, values and governance approach We are committed to excellence in corporate governance, transparency and accountability. This is essential for our long term performance and sustainability, as well as to protect and enhance the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders. Our governance framework plays an integral role in supporting our business and helping us deliver on our strategy. It provides the structure through which our strategy and business objectives are set, our performance is monitored, and the risks we face are managed. It includes a clear framework for decision making and accountability across our business and Living our values Working ethically provides guidance on the standards of Our purpose is to create a brilliant Telstra requires all employees to observe behavior we expect of each other. connected future for everyone. Our Telstra high standards of business and personal We regularly review our governance Values, together with our Telstra Group ethics. arrangements, to reflect developments Code of Conduct and policy framework, Our Code of Conduct and policy framework in market practice, expectations and define the standards of behaviour underpin our Telstra Values. Together they regulation as appropriate, and we we expect. set out, in more detail, the standards of comply with the third edition of the Our values express what we stand for and behaviour we expect of our people. They ASX Corporate Governance Council’s are core to our business. As a values-led define our commitment to good corporate Corporate Governance Principles and organisation, our values shape our people’s governance, responsible business Recommendations. decisions and actions. They guide how we practice, our customers, our workforce, work together. We align everything we do the communities in which we operate progress with them. and the environment. They also provide the structure through which we maintain In pursuit of our vision At Telstra, we have five values: compliance with our legal obligations. Our vision is to make Telstra a world class Our governance framework includes Show you care technology company that empowers elements that address the following people to connect. Better together key areas. These are central to how we Trust each other to deliver promote good governance, and ethical and We strive to serve our customers better responsible behaviour: Make the complex simple than anyone else and to provide world Anti-bribery and anti-corruption class connectivity and solutions. We Find your courage. actively seek out new growth opportunities  onflicts of interest and C and new technology in Australia and outside activities To find out more, visit around the world. Our international www.telstra.com/governance. Fraud and criminal conduct presence spans more than 20 countries, Gifts, prizes and hospitality. including a growing footprint in Asia. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 27 Conducting our business ethically Ethics, values and governance Throughout the year we’ve continued to monitors disclosures, investigations, We monitor, report and manage training review our policies and procedures in recommendations and where appropriate completion rates. Employees who fail light of changes and updates to local and the implementation of actions, and our to complete mandatory compliance global regulatory requirements. We are Audit & Risk Committee overseas the training without a valid reason may face currently reviewing our Ethical Behaviour whistleblowing process. disciplinary action. Framework to ensure we are in position to As at 1 July 2015, there were 20 As at 30 June 2016, 97.7 per cent of Telstra comply with a new international standard whistleblowing alerts in progress within Group employees and contractors have ISO 37001 – Anti Bribery Management the Telstra Group1. During FY16, 65 completed this year’s mandatory refresher Systems when it is released later in 2016. whistleblowing alerts were opened and 66 course. We are currently following up with We also continued to refine and update were closed. As at 30 June 2016, 19 remain those who did not complete the training to our ethical behaviour training content in progress. determine any disciplinary consequences. and mode of delivery. Our focus remains on providing in-person training where For whistleblowing contact details, visit Actively managing risk www.telstra.com/governance. possible. This year, we provided face to Understanding and managing our risks face ethical behaviour training to 1,700 is part of how we work. It helps us meet Compliance training employees across 12 countries. our strategy and business objectives, and Training is an integral element of our our legal and regulatory obligations, and compliance framework. It ensures our make informed, business decisions and employees and contractors are aware of FY17 their legal, regulatory and compliance act ethically in the best interests of Telstra Group and our shareholders. Target responsibilities. When people start working at Telstra they are required to complete We have a risk management framework a suite of online compliance training in place that provides the foundations We have conducted risk training courses, including training on our Telstra and organisational arrangements for how and awareness sessions across Group Code of Conduct. we manage risks across the Group. The all the Telstra executives and framework aligns with ISO 31000:2009, will be cascading the program Mandatory refresher training is also the International Standard for risk throughout the organisation. completed annually, with each compliance management. topic covered every two years. The two exceptions, which are covered in our One of the core components of our annual refresher training, are Structural framework is the risk management Telstra does not make political donations. Separation Undertaking, which responds process which provides the business with However, like many other publicly listed to our regulatory commitments as part a process for assessing risks. Through companies, we do pay fees to attend of our NBN agreement, and Working at this risk management process, we events organised by political parties where Telstra, which covers key company policies identify, monitor and report on risks to the those events allow for discussion on major and standards of behaviour for employees. achievement of our plans and objectives. policy issues with key opinion leaders and policy makers. This year we included a new topic on family and domestic violence. Governance at Telstra Whistleblowing Managing climate change risk We encourage our people across the Climate change risk is an operational we conducted a climate change risk Telstra Group to take action if they have risk that could impact our business assessment to better understand the any concerns about unethical, illegal or through extreme weather events. The risks posed and identify actions to build improper behaviour. Our whistleblowing infrastructure we operate to deliver resilience within our business. The risk policy is supported by a confidential, our products and services is exposed assessment included mapping our anonymous whistleblowing service that to the weather and is often located in infrastructure and networks, layering provides appropriate protections for our remote locations. Increased frequency this with geographic attributes and people and members of the public to report and severity of extreme weather can ranking assets in terms of vulnerability. their concerns. Our process is supported damage and disrupt our infrastructure As part of the risk assessment, an by an independent service provider and operations. adaptation plan for all high risk assets is specialising in handling sensitive reports A robust and risk-based approach is due to be developed in FY17. and disclosures. important when it comes to managing To learn more about our response to Telstra's Group Whistleblowing Committee the physical impacts of climate change. climate change, please refer to the consists of senior executives and is Therefore, this year, as part of our Environmental stewardship chapter of chaired by the Company Secretary. broader response to climate change, this report. Our Group Whistleblowing Committee 1 Excludes Autohome as we sold down our interest in Autohome to 6.5 per cent during FY16. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 28 Conducting our business ethically Ethics, values and governance The risk management process is inclusive of all types of risks, from internal and external sources, including strategic, operational, financial and regulatory, as well as social, economic and environmental sustainability risks. Our material business risks, which are strategic in nature and can have a material impact on the achievement of our strategic growth objectives and future financial prospects, are monitored for changes in their exposure and are reported to the Board during the course of the financial year, along with their related controls and treatment plans. Our key operational risks, which are operational For FY16, Telstra Group1 generated in nature, are monitored and reported to our Management Risk Committee and the FY17 significant social value through the following: Audit & Risk Committee. We conduct reviews and self-assessments Target Employed more than of our framework across the enterprise and report the results to our Management We have conducted risk training and awareness sessions to 33,000 Risk Committee and the Audit & Risk people all the Telstra executive and Committee. We use the results of those will be cascading the program reviews, as well as recommendations throughout the organisation. Paid from Group Internal Audit, our third line of defence, to identify and implement Generating social value $4.3 billion opportunities for improving our framework. in salaries and wages In respect of FY16, the Audit & Risk The contributions we make in the Committee has reviewed Telstra’s risk community go beyond taxes paid. Paid management framework and satisfied itself that it continues to be sound. We support and contribute to improving the lives of the people we interact with $3.8 billion in dividends to around 1.4 million To learn more about our risk management across our value chain, from our suppliers shareholders approach and for a summary of our and employees to our customers and communities. Paid material business risks, please refer to our 2016 Annual Report. $7.4 billion for goods and services from around 4,400 suppliers Includes Telstra Corporation and controlled entity full time 1 employees and equivalents, contractors and staff employed through agency arrangements in Australia and internationally. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 29 Conducting our business ethically Ethics, values and governance Managing our tax affairs approach We comply with all taxation laws and obligations and pay tax in accordance with the laws of the countries we operate in. We are committed to full transparency and disclosure in all dealings with revenue authorities. This open and cooperative approach includes regular interactions with the Australian Tax Office (ATO) under the Pre Lodgement and Post Lodgement Compliance Review Programs. The ATO categorise Telstra Corporation Limited as a key taxpayer for both income Australian tax contributions International related tax and GST within the ATO’s riskTelstra makes a significant contribution party dealings differentiation framework. to Australian federal, state and local Australia’s domestic and international We maintain a conservative tax risk profile. government tax revenues. During FY16: tax laws are amongst the strongest in the All transactions entered into are based T  elstra paid $1.8 billion in Australian developed world, resulting in high levels of on commercial considerations and we income tax1, $0.2 billion in payroll tax compliance. do not take positions that are tax driven, tax and $0.1 billion in other Australian Our international related party artificial or contrived or interpret a tax federal, state and local transactions are based on commercial law beyond its spirit and intent. Where government taxes considerations and are undertaken in appropriate, we minimise tax risk and accordance with the OECD arm’s length T  elstra has remitted $1.1 billion in net uncertainty by obtaining sign-offs from principles. We comply with all Australian goods and services tax after claiming revenue authorities. and foreign tax laws and filing obligations. input tax credits We undertake a real time review During FY16:  elstra has remitted $1.0 billion in pay T of tax risks on all material transactions and  elstra paid and received fees for T as you go withholding tax deducted are committed to continuous improvement international connectivity services to from salaries paid to employees. of tax compliance systems, processes and from its offshore controlled entities and practices. On average our annual payment of corporate income taxes account for  elstra paid for telecommunications T approximately 2.4 per cent of total and management services to its corporate taxes collected by the ATO2. offshore controlled companies The Telstra Group’s effective tax rate for T  elstra received and paid interest on continuing operations was 31.6%, which loans to and from its offshore controlled is in line with the Australian corporate entities. tax rate3. 1 Income tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited on behalf of the Australian tax consolidated group (Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries). 2 Average percentage calculated using our net Australian tax consolidated group cash tax paid divided by ATO net corporate income tax collections for the past 3 years (i.e. FY2013 to FY2015) based on the 2015 Commissioner of Taxation’s Annual Report. 3 Refer to Section 2.4 Income Taxes in our Annual Report for further details. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 30 Conducting our business ethically Human rights approach We respect and support human rights and work across our value chain to ensure that we and our business partners operate without infringing on human rights. Telstra has been a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact since 2011 and is committed to supporting the 10 principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We recognise our responsibilities to respect and support human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and our approach is aligned to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our commitment is defined with annual global turnover exceeding FY17 in our Human Rights Policy. £36 million to publish an annual ‘Slavery and human trafficking statement’. We Throughout this report, will publish a statement on our website Target the icon above indicates by 31 December 2016 outlining the steps information on our we have taken to ensure that slavery and progress in implementing human trafficking are not taking place Assess training needs for the UN Global Compact specific areas of the business anywhere in our business or supply chain. with heightened human rights principles. This year, we assessed the compliance risks. and training requirements arising from progress our revised Human Rights Policy and from the MSA. As a result, we updated our Code Managing human rights of Conduct to reflect our commitment to human rights. We have included reference Our particular business context means to the Human Rights Policy in the revised there are a number of human rights risk employee induction course and plan to areas that need to be managed. Telstra update the annual mandatory compliance has a growing international presence and refresher training to raise awareness of diversified business with a large workforce our approach to human rights. Specific and contractor base. We also have a large training for areas of the business with supply chain through which we undertake heightened human rights risk is planned to potentially high risk activities, such as be developed during FY17. contracting to manufacture electronic equipment in non-Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and developing countries. Telstra is required to respond to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 (MSA), which requires companies operating in the UK Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 31 Conducting our business ethically Supply chain sustainability approach Our spend puts us in a position to work with our suppliers to positively influence their environmental, social and ethical performance. The Telstra Group Code of Conduct provides an overarching framework to ensure that we operate ethically and with integrity in purchasing goods and services, and in conducting business with suppliers. The Telstra Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our minimum standards in the areas of labour and human rights, health and safety, environment, ethical dealings and supply chain diversity, and is modelled on other codes, including the Electronic Industry Citizen Coalition Code of Conduct. Our supply chain We expect suppliers to meet the standards described in our Supplier Code of Conduct This year, the Telstra Group purchased components (cables, wireless antenna, and are working with them to achieve this. $7.4 billion for goods and services from exchanges). These items are provided Telstra’s approach to sustainable about 4,400 suppliers. The Telstra directly to customers, used to supply our procurement encompasses both social Group's key areas of purchasing are network and data services, or used by and environmental considerations. The key electronics and network components Telstra employees. principles of our approach to sustainable (around 44 per cent of our third party Our procurement of services includes supply chain management are reflected expenditure) as well as services (around activities that relate to installing and 56 per cent). maintaining our network, connecting our within our Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as other key procurement policies Our procurement of electronics and customers to the network, developing and processes. Our procurement criteria network equipment includes mobile software, providing customer support, devices (phones, tablets, wireless providing non-core services such as includes questions related to governance internet), IT equipment (computers, property management, as well as and ethics, health and safety, data security, modems, servers) and network professional consulting services. energy efficiency and environmental compliance. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 32 Conducting our business ethically Supply chain sustainability progress cent of Telstra’s spend. In FY15, we sent These groups perform grounds all high risk suppliers a sustainability risk maintenance at around 6,000 of our Managing risks in our questionnaire and we have now received network sites and also regularly clean responses from all 24 suppliers. Analysis 900 network sites. At 30 June this year, supply chain of the supplier responses identified that 501 people with a disability and 32 people many of our high risk suppliers have from a disadvantaged background were The key supply chain risks for strong corporate governance over their accessing employment through the our industry include: own operations. However, not all could program. P  roducts or services being confirm that our expectations, as set out in Through the Indigenous Workforce produced under poor labour our Supplier Code of Conduct, have been Program (IWP) we partner with local conditions, including child labour, communicated beyond our direct suppliers Indigenous groups to undertake grounds forced or compulsory labour and a (tier one suppliers) to those suppliers maintenance at our sites. We have a lack of freedom of association and (tier two and beyond) who support them large number of key facilities across collective bargaining in supplying to Telstra. Having identified regional and remote Australia including this, we will continue to work with our radio towers, mobiles base stations and T  he potential use of conflict direct suppliers in FY17 to ensure they are exchanges. Grounds maintenance for minerals in our products cascading our expectations to our tier two these facilities is critical to maintaining U  se of rare metals in electronics and three suppliers. our communications infrastructure but production and a lack of recovery, During the year we continued to often challenging due to their remoteness. recycling and reuse mechanisms integrate sustainability considerations This year we continued to expand our for these metals into our sourcing processes and program by bringing members of several  oxic chemicals discharged to air T included sustainability criteria in our smaller, isolated communities on board or water where factories are standard procurement assessment for the first time. The IWP employs more located in areas with insufficient templates, which cover the areas of than 74 people at over 550 sites across regulation or no enforcement of environment, health and safety, labour Queensland, the Northern Territory and minimum standards practices, management systems and Western Australia. H  igh energy use and carbon subcontractor management. We also held In FY16, we expanded our engagement with emissions associated with sustainability awareness sessions for Indigenous business suppliers through products and services. more than 200 procurement and supply our membership with Supply Nation, an chain employees and contractors. The organisation that connects Australian In FY16 we continued to embed the awareness sessions covered an overview corporates and government organisations management of sustainability risks of Telstra’s sustainability strategy and with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and opportunities in our supply chain key commitments, how they apply to business suppliers. This year, we spent into our core activities. We continued to procurement, Telstra’s sustainability more than $900,000 with Indigenous assess and manage risk within our supply expectations of suppliers and how to enterprises, exceeding our target of chain through our sustainability risk manage sustainability risks when sourcing $500,000. questionnaire. goods and services. To learn more about our broader We are working with all of our 24 high risk Delivering social impact reconciliation commitments, please refer suppliers to understand their approach with our suppliers to our RAP in the Connecting communities to managing sustainability risks and chapter of this report. Telstra is proud to continue its partnership assessing their performance. High risk with 14 non-profit groups around Australia suppliers were identified from a supply to create employment opportunities chain risk assessment conducted in FY14 for people with disability or from covering 131 suppliers representing 66 per disadvantaged backgrounds. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 33 Conducting our business ethically Supply chain sustainability We also continued to increase the diversity of our supply chain by partnering with community organisations such as Beehive Industries, which manages the assembly of our $2 Sim Card Starter Kits. Beehive Industries is a registered charity working to create more volunteering and training opportunities for seniors and people living with a disability, to promote social inclusion. Improving the environmental performance of suppliers Mahiyar Hira, Senior Operations Specialist Our supply chain is an important part of with volunteers from Beehive Industries our overall value chain which offers both challenges and opportunities for reducing the environmental impacts of products Adding social value through Indigenous procurement and services. Suppliers consumed energy There are a lot of barriers for small “Not only was this product sustainably and water and generate greenhouse businesses to be suppliers to large sourced with Programme for the gas emissions and waste to produce the corporations and government agencies. Endorsement of Forest Certification products we sell. We have a responsibility Telstra is working to reduce the barriers (PEFC) and Supply Nation Certification, to work with suppliers and collaborate for Indigenous enterprises who operate proceeds from sales of the across the supply chain to reduce the on a small scale and may not have Tjindgarmi range support The Teter environmental impacts of our products and the formal standards or certifications Mek Foundation, which produces services. required by larger companies. educational materials and lesson plans This year, we explored opportunities for schools to teach about Indigenous A sustainable supply chain is an important culture. This added a level of social part of our Enterprise Environment to use smaller Indigenous enterprises to fulfil office consumable orders. value that was attractive to Telstra” said Strategy. As part of the strategy, we are James Sharman, who manages Telstra’s working to minimise the embodied carbon, As a result, we were able to commit to supporting the Indigenous owned relationship with Supply Nation. operational energy consumption in the manufacturing and supply of products as Tjindgarmi Range of Office Products. More than 95 per cent of Telstra’s office well as the energy efficiency of products. copy paper is Tjindgarmi branded and we plan to look for new ways to diversify A collaborative effort between our our supply chain to create social value. Procurement team, the Chief Sustainability Office and Telstra Operations led to the development of a set of environmental To find out more about sustainable standards, aimed at helping our suppliers to consider and improve the energy procurement, visit www.telstra.com/suppliers. FY17 efficiency of their products and services. The standards cover primarily network Target and data centre equipment providers and requires them to meet energy efficiency Establish a new supply chain specifications for any products they supply. risk governance model across The new purchasing requirements are Telstra Group. planned to be implemented in early FY17. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 34 Conducting our business ethically Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) We acknowledge that some people are concerned about possible health effects from electromagnetic energy (EME), and we are committed to addressing these concerns responsibly. approach We are proactive, transparent and fact based in our communications regarding EME and comply with the standards set The community can also use the RFNSA to progress by regulators. provide feedback and submissions about proposals. The RFNSA received more than Keeping our We rely on the expert advice of national 95,000 guest visits in FY16 and is used by and international health authorities customers informed all carriers to provide information about including the Australian Radiation EME, site safety and network deployment Helping our customers and the community Protection and Nuclear Safety Agency for mobile base stations across the nation. keep abreast of the latest information is (ARPANSA) and the World Health important to us. This year, we continued Organisation (WHO), and we actively All of our base stations are assessed our mobile safety SMS campaign, sending contribute to scientific research on EME for EME compliance, and the ARPANSA out almost 17 million messages referring and health. Environmental EME reports and customers to www.telstra.com/mobiletips, compliance certificates are published on our information site for safe and We provide information about EME on our the RFNSA. As a member of the Mobile website at www.telstra.com/eme. We also responsible phone use. We also updated Carriers Forum, we continue to participate our website to include specific information invite customers to go directly to the WHO, in the annual survey program that ARPANSA and ‘EMF Explained’ websites as regarding EME and children. measures radiofrequency levels in public well as the recently created ITU EMF Guide areas around selected base stations and In FY16 we developed a mobile smart for further information. Wi-Fi locations to ensure they comply phone application for the International We have a dedicated EME help desk with Australian standards. Surveys are Telecommunication Union (ITU) called and team that proactively reviews new conducted by independent assessors who the EMF Guide. The EMF Guide provides site proposals, develops community use a methodology endorsed by ARPANSA. information and educational resources on consultation plans and works with the Telstra has completed more than 50 EME. Following positive feedback, the ITU community to determine acceptable sites surveys since the program started in 2014 requested Telstra develop a multi-lingual for new base stations. and these reports will be made available to version of the guide which was launched the public later in 2016. in Geneva by the ITU in October 2015. The The Radio Frequency National Site Archive EMF Guide is available in the six official (RFNSA) – www.rfnsa.com.au – is a UN languages from app stores and has consultation web portal that we use to more than 600 downloads since being provide the community with access to launched. Earlier this year, the Malaysian up to date information about new base Government launched a Malay version station proposals across the country. of the EMF Guide utilising the material produced by Telstra. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 35 Conducting our business ethically Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) Measuring EME at base stations and Wi-Fi hotspots Telstra complies with the safety standards set by ARPANSA, which are based on the safety guidelines recommended by the WHO. Each base station is assessed for safety compliance and a Certificate of Compliance is issued. This year we continued our base station audit program. As part of this program, independent assessors measured EME levels in public areas surrounding 20 mobile telecommunication facilities. The latest round of sites in the audit program Mick, Telstra Technical Specialist included full base stations, Telstra Air sites on public phone booths and small cells Product compliance Working safely (small cells are installations which provide with safety standards around antennas 4G data services to the area surrounding Every mobile handset we sold in FY16 This year we developed a mobile phone the facility). The results from the current was certified by the manufacturer as application called Radio Work Safe, program showed measured EME levels compliant with the mandatory ACMA to provide information to non-Telstra continue to be well below the allowable Radio Communications (Electromagnetic personnel who conduct construction levels as set out in the relevant standard Radiation – Human Exposure) Standard work on sites with radio frequency (RF) and also lower than those levels modeled 2014. It is designed to offer protection transmitting equipment. The App can using the ARPANSA methodology. against identified health effects of EME be downloaded at www.radioworksafe. Community consultation for and contains a large built-in safety margin. com.au. Radio Work Safe complements base station locations We have seen product compliance our existing health and safety protocols requests extend beyond traditional handand provides information on how to work In FY16, we completed 2,642 mobile held devices such as mobile phones over safely around antennas. Through this App, infrastructure consultation projects. the last 12 months. Wi-Fi routers for the the user can access a number of Telstra Some 315 of these projects were for new home, business solutions, public Wi-Fi training videos and complete a checklist development applications (of which 312 networks, along with new innovations that highlights the important safety steps were approved) and 2,327 were proposals must all comply with the standard. to observe prior to accessing areas close where we consulted in accordance with Telstra continues to assess and confirm to RF emitting equipment. This App was the Communications Alliance Mobile compliance of products we are introducing. developed by Telstra on behalf of the Phone Base Station Deployment Industry In addition, we are creating fact sheets and Australian Mobile Telecommunications Code. The Australian Communications and user guides that are made available to the Association (AMTA) and is now undergoing Media Authority (ACMA) confirmed that public to ensure everyone has up to date industry testing prior to launching later they received four objections (complaints) information. in 2016. regarding one Telstra proposal in FY16, compared to none in FY15 and two in FY14. This year we published 82 community consultations on the RFNSA. A small FY17 number of communities, including Bilgola Target Plateau (New South Wales), Sebastopol (Victoria) and Lockridge (Western Continue our mobile safety Australia), expressed concern about EME SMS campaign to keep our through the consultation process. We customers informed of the latest responded to these concerns through information on EME. extended community consultation, individual meetings and our proactive community engagement. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 36 Creating a great place to work Our people Technology is evolving rapidly, customer expectations are changing and we’re facing a more competitive global market. Adapting our ways of working to respond to these changes is critical. To ensure we thrive in these conditions, we’re taking a values-led approach to driving employee engagement, collaboration, diversity and inclusion. We’re providing targeted leadership, learning and development opportunities and continuously improving our approach to health and safety. We’re also investing in programs to attract and retain employees with the skills and passion to help transform Telstra into a world class technology company. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 37 Creating a great place to work Highlights Named as an Employer Lost Time Injury Frequency of Choice for Gender Rate of 0.66 down 33% Equality by the WGEA Achieved a sustainable Invested $1,352 per engagement score of employee on learning 71% in our Employee and development Engagement Survey Undertook 8,186 Achieved 30.6% female volunteering days representation across in the community Telstra Corporation Limited Performance PROGRESS ON FY16 COMMITMENTS RESULT MORE INFO Increase employee engagement to 84% Page 39 78% Achieved Expand on our Core Capabilities and leadership Page 41 development training programs Undertake 10,000 volunteering days in the community Page 42 0% In progress Roll out the next stage of our All Roles Flex program, Page 47 focusing on global mobility and location flexibility Expand opportunities for Indigenous employment within our Retail division, growing traineeship and Page 47 internship opportunities across all business units Develop a return-to-work program for older people 22% Not achieved who have been out of the workforce, to help promote Page 47 age and generational diversity at Telstra Update our Group HSE standards as a key input to Page 49 our HSE Risk Control Framework Continue to develop and implement health and wellbeing programs aimed at minimising workplace Page 49 safety risks Finalise the negotiation of the new Telstra EA and Page 51 implement it across the business Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 38 Creating a great place to work Strengthening our workforce We’re working to create a brilliant, connected workplace for our people. Enhancing our culture and engagement approach We’re working to create a customer focused, collaborative and innovative culture. Getting this right is vital to our ability to deliver on our vision, purpose and business strategy. We know that when our people are engaged, recognised and given opportunities to learn and grow in their roles, they enjoy greater job satisfaction and are more likely to deliver an outstanding customer experience. Jaime Lee, Head of Cloud Practice progress Employees recognise technology companies’ norm being 73 per cent, but short of our aspiration to meet Living our vision, purpose their peers for the global high performing companies’ and values demonstrating Telstra’s norm of 80 per cent. Our vision, introduced this year, is to be values through our Zing Our target for FY16 was to achieve a a world class technology company that empowers people to connect. Working reward and recognition standard engagement score of 84 per cent. As we shifted our engagement metric this towards this vision will help us to achieve program. More than year, we did not measure our performance our underlying purpose as a company, 139,000 Zings have been against this target. Our new target is to create a brilliant connected future for everyone. Our values, along with our awarded this year. to achieve a sustainable engagement score that is in line with the global high Telstra Group Code of Conduct and policy Engaging our employees performing norm by 2020. framework guide the way we work towards these goals. Seeking and responding to employee The survey identified areas for feedback helps make Telstra a great place improvement. Over the coming months to work. we will develop action plans to help us to At Telstra, we have five values: improve employee advocacy and empower In March we conducted an Employee Show you care our people to create brilliant customer Engagement Survey (EES), with an 80 per experiences. This will include efforts to Better together cent response rate. This year we shifted reduce complexity within our business and our key metric to sustainable engagement, Trust each other to deliver improve customer processes, and to better a more rigorous measure that provides a anticipate new products and services that Make the complex simple deeper understanding of the key drivers of our customers will love. Find your courage. performance. The sustainable engagement metric consists of three components It also showed that our employees are how engaged, enabled and energised our proud of Telstra’s purpose, integrity, To help bring our values to life, this year we diversity and social and environmental people are in their roles. launched Values to Standards. Values to performance. They feel that their work is Standards helps teams to turn values into We achieved a sustainable engagement meaningful and that they’re encouraged to behaviours that they can tangibly apply score of 71 per cent. This score is close discuss ideas and learn from mistakes. and be accountable for in their day-toto our global peers, with the global high day work. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 39 Creating a great place to work Enhancing our culture and engagement Attracting and nurturing talent As the market for talent continues to intensify it will become increasingly difficult to attract and retain the best employees to Telstra. We are working to continuously improve our talent and recruitment programs, to ensure we have the workplace capability we require to deliver on our vision to become a world class technology company. This year we introduced a screening survey as an additional step to our external recruitment process, to help ensure we’re hiring people who have the customer Jo, GM HRSS Operations and Chris, Global Talent Strategy and Operations Lead service and advocacy mindset necessary to succeed at Telstra. Managing performance Reconnecting with We also embraced new opportunities to Throughout the year our employees Telstra’s alumni lift our collective performance and talent set performance objectives with their In FY16, the Telstra Alumni program standards for existing employees. This year leader that, along with our customer has grown to over 22,000 members. The we conducted a series of talent workshops advocacy and financial results, form a key program provides former employees with all Executives and Band One people component of our short term incentive with access to discounts, including our leaders, aimed at resetting our talent and plan. THANKSTM Alumni program, networking performance standards and expectations In FY15 we introduced a new approach and special events, job opportunities, as of leaders, improving our succession to performance at Telstra, informed by well as the chance to test new products pipeline and expanding the breadth of emerging best practices and feedback and services. This year we conducted a opportunities we’re offering our people. from our people. This year we have survey to benchmark our program, better We also rolled out a supporting toolkit continued to embed this approach, understand what is important to members that provides managers with information which encourages our people to have and gain insights on how Telstra Alumni around our talent framework, guidance ongoing conversations with their can improve. Overall, we found the program on having career conversations as well as leaders throughout the year about their is world-class, member satisfaction was detailed information on how they can help development priorities, progress and how strong and alumni are highly engaged to encourage agile learning. they can contribute to achieving Telstra’s advocates who are committed to Telstra’s key priorities. Our approach is fluid future success. We focused on increasing and flexible to account for the changing member engagement through a range of needs and aspirations of our people and activities, including networking events, business. reunions, digital training, business and industry updates, volunteering, community grants and local events centred on building advocacy in regional areas. To find out more, visit www.telstra.com/alumni. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 40 Creating a great place to work Enhancing our culture and engagement Providing learning and development opportunities We’re equipping our people with the tools and development required to be inspiring leaders, to foster a global mindset and to deliver increasingly responsive, personalised customer service. This year we: C  ontinued to deliver targeted Core Capabilities development programs to enable our people to develop key business skills, such as driving change, strategic thinking and planning, commercial acumen, business partnering and coaching. More than Global growth program participants 2,000 employees across Australia, the US, the UK, Singapore and Hong Kong Building a global mindset for global growth completed Core Capabilities training This year we piloted a Global Growth “For a business with so much rich in FY16 program, a training experience aimed heritage and deep experience in R  olled out a suite of Telstra Leadership at creating a pipeline of globally ready Australia, but with so much of our programs for aspiring, new, individuals across Telstra. future coming from our international experienced, senior and executive Throughout the program 25 participants operations, driving a truly global leaders across Telstra. Incorporating from across the business were given mindset across our company is and will both face-to-face and online learning the opportunity to learn and interact be imperative to our success and to our modules, these programs were with leading global companies, ability to capitalise on the opportunities undertaken by more than 1,400 people Australian and regional government that are in front of us,” he said. leaders in FY16 representatives, innovation experts and “I met a diverse, exceptional group of Launched Get Started, a new digital cultural intelligence specialists, to help leaders through this program who have global induction portal. All new them to build global mindset capability a common intent to embed a global employees are now introduced to our and progress their team-work projects. mindset across our organisation. To culture and strategic priorities in a Adam Day, Head of Enterprise Sales me, this is an incredibly exciting time consistent way through the portal, with Strategy, Americas participated in the for Telstra, and one I now feel better a particular focus on driving customer pilot and thought it represented a key connected and empowered to be a advocacy step towards Telstra becoming a truly part of”.  iloted a Global Growth program – the P global, world class technology company. first of two initiatives aimed at building Global Mindset capability. For more information, see the case study below. In FY16 we invested $45 million (not FY17 including labour costs) in learning and development across the Telstra Group, Target which equates to $1,352 per employee (full time equivalent, excluding contractors). Launch the Telstra Leader This included an $8 million investment in Program, to assist our leaders to talent and leadership development. create a world-class culture for our people. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 41 Creating a great place to work Enhancing our culture and engagement Team Telstra volunteering in Hong Kong Volunteering and giving progress Volunteering approach in our communities As a large employer, we have a unique opportunity to contribute to the This year, our employees contributed 8,186 communities in which we live and work. volunteer days, up 13 per cent from 7,225 days in FY15, but short of our target of We encourage our people to get involved 10,000 days. This represents a total value in our core sustainability programs by of $1.7 million. supporting them to give One Day. One Cause. One Dollar. For Everyone. Our Employees volunteered their time to ‘ONE’ employee call to action encourages a variety of causes including youth our people to take up their One Day of mentoring with Foundation House, volunteering leave, get behind One Cause preparing and serving food to people that matters to them, and have every One in need with the Salvation Army and Jo Stentiford, Dollar they donate through payroll giving Sacred Heart Mission, and planting trees, Partnerships Manager, mulching and weeding with Landcare. matched by Telstra. Landcare Australia In addition to providing paid volunteer Our Telstra International employees From Tassie’s Bellerive Bluff to leave, we maintain a number of contributed an additional 578 volunteering McMinns Lagoon in the Northern partnerships that provide individual and days through events held in the UK, US and Territory, Telstra volunteers have team, skilled and unskilled volunteering throughout Asia this year. cleared, dug, seeded and watered opportunities. We also provide emergency the vast diversity of Australia’s response leave and blood donor leave to Two-thirds of our nonlandscapes. In fact, since forging a employees donating with the Australian profit partners rate partnership with Landcare Australia Red Cross Blood Service. four years ago, more than 3,000 Telstra’s volunteering Telstra employees have spent more With the support of the Telstra Foundation, we provide dollar-for-dollar matched contribution as ‘extremely than 22,000 hours volunteering with payroll giving (up to $1,000 per employee important’ to achieving Landcare communities – making Telstra our largest corporate per year and $750,000 overall), enabling their organisational volunteering partner. However, the employees to give to any registered charity in Australia. This provides an incentive for mission and goals. numbers only tell a small part of our people to donate and the freedom to the story. Like us, Telstra people are This year we updated our volunteering choose causes they are passionate about. committed to building a sustainable intranet site, the EVERYONE portal to make future, and it’s been with their help We also encourage our people to support it easier for Telstra employees to find and that we’ve been able to have such an their local communities through the Telstra register themselves and colleagues for impact over the past few years. Kids Fund. Collectively, our employees can volunteering activities. The new social apply for up to $1 million in grants each functionality of the portal aims to create year to fund the little things that make a a strong community of volunteers, where big difference to kids’ lives. our people are encouraged to share their experiences and causes they are passionate about. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 42 Creating a great place to work Enhancing our culture and engagement To help us achieve our volunteering target we also undertook research this year to better understand our peoples’ volunteering motivations, awareness and behaviours. This research found that 91 per cent of our people believe volunteering is important and 63 per cent volunteer in the community. As our recorded volunteering rate is only 29 per cent, this research tells us that we have work to do to encourage employees to volunteer with Telstra and to record their volunteering days in our leave system. This will be a key focus for FY17. Our reward and recognition program, Pay it Forward, rewards individuals who have Steve Tinker, Telstra Country Wide volunteering at SACE put the customer at the heart of everything they do. The intention of the program is to Launch of the Spirit of Anzac Centenary Experience link staff recognition with advocacy and provides recipients with a life-changing The Spirit of Anzac Centenary This year more than 1,100 Telstra opportunity to make a difference to Experience is the Australian employees, alumni and friends have communities in need. This year our Pay Governments’ flagship activity of the volunteered at SACE across Australia. it Forward volunteer groups spent time Anzac centenary commemorations. It “Being part of the launch of the Spirit of working in two Indigenous communities is a unique partnership between the Anzac Centenary Experience travelling in Western Australia. One group worked Australian Government, the Australian exhibition in Albury-Wodonga last year with the Central Desert Native Title Service War Memorial, Commonwealth Bank was quite special for me. The exhibition, team on Kiwirrkurra country. They built a and Telstra. Opened in September I believe, is amazing. Through the ranger shelter, information stands, tables 2015, the exhibition tells the story of sounds and sights, it brings the Anzac and chairs, and installed a new BBQ and Australia’s involvement in the First World spirit to life and the reality of so many water tanks. The other group worked War and commemorates more than Australians involved in war 100 years alongside traditional owners to repurpose 100 years of Australian service. To date ago – and still today. Going through the an old visitor accommodation block in the the Exhibition has visited 11 locations experience, you feel to some extent what ex-community of Yakka Yakka. The facility across Australia, and has been attended it must have been like. How people lived. will be used as an ‘on country’ hub to by more than 170,000 people. How people died,” said Steve Tinker, Area support the traditional owners to manage General Manager for Western Victoria country and keep culture alive. and SACE volunteer. Volunteering on Telstra time Number of days Charitable contributions Payroll giving through employee giving Participation rate (%) Throughout FY16, 5.5 per cent of our employees made donations via payroll giving, down from 5.8 per cent the 8,186 previous year. Including Telstra’s matched 7,225 5,122 contribution, more than $1.5 million was donated to 350 charities this year. 5.3 5.8 5.5 For details of our top 10 payroll FY14 FY15 FY16 giving recipients, see the Connecting communities chapter of this report. FY17 FY14 FY15 FY16 Target Achieve 30 per cent participation in employee volunteering. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 43 Creating a great place to work Embedding diversity and inclusion approach Promoting diversity and inclusion across Telstra helps us improve our business results, enhance our reputation and attract, engage and retain talented people. In addition, having a diverse range of employees better enables us to understand our customers’ individual needs and provide them with excellent customer service. At Telstra, diversity means difference, in all its forms, both visible and not visible. This includes differences that relate to gender, age, cultural background, disability, Alicia, Site Manager Global Contact Centres religion and sexual orientation, as well as differences in background and life Initiatives include ambitious gender To work towards gender pay equity, we experience, and interpersonal and problem representation targets across all business examine our remuneration data across all solving skills. units, the gender equality ‘plus one business units every year to identify any Our approach to diversity and inclusion promise’, which encourages leaders to pay disparities that can’t be explained by is led by our Diversity Council, which is consider gender balance in their hiring and differences in length of service, or levels of chaired by the CEO and comprises the promotion activities, as well as the ‘panel performance or role type. Each business entire CEO Leadership Team. Through pledge’ to increase female representation unit has a dedicated budget for correcting this forum, along with our diversity policy, on panels and at speaking events. We disparities and we closely monitor the leadership framework and Business are a formally accredited White Ribbon application of this budget to ensure Unit Diversity Councils, we reinforce the Australia Workplace and a signatory to the funds are distributed in line with the core expectation that our people create an UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. principles. inclusive culture and value difference. Our CEO, Andrew Penn is also a member This year we saw a decrease in female The Telstra Board sets our diversity of ‘Male Champions of Change’, a group of representation across Telstra Corporation measurable objectives and assesses male executives committed to showing Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries our progress in achieving them annually. leadership on gender equality. of 0.4 per cent. This decrease reflects The table on page 46 summarises these We encourage our people to get involved the reversal of a consistent companyobjectives and our progress against them, by joining our Brilliant Connected Women wide trend of female commencements as at 30 June 2016. network, a forum that now has more than exceeding female exits. 2,000 members, male and female, who are We will continue our efforts to attract and progress committed to advancing gender equality in retain more women in FY17 in order to Continuing our efforts our business. meet our targets by continuing our focus towards gender equality Gender pay equity continues to be a key on gender-balanced recruitment, inclusive We are committed to gender equality and area of focus and we remain vigilant leadership and enabling more flexible ways have a broad range of policies, programs about how we administer and apply of working. and initiatives in place to help us achieve policy to avoid any bias in performance this goal. assessment and remuneration decisions. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 44 Creating a great place to work Embedding diversity and inclusion Jason, GM HR Innovation Our achievements in FY16 include: Representation of women in Telstra I ntroducing a learning experience called as at 30 June 2016 30.6 per cent female “Bias, Interrupted” to help leaders representation across Telstra better understand bias and adopt ROLE NUMBER PERCENTAGE Corporation Limited inclusive leadership behaviours. Around 900 people leaders and team members BOARD1 3 33.3% have completed this program since it Non-executive 45.5 per cent female directors representation on our CEO launched in April this year leadership team as at 30 June 2016 L  aunching our Family and Domestic EXECUTIVE 70 25.5% Violence Support Policy globally, MANAGEMENT1 providing employees impacted by family Bands A, B and C within the Telstra and domestic violence across our international operations with up to an Executive Team 41% of new hires across the business are female additional 10 days paid leave each year. MIDDLE 3,014 28.1% Since this policy was first launched in MANAGEMENT1 Australia in 2014, 91 employees have Bands 1 or 2 91.1 per cent of parents accessed this leave, demonstrating its or equivalent returned to Telstra this year importance and that employees feel after taking parental leave supported by their manager to apply for OPERATIONAL1 6,959 31.8% Bands 3 or 4, this specific leave type or equivalent B  eing named as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality by the Australian TELSTRA TOTAL1 10,046 30.6% Government’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency. TELSTRA GROUP 10,535 30.4% TOTAL2 Telstra is required by the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012 to report our Information rregarding the controlled entities in the Telstra workforce gender profile as at 31 March Group can be found on our website at www.telstra.com/investor (Latest Results). each year. Our 2016 report was lodged with Notes: the WGEA on 30 May, 2016 and is available 1 Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, on our website at excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff www.telstra.com/governance. in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. 2 Includes full time, part time and casual staff in controlled entities within the Telstra Group, excluding contractors and agency staff. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 45 Creating a great place to work Embedding diversity and inclusion Alice, Head of Hong Kong and Taiwan Global Sales Diversity measurable objectives OBJECTIVE AND PROGRESS/RESULT IN RESPECT OF FY15 OBJECTIVE IN RESPECT OF FY17 MEASURE (OR AS OTHERWISE STATED) (OR AS OTHERWISE STATED) WOMEN ON THE BOARD OBJECTIVE There will be at least three women on the Board, representing a female There will be at least 3 women on the Board, gender representation among non-executive Directors of at least 30%, with an aspiration to representing a female gender representation achieve 40% female representation among non-executive Directors by 2020 among non-executive Directors of at least 30%, with an aspiration to achieve 40% PROGRESS As at 30 June 2016, there were three female Directors on the Board (including female representation among non-executive the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee), representing a female gender representation Directors by 2020 among non-executive Directors of 33% FEMALE REPRESENTATION OBJECTIVE 45% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2016, with an 45% female representation in graduate IN GRADUATE INTAKE aspiration to achieve 50% female representation by 2020 intake selected in 2017, with an aspiration to achieve 50% female representation by 2020 RESULT 37% female representation in graduate intake selected in 2016 PROMOTION RATES FOR WOMEN OBJECTIVE Promotion rates for women to exceed their representation at Business Unit Promotion rates for women to exceed their level representation at Business Unit level RESULT Achieved in Telstra overall and in eight out of 11 business units ENGAGEMENT OF OBJECTIVE Engagement of identified groups equal to or greater than Telstra-wide Engagement of identified groups equal to or IDENTIFIED GROUPS1 engagement score, with any negative differences not statistically significant greater than Telstra-wide engagement score, with any negative differences not statistically RESULT Engagement of women and culturally and linguistically diverse employees significant exceeded the Telstra-wide engagement score. Engagement of Indigenous employees, employees with a disability, and gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and intersex employees was lower than overall engagement, with the differences for Indigenous employees and employees with disability being statistically significant FEMALE REPRESENTATION2 OBJECTIVE Female representation at 30 June 2016 of 32% (Telstra Total) and 30% FY17 – Female representation at 30 June AT 30 JUNE (Executive Management). FY20 35% (Telstra Total) and 40% (Executive Management) of 32% (Telstra Total) and 30% (Executive Management) RESULT 30.6% (Telstra Total) and 25.5% (Executive Management) FY20 – Female representation at 30 June of 35% (Telstra Total) and 40% (Executive Management) 1 Identified groups are female employees, Indigenous employees, culturally and linguistically diverse employees, employees with a disability and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) employees. 2 Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 46 Creating a great place to work Embedding diversity and inclusion 82 per cent of Telstra employees believe they have the flexibility they need to balance work and personal life. Making flexibility the norm In this year’s EES, 2,546 Telstra employees This year we launched Gender Transition identified as living with a disability. This Guidelines to help our people to understand through All Roles Flex year we were the largest corporate provider how they can provide support for colleagues Our people have varied priorities, passions of the Australian Network on Disability undertaking a gender transition. and interests that it’s important they can Stepping Into internship program, which We also celebrated the seventh anniversary balance with work. We therefore offer provides a paid internship program to of our Spectrum network for LGBTI flexibility as the starting point for all roles university students with disability. We employees and allies. This network is at Telstra. hosted 28 students in FY16, and three have expanding across our global operations and This year we focused on global mobility secured ongoing work at Telstra. contains 51 champions from the Telstra and location flexibility. We also extended For more information on our Reconciliation Executive Team. the scope of our global mobility policy to Action Plan and Disability Action Plan, see give employees wanting to work flexibly the Connecting communities chapter of Our stance on overseas the opportunity to do so. this sustainability report. marriage equality Our EES tells us 82 per cent of Telstra Earlier this year there was commentary employees believe they have the flexibility Promoting age diversity regarding Telstra’s position on marriage they need to balance work and personal within our workforce equality. While we initially advised that life. In Australia, people aged 45 and over we would not actively participate in the make up the fastest-growing employee marriage equality debate, out of respect for Employment pathways category. It’s therefore important for us to the wide range of views on the subject, it for diverse candidates consider how we can best promote age became clear to us that Telstra should step We are committed to providing and generational diversity, and offer the forward on this topic. We have renewed our employment pathways for candidates with flexibility required to attract and retain active participation on marriage equality diverse backgrounds and needs. This year talent of all ages. and are in discussions with Australians for 182 Telstra employees identified as being Equality about what role Telstra might play This year we developed a return to work of Indigenous descent through our EES. in support of their campaign. program for older people who have been Key initiatives included: out of the workforce for an extended period  roviding new mentoring and P of time. This program will be rolled out engagement opportunities for 32 new Indigenous employees to support across Telstra in FY17, helping to promote age and generational diversity. FY17 retention and career development Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Target C  reating new traineeship and internship opportunities across all Transgender and Intersex Achieve 32 per cent female business units including 10 new roles (LGBTI) inclusion representation across Telstra. in Telstra Retail Indigenous work LGBTI inclusion is important to us. We want experience program our people to bring their whole selves to O  ffering work-experience and longwork and feel comfortable doing so. We have term traineeship and internship long shown our support for LGBTI inclusion opportunities to 24 students to help by supporting events like Wear it Purple them build confidence and business Day, which raises awareness and funds for skills ahead of entering the workforce. LGBTI inclusion in the community, and the Midsumma arts and entertainment festival. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 47 Creating a great place to work Ensuring the health and safety of our people approach The health and safety of our people is essential and we are making good progress in our efforts to continuously improve the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) culture. Through our HSE strategy we continue to embed a strong risk management culture across our global operations. The Telstra Board monitors our health and safety performance, and regular reports are also provided to the Board Audit and Risk Committee and Management Risk Committee. Our Health and Safety Policy Andrew, Team Manager Data Services details our commitment and expectations in relation to the health and safety of our progress of continuously engaging with our people people, contractors and the public across to reinforce our policy that no job is so the Telstra Group. Our health and safety important that it cannot be done safely. Telstra is a Commonwealth Safety, performance Despite this, throughout FY16 our injury Rehabilitation and Compensation In February this year a contractor rates continued to improve. Our risk Commission (SRCC) approved selftragically died when he fell from a reduction programs and enhancements insurer licensee and we have maintained mobile telecommunications tower at our to injury management and claims a Comcare Tier 3 status (the highest Fountain Head site near Hayes Creek management delivered positive results. possible) for all three areas – prevention, in the Northern Territory. A Safety Alert Our employee Lost Time Injury Frequency claims management and rehabilitation. was issued shortly after the incident, Rate (LTIFR) reduced by 33 per cent Telstra is certified to AS/NZS 4801 reinforcing Telstra’s requirements for this year. Standard for Occupational Health and employees and contractors when working Safety Management Systems and was at height on our mobile towers. An audit Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate1 accredited for a further three years in was also undertaken of all relevant work December 2014. Telstra also holds Federal at height activities taking place at our sites 1.12 Safety Commission accreditation. 0.98 across Australia. 0.66 We continue to maintain open Senior members of the Telstra HSE team, communication with Comcare and all of FY14 FY15 FY16 along with Trauma Assist counsellors were our health and safety stakeholders. We are 1  TIFR is the reported number of accepted workers’ L available on site in the days following the compensation claims for work-related injury or disease that committed to prompt investigation and incur lost time for each million hours worked. Includes Telstra incident to provide support to affected remediation of any issues that may arise. Corporation Ltd employees only, not including subsidiaries or employees and contractors, as well as contractors. their families, and ongoing counselling was made available. Telstra has fully cooperated with Comcare during its investigation of this incident. This tragic event is a strong reminder to all of us of the importance of having robust HSE programs and standards in place, and Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 48 Creating a great place to work Ensuring the health and safety of our people Refreshing our global HSE Our key workplace health and safety indicators1 Standards % CHANGE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR FY16 FY15 FY14 This year we reviewed our enterprise-wide FY15 – FY16 HSE Management System and developed a set of 10 Global HSE Standards that LTIFR 0.66 0.98 1.12 -33 were introduced on July 1, 2016. They Lost time injury frequency rate apply across all Telstra operations as LTI2 33 48 55 -31 well as our controlled entities both in Number of occurrences Australia and overseas. The Global HSE of lost time Standards are supported by Minimum HSE Requirements for our critical and key HSE SERIOUS INJURY RATE3 1.8 1.9 2.6 -5 risks, such as vehicle safety, working at Rate of claims resulting in greater than one week height and asbestos containing material. lost time The HSE Standards and Minimum HSE Requirements have been supported by a LOST DAYS 496 791 1,105 -37 two year program of work in understanding Total days lost and controlling our risks. Two key risk reduction programs are our Driver and DAYS LOST PER LTI 15 16.5 20.1 -9 Average days lost Vehicle Safety Program and the Thrive Employee Resilience program, as outlined NEW WORKERS 339 434 430 -22 below. COMPENSATION CLAIMS Number Preventing health and safety incidents OPEN WORKERS’ 1,112 1,533 1,438 -27 COMPENSATION CLAIMS Our proactive, risk based approach to Number health and safety management is designed to prevent incidents from occurring. FATALITIES4 1 0 0 n/a We continue to strengthen our safety Number culture by focusing on health and safety leadership, risk management and control Notes: 1 Includes Telstra Corporation Ltd employees only, not including subsidiaries or contractors. effectiveness. For example, one of our 2 An LTI is the reported number of occurrences of lost time arising from injury or disease that have resulted in an accepted workers’ highest-ranked HSE risks is driver and compensation claim. 3 For 12 month period 1 June 2015 to 31 May 2016 (latest available result from Comcare). Serious injury rate is defined as a claim that vehicle safety. We have a significant requires an absence from work of one working week or more per 1,000 full time equivalent employees. number of controls in place to reduce the 4 Includes Telstra Corporation Ltd employees and contractors. risk of vehicle incidents, and are focused on continually improving the effectiveness We are also transitioning our operational We also continue to work on building a of these controls. This year we undertook fleet to automatic transmissions and we strong reporting culture across the Group a program of work aimed at building a have increased the number of vehicles with and as a result have seen an 11 fold uplift deeper understanding of driver behaviour in-vehicle monitoring systems, enabling in near-miss reporting and a four fold uplift and vehicle safety risks by analysing us to perform analytics and reporting on in hazard reporting from both employees factors like fatigue management, driver driver behaviour to help us identify and and contractors this year – helping us to distraction and traffic management. acknowledge our top performing drivers proactively address risks. The Driver and Vehicle Safety Program has and work with any at-risk drivers. achieved significant positive change in the We are also in the process of developing organisation. Our risk analysis identified employee training related to these factors. there are potential safety risks related This year, to promote employee awareness to vehicle collisions, speeding, red light of fatigue management and to provide infringements, vehicles not being parked tools and tips for managing fatigue, we properly, as well as driver distraction and developed 12 short education videos fatigue. To minimise the risks related building awareness of the risks associated to vehicles not being parked properly, with fatigue, and how to manage them. handbrake alarms have been fitted in operational vehicles where the risk is heightened. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 49 Creating a great place to work Ensuring the health and safety of our people Mick, General Counsel Finance & Strategy Early intervention We also encourage our people to report Preventing discrimination all incidents of aggression and provide and claims management and bullying support to anyone affected. This year Same day hazard, incident and injury we introduced a targeted program to In line with our values and the Telstra reporting is essential for addressing enhance the skills of our front line staff to Group Discrimination, Bullying and risks and ensuring our people receive anticipate, identify, manage and react to Harassment Policy, we don’t tolerate timely care. Our enhancements to injury incidents, with the primary goal of keeping unlawful discrimination, bullying, management continue to deliver positive themselves and others safe and deharassment or victimisation of any results. In FY16: escalating aggressive situations. kind. Our complaint procedure is aimed at providing our employees with a 9  4 per cent of injured employees confidential, fair and supportive process received early intervention care through Asbestos and safety for managing any issues that arise. our Injury Assist program Our communication network was built over a hundred year period, and some of Throughout FY16, there were 197 reported  6 per cent of injured employees have 9 our concrete pits and pipes were built with cases of discrimination and bullying within been able to return to work and 89 per asbestos containing material at a time Telstra Corporation, six less than in the cent of injured employees were able to before the health issues associated with previous year. As at 30 June 2016, 16 cases return to pre-injury duties. asbestos were known. were open with ongoing investigations, and 198 cases were closed, including 17 that Supporting employee Telstra continues to take our duties were reported in FY15. Outcomes for the health and wellness regarding the safety of all workers and closed cases were: Supporting our people in maintaining and members of the public very seriously. We have invested in an ongoing safety  0 (10.1 per cent of closed cases) were 2 improving their health and wellbeing is a program to remediate any hazardous substantiated and action was taken key part of our health and safety program. asbestos containing materials in our pits against the respondent (this included This year we introduced our Thrive and network sites. This year, 21,177 pits coaching, verbal warnings, written Employee Resilience program after a have been remediated, and more than 900 warnings, final written warnings or successful pilot in FY15. The program pit audits and 2,000 site audits have been dismissals) is designed to assist employees to conducted. While we undertook significant 1  59 (80.3 per cent of closed cases) were understand mental health, assess remediation work in FY16, no high potential found not to be substantiated. In some their own resilience and take actions to asbestos-related incidents have occurred. of these cases other appropriate action improve their ability to manage workplace such as training or mediation was taken and personal stress. The program is also designed for managers to build  9 (9.6 per cent of closed cases) were 1 competence and confidence in identifying FY17 either withdrawn by the complainant or and addressing mental health issues and building resilience at work. In its first five Targets the investigation could not be completed (for example, where parties months, 4,745 employees engaged with involved resigned and further the program. 2,040 went on to complete Continue our programs of work investigation required their an associated survey, which provides to drive risk reduction across the participation). them with a personal mental health and organisation. resilience action plan. In response to the Ensure 80 per cent of all HSE survey results we have run face-to-face incidents are recorded on the and online workshops on coping strategies same day they occur. and healthy sleep this year. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 50 Creating a great place to work Employment and workplace relations approach We aim to build constructive relationships with our employees and their representatives, including unions, with a focus on dialogue and resolution. We carefully manage our workforce requirements, particularly the mix of skills required as the strategic direction of our business changes. We treat employees impacted by structural changes with compassion and respect. We provide a comprehensive program that runs for four to six weeks for all employees whose positions have been made redundant. The program involves career transition support as well as The sale of Autohome also resulted in an Agreement (EA) to cover approximately giving employees priority access to other increase in the percentage of our people 28,000 employees (including casual job vacancies within Telstra, in line with based in Australia. 92.2 per cent of the employees) across Australia. In September our redeployment guidelines. We also Telstra Group workforce was Australian 2015, employees were asked to vote on provide professional support services based as at 30 June 2016, compared to the EA. Of the eligible employees, more for employees and their families through 84.6 per cent in FY15. than 20,000 voted and 59 per cent voted our Employee Assistance Program. Our For more information on our key workforce yes. The EA was approved by the Fair Internal Resolution Policy ensures that statistics, see www.telstra.com/ Work Commission and came into effect employees can seek a review of certain sustainability/report/data. on 12 November. decisions that impact them. This EA continues to build on existing Engaging with unions best-practice, such as the provision of 16 progress In Australia, we regularly engage with weeks’ paid primary carer parental leave, the Community and Public Sector Union family and domestic violence leave, an Key changes within (CPSU), the Communications, Electrical additional ‘Telstra’ day of leave and flexible our workforce and Plumbing Union of Australia (CEPU) working options. and Professionals Australia (APESMA). As at June 30 2016, Telstra Corporation’s The percentage of employees employed total workforce was 28,563 (full-time We consult with unions before we under the EA has increased to 68 per cent equivalent), a decrease of 1.5 per cent, or implement any significant changes to from 65 per cent last year. This percentage 443 roles compared to last year. Telstra the way we work. Our aim is to maintain will continue to increase as the vast Group’s total workforce was 35,853 people an open and constructive relationship majority of new employees joining Telstra (full-time equivalent), a decrease of 8.1 per with union representatives. This year, we will be covered by the EA. The remaining cent, or 3,164 roles compared to last year. conducted more than 50 formal union 32 per cent of employees are employed on While 583 new roles were created across consultation meetings. individual contracts or individual statutory our international operations in FY16, this agreements. Employees on individual downward shift was due to the sale of our Our enterprise agreement and statutory agreements can elect to revert majority stake in Chinese online business other employment instruments to the EA at any time. Autohome in June this year, which led to a In 2015, Telstra Corporation negotiated decrease of 3,940 roles. with unions and employee bargaining representatives for a new Enterprise Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 51 Bridging the digital divide Connecting communities Digital connectivity is vital, with access to the internet now supporting everything from social interactions to employment and social services. The telecommunications sector has been successful in connecting the majority of Australians, but those missing out are at greater risk of being permanently left behind. Barriers to digital access be they physical, financial or literacy-based are likely to reinforce disadvantage. Digital inclusion is a key social challenge facing policy makers and communities worldwide. Close to three million Australians are still not online and the education, health, social and financial benefits of being connected remain out of reach. That’s why our purpose – to create a brilliant connected future for everyone – is so important. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 52 Bridging the digital divide Highlights Reached more Increased our than 59,000 people commitment to assist through our digital women impacted literacy programs by family violence Helped more Launched our third than one million Reconciliation vulnerable Action Plan customers stay connected Helped 120 non-profit Provided $175m of leaders build digital value through our skills through Telstra’s social and community Imaginarium program investment programs Performance PROGRESS ON FY16 COMMITMENTS RESULT MORE INFO Launch and implement our third Reconciliation Action Plan Page 58 100% Achieved Enhance the quality and breadth of our cyber safety Page 60 awareness materials for parents and adults Provide targeted cyber safety information to our Page 60 vulnerable customers and communities In progress 0% Establish new partnerships to extend the reach of our Page 60 Everyone Connected digital literacy programs Develop a new product offering for vulnerable and Page 60 disadvantaged Australians 0% Not achieved Source three to five new Telstra Foundation Page 61 investments Release national strategy for Indigenous Digital Page 62 Excellence, in partnership with the NCIE Launch the first eSmart library and recruit an additional 260 libraries to the initiative, in partnership Page 62 with The Alannah and Madeline Foundation Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 53 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion We use our technology, expertise, scale and local presence to make a difference in the community. approach We believe that everyone – regardless of age, income, ability or location – should enjoy the benefits of being connected. We want everyone to have the confidence and skills to participate safely in the digital world. An Elder shares his story with Indigenous youth as part of the Tech Savvy Elders program Our Everyone Connected strategy has four key objectives: Telstra works closely with key consumer Measuring digital inclusion Affordability organisations in Australia to ensure our in Australia programs for vulnerable customers meet Keeping people connected, especially We are partnering with the Swinburne community needs. Since 2002, the Low when they’re doing it tough Institute for Social Research, the Income Measures Assessment Committee (LIMAC) meets approximately four times Centre for Social Impact, and Roy Accessibility per year to oversee the effectiveness of Morgan Research to more deeply Telstra’s low income package. understand digital inclusion in Ensuring our products and information Australia. In August 2016, we will are accessible and easy to use We meet regularly with the Australian publish the first Australian Digital Communications Consumer Action Inclusion Index to baseline the extent Digital capability Network (ACCAN). Our bi-annual CEO of digital inclusion in Australia. Helping people gain the confidence and Consumer Roundtable provides a regular skills to enjoy the digital world and stay forum for peak consumer organisations to The index will also help to generate safe online meet with our CEO and senior leaders to a national conversation about discuss current and emerging issues. digital inclusion within community, Digital innovation academic, business and government organisations. This is a critical Connecting technology with great ideas for social good. FY17 conversation to have if we are to realise the important benefits digital Through our Everyone Connected programs we support our most vulnerable customers. Target services can bring, as well as inform the development of more effective We invest beyond our regulatory policies, products and programs to obligations to provide these programs and Complete our second year improve digital inclusion in Australia. partner with non-profit and government of research for the Australia Digital Inclusion Index We invite you to join the conversation organisations to deliver them. We regularly measuring progress from about digital inclusion in Australia. review our approach to identify groups the national baseline. To do this, go to digitalinclusionindex. most in need, changing technologies and org.au to find out more. consumer preferences. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 54 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion progress Ensuring our products are affordable for vulnerable customers Through our largest digital inclusion program, Access for Everyone, we help people on a low income or facing financial hardship to stay connected. Since its inception in 2002, we’ve provided benefits to the value of more than $2 billion. We work with more than 2,000 community organisations across Australia that assist people in crisis to deliver these programs. Financial counsellor Alka Bisen from Cancer Council NSW assisting a client In FY16, the benefit provided by all our programs for vulnerable customers was Supporting customers in times of need $107 million, a reduction of 16 per cent Telstra assists people who are help cancer patients, who often need to compared to FY15, largely reflecting a experiencing financial difficulty through travel for treatment, connect with family lower take-up of our pensioner discount its Telstra Bill Assistance Program. and friends when they need it most.” on fixed-line home phone services as Participating non-profit community Alka Bisen, Financial Counsellor, Cancer more customers move to bundles. Around agencies are provided bill assistance Council NSW. 758,000 pensioners received the discount certificates to give to those in need. Cancer Council’s Financial Assistance this year to the value of $86 million, This year, we extended our relationship Program is a support service, typically compared to 885,000 people in FY15. with Cancer Council Australia to support accessed through Cancer Council’s We provided home phone line rental cancer patients nationally. Cancer information and support line (13 11 20) relief for about 51,000 households and patients and their carers often forgo or a social worker. Customers distributed around 95,000 pre-paid their income and may need to pay for experiencing financial difficulties payphone and mobile phone calling cards expensive treatment, which can add to paying their Telstra bill should call (including Phonecards) and mobile phone the stress of coping with their diagnosis. Telstra on 13 22 00. recharge cards, compared to around “Telstra’s bill assistance certificates 81,000 cards in FY15. Every month we also increase the impact of our broader provided rebates on Telstra bills for around Financial Assistance Program, and 1,700 customers seeking emergency relief. To find out more about our vulnerable customer programs, visit www.telstra.com/hardship. FY17 Target Launch a new product offering for vulnerable and disadvantaged Australians. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 55 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion Towards universal The second project, a partnership Providing access accessibility between Telstra, the Burke Shire Council, to online education the Queensland Government and the Connecting rural and regional When it comes to providing children Australian Government will extend our with the best possible educational communities optic fibre to Burketown. With completion tools and support, rural and regional Telstra is committed to delivering leading expected in 2017 these projects will, communities can face significant telecommunications products and services for the first time, provide residents and hurdles. That’s why we offer to our customers in remote, rural and visitors with the same network experience unmetered access to a number of regional areas. as customers in major cities. education websites for all BigPond For greater detail on our network and Telstra Mobile Broadband Telstra’s mobile network investment and performance this year, users. This helps ensure kids in rural refer to the Customer experience chapter reaches 99.3 per cent of of this report. and regional communities have the access to quality educational the population and 2.4 content. To learn more about the sites million square kilometres that are available and the terms and across Australia conditions of this offer, visit www.telstra.com/unmetered-sites. including rural and regional areas not served by any other carrier. We understand how important communication is to communities outside of major capital and regional hubs. Under the Mobile Black Spot Programme Telstra is contributing $165 million to assist in the construction of 429 3G/4G mobile base stations to extend coverage into more than 400 communities where there is currently little or no coverage. Customers using our mobile network in regional areas are also set to get a significant boost, thanks to a multi-million dollar investment in additional spectrum that will increase the capacity of our 4G service and allow the delivery of more data Tech Savvy Elders participants and faster speeds. Supporting Indigenous Australians to get online Telstra has also commenced two new This year, we partnered with the NSW members with a tech tutorial, as well as infrastructure projects to deliver modern Government, MGoals and the NSW interviewing and filming each elder for standards of connectivity to some of Aboriginal Education Consultative the creation of an online video. The Tech the most remote parts of Queensland. Group, to develop and launch Tech Savvy Savvy Elders program was designed The first project, a partnership between Elders. This is an intergenerational to help Indigenous seniors gain digital Telstra, the Barcoo and Diamantina program that brings together school technology skills and confidence, while shires, the Queensland Government and students and Indigenous seniors to connecting young people first-hand the Australian Government, is expected share technology skills as well as with their local Indigenous community, to deliver high-speed fibre connectivity insights into local culture and history. culture and history. to the townships of Jundah, Windorah, As part of the program primary school Stonehenge, Bedourie and Birdsville. students used a tablet to provide visiting older Indigenous community Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 56 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion Assisting customers This year, our Disability Enquiry Hotline Empowering women took more than 23,000 calls and processed with disabilities impacted by family violence more than 4,000 successful applications Telstra’s Disability Action Plan (2013for more than 5,000 products as part of At the National Family Violence Summit 16) ended in June this year. Some of the our Disability Equipment Program. Around in March this year, our CEO Andrew Penn key achievements assisting customers, 126,000 calls were made to our Directory joined Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull employees and communities with Assistance Helpline by customers who and the Women’s Services Network disability, included: are not able to use our printed or online (WESNET) to announce the expansion  emoved CAPTCHA-based customer R telephone directories. of the Safe Connections program. The verification (where users are asked to In FY16, the Telecommunications Industry program provides safe smartphones enter letters or numbers to prove they Ombudsman (TIO) received three customer for women impacted by family violence. are a real user) requirements from our complaints that included reference to Telstra’s original commitment of 5,000 online consumer platforms disability access or equipment. One related smartphones (over three years) was I ncreased employment of people with to a delay in connection for a priority increased to 20,000 and includes a $30 disability through our Supported assistance customer, one related to a delay pre-paid starter kit and information on the Workforce program by 26 per cent over in replacing faulty equipment, and the safe use of technology. the course of the plan – which now third complaint related to Telstra’s failure employs more than 500 people with to provide suitably accessible products “One in three women disability at point of sale. We routinely analyse TIO in Australia are compliance data in order to eliminate the Through the Telstra Foundation, root causes of complaints. One of the ways likely to experience invested in innovative community programs that use technology to we have addressed these root causes family violence. That enhance the social inclusion of people is through Telstra’s Online Accessibility is a shocking and Portal, which provides information on with disability the accessibility features of the mobile unacceptable situation E  stablished a web portal to highlight handsets we sell. We continue to work and we all have a role to accessibility features of Telstra’s mobile devices. with our retail employees to ensure they play in addressing it.” understand how to use and promote the Our next plan will help broaden Portal, and provided training on the Portal Andrew Penn, the conversation from disability to to all point of sale staff during Global accessibility, recognising the enormous Accessibility Awareness Day on 19 May. Chief Executive Officer role technology can play to support This year, there were six new complaints The Safe Connections program provides increased social and economic to the Australian Human Rights women impacted by family violence with participation for people living with Commission, the Anti-Discrimination tools and training to help them stay safely disability. We have consulted widely with Commission Queensland, the Victorian connected with friends and family when disability organisations and consumers Equal Opportunity and Human Rights they need it most. Technology, especially to inform Telstra’s 2016-18 Accessibility Commission and the Anti-Discrimination a mobile phone, is now a major part of and Inclusion Plan. This work has Commission Tasmania alleging disability everyday life and it is vitally important highlighted the need for product and discrimination. All complaints were that anyone in a threatening situation service improvements and points to addressed during the year, with three understands how they can best use their skills, confidence and affordability as key formally closed and three pending final phone to help secure their safety. barriers to digital inclusion for people with confirmation prior to formal closure. disability. The Accessibility and Inclusion Plan will be launched by the end of 2016. To find out more, visit telstra.com/disability. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 57 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion Our commitment to reconciliation An update on our Reconciliation Action Plan In September 2015, we launched our third Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) (20152018). Our RAP has the highest rating, ‘Elevate’, from Reconciliation Australia and was developed following two years Jenny Jacobsen, of extensive stakeholder research and Womens' Nurse at the Santa Teresa Clinic, NT using telehealth technology engagement. Indigenous access to medical care The RAP seeks to invest in three highimpact priorities: Telstra Health is working to establish “A one year trial of this program led to greater access to telehealth services for savings of more than $1.1 million in Connection and capability health providers and patients in remote travel costs, an increase in the number locations. In partnership with the NT of people attending appointments The centrepiece of our RAP is a $30 million, Government and the Aboriginal Medical and improved health outcomes – three-year infrastructure co-investment Services Alliance Northern Territory which shows us this is a worthwhile agreement with the Northern Territory (AMSANT), Telstra is providing access to investment”. (NT) Government. We are working with essential healthcare services through In keeping with Telstra’s RAP the NT Government to provide high speed the National Telehealth Connection commitments, Telstra has committed to broadband access to remote communities. Service (NTCS). connect 15 ‘telehealth-ready’ Aboriginal This initiative will be complemented with digital literacy initiatives and cyber safety Telehealth enables patients to connect Medical Services in the NT to the NTCS programs, as well as the expansion of our to specialist appointments and clinics over three years from FY15. Agreements remote telehealth services (see case study) through high definition, secure video with three Aboriginal Medical Services to help ensure this investment makes a conferencing capabilities. have been made and connection is real difference for these communities. “Many patients in regional locations in progress. These are Mutitjulu and have limited access to appropriate Santa Teresa Health Services in Central Key achievements this year include: Australian Aboriginal Congress and healthcare because they are required to travel long distances to major cities for Anyinginyi Health. We continue to work L  aunched inDigiMOB, a three year specialised treatments, which are costly with two further medical services to digital inclusion program designed to and require extended stays away from fulfil our FY16 commitments. accelerate Indigenous participation in the wider economy and open up home”, explains Jen Vo-Phuoc, Senior opportunities for education and Health Specialist for Telstra Health. business. The program was developed in partnership with the Indigenous Commenced fieldwork for a research including information from Remote Communications Association partnership with the Swinburne telecommunication providers and (IRCA) and is designed to establish a Institute of Social Research to assess social media services. Year one findings network of local Indigenous mentors the effectiveness, transferability and were shared with key government and who provide peer-to-peer training and long-term sustainability of cyber safety community stakeholders with the aim support in digital literacy, cyber-safety and digital capability strategies for use of informing the development of more and internet access for remote in remote Indigenous communities. effective policies and programs to community members in the NT. This Early findings highlight a need for address cyber safety issues in remote year, the program is being piloted in two straightforward, fact-based and Indigenous communities. locations Arlparra and Alice Springs. accessible educational material, Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 58 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion Telstra employees taking part in a smoking ceremony led by Wurundjeri Elder Uncle Colin Hunter Employment Employee engagement We aim to double the number of We plan to double the number of cultural Indigenous employees over the next three immersion experiences for employees, years by hiring additional recruitment celebrate and recognise National managers, launching regional Indigenous Reconciliation Week and NAIDOC Week, marketing campaigns, increasing our and further increase our support and mentoring and engagement programs, promotion of the RECOGNISE campaign. and extending our Indigenous Workforce Telstra is a proud supporter of RECOGNISE Program. – the movement to recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples in our Key achievements this year included: Constitution.  ired two Indigenous Recruitment H Key achievements this year included: Coordinators to help accelerate progress L  aunching Common Ground, a six-week Indigenous employee engagement  onnected all new Indigenous C program. A key part of the campaign employees with mentoring was Telstra’s Wurundjeri Immersion Day opportunities Sarah McGeehan, which gave Melbourne based employees a chance to personally Director Business L  inked Indigenous interns and trainees connect and build an understanding of Improvement with ‘buddies’ to provide support and local Indigenous culture. The half-day “I was privileged to participate in one guidance event included demonstrations, of our Common Ground activities, the S  upported an Indigenous MBA presentations and panel discussions Koori Heritage Walk at Federation scholarship. hosted by local Wurundjeri people. Square. Like many Melbournians, Federation Square is a place I have Refer to the Responsible business Hosting an Indigenous art exhibition, visited often but until I spent time section of this report for an update on our in conjunction with the Wurundjeri with our terrific guide Donna, I did Indigenous Workforce Program. Tribe Land Council and the Banyule not have a real appreciation of how City Council. special this land is”. “I find learning more about FY17 Aboriginal culture fascinating. Target The connection to country and the perspective of ‘custodianship’ rather than ‘ownership’ underpins the Expand inDigiMOB, our responsibility to look after the land Indigenous Digital Mentors and all creatures to pass to the next program, into eight new generation”. communities in the NT. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 59 Bridging the digital divide Digital inclusion Improving digital literacy connected to the internet. The Seniors Card Working Group and as co-chair of the Starter Bundle (VIC) and Seniors Starter Technology and Wellbeing Roundtable with and online safety Bundle (NSW) include discounted home ReachOut.com by Inspire Foundation. This year, our digital literacy portfolio, broadband costs and a low-cost tablet to To access our free cyber safety materials, which consists of our Tech Savvy Seniors assist seniors begin their online journey. visit www.telstra.com/cybersafety. program, Telstra Digital Ambassadors and For more information on Tech Savvy our Cyber Safety Awareness programs, Seniors, refer to www.telstra.com.au/techreached more than 59,000 people. This savvy-seniors. included face-to-face training as well as the use of instructional videos and guides Telstra Digital Ambassadors is an available from our Tech Savvy Seniors and employee volunteering program that Cyber Safety websites. delivers simple coaching in small groups for seniors who have minimal or no digital Providing seniors with the literacy skills. The sessions help people learn how to communicate electronically confidence to connect with family and friends, play games, pay a Being confident and literate with bill and shop online. Sessions have been technology is an essential skill in the held at local community groups, retirement digital age. homes, Telstra stores and seniors’ expos Since 2014 we have partnered with state across Australia. governments to deliver the Tech Savvy Almost 6,500 seniors have received Seniors program, supporting seniors Howard Hsu assisting a Digital coaching sessions since the program to build the skills and confidence they Ambassadors program participant launched, and employees who participated need to participate in the online world. identified that they have found it The partnership helps to increase digital Connecting across personally rewarding. The program is also inclusion, reduce social isolation, improve multilingual, assisting seniors in Mandarin, cultures access to government information and Cantonese, Arabic as well as English. This year, a group of bilingual Digital services via the internet, and improve Ambassadors visited Villa Maria, an awareness and resilience to online fraud Helping everyone aged care facility in Victoria to help and financial abuse. Mandarin and Cantonese speaking stay safe online In the past year, we recommitted to our seniors on their journey to being tech At Telstra, we recognise that safe savvy. partnerships with both the New South behaviour isn’t simply about technology Wales (NSW) and Victorian Government The group visited the facility once but rather the combination of skills, and, for the first time, entered into a month over a six month period, knowledge and values that are needed for partnership with the Queensland (QLD) sharing many stories and tips with people to be effective, responsible and safe Government. Our partnership in QLD their students along the way. users of digital technology. focuses on improving the digital literacy “My student Grace has gained the skills of seniors in regional and remote This year we continued to provide skills, confidence and excitement to areas, where seniors are at greater risk of information and build awareness of be part of the digital world through social isolation. cyber safety issues in the community. our program. Believe me or not, she We delivered face-to-face cyber safety This year, we trained more than 26,000 actually shared the moment on presentations to more than 2,700 seniors in libraries and community WeChat, proudly telling her family children, teenagers and parents. We also colleges across NSW and QLD, with and friends about her graduation refreshed our cyber safety website with training delivered in English as well as yesterday. She has received two new resources available for children and Arabic, Cantonese, Dari, Greek, Hindi, likes already!” said Suzanne Ho, young people, and added a new section Italian, Mandarin, Tagalog and Vietnamese. Application Manager with Telstra on personal mobile safety, along with our Along with face-to-face training, we Operations. existing suite of cyber safety tips and provided instructional digital literacy information. On Day for Daniel, a national videos and training guides on our website. day of action to raise awareness of child This year we refreshed our training safety and protection, Telstra store staff content, developed quick reference guides spent the day talking to parents and carers FY17 in Croatian and Macedonian, produced an accessibility training module and made about their children’s digital lives, raising awareness of the tools available to help Target 16 of our Tech Savvy videos available in them manage their families’ online safety Auslan. and to improve digital literacy. Continue to assist seniors to In partnership with the NSW and Victorian We continued to play an active role as build their digital skills and Governments we also announced a new a member of the Children’s e-Safety confidence. discounted broadband bundle for NSW and Commissioner’s Online Safety Consultative Victorian Seniors Cardholders who are not Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 60 Bridging the digital divide Digital innovation Connecting technology with great ideas for social good approach Telstra’s philanthropic arm, the Telstra Foundation believes that combining social innovation with digital connection can transform lives. We proudly support non-profits that create brilliant connected futures for young people living in Australia and drive our impact by investing in: Tech-savvy non-profits that are changing the lives of young people C  ollaborations that support young digital makers and young digital citizens. In FY16, the Foundation implemented a new reporting and evaluation tool across its portfolio to drive greater visibility of its impact. The Telstra Foundation Board also approved a new investment framework that saw almost $1 million Telstra Imaginarium for non-profits (over three years) reinvested in four “There was so many great digital design important when working on any given existing partnerships as well as more tools and methods to be learnt. Not project that includes design or invention than $300,000 invested in two new digital just how they can be used for digital – not just digital.” innovation capability programs. projects but in their broader sense. The Anyaak Abiel, Drummond Street prototyping process for example is really Services (pictured). progress Supporting non-profits change In May this year, we launched the Telstra user-experience and managing digital the lives of young people Imaginarium for non-profits, bringing 120 projects. Sessions were held in Melbourne Non-profits inspire us every day, leaders from across the non-profit sector and Brisbane in June and July this year, particularly those that support young together to help build innovation skills and and a Sydney event will be run in August. people at high risk of social exclusion. In spark ideas that will create tech-driven To scale the program, the Foundation has FY16, we continued to support our multichange within their organisations. As part also invested to build a digital platform year partnerships with ReachOut Australia, of the Imaginarium, the Foundation hosted to connect non-profits to online digital Cerebral Palsy Alliance, MJD Foundation, six-day digital boot-camps in three states, innovation tools and information, due to be Independent Living Centre NSW and covering design thinking, rapid prototyping, launched in FY17. Orygen – National Centre of Excellence for Youth Mental Health. These organisations tackle some of the tough issues facing young people today with a focus on identifying digital solutions. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 61 Bridging the digital divide Digital innovation Delivering mental health solutions for young people In February this year with the support of the Foundation, ReachOut Australia launched the Orb, an online interactive game that provides teenagers with tools and strategies to improve and sustain their wellbeing. The game draws on positive psychology principles and is Indigenous youth at a robotics workshop. Image credit: Barkly Regional Arts aligned to the Australian high school curriculum to help young people From digital consumers to digital makers develop personal strengths, savour positive experiences and strengthen In October 2015, the IDX Initiative youth, skills development for local mental wellbeing and resilience. launched and piloted IDX Flint, a facilitators as well as digital equipment program that sparks the interest, and educational resources. Local The nationwide launch of the Orb ideas and talent of Indigenous youth to Indigenous Elders and community follows a successful pilot trial with connect with digital technology such groups are involved in the co-design of teachers and students. To view how as robotics, 3D printing and coding. IDX the program to ensure cultural elements the ReachOut Orb works in practice Flint provided $25,000 worth of inkind are optimised alongside science and refer to www.reachout.com/orb. support for regional communities via technology skills. hands on workshops for Indigenous Building the next generation of digital makers and citizens and prioritises schools in low socio(SYN) to expand SYN media hubs into the With our partners, we're building digital economic areas, has trained over 600 Kimberley and Fitzroy Crossing in Western making and digital citizenship skills in teachers. This year, the Foundation Australia to train young people in digital communities, classrooms and public reinvested in this program committing to broadcasting skills. libraries across Australia. We focus on an additional $517,000 over the next three As part of the Telstra Shareholder Dividend coding, 3D printing, robotics, cyber-safety years, with our investment matched by Reinvestment Plan, Telstra shareholders and encouraging creativity. Australian Government funding. donated $590,000 to our partner the Our $8 million, six year partnership with Our $5 million, five year partnership Summer Foundation in FY16. This funding Alannah & Madeline Foundation (AMF), now with the National Centre of Indigenous has been invested into the Summer in its third year, is designed to equip libraries Excellence to support and grow Indigenous Foundation’s Hunter Housing project and connect library users with the skills they Digital Excellence (IDX) is in its third year. where adaptable, purpose-built housing need for the smart, safe and responsible use In April this year, we ran a three day IDX for people living with disabilities has of technology. eSmart Libraries is in almost National Summit, building on national been incorporated into a new large-scale half of all Australian libraries, with a total of consultations with Indigenous Australian property development in Belmont, New 647 out of 1,500 library branches registered. communities to inform the development South Wales. As part of the 2016 evaluation, 90 per cent of the country's first Indigenous digital of participant libraries reported improved excellence strategic roadmap. The event, knowledge as a result of the program. which was attended by the Prime Minister, Malcolm Turnbull, developed a strategic FY17 As Code Club Australia’s founding philanthropic investor, the Telstra roadmap including key focus areas to strengthen Indigenous participation, Target Foundation helps give every child in practice and entrepreneurship in the Australia the chance to learn code. Over Invest $6 million through the digital economy. 875 Code Clubs are currently operating Telstra Foundation to drive social across the country and our ‘train the This year, we also reinvested in our innovation in Australia. trainer’ program, which targets teachers partnership with Student Youth Network Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 62 Bridging the digital divide Connecting communities approach At Telstra we don’t just serve the community, we’re a part of it. As a large Australian company with a growing international presence we know we have a huge role to play, from promoting digital inclusion through our social and community investment programs, to keeping people connected in times of disaster. progress Supporting disaster relief and recovery Following a disaster, our technicians are usually the first ones in an area once it has and have additional staff in our contact This year we improved our incident been declared safe by emergency services. centres. Depending on our access to response framework, which defines our Our priorities include assisting emergency affected areas, we set up temporary Telstra approach to planning and responding and essential services organisations with shops to support customers. to catastrophic events. The guidelines their telecommunications requirements were developed in consultation with key and restoring services to our customers. We provide emergency response leave for our people who volunteer with the stakeholders and include pre-approved Where necessary, we provide temporary emergency services, and employees in responses to a number of scenarios. These mobile base stations and repeaters to disaster affected areas can use their guidelines allow for faster, consistent boost coverage for the emergency services. annual volunteer day to support their local deployment of recovery services. Key Satellite Cells on Wheels, or SatCOWs, communities in clean-up efforts. Telstra principles of the guidelines include: provide satellite-assisted mobile coverage also matches employee donations to Keeping customers informed in remote areas, while trailer-mounted emergency appeals. repeaters can pick up the signal from the Responding quickly and pro-actively nearest Telstra mobile tower and repeat it In the case of international disaster, we Being present, and easily accessible to improve reception in a specific location. help our customers check on friends and family by providing free or reimbursed calls Assisting customers with impacts. Along with technical support, we provide and SMS to affected countries. This year we provided assistance packages telecommunications services such as worth $40,000 to more than 100,000 temporary internet and loan handsets to Assisting communities customers affected by the bushfires in evacuation centres. We support affected residential and small business customers affected by domestic disasters South Australia, Esperance and Yarloop Western Australia, Scotsburn and Otway through relief assistance packages. This A lot of work goes on behind the scenes Ranges, Victoria and Strathgordon includes free call diversions, free calls to prepare for severe weather season, Tasmania and the floods in Tasmania and from payphones, and in some cases, the including testing back-up network Picton New South Wales. distribution of free devices with preinfrastructure, assessing back-up power paid credit. at our exchanges and participating in exercises with emergency services We are also working to increase agencies. communication to impacted customers Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 63 Bridging the digital divide Connecting communities Free calls during international disasters This year we assisted our customers wishing to check on family and friends affected by cyclone Winston in Fiji and the terrorist bombings in Belgium, France and Lebanon. For one week following each disaster, we provided free voice calls and SMS for Telstra fixed line and post-paid mobile customers, and reimbursed pre-paid customers for all voice calls and SMS to the affected country. Over 63,000 customers benefited from these initiatives. Telstra CEO, Andrew Penn with Team Telstra Phillipines Volunteering and giving Supporting communities We encourage our people to get involved This year, our top 10 payroll in the Philippines in issues they are passionate about. giving recipients were: Our employee call to action encourages Telstra Foundation Philippines’ (TFP) goal is our people to take up their One Day of World Vision Australia to make a difference to the lives of Filipino volunteering leave, get behind One Cause youth, with a focus on education. Cancer Council Australia that matters to them, and have every One Dollar they donate through payroll giving The Salvation Army This year, TFP provided daily meals to matched by Telstra. The Australian Red Cross approximately 150 elementary school children at the Barrio Luz Elementary The RSPCA To learn more about the contributions our School in Cebu City to reduce malnutrition. people made to their communities in FY16, The Smith Family At the year end, the nutritional status of please refer to the Our people chapter of Beyondblue approximately 90 per cent of students this report. had risen to normal levels. In addition, TFP Oxfam volunteers also donated school kits and Maneki Neko Cat Rescue rain gear, as well 166 days of volunteer Médecins Sans Frontières Australia. time to help build classrooms, bathrooms and a gymnasium. TFP also provided grants to employee nominated programs for reading, arts and sports, as well as home and community building initiatives in disadvantaged communities and disaster affected areas. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 64 Bridging the digital divide Connecting communities Delivering social benefits We focus our social and community investment on the area of digital inclusion and helping to ensure everyone has access to the benefits digital technology can bring. We also encourage our people to get involved in their communities and the issues that matter to them. The total value of our social and community investment programs, including contributions from Telstra, employees and the Telstra Foundation equalled $175.4 million in 2016. Banana pianos were a hit at the Telstra kids digital maker party For more information on our social and community investment, see Social and community investment by focus Social and community investment by form www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/ ($m) of contribution ($m) data. Total social and community investment ($ m) 217 214 175 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FOCUS AREA $M Target FORM OF CONTRIBUTION $M Disaster relief 0.3 Revenue foregone 132.9 Continue to target our social and Everyone Connected 149.2 community investment on digital Cash 21.1 inclusion initiatives. Employee volunteering and 4.7 In-kind 6.2 giving Time 1.6 Sponsorship 21.2 Management 9.0 Notes: Management costs associated with each program are included in the amount invested. Leverage 4.6 Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 65 Dhanesh, Gavin and Anthony Telstra Operations Better environmental outcomes Environmental stewardship As we grow internationally to become a world class technology company, we have an increasing responsibility to manage our material environmental impacts. We are committed to continuously improving energy efficiency, reducing emissions, and conserving resources throughout our operations. We work to ensure our operations comply with international environmental obligations including monitoring and managing the increasing complexity of our environmental risks. Along with managing our own impacts, we have a responsibility to improve the efficiency of our supply chain, products and services, as well as assisting customers and the community address their sustainability challenges. Utilising our extensive network coverage and depth of technical expertise, we have an opportunity to support government, businesses, customers and the community in addressing long-term sustainability challenges. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 66 Better environmental outcomes Highlights Reduced our Extended the coverage of our greenhouse gas Environmental Management System emissions intensity accreditation to include Telstra’s by 56 per cent from corporate and internal NBN business our FY14 baseline units. Telstra also transitioned to the new year ISO14001:2015 standard Invested $7.5 million Recycled Launched our first in energy reduction 5,543 tonnes Electronics Reuse and projects saving of e-waste Recycling Strategy 33,900 MWh of electricity Performance PROGRESS ON FY15 COMMITMENTS RESULT MORE INFO Our environment reporting scope Report on the environmental impacts and benefits of Our sustainability reporting covers the Page 69 cloud computing financial year 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016 (FY16) for Telstra Corporation Limited. This Reduce our carbon emissions intensity by 55 per cent includes relevant Australian subsidiaries, Page 72 joint ventures and partnerships as set out by FY17, against a baseline year of FY14 in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007. Launch electronics reuse and Page 75 We calculate our GHG emissions according recycling strategy to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the Extend ISO 14001:2004 certification of our World Business Council for Sustainable environmental management systems to Telstra’s Page 78 Development and World Resources corporate business units Institute as well as the Australian National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination 2008 (as Achieved In progress Not achieved amended). Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found in on our website at www.telstra.com/ investor (Latest Results). 75% 25% 0% Achieved In progress Not achieved Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 67 Better environmental outcomes Environment strategy We are committed to minimising our environmental impacts and working with our customers and suppliers to achieve better environmental outcomes. approach We continue to build a more strategic approach to managing the environmental risks and opportunities across our value chain. We use technology to minimise our environmental impacts, and are helping our customers and suppliers to do the same. Our Environment Strategy provides a framework for addressing our most important environmental issues and opportunities. Our strategy seeks to advance the environmental performance of our operations and our stakeholders, right across our value chain. Our strategy is aligned to Telstra’s As we continue to grow across new Sustainable purpose and values, and has three markets and operating environments, our supply chain strategic focus areas: environmental management approach, Working with and influencing must also adapt. In the course of  nvironmental customer E suppliers to manage and reduce the responding to this over FY16 we extended value proposition environmental and social impacts of the coverage of our Environmental their operations and of the products and Compliance Program to cover Telstra’s Quantifying and communicating how our services they provide to Telstra.. global operations. We are also looking to products and services can enable our Please refer to the Responsible business refresh our environment strategy over the customers to reduce their environmental chapter for more information. next year to allow for greater flexibility to impacts, particularly energy use and In order to embed environmental principles deliver actions and seize opportunities carbon emissions. Please refer to page 69 and minimise business risks across our that are relevant to the many markets in for information on our appraoch. operations, accountability for delivering which we operate. the environment strategy is shared across O  perational Telstra. Progress against the strategy excellence is overseen by the Chief Sustainability Actively identifying and minimising Officer and relevant Business Unit project material environmental impacts and sponsors. The Telstra Board also monitors operating costs of our business.. Please Telstra’s environmental performance. refer to page 71 for information on our approach to climate change and energy and page 75 for information on our resource use, waste and e-waste. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 68 Better environmental outcomes Environmental customer value proposition Technology is creating a world of constant innovation and enormous opportunity. ICT can help play a role in limiting global warming by unlocking smarter and more efficient ways of working and living. We continue to educate and work with businesses, customers and the community to help identify opportunities to drive sustainable outcomes. There is a compelling business case for using ICT to reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions. G  reen product design Environmental benefits and development of the cloud approach Embedding environmental Through our Environmental Customer considerations into existing product This year we completed research for a Value Proposition (ECVP) we focus on design and development processes. report due to be released later in 2016 helping customers transition to a lower examining the opportunities from cloud carbon future using our products and progress services. The report, titled ‘Connecting services. Our activities include: In FY16 we continued to work with our with the cloud, a low-carbon future is enterprise customers to help them ahead’, will quantify the financial and Communicating environmental benefits of Telstra’s the environmental identify opportunities to improve their environmental performance, with an Australian dedicated and shared cloud benefits of ICT services. Examination of the report’s emphasis on carbon emissions and Articulating the environmental benefits electricity costs. To complement our Green research shows that removing unused of the products and services we sell ICT strategies focus, we reviewed the or underperforming infrastructure environmental impacts and benefits of and moving to a dedicated sustainably Green ICT strategies Telstra’s cloud services. We also undertook designed facility results in improved Working with our largest customers to further research into the benefits of using energy performance. Supplementing develop strategies for reducing their ICT based services to deliver low carbon this research, we will also be launching a energy and carbon emissions through growth. customer carbon calculator in the first half the use of ICT of FY17 to assist customers to estimate the energy and cost savings of moving to Environmental innovation Telstra’s cloud services. for new products and services Developing new products and services with environmental benefits Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 69 Better environmental outcomes Environmental customer value proposition (ECVP) Towards a SMARTer 2030 Through our membership with the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) we continue to engage with our global peers to conduct research into the role ICT can play in enabling low-carbon growth. Released in June 2015 the report 'SMARTer2030: ICT Solutions for 21st Century Challenges' focuses on the role ICT can play in facilitating low carbon growth, with a global focus. This year, Telstra partnered with Fujitsu to develop the report 'Australian SMARTer 2030 Report Findings', which builds on the global report with an overlay of local policy context. The report, due to be ICT driving smart agricultural outcomes released in FY17, highlights opportunities available to government, business and Agriculture is one of Australia’s most as moisture, nutrient levels and harvest consumers to increase the use of ICT to important industries. There are more health. This saves time, fuel costs and help reach Australia’s carbon emissions than 300,000 people working in the allows for precision farming, whereby reduction target. According to the report, sector who together represent a $50 water, nutrients and pesticides are ICT has the potential to reduce carbon billion industry that grows enough food applied to localized areas rather than emissions in Australia by 190 million to feed 80 million people each year. entire crops. tonnes a year by 2030. In addition to the This year Telstra worked with customers, “The Internet of Things is transforming emissions reductions, the report also technology partners, governments and the way stock and water levels are identifies broader environmental, social communities to deliver capabilities, monitored, as well as equipment and economic benefits that can be created insights and solutions that we believe performance, helping to identify through ICT by 2030. will increase productivity and deliver efficiencies in the production In May this year we again partnered with more sustainable outcomes for the process”, said Lavina Muscat, Industry Fujitsu to showcase the SMARTer2030 agriculture industry as a whole. At the Development Executive, Telstra. research at the Australian Emissions centre of this technology-led innovation “By assisting customers move towards Reduction Summit and our enterprise is connectivity. precision agriculture through the use customers at the Telstra Sydney Customer Given the size of the industry, there are of data analytics, mapping and satellite Insight Centre to drive the uptake of ICT big incentives to find efficiencies in technology alongside mobile apps, we enabled energy efficiency opportunities. production processes, with the latest are helping create herds and crops that developments in mapping and satellite are healthier as well as being produced technology driving precision agriculture. more sustainably.” Technology such as online monitoring For more information on how Telstra is sensors and fly over drones provide enabling the Internet of Things, please real-time data and images allowing see the Customer experience chapter of farmers to remotely inspect crops and this report. analyze environmental conditions such Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 70 Better environmental outcomes Climate change and energy Our approach to climate change We believe that business has an important role to play in addressing climate change. We want to work in partnership with governments and the wider community to address the environmental, economic and social impacts of climate change. Our climate change position statement acknowledges climate change as both a business risk and opportunity, highlighting the critical role ICT can play in assisting our customers and society move towards a low carbon future and become more resilient to a changing climate. Our response to addressing climate change is focused on Minimising our emissions key three areas: Our commitment We strive to reduce energy consumption within our operations by identifying to transparency Building resilience and implementing energy reduction Our infrastructure is a long term asset, and efficiency initiatives and investing As part of our commitment to and often located in remote areas in renewables. To learn more about our transparency, we have disclosed exposed to extreme weather conditions. response, please refer to the Energy use a detailed breakdown of our environmental performance data, Increased frequency and severity of and efficiency section of this chapter. please see www.telstra.com/ extreme weather events can damage sustainability/report/data. and disrupt our operations and service Helping to enable delivery. This year, we conducted a low-carbon economic growth To provide stakeholders confidence climate change risk assessment we engaged Ernst & Young to provide We are working with our customers limited assurance over our FY16 in order to better understand the to develop solutions that help them environmental performance data. For risks posed by climate change to our reduce their environmental impacts. To an overview of the metrics included infrastructure and people, and identify learn more about our approach, please in the assurance, please see Ernst & actions to strengthen resilience within refer to the ECVP section of this chapter. Young’s assurance statement at our business. www.telstra.com/sustainability/report/ To learn more about our climate change assurance. risk assessment, please refer to FY17 Since 2003 we have also disclosed our GHG emissions and climate the Responsible business chapter of this report. Target change risks annually through our questionnaire response to the Carbon Disclosure Project. Our submissions are Develop a climate change available online at www.cdp.net. adaptation plan. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 71 Better environmental outcomes Climate change and energy Energy use and efficiency progress approach Greenhouse gas emissions Our approach to energy management is In FY14 we set a long term target to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per guided by the ‘operational excellence’ pillar terabyte of data used (emissions intensity) by 55 per cent over the three year period of our Environment Strategy. We are actively from FY15 to FY17, from a baseline year of FY14. identifying and reducing our material environmental impacts and identifying Our GHG emissions intensity has reduced saving opportunities across Telstra’s operations. Our focus areas include: by 56 per cent from our FY14 baseline year, meaning we achieved our FY17 target a year Energy efficiency earlier than planned. Improve the energy efficiency of our network buildings, data centres, office A large driver for this has been the significant rate of growth in data use – up 62 per buildings, network architecture and ICT cent in FY16. From our baseline year of FY14 our absolute GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 equipment and 3 tCO2e) have reduced by three per cent. The primary reason for the reduction is due to a reduction in energy coefficients (emission factors) published by the Australian Renewable energy Government for the reporting period. The other key driver for the reduction was the Investigate opportunities for using implementation of energy efficiency initiatives. renewable energy to further reduce Emission factors used to convert Telstra’s electricity consumption into emissions have emissions decreased consistently over the past two years as cleaner forms of energy production have been introduced into the overall mix of electricity purchased off the grid. The Electronic waste (e-waste) implementation of a range GHG emission reduction activities has also assisted us to Minimise e-waste by maximising reach our target. Over the past two years, our emission reduction projects have delivered opportunities to reuse and recycle, gross emission reductions of 68,809 tCO2e. Through FY17 we will investigate opportunities while ensuring responsible disposal to set additional GHG emissions targets. practices Environmental risks Greenhouse gas emissions, terabyte usage and emissions intensity and compliance 1.8m 7m Implement risk-based environmental 1.24 management systems to maintain 1.4m 5m our licence to operate and provide for continued performance improvement. 0.83 1m 3m 0.58 600k 0.42 1m 0.26 200k tCO2e TB FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Total emissions (Scope 1, 2 & 3) tCO2e TB Usage Emissions intensity tCO2e/TB Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 72 Better environmental outcomes Climate change and energy Energy efficiency FY16 greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) by category Our largest GHG emissions source is the electricity we purchase, which accounts 1.5m for 95 per cent of our total GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3). Therefore, our GHG Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 emission reduction projects focus on energy 51k 1,229k 201k efficiency opportunities. Improving energy efficiency is the 1m most effective way to reduce our GHG emissions and energy costs. We take a broad approach and look to identify energy efficiency improvements across all our operations including optimising 500k the performance of owned and leased buildings, retrofitting existing buildings including implementing smarter lighting and heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) controls, improved tCO2e fault detection, and improving data centre design and optimisation. In 2011 we announced a five year Network sites Offices, shops, Data Vehicles Flights Waste commitment to invest $41.3 million into (exchanges, call centres and centres improving the energy efficiency of our base stations, business's facilities. Since the commitment period, warehouse etc) Electricity Fuel Waste we invested over $47 million with a further $5 million committed for energy efficiency projects for FY17. This year we invested $7.5 million in energy reduction projects that delivered a collective saving 33,600 tCO2e and more than 33,900 MWh of electricity. Our commercial building portfolio, which includes office buildings, warehouses, depots and retail stores, accounts for approximately six per cent of Telstra’s electricity use. This year our property and leasing teams worked with our commercial office building owners to co-invest in several building upgrades that have delivered 377 MWh of energy efficiency savings. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 73 Better environmental outcomes Climate change and energy Energy reduction initiatives ANNUAL INITIATIVE DESCRIPTION SAVINGS BUILDING SERVICES Our capital works program is the most significant contributor 7,332 MWh ENERGY EFFICIENCY to our energy savings program and includes the installation UPGRADES of fresh air cooling systems, high efficiency chillers, electronically commutated fans and lighting controls. UPGRADING Rectifiers convert electricity from AC mains power to DC power 4,934 MWh RECTIFIERS that is required to run our telecommunications equipment and battery back-up systems. We continue to upgrade rectifiers across the network to a more energy efficient option. Reducing our transport emissions HVAC We conduct physical inspections and audits of our network 9,732 MWh Our fleet team has been working OPTIMISATION sites to identify opportunities for energy savings through to reduce the GHG emissions inspecting equipment operation to identify faults affecting associated with our transport use. power consumption and review equipment performance to Over the last five years we have identify optimisation opportunities. reduced our GHG emissions from our fleet by 15 per cent, or approximately DECOMMISSIONING Our telecommunication equipment is a significant component 11,552 MWh 8,450 tCO2e. This is due to a reduction OUR NETWORK of our energy use. Working with technical and planning groups, we identify opportunities to make our network more in vehicle numbers, moving to more efficient which includes depowering redundant equipment and efficient vehicles as well as using redesigning the network to maximise equipment usage allowing lower emissions intensive fuels. underutilised equipment to be depowered. This year, in conjunction with our strategic partner BP, we ran the Fuel Economy Challenge to encourage Renewable energy by Telstra. Therefore, they are a prime opportunity to investigate the ability all Telstra Fleet customers, both We continue to investigate opportunities to install solar panels at scale in our operational and salary sacrifice to use renewable energy, as well as fuel metropolitan locations. drivers, to improve their fuel economy, cells and batteries for energy storage use less energy and ultimately drive This year we developed a model to assess across our network. Developments across down our carbon emissions. Nearly all our exchange buildings to determine solar energy and storage, software, and 900 Telstra drivers registered for suitability for installing solar panels. This the Internet of Things are opening up new the challenge and were provided assessment took into consideration panel ways to utilise renewable energy, as well as information on ways to reduce fuel location availability, sunlight availability, make energy consumption more dynamic consumption and incentivised with installation feasibility and costs, as well as and efficient. We also use solar panels to weekly prizes. The program reduced current operating energy consumption. power our small rural infrastructure where fuel consumption and led to indirect grid electricity is unavailable. We have As a result, we installed AC grid connected immeasurable savings on vehicle more than 10,200 sites across Australia solar PV power systems at four of our maintenance and accident costs as a which have solar panels installed exchanges in Victoria. The systems range result of safer driving habits. enabling equipment to be used from 30 to 100 kW in capacity and are without mains power. expected to produce 300 MWh of energy per year. This results in approximately 15 Implementing solar per cent of power consumption from these at our exchanges sites being generated from renewable energy. The locations of the exchanges Our exchange buildings are large are Deer Park (30kW), Lyndhurst (30kW), consumers of electricity in our network, Scores by (60kW) and Lilydale (100kW). We with consistent predictable power loads plan to further roll out solar power systems that are housed in buildings with large on additional exchanges over the next roof surfaces that are generally owned few years. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 74 Better environmental outcomes Resource use, waste and e-waste Resource use, waste and e-waste approach ICT delivers a wide range of economic, environmental and social benefits. A more connected digital world presents opportunities to live, work and play more efficiently and connecting more people. With the significant growth in e-waste, we have a responsibility to work across our value chain to create opportunities to adopt a more sustainable approach to managing our resource use, waste and e-waste. In 2013, the United Nations forecast the volume disposed globally to increase from 48 Electronics stewardship seeks to to realise business value through reduce the impacts of technology – from increased electronics recovery, reuse million tonnes in 2012 equipment design through to end-of-life and recycling. Over the longer-term, we to 65 million tonnes in disposal. Electronic stewardship involves plan to participate in a wider product 2017 – and in Australia taking responsibility beyond the point stewardship approach that recognises of manufacture or sale, and influencing that manufacturers, importers, retailers, e-waste is growing three across the total life cycle of products to governments and consumers have a times faster than any decouple product growth from the reliance shared responsibility for the environmental other waste stream. on raw materials to manufacture. impacts of products throughout their full We’ve recognised the importance of life cycles, not just at end-of-life. electronics reuse and recycling and have progress supported responsible recycling programs John Gertsakis, for nearly 20 years. We are a founding Chief Sustainability Officer, Electronics stewardship member of MobileMuster – a non-profit, Infoactiv government accredited, mobile phone What is e-waste? recycling scheme in Australia. “In today’s environment of rapid This year we developed our first Electronics technology innovation and the growing E-waste is a term used to cover specific Reuse and Recycling Strategy (FY17-19), problem of e-waste, Telstra has taken items of electrical and electronic Unlocking Hidden Value, to systematically a lead in managing the issue with the equipment, and their parts, that have manage and reduce our e-waste impact introduction of its Electronics Reuse been disposed by the owner as waste across our value chain. The strategy has and Recycling Strategy. A company-wide without the intention of re-use. been communicated to employees and is commitment to electronics stewardship For our industry e-waste includes planned to be launched externally in the will positively transform how Telstra end-of-life consumer devices, batteries, first half of FY17. interacts with its customers. We’re electronic accessories as well as pleased to have partnered with Telstra network equipment including routers, Unlocking Hidden Value aims to bring on eCycle to create opportunities for servers and cables. Telstra’s own e-waste focus on the importance of applying businesses and the community to also includes IT and lighting equipment. integrated and collaborative approaches manage their e-waste”. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 75 Better environmental outcomes Resource use, waste and e-waste In FY16 we diverted 16 tonnes of mobile phones and accessories from landfill through the MobileMuster program, exceeding our target of 14 tonnes. We collected a total of 5,549 tonnes of e-waste with a recycling rate of 99.9 per cent. We sought to engage employees in electronics removal and recycling through our annual e-waste collection campaign held during Business Clean Up Day in March 2016. Throughout the day our people collected old technology for responsible recycling. We also extended our campaign outside of Australia for the first time, involving our Hong Kong people across two major offices. During the campaign, we collected 13 tonnes of Helping businesses to manage e-waste e-waste, and since 2013, the annual event has recycled over 46 tonnes of e-waste To assist small businesses manage their when it comes to recycling e-waste; across more than 80 corporate offices and old technology and free up valuable including convenience, data security exchange buildings. office space, we launched a pilot eCycle and privacy. An initial three month pilot program in July 2015, offering small was extended twice due to demand Total e-waste (tonnes) businesses a new free collection and from more than 600 businesses across recycling service for a wide range of Australia, recovering more than 60 electrical equipment – not just Telstra tonnes of e-waste this year. products. “Telstra eCycle gave us the opportunity The program was set up with the focus to engage with local businesses and our 5,549 on small and medium businesses local council to make a difference for 3,940 (SMEs) as research has shown that the environment. Through the program 1,993 while large organisations generally had our store helped local small businesses the skills and resources to properly to recycle over 15 tonnes of e-waste, manage e-waste, SME’s often lacked the and we built lasting relationships in the FY14 FY15 FY16 capacity and knowledge and frequently process,” said Susan de Kort, Telstra stockpile e-waste. The program Business Centre, Bayside (Pictured aimed to overcome the key barriers centre). FY17 Targets Divert 17 tonnes of mobile phones and accessories from landfill through the MobileMuster program. Implement our Electronics Reuse and Recycling Strategy. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 76 Better environmental outcomes Resource use, waste and e-waste Waste management Water use Responsible paper use Although our facilities do not generate Water availability is a growing concern We encourage responsible paper use large amounts of waste, we work to and we are committed to reducing across our operations, which includes minimise all our environmental impacts our water consumption. In FY16, we printed marketing material completed across our operations. used 1,054 megalitres of water in our by professional printers (commercial Over the past three years we have reduced network exchanges, data centres and print), office and billing paper. In FY16, our total waste generated by 23 per cent. corporate offices. This is a three per cent paper use decreased by 26 per cent, In FY16, we continued this trend with total decrease compared to FY15 and is due to primarily due to reductions in commercial waste decreasing by 12 per cent. However, implementing a leak detection program at printing and billing paper. Commercial this year our waste to landfill increased 6 our operational sites, and responding to printing decreased by 47 per cent from per cent and our waste recycled reduced and rectifying identified leaks. last year due to a continued move to by 19 per cent. We continue to identify Wastewater is generated from the use of online and digital advertising as well as ways to improve our waste management water to remediate telecommunication pits the large once-off print run from last year and are working to raise the recycling rate containing asbestos, as well as pumping associated with the Telstra 'Share Buyof construction and demolition waste and out rainwater collected in pits to allow Back' not occurring again this year. Billing are confirming all sites have access to technicians access. This year, wastewater paper reductions are due to the move to appropriate recycling bins. disposal decreased by 35 per cent due to online billing and the use of thinner paper a reduction in the quantity of remediation stock. work completed compared to prior years. Waste (tonnes) Water use (ML) Total paper consumption (tonnes) 72.1% 296 226 70.3% 5,440 64.6% 984 1,199 238 5,051 5,331 637 1,083 1,050 975 14,080 1,443 11,982 1,281 9,712 1,129 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 Recycled Waste to landfill Office paper Printing paper Recycling rate Billing paper Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 77 Better environmental outcomes Environmental risks and compliance approach Telstra performs a range of business activities which, by virtue of their nature, scale and geographical locations, have inherent environmental challenges. Protecting the environment is a priority and we seek to achieve this by cultivating a strong risk management culture and implementing a certified environmental management system. Our Chief Sustainability Office is responsible for Telstra’s overall corporate environmental compliance program. The program supports Telstra’s business units  limate change and resource C processes and NBN delivery management to ensure their activities meet the relevant management system. In June this year, we also became compliance requirements of our company one of the first in the telecommunications Contamination and pollution control and regulatory stakeholders. Our dedicated industry to achieve external certification Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) team Land stewardship to the new ISO 14001:2015 environmental manages our operational environmental Waste management management system standard. compliance and risks and is part of Telstra’s Other key activities conducted this year  azardous chemicals and dangerous H Chief Risk Office. They are responsible include conducting risk assessment goods. for identifying, monitoring, reporting and workshops on waste management, supporting Telstra’s business units to We also extended the coverage of our dewatering pits and manholes, as well as a eliminate or minimise our environmental Environmental Compliance Program to Telstra Australia-wide diesel infrastructure risks so far as reasonable practicable. cover Telstra’s global operations. We have risk assessment. This aimed to profile commenced a comprehensive review progress the nature and potential risk of loss of to better understand the key regulatory containment of diesel hydrocarbon from Environmental management systems have requirements in our growth markets Telstra’s assets. We also continued to existed within Telstra for over 16 years. outside Australia. improve our process for reporting HSE This year we integrated our environment To meet our growing customer incidents. This included the release of an risk management approach into our Global expectations, Telstra has extended online ‘HSE Assist’ platform for completion HSE Management System. As part of this, the coverage of its environmental of HSE incident/hazard reports and we implemented 10 global HSE Standards management system certification from one workplace HSE inspections directly on and a set of Minimum Environmental line of business, Networks, to encompass any mobile device anywhere in our global Requirements (MERs) aligned to our key Telstra’s corporate environmental operations. environmental risks: Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 78 Better environmental outcomes Environmental risks and compliance Telstra, as a minimum, seeks to be In Australia, Telstra is subject to the compliant with all applicable environmental laws and regulatory reporting requirements of the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act FY17 permissions relevant to its operations. 2007. The Act requires Telstra to report its Target Where instances of non-compliance may annual Australian GHG emissions, energy occur, Telstra has procedures requiring consumption and energy production. internal investigations to be conducted Telstra has implemented systems and Continue to extend the coverage of our Environmental to determine the cause of the nonprocesses for the collection and reporting Management Systems. compliance and ensure that any risk of of data and has, in accordance with our recurrence is minimised. obligations, reported to the Clean Energy Our procedures also require that relevant Regulator on an annual basis. The next government authorities are notified of any report is due on 31 October 2016 and will environmental incidents (where applicable) again be supported with an independent in compliance with statutory requirements. assurance audit to a reasonable assurance standard. As disclosed previously in the 2015 Bigger Picture Sustainability Report, on 6 July In the United Kingdom, Telstra is subject 2015 Telstra received an infringement to the Energy Savings Opportunity notice penalty of $8,538 for contravention Scheme (ESOS) Regulations 2014. Telstra of the Environmental Protection Act 1994 qualifies for ESOS and must carry out (Qld) as a result of a diesel spill from a energy savings assessments every four fuel storage tank at a Telstra site in Cape years. These assessments are audits of Kimberley that occurred in April 2015. the energy used by our buildings, network Telstra subsequently undertook work facilities and transport to identify costto remediate the site. Telstra paid the effective energy saving measures. Telstra infringement notice on 28 July 2015. The has met our obligations under ESOS for the Queensland Department of Environment first compliance period, 5 December 2015. and Heritage Protection are satisfied with the level of remediation and have closed off the incident. Bigger Picture 2016 Sustainability Report 79
