Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible Retailing Report 2015 Responsible retailing Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 01 In this year’s report Welcome! Welcome to Ahold’s 2015 annual Responsible Retailing Report. In this report, we show you how we create a positive impact for our stakeholders and our business, while managing the economic, environmental, and social challenges we are facing. Throughout our businesses and operations, we take full responsibility for our actions and the effect they Setting the scene: Looking forward: Looking back: Performance Other have on the world around us. We invite you to explore our ambitions, successes Where we 2016-2020 Our performance and approach information and challenges in 2015, and over the past are today in 2015 five years of our Responsible Retailing strategy. Company profile 03 Trends and challenges 11 Healthy living 17 Our governance structure 43 Glossary60 Looking ahead, we will also introduce our strategy for the next five years. Message from our CEO 04 Engaging with Community well-being 21 Scope of reporting 44 Contact us 62 our stakeholders 12 Our company strategy – Our people 26 Reporting process 45 Cautionary notice 62 Reshaping Retail Materiality matrix14 Responsible products 32 Awards and external framework05 Responsible benchmarks46 Care for the environment 37 Our value chain 06 Retailing 2020 15 Detailed performance 47 Responsible Retailing External assurance report 56 Scorecard07 2011-2015 highlights 09 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Setting the scene: Where we are today Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 02 Where we are today Company profile 03 Message from our CEO 04 Our company strategy – Reshaping Retail framework 05 Our value chain 06 Responsible Retailing Scorecard 07 2011-2015 highlights 09 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Company profile Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 03 We are Ahold... Our scale and reach Stores serving customers in five countries Serving a trade area population of around 3,253 90m+ We are an international retailing group based in the Netherlands and serving customers in the United States and Europe. Our strong and trusted local consumer brands, millions of loyal customers, and dedicated associates make us leaders in our markets. Selling great food has been our core business for 129 years. Today, we have evolved to meet the changing Associates Strong and trusted omni-channel retailer, with net consumer online sales 236,000 €1.8bn preferences of shoppers through our omni-channel offering. Customers can shop whenever and however is most convenient for them – by means of our great network of stores and market-leading online businesses. In every channel, we offer them all the right choices, with great quality and value and an easy and inspiring shopping experience. We are committed to being a responsible retailer and an even better neighbor by making meaningful Our markets and brands contributions in all our communities. We support the health and well-being of our customers, associates Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Joint venture and local communities, source our products Portugal responsibly and care for the environment. Belgium Our people make it possible for us to do all this. Germany They are passionate about serving our customers and work hard to get better every day. The relationships they develop with customers build their loyalty and are an important part of why they keep coming back to shop with us. Our proposed merger with Delhaize Group will enable us to create an even better and more innovative retail leader for our customers, associates and shareholders worldwide. Group financial highlights Net sales Underlying operating income Free cash flow Dividend per common share € million € million € million € Read more detail: See the Annual Report €38.2bn €1.5bn €1.2bn €0.52 38,203 1,461 1,184 0.48 0.•• 1,412 0.47 1,377 1,379 1,109 0.44 1,051 1,055 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Message from our CEO Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 04 Dear stakeholders, A society fit for the future Performance highlights 2011-2015 At last year’s historic Paris climate conference, By 2050, the global population is expected to rise Helping to make our planet a better, healthier and To deliver on our ambition to make it easy for our 195 countries adopted the first-ever universal, legally more than 25% to around nine billion people, all more resilient place is a commitment we take seriously customers to make healthy food choices we expanded binding climate agreement. We are pleased with of whom will need sustainable, safe, affordable, and a responsibility we embrace. We are working our range of healthy products. We also established this global push. In 2015, we reduced the carbon nutritious food and other items, produced and hard to make healthy and more sustainable products ourselves as a source of inspiration for busy families footprint of our operations by 25.8% against our supplied using fewer resources on the same more accessible to our customers, and are one of the looking for delicious, nutritious meals. 25.0% of our 2008 baseline. As we drive to achieve “zero-waste-toamount of land or less. As a health-conscious and largest grocery providers of food to those in need in total food sales already come from healthier products, landfill” by 2020, we have spearheaded a number of environmentally-focused food retailer, Ahold has our local communities. We have taken significant steps and in many of our markets, we are seen as the groundbreaking new initiatives, including our very first the scope – and the commitment – to help create to ensure responsible sourcing practices throughout number one mainstream retailer for healthy choices. anaerobic digester system in the U.S. that turns food a resilient society that is fit for the future. our supply chain and are driving significant reductions waste into energy. In our communities, we strive to be a catalyst for in carbon emissions and solid waste throughout our operations. At the same time, we remain committed to positive change. As a major retailer we continue to Looking forward to our future make fresh, nutritious and affordable food available being a great place to work, supporting our dedicated Our achievements are helping us lay the foundation to people in underserved neighborhoods. We also associates to become the best they can be. for our 2020 ambition to “make a positive impact on continuously expand our support to food banks, the lives of millions.” To deliver on this ambition, we For Ahold, being successful and responsible go hand donating over $10 million of protein-rich food via our will show leadership and vision in the areas of health, in hand. In 2011, we introduced our 2011-2015 “Meat the Need” program in 2015. community well-being and responsible sourcing. Responsible Retailing strategy, outlining a set of targets Our workforce is a community, too, of skilled, We will step up our efforts to improve and reformulate to make sure our stores became a better place to dedicated and caring men and women driven to make our offerings, introduce new healthy and sustainable shop, a better place to work and a better neighbor. a difference for our customers. We recognize that by product innovations at affordable prices, increase our I am pleased to report that we have achieved nearly creating a culture that fosters initiative and facilitates support to local communities and further reduce the all of our targets and am proud to share some specific development we will strengthen our competitive edge. environmental footprint of our operations. We envision results in our priority areas: healthy living, community These past few years, we have piloted and rolled out that our proposed merger with Delhaize – which we well-being, our people, responsible products and care innovative performance management programs that expect to be completed by mid-2016 – will encourage for the environment. allow associates to explore their career interests and innovation and a competitive advantage that will manage their progression. We also expanded our benefit our customers, associates, shareholders and healthy living programs with associate-initiated events. communities. Furthermore, we are committed to the UN Global Compact, and this report includes an update Behind every product we sell there is a story: where of our performance against these principles. the raw materials are grown; what resources are needed to create them; how we buy, move and sell them. Between 2011 and 2015 we worked hard to Thank you increase visibility of our own-brand supply chain and Finally, none of this would be possible without I commend our sourcing and quality departments our 236,000 dedicated associates who care for on the progress we have made. We mapped the customers and put our commitments into practice every last production stages of our own-brand suppliers, day. Their hard work and commitment are what make enhanced the quality of our products and gave Responsible Retailing possible. customers more insight into the origin and ingredients of the food they buy from us. In seeking to protect the Dick Boer resources we depend on, we have ramped up our Chief Executive Officer efforts in sourcing critical commodities such as palm oil, soy, seafood, coffee, tea and cocoa. While we have Zaandam, March 2, 2016 more to do, I am proud to be one of the few retailers to tackle all six of these commodities simultaneously. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our company strategy – Reshaping Retail framework Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 05 How are we Our strategic ambitions, how we operate and what All of our businesses share a common vision for the our people. In all these areas, we strive to act with we want to be as a company are outlined in our future, and a common set of values. Our successful integrity and responsibility. Reshaping Retail framework. business model enables us to keep investing in reshaping retail In 2015, we took a momentous step to further our customer offering, and our promises help us improve our strategic position, with the announcement get better every day. Through our strategic pillars, of our intended merger with Delhaize Group. we are accelerating our growth so we will be at Ahold? The scale, diversity and expertise we will add to competitive in years to come. our business through this merger will enhance our Responsible retailing is one of our pillars to enable ability to deliver on our promises to our stakeholders growth. Here, we concentrate our efforts on five and generate new growth. priority areas: healthy living choices made easy, contribution to community well-being, responsibly sourced products, care for the environment, and We have a robust business model, we are keeping and we have the ambition to drive built on strong local brands… our promises… performance and go for growth. Our business model Ahold is becoming Creating growth: a better place to shop, Increasing customer loyalty ITAL CAPOWTH AL E AT GR W LOW E a better place to work, Broadening our offering TO LOC NE OST BASE and a better neighbor. Expanding geographic reach RC Enabling growth: EN Better E ID R O place to shop Simplicity D R IV L E S G T N AN G O SA W T IC A L S T R BR DS Responsible retailing H I L D R BU ME Better CONS U every day People performance Better Better place to work neighbor Our values Our vision Putting the customer first; Doing what’s right; Winning together; Better choice. Better value. Better life. Every day. Making ideas happen; Getting better every day Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our value chain Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 06 Creating value Our supply chain Suppliers, producers, farmers Own operations Communities, customers for society Farmers Suppliers Stores We care about our communities, and the people in them. Committed to making a meaningful contribution to their health and well-being, and creating a society fit for the future, we have made Distribution Communities Customers three promises – to be a better place to shop, centers a better place to work, and a better neighbor. To make this happen, we are endeavoring to build and maintain a responsive value chain that creates Producers Suppliers Online real value for everyone involved and that supports our future growth. Through our Reshaping Retail strategy, we continuously improve our supply chain. We have improved our own operations – cutting costs and eliminating inefficiencies – and enhanced the visibility of our own‑brand supply chain. This is a considerable The three phases of our supply chain: challenge, since our suppliers span the globe. We buy products We move products We sell products Our Responsible Retailing strategy in action All products start with raw materials. The first phase Our suppliers deliver finished products – packaged We sell our products through our stores, our online Of course, our actions in the areas of healthy living, of our value chain starts with the farmers who grow and ready for sale – to one of our distribution centers home delivery service and our pick-up points, community well-being, our people, responsible the raw materials; they then sell these for further from which they are distributed to our more than meeting customers’ diverse shopping needs. products, and care for the environment have impact processing, or, in the case of fresh produce such 3,200 stores or directly to our customers homes. on our value chain. For more details, see the “Our as vegetables and fruits, to distributors. Our 236,000 associates handle the products in the performance” section on page 16. distribution centers, make sure the shelves of our stores are filled, enabling our customers to buy them. Read more detail Read more detail Read more detail For more information on how we work with suppliers, please For more information on how we enhanced our own For more information on how we serve our customers and see the “Responsible products” section on page 32. operations, please see the “Our people” and “Care for communities, please see the “Healthy living” and “Community the environment” sections on pages 26 and 37. well‑being” sections on pages 17 and 21 . Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible Retailing Scorecard Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 07 Our 2015 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 results Healthy living Community Our scorecard shows our performance in the five key priority areas of our Responsible Retailing strategy against our Group-wide targets and commitments at well-being the end of 2015, which is also the end of our 20112015 strategy. Ambition: Ambition: The status column indicates whether we met (green) Make healthy living choices easy Contribute to the well-being of our communities or missed (red) our target or commitment at the end of 2015. Target/commitment Progress Status Target/commitment Progress Status For 2011-2015 highlights, see the infographic 25.0% 946,000 on page 09. Increase the sale of healthy Measure and report on products to at least 25% the number of children of total food sales by 2015 healthy products educated as part of our children educated across the Group1 healthy living programs 100% €68 million Report on customers’ Measure and report perception of Ahold’s on our donations businesses as leading of our businesses are donated healthy retailers perceived to be the first €32 million or second healthy retailer Measure and report in their region on food donations to food banks of food donated 1,392 Measure and report on the number of stores participating in at least one stores participated in community well-being event community well-being events Read more detail: See pages 16-41 1H ealthy products are identifiable in-store and online through the use of Completed or on track healthy-choice logos and shelf tags. Products featuring these logos and shelf tags comply with strict criteria that are developed by leading health authorities. Not met For more information see page 45. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible Retailing Scorecard Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 08 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 Our people Responsible Care for the products environment Ambition: Ambition: Source our products – including their Provide a better place to work, and support packaging – with respect for people, Ambition: our associates in living healthier lives animals and the environment Reduce our environmental footprint Target/commitment Progress Status Target/commitment Progress Status Target/commitment Progress Status 68% 25.8% Report on our Ensure that 80% of our U.S.: Reduce CO2 per square progress on own-brand food suppliers 93% suppliers certified meter of sales area by 20% associate engagement of associates feel engaged are certified against in our operations by 2015 reduction Europe: GFSI‑recognized standards against our 2008 baseline 96% suppliers certified 30,000 Report on our 1-2% progress on associate Report on the percentage Ensure that 100% U.S.: participation in healthy participants took part in healthy of food waste compared of our own-brand 70% suppliers audited living programs living programs to total food sales of total food sales wasted suppliers in high‑risk Europe: countries1 are audited on 88% suppliers audited 11 853 million Report on our social compliance Reduce the amount of progress on rolling out disposable bags at the sustainability programs sustainability programs rolled out Source 100% of the six Coffee: 99% checkout in the U.S. bags reduced at our critical commodities for Tea: 83% by one billion bags U.S. businesses own-brand products in Cocoa: 85% since 2011 accordance with industry Palm oil : 100% 11% certification standards Soy : 100% Eliminate landfill as a Seafood: 73% disposal method by 2020 landfill globally Report on the number of products reviewed 3,470 Ensure that all businesses Communication policies in products reviewed against our 4R have implemented a place at all our businesses packaging guidelines communication policy to encourage customers to reduce, re-use and recycle 1 T he classification of a high-risk country is based on the Human Development Index of the United Nations and the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information 2011-2015 highlights Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 09 Responsible 2011 2012 retailing strategy: Albert Heijn and the Dutch industry healthy food foundation Albert Heijn and WWF Netherlands sign contract to use only sustainable seafood for Introduction of Ahold 175 Farmers and suppliers took part in the Albert Heijn open Days, with 85,000 visitors 2011-2015 agree on nationwide own-brand products promises: better place “checkmark” labels that by 2015 to shop; better place to help customers identify work; better neighbor highlights healthier options 2013 Responsible Retailing is a journey and much has been achieved over the past five years. At the same time there are always next steps to take to make sure we Ahold USA expands Albert is the first retailer Ahold USA divisions its Passport to Nutrition in the Czech Republic redirect the equivalent get better every day. Albert expands its program for children to to bring healthy products of over 12 million meals partnerships with This page contains an overview of some of our make balanced plates, The final production to children, featuring in unsold, consumable regional bakeries to highlights, including further expansion of our healthy read food labels and stages of almost all Smurf characters on food to regional meet Czech customers’ understand portion sizes our own-brand global 42 own-brand products food banks product offering, our local community support preference for more suppliers are mapped programs as well as highlights in our Responsible local products 2014 68% products, Our people and Care for the environment priority areas. Magazine Progressive “Young Ahold Best Ahold-wide aligned, Our own-brand logistics 3m Grocer selects Ahold Idea” winners open engagement survey is in the Czech Republic USA as Retailer of Instock restaurant, rolled out for the first and the Netherlands the Year for its “vast turning surplus food time resulting in a 68% achieve ISO 22000 and exceptional into delicious meals engagement score. Food Safety Standard community contributions” 2016-2020… 2015 Ahold Transport (Europe) Over three million Ahold scores 76 points receives Lean and children educated in the Dow Jones Albert Heijn opens first Green 1-star award on healthy nutrition Sustainability Index, organic store in Utrecht Read more detail: for reducing our fuel since 2010 compared to the See pages 11–16 emissions by 21% industry average of 47 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Looking forward: Responsible Retailing 2020 Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 10 2016-2020 Trends and challenges 11 Engaging with our stakeholders 12 Materiality matrix 14 Responsible Retailing 2020 15 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Trends and challenges Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 11 The bigger Health Diversity and equality Global warming While customers are increasingly preferring healthful Demographics are changing in all of our markets. Providing food to consumers when, how and where picture products, factors such as price, time and lack of At the same time, customers say that they feel more they want it requires resources that have a substantial inspiration can keep them from choosing healthier comfortable shopping in stores that reflect their impact on the environment. For instance, every options. We are keen to remove these ‘barriers’ communities. Ahold values diversity and inclusion at year, thousands of miles of rainforest are destroyed while continuing to meet their expectations on taste. every level of our organization, but also recognizes for agricultural use. We recognize that one of the We are a company built on integrity, driven by Therefore, we are slowly reducing sugar and salt the challenge to keep up with these dynamic shifts in biggest contributors to global warming is meat the desire to help people live longer, healthier and content, so customers can get used to the new demographics. One example of Ahold’s initiatives is production. That is why we offer many options that happier lives and build stronger communities. As a taste gradually. We must also regularly review our the World Café organized by Ahold USA’s ALANA: make it easier for customers to choose alternative food retailer we play a key role in our customers’ processes around alcohol and tobacco, to make a multicultural business resource group. proteins. To minimize the impact of food production lives. By providing them with opportunities to adopt sure we are selling alcohol responsibly, and are in our supply chain, we strive to manage the healthy eating habits and choose more sustainable addressing concerns linked to tobacco sales. In the Sourcing resources we use wisely. products, we can make a difference to their Netherlands, for instance, we are running pilots in With raw materials becoming increasingly scarce At the Paris climate conference (COP21) in December well‑being. 15 Albert Heijn stores where tobacco displays are and environmental concerns growing, we must take 2015, 195 countries adopted the first-ever universal, At the same time the journey from farm to fork is kept out of sight. a responsible approach to sourcing. We strive to legally binding global climate agreement to limit an intricate one, influenced by global and local source the right products, at the right time, and with global warming to well below 2° Celsius by 2020. elements. Also, as a global company with local Transparency and trust the right terms and conditions. We are pleased with this global push, and are brands, we must constantly balance differences Driven to do what’s right, and meet customers’ ready to do our part. In fact, we’ve already made Our customers and other stakeholders expect us to in regulations, local laws, regulations, preferences, concerns, we strive to communicate openly great strides reducing our carbon footprint in our deliver products and services that take into account cultures and tastes. and clearly on the ingredients and origin of our own operations – see the “Care for the environment” all dimensions: quality, sustainability, innovation products. To be able to do this, we are continuously section. Towards 2020, we will drive further Also the launch of the Sustainable Development availability, social responsibility and price. It’s not working to enhance our nutritional labeling, and improvements, internally, and with our suppliers. Goals (SDG’s) will challenge companies to go the “either-or,” but “and-and.” to obtain insight into the origin, processing and extra mile. We will look at how we can work on handling of our products. Obtaining visibility over Because our customers and other stakeholders may Food waste delivering on these goals in our organizations. the production stages of our suppliers is one of have conflicting expectations when it comes to We strive to offer customers the choice they are This page contains the key trends and challenges our biggest challenges in this area and requires sourcing, we must carefully balance their interests. looking for when they come to our stores. However, we are facing as we move towards 2020: substantial investments. Moving forward we will continue to build our skills not all products are sold before the end of their shelf in this area. life. To avoid food going to waste, we must balance Food security the volumes we purchase and the volumes we sell, By 2050, the global population is expected to Animal welfare and have the right procedures and logistics in place rise to nine billion. This growing population will We, and our customers, are increasingly aware of, to minimize food waste. Food waste, especially in need sustainable, safe, affordable and nutritious and concerned about, how animals raised for food view of global hunger, remains top of mind for us. diets, produced and supplied from the same or are treated. Therefore, we will give preference to less land and fewer resources. It’s a challenge suppliers that observe the highest standards in animal We are constantly thinking of better and more that directly touches the food industry. At the same welfare. Our Better Life (“Beter Leven”) pork and innovative ways to ensure that food is used in the time, as a good neighbor we must help make sure “New AH Chicken” are proof of this commitment. most valuable way possible. This includes working that everyone in our communities has access to At the same time local laws and regulations impact with food bank partners to increase the share of food nutritious food at affordable prices. To accomplish our product assortment and how we work with that can be donated. Other innovative ideas include this, and secure our bottom line, we must increase suppliers. We recognize the impact higher animal restaurant Instock, an idea of Albert Heijn associates, the efficiency of our procurement practices, achieve welfare standards can have on the prices of our where surplus food is turned into delicious meals. economies of scale and ensure we reduce food products, and on the environment. waste by making food that hasn’t been sold available for donation. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Engaging with our stakeholders Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 12 Why and how Our customers Our associates Our communities How we engage How we engage How we engage we engage We stay tuned into customers’ needs and wishes We engage with our associates through various As a local “community hub,” we touch the lives through surveys, consumer studies, focus groups touch points, including regular performance review of millions of people every day. We are in constant and panels, and through immediate feedback from meetings and our annual associate engagement dialogue with local governments, schools, charities with our customers in our stores, via service departments, our survey. In 2015, our survey achieved a global and civil society organizations. websites, social media and other correspondence. participation rate of 88%, a considerable increase What they have told us over the 81% rate in 2014. stakeholders What they have told us Because of our scope and reach, and the Our customers are increasingly interested in healthy What they have told us food‑related nature of our business, our local eating, product quality, food safety and food security Through the survey, our associates told us we have communities expect us to make a direct contribution (access to nutritious food for all). They look to us room for improvement in the tools and resources we to the well-being of local residents, helping to provide Our stakeholders are the individuals and for nutritious and affordable products, sourced with provide to help them do their jobs, including clarity an environment that supports those in need. They also organizations most affected by Ahold’s activities, respect for people, animals and the environment, on strategic goals, in how we communicate with expect us to source our product with respect for whether in our role as grocer, employer and for clear and simple food labeling. them, and in our ability to provide healthy living people, animals and the environment. or revenue‑creating business supporting options for associates and their families. local economies. Our response Our response Our business is all about shopping – which is Our response Our better neighbor promise is our commitment Our stakeholders include our customers, associates, why we want to be a better place to shop for Our better place to work promise helps us take to strengthening the communities in which we communities (including governments, NGOs, our customers, every day. We concentrate our a holistic approach to our associates’ health and operate: we do this through, for example, financial academic and research institutes, and industry efforts on enhancing the health and sustainability well-being, creating a workplace that empowers our and product donations, nutrition awareness bodies), shareholders and suppliers. of our own-brand products, especially by reducing people to explore, use and develop their talents and programs in schools and employment of local Engaging with our stakeholders enables us to identify salt, sugar and saturated fats. We also expanded that contributes to good physical health. This includes people. We also support our suppliers and their issues, respond to changing needs, observe best our fresh produce assortment at more affordable management support and encouragement, on-the-job local communities overseas through the Albert Heijn practices and reflect different views and feedback prices, increased the visibility of healthy products training and executive education programs. Foundation and other targeted initiatives. on how we operate our business. Staying connected considerably, and introduced “Front of Pack” labeling. Read the Our people section at page 27 for To improve the sustainability of our own-brand is vital to ensuring that our approach to sustainable more information on programs we implement for products we focus on food safety, social compliance business is relevant and effective. our associates. and critical commodities to improve the sustainability of our own-brand products. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Engaging with our stakeholders Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 13 Our shareholders Our suppliers In focus How we engage How we engage We communicate with our shareholders through A flexible, healthy and sustainable supply chain quarterly disclosures and financial performance demands transparency, efficiency and strong briefings, annual shareholder meetings, and ad-hoc relationships. With our suppliers scattered across the meetings with specific shareholder interest groups. globe, we connect via multiple channels, including face-to-face meetings, online communication, and What they have told us supplier events. Our shareholders are mainly concerned with our financial performance, transparency, stability What they have told us and future returns. They expect us to keep our Our suppliers identify our mutual business commitments and targets, both financially and relationships, product quality and safety, and in terms of responsible retailing. For instance, in compliance with laws and regulations as most 2015, we received more questions related to important to them. Some suppliers in high-risk responsible retailing. countries say they cannot afford to meet the product safety and social compliance requirements needed Our response to comply with our standards. Every year, our shareholders are invited to our Annual General Meeting (AGM) where we Our response present updates on our performance and strategy. Our Standards of Engagement are part of our Shareholders with voting rights can vote on current buying agreement, and make our expectations issues including appointments, compensation and in terms of quality, safety and working conditions dividend payments. clear and equitable. We have various introduction programs for suppliers who have difficulty meeting our expectations, including our “Stepping Stone” program. If a supplier – despite our support – fails to meet the required standards, we terminate the relationship. Albert Heijn hosts dialogue All food retail activities of Ahold in the Netherlands, on responsible products Belgium, the Czech republic and Germany have On March 9, 2015, Albert Heijn hosted an event at Instock Thanks to the continued efforts of colleagues from its signed up to the European Supply Chain Initiative, restaurant in Amsterdam. Over 60 participants from Sourcing, Merchandising and Quality departments, in as launched in 2013. the scientific community, government and civil society close collaboration with suppliers, we are proud to report organizations discussed Albert Heijn’s progress on that 94% of Albert Heijn’s own-brand products are more improving the sustainability of its own-brand products. sustainable compared to 2010. Naturally, Albert Heijn will continue to take steps to improve the sustainability of its own‑brand range in the coming years. To learn more about Albert Heijn’s sustainable range, download the leaflet “Step-by-step to a more sustainable range (in Dutch)” here. www.ah.nl/over-ah/meer-doen Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Materiality matrix Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 14 Shaping our 1 Very high importance for stakeholders 2 approach 3 5 4 What is a materiality matrix? 6 In a materiality matrix, social, environmental and 7 economic topics are plotted along two dimensions: 12 14 8 13 their importance to stakeholders, and their importance to the company in terms of the impact these topics 9 High importance for stakeholders have on its reputation, operations and finances. 15 10 We recognize that our activities – and the way we carry them out – impact our stakeholders and affect 18 our business performance. A materiality matrix helps 16 17 19 11 26 24 23 us identify the topics that matter most to Ahold and 20 to our stakeholders, so we can align our strategy, 21 performance and reporting and remain successful 27 25 in the long term. Medium importance for stakeholders How did we collect materiality data? 28 We carried out a thorough materiality analysis, involving customers, associates, investors, suppliers and community representatives. We presented them 22 29 a survey of 30 topics based on information from sources like the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the 30 Dow Jones Sustainability Index, outcomes from investor Medium impact on Ahold High impact on Ahold Very high impact on Ahold meetings, our current Responsible Retailing strategy and stakeholder interviews. These topics were rated by each stakeholder on a scale from one to 10 and Legend: Very high impact High impact Medium impact plotted on the Y-axis of the matrix. Finally our Executive Committee (ExCo) plotted the topics on the X-axis, 1 Product safety 12 Supply chain transparency 23 Company waste management Business drivers which resulted in the final matrix. 2 Ethical behavior and integrity 13 Associate equality, diversity 24 Packaging 3 Compliance with laws & regulation and development 25 Responsible marketing to kids Healthy living What does this mean for our 4 Product quality 14 Product transparency 26 Supplier relationship management 2020 strategy? 5 Supplier Code of Conduct 15 Environmental performance suppliers 27 Animal welfare Responsible products The results from the materiality matrix have enabled 6 Associate engagement 16 Environmental performance company 28 Customer waste management us to refine our strategy to meet real needs and 7 Healthy products sales & assortment 17 Clean/safe store environment 29 Donations (product/financial) Care for the environment trends. On the following pages, we highlight our 8 Food security (access to nutritious 18 Customer satisfaction and loyalty 30 Health support (nutrition advice) key focus areas for the next five years. The proposed food for all) 19 Innovation Our people merger with Delhaize will certainly impact our 9 Affordable healthy products 20 Business continuity company strategy, and therefore our responsible 10 Responsible product sales 21 Responsible alcohol and tobacco sales Community well-being retailing strategy. We will come back with an update 11 Financial performance 22 Supporting children on healthy lifestyles after completion of the merger. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible Retailing 2020 Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 15 Making a Responsible Retailing positive impact Our plan to make a positive impact on the lives of millions by 2020 on the lives Community well-being Healthier lives Responsible products of millions Inspiring kids to create a healthier tomorrow. Healthier lives. Healthier food. Within reach for all. Good products, sustainably sourced. In 2011, we made responsible retailing one of our six strategic pillars in our Reshaping Retail strategy. Since then, we have made tangible progress in sourcing our products more sustainably, and helping Our essentials customers and associates improve their health and well-being. And now we want to make the next step. CO2 reduction, zero waste to landfill, social compliance, critical commodities, associate well-being and transparent reporting Our 2020 strategy In the global drive to create a healthier society for future generations, we have prioritized three areas where we feel we can make the biggest Inspire children to create a healthier Healthier lives. Healthier food. Good products, sustainably sourced impact: Community well-being, Healthier lives and tomorrow Within reach for all Consumers are increasingly interested in the integrity Responsible products. This does not mean that Healthy communities start with healthy children, As a food retailer, we aim to make the healthy choice of the food they buy. We have made great efforts to we will abandon the other two key areas of our so what better group to focus on? In spite of a the easy choice for our customers. We continue to ensure all our food products are safe and sustainably 2011-2015 strategy: Care for the environment and relatively low score in our materiality matrix, many improve our perception as a healthy retailer in most sourced.* Over the past five years we have Our people; see “Our essentials”. The material studies have shown that developing healthy eating of our markets, thanks to our healthful and affordable increased the visibility and transparency of our supply topics as laid out in the materiality matrix on the habits early in life encourages healthy eating as an products, nutritional knowledge, and inspirational chain considerably, increasing the sustainability of our previous page are covered by our Reshaping Retail adult. These past few years, we have run several recipes that save time and money. own-brand products. and or Responsible Retailing 2020 strategy. In the better neighbor initiatives, such as school education coming period we will further investigate if additional However, being perceived as a healthy retailer is not Towards 2020, we will further increase the number programs, in-store tours and workshops to let children of sustainably sourced products and expand our programs should be developed. enough. Currently our healthy food sales are 25% experience how easy and fun it is to make healthier product range of Free From products. To achieve of total food sales. And there is potential to increase The proposed merger with Delhaize will no doubt food choices. this, we will continue to work with suppliers on this number. impact the content of our strategy. For now, we are Towards 2020, our focus will be on further increasing sustainability topics. clear on where to start – realizing the potential for our In the next five years, we will expand our healthy nutrition awareness in schools and at home, building *Products that benefit our customers and the positive impacts. We will work with our customers, product range, drive further reformulation of our on the programs mentioned above, and introducing communities they are sourced from, and have associates, suppliers and other stakeholders, and existing products and find new and creative ways to new and exciting initiatives that will help instill been produced with respect for people, animals report our progress annually, as we make our journey make it even easier for families to choose healthier healthier eating habits for a lifetime. While our focus and the environment. to 2020. alternatives, at an affordable price. will be on inspiring children, we will continue to meet the dietary needs of our older customers, and our food donations to people in need. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 16 Our performance in 2015 Healthy living 17 Community well-being 21 Our people 26 Responsible products 32 Care for the environment 37 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Healthy living Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 17 Healthy living Food plays an important role in people’s health and if we want to deliver a healthy future, society must take a comprehensive approach to shifting people to healthier habits. Today, non-communicable or chronic diseases such as heart attacks, strokes, asthma and diabetes are responsible for more than 63% of deaths per year, globally. Insufficient nutrition, lack of physical activity, use of tobacco and harmful use of alcohol lie at the heart of these conditions. As a food retailer, it is our ambition to make the healthier choice the easy choice – with healthy and affordable products, nutritional knowledge, and inspirational recipes that save time and money. We also play an active role in the Consumer Goods Forum, where retailers and manufacturers combine efforts and expertise to improve health and wellness for consumers worldwide. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Healthy living Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 18 Target Below are examples of our 2015 health initiatives: Number of healthy products Our ambition “Front of Pack” (FOP) nutritional labeling Make healthy living choices easy 25% of our total food sales comes from In 2013, all four divisions of Ahold USA implemented 9,911 9,341 healthy products a “Front of Pack” nutritional labeling initiative to 8,742 8,969 8,819 How did we deliver on our ambition Last year, we reported 24.4% healthy product sales provide clear guidance on the nutritional attributes of to make healthy living choices easy across the Group. This year, we drove growth by foods, such as calories and other important dietary for our customers? As part of our increasing the number of healthy products, reducing components, for many of its own-brand products. 2011‑2015 strategy we set ourselves the price of fruit and vegetables, and reducing salt, Albert Heijn has been doing this too, with new “Front 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 saturated fats and sugar in products. We also made of Pack” labels on its own-brand range. The labels the following targets: it easier for customers to find the healthy options they are easier to read, and include nutritional values per kkIncrease the sale of healthy products were looking for. As a result we achieved 25.0% portion size. They enable customers to understand (as defined by criteria from leading healthy product sales. what is in the food they are buying, helping them health authorities) to at least 25% make better food choices. of total food sales by 2015 across Making conscious decisions the Group Sales of healthy products Along with the Dutch industry healthy food foundation percentage of total food sales “Ik kies bewust,” and the Dutch government, Albert kkReport on our customers’ perception Heijn agreed on nationwide food choice logos in 24.2 24.5 24.4 25.0 of Ahold’s businesses as leading 22.3 2012. These logos replaced the former clover logos healthy retailers Albert Heijn developed to highlight healthy products. In focus In 2014, Albert in the Czech Republic rolled out the label as well. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The labels help customers compare options quickly, and decide which product fits their dietary needs Ahold supports the Consumer Goods Forum’s best. For instance, essential products carrying the resolution to provide transparent, fact-based green checkmark label are healthy alternatives information that will help consumers and shoppers to comparable items in the same category. Nonmake informed product choices. The resolution essential products such as snacks, sauces and drinks is focused on ensuring that energy and nutrient are branded with a blue checkmark, indicating that information is included on the front of packages, they are the “healthier” alternative in that category – and on providing logos that make it easier to containing less saturated fat, salt and/or sugar, and identify healthier options. more fibers. In our stores in the U.S., healthy products can be identified through the Healthy Ideas® program that Famous for Fresh was initially created in 2008 by a team of health Achieving our ambition to become “famous for fresh” experts and nutritionists to help customers find and deliver healthy produce at an affordable price is healthy food items. All Healthy Ideas® products have an important part of our program to improve the overall customer proposition at Ahold USA. This includes no artificial trans-fats, and are limited in total fats, refurbishing the fresh produce department, delivering saturated fats, salt and sugar. In 2016, these criteria better produce quality, revamping our fresh produce will be reviewed following the release of the U.S. offering, and reducing prices. Produce sales have gone Dietary Guidelines 2015 report. up considerably, and we foresee another sales lift when the new concept has been deployed across our U.S. banners and all stores. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Healthy living Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 19 Reformulating our own-brand products Target In 2015, Albert Heijn and both Giant divisions Here are some examples of what we have provided Concerned with our customers’ health, we are scored number one among consumers for being in 2015: Ahold, the leading mainstream healthy retailers, while our Stop & Shop divisions pushing forward in reformulating our own-brand Allerhande Box: fresh and easy meals made simple products, enhancing their nutritional value. healthy retailer both scored number two, and Albert in the Czech The Allerhande Food team in the Netherlands Towards 2020, we will continue to improve the We aim to be the leading mainstream healthy Republic moved up from number five to number two. continues to find new ways to make it easier for nutritional properties of our own-brand ranges, retailer, in all our markets. We are passionate about These are very encouraging results. We are pleased families to eat fresh meals. reducing salt, sugar, additives and trans-fats. We had health and well-being of our associates and that that our investments in energy, time and money these our first results in 2015, as Albert Heijn reduced the of our customers. past years are bearing fruit. Filled with the ingredients and recipes for preparing salt content of its own-brand bread by 13 to 22.5%, fresh and tasty meals within 30 minutes, the meal box To ensure that we hear our customers’ voices, we Customer perception as a leading takes the pressure off busy families. and revised its bread labels to clearly indicate the work with independent market research agencies healthy retailer – by rank fiber content. We also updated the labels on the in all our regions, carrying out surveys on consumer Each week, customers receive their meal box with Nature’s Promise line of products in the U.S. In the demands and evolving shopping behavior. fresh ingredients including vegetables, fruits, meats, Czech Republic, we updated the labels on the 1 2 2 poultry, fish and vegetarian dishes for two or four FreeFrom products to clearly indicate which additives Please see the reporting process section at page 45 people. The box can be purchased via Albert Heijn or ingredients have been eliminated. for more information on the market research agencies Online and either delivered to the home or collected we use. at a nearby pick-up point, at no extra charge. Customers can order other groceries at the same time New England New York Metro for the same free delivery or pick‑up. By introducing the Allerhande Box, Albert Heijn is making online grocery shopping more accessible, 1 1 2 and fresh and varied cooking easier. Ahold USA introduces Savory Fast, Fresh and Easy™. Our Ahold USA divisions are also helping customers include more fresh meals in their busy schedules. They launched a new print and online platform across its divisions called Savory Fast, Fresh and Easy™. The platform is based on Albert Heijn’s Allerhande magazine adapted to U.S. tastes, habits and holidays. Its aim is to inspire customers to save time, and money, and eat well. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Healthy living Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 20 Going green Personal nutrition advice: in-store and at home Additional guidance and recommendations on health In focus Fruits and vegetables are an essential part of In 2015, Ahold USA helped around 100,000 and wellness are available through our nutritionist’s any healthy diet. With over 900 stores in the customers with nutrition / health advice by providing YouTube videos, Twitter parties, circular baseline Netherlands, Albert Heijn offers one of the biggest individual consultations, in-store classes, store tours messages and other social media networks. assortments in the market. In 2015, Albert Heijn and community events across the four divisions. In 2015, Albert Heijn provided individualized nutrition introduced its “Salad & Lettuce World” section with Among the many health topics, the major customer advice in 200 stores. For 4 weeks, customers a wider choice – including more than 100 new concerns focused on diabetes management, weight could consult in-store nutritionists to help them make items – and more convenience and inspiration. In the management, eating healthy on a budget, heart the best choices for their families. The service was fresh deli department, new products were introduced, health, and food allergies / intolerances including also made available through Albert Heijn’s online including ready-made meals with improved gluten free. community, which provided advice from nutrition packaging and taste, but with less food additives, Our nutritionists are committed to supporting experts. The initiative is a joint collaboration with the fats and salt. In 100 stores around the country, our customers’ health and nutrition through local Dutch affiliate of the Choices International Foundation Albert Heijn added fresh fruit and vegetable snacks community programs including Passport to Nutrition, (“Stichting Ik kies bewust”), and the Dutch Society of such as tomatoes and cucumbers at the check-out. A+ Program and Communities in Schools, to name Dieticians (“Nederlandse Vereniging van Diëtisten”). a few. Our Annual Healthy Kids Summits bring together community groups to inspire kids and families towards living a healthy and balanced lifestyle (e.g., nutrition, exercise, healthy routines including hygiene and sleep, etc.). Involving children Children represent the next generation of customers, and governments and organizations are increasingly recognizing the importance of involving them in developing solutions to social issues. Albert Heijn established its own Kids’ Council (“Raad van Kinderen”) towards the end of 2015, to brainstorm solutions for strategic health dilemmas. Albert Heijn invited children to be agents of change for healthy eating. Albert Heijn works with a team of adult experts to guarantee quality throughout its products, packaging and promotions. With the Kids’ Council, another group of experts has been added. They are straightforward, curious and offer fresh perspectives, welcome qualities. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Community well-being Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 21 Community well-being We all benefit from a strong community: as individuals, as a collective, and as a society. Strong communities create a more stable and supportive environment, where people of all ages feel happier and healthier. Unfortunately, economic hardship and food insecurity are putting pressure on communities. Unemployment rates, combined with cuts in welfare benefits and local services, mean more people are relying on community support and food donations. Because of their reach and scope, businesses are playing a larger role in meeting social needs. Our wide reach, and our presence at the heart of communities, enable us to touch the lives of millions of people every day. We are committed to using that position to make a positive impact in our communities. We make both financial and product donations to food banks and charities. To go further and help build stronger, thriving communities where everyone can benefit. We partner with national and local organizations, schools and charities to help people adopt a healthy, active lifestyle and to make choices that will help sustain our planet for generations to come. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Community well-being Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 22 Target Ahold USA continues with “Passport to Nutrition” Albert Heijn supports the national school breakfast Our ambition program The Dutch National School Breakfast is the biggest Number of children educated Geared to children ages eight to 12, Ahold USA’s educational breakfast event in the Netherlands. Contribute to the well-being Learning healthy eating habits at a young age Passport to Nutrition kit features student workbooks Each year during one week breakfasts are organized of our communities and a teacher guide. The material helps teachers in schools throughout the country. Together with the can benefit children for a lifetime. Our educational programs are aimed at helping parents and children develop lessons that inspire children to make small Dutch Nutritional Center (Voedingscentrum) children How did we deliver on our ambition adopt healthier eating habits. In 2015 we reached changes every day for better health. receive healthy breakfasts. to contribute to the well-being of over 946,000 children with our programs, an our communities? We measure the Through its interactive “Passport to Nutrition program” New online materials are used to educate the increase of more than 200 thousand compared and Kid Healthy Ideas magazine, Ahold USA children on the importance of a healthy breakfast. progress of our community support to 2014. enables the “Passport Kids” to get moving and eat This makes the event not only the most fun, but also through the following metrics: right with interactive games and activities, so they can the healthiest and most educational breakfast! kkThe number of children Number of children educated in healthy living learn all about good health, healthy foods and how In 2015 over 400 thousand children participated in educated as part of our healthy to help out in the kitchen. the event where Albert Heijn supported by providing living programs 946,887 participating schools with fruit for the breakfast. 804,842 kkFinancial donations 721,808 527,283 kkFood donations to food banks 389,264 kkThe number of stores participating 2015 in at least one community well-being 2011 2012 2013 2014 event per year Making healthy eating fun The Albert Heijn healthy eating program “I eat In focus better” (Ik eet het beter) aims to inspire children between eight and 12 years old to lead a Nutrition education healthy lifestyle, both at school and at home. Children are always on the move; they continuously Developed in collaboration with the Dutch Nutrition grow and develop, so they need the right combination Center (“Voedingscentrum”), the campaign includes of calories and nutrients to keep them going. workshops at schools, plus an entertaining and To help parents make smart choices for their growing interactive website that offers teachers weekly tips children, Albert in the Czech Republic developed the “Healthy Five” program, both in-store and online. and fun exercises for the whole year. An example Based on the food pyramid, the program includes fresh food of an exercise is “Over the tongue” (“Over de tong”), promotions, quick and easy recipes, and personal support which helps children discover different tastes through from in-store nutritionists who help parents select and prepare experiments such as mixing flavors in a delicious balanced and tasty meals. smoothie that gets senses tingling. This year, over While mothers and fathers share the challenges of parenting 542,000 children took part. and cooking, an in-store play area keeps their children amused and safe. Following a successful pilot in two of Did you know? The “I eat better” program is called Albert’s larger format stores in 2015, the program will be “Ik eet het beter” in Dutch, which is a play on the rolled out in all Albert Compact Hyperstores in 2016. Dutch phrase “Ik weet het beter” (“I know better”). Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Community well-being Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 23 Target Fighting hunger with “Meat the Need” Albert Heijn expands annual food donations Obtaining high-protein foods for those in need is one In September 2015, Albert Heijn signed an In focus Financial and food donations of the biggest challenges for food banks. agreement with the national food bank organization As a food retailer, we believe everyone should of the Netherlands (“Voedselbanken Nederland”) In 2009, the Giant Carlisle division of Ahold USA have access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food. anticipating to donate 1.2 million products a year. began work with the Central Pennsylvania Food Bank Therefore, we provide comprehensive support, Under the agreement, an Albert Heijn team and and the U.S. Department of Agriculture to develop including financial donations, food donations and foodbank volunteers will improve the logistics a program to redirect meat that would otherwise go our time and leadership where needed. processes between the organizations, to ensure more unsold to vulnerable families. Titled Meat the Need, products find their way to food bank customers. In 2015, Group-wide, we generated donations this innovative program helps local hunger relief of over €68 million to food-related and charitable efforts and removes food from the waste stream. Despite our best efforts to reduce food waste to causes, which is more than last year’s €57 million. Since Meat the Needs was launched, Giant Carlisle an absolute minimum we still have surplus food. However at constant exchange rates the increase has donated over two million pounds of meat to the By working together with Voedselbanken Nederland, is 0.4%. 42% of our donations are made by Central Pennsylvania Food Bank alone. we can put that food to good use and contribute to a third parties which include customers, suppliers fairer distribution of food in the Netherlands. This successful program expanded to all Ahold USA and associates. divisions over the past five years, and in 2015, over With these efforts we not only help those in need, Helping our communities $10 million worth of nutritional protein was donated but also reduce our food waste, which is one of our through donations Contributions and donations to families and children in need. key environmental targets. For more details, see the “Care for the environment” section on page 37. In 2015, our Ahold USA divisions generated donations € thousands Fueling children for growth and learning of over €63 million to charitable causes. They support a 68,339 An important component of education for students range of organizations in our local markets focusing on 57,540 is having enough nutritious food to fuel their bodies helping children, fighting hunger and building healthy 56,219 54,544 communities. Donations included products and money 41,003 and minds so that they can learn, grow and move. from customers, suppliers and associates, as well as food In New York, the Summer Food Service Program and funds donated directly from our company. (SFSP), an initiative from the Island Harvest Food 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bank, ensures that low-income children continue to receive nutritious meals during the summer months when school is not in session. Since 2013, Stop & Shop’s New York Metro division has supported the program with nutritious lunches. In 2015, the business 47% of our total donations provided over 68,000 lunches – 16,000 more than in 2014. Stop & Shop also donated 5,000 of the are to food banks lunches as a charitable contribution. 42% Third party donations 58% Own donations Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Community well-being Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 24 Target Albert inspires young entrepreneurs Albert Heijn Amsterdam Healthy Living In focus Over the Easter holidays, the Albert Foundation The city of Amsterdam works hard to create Community well-being events in the Czech Republic invited children from twelve a healthy and strong community within its borders. Keeping the neighborhood clean children’s homes to sell their handmade products In 2014, the city launched Amsterdam’s Approach Every year, people across the Netherlands get to Albert associates. The Easter Bazaar gave the for Healthy Weight (“Amsterdamse Aanpak Gezond together to participate in the nation’s largest associates the opportunity to be a better neighbor, Gewicht”) and in 2015, it partnered with Albert volunteer clean-up event: the Annual Clean-Up Day and the children the opportunity to learn the basics Heijn and researchers to pilot initiatives to support (“Landelijke Opschoondag”). On March 28, 2015, of entrepreneurship. Producing, marketing and selling health in the city. The first pilots included a healthy more than 95,000 volunteers participated. In our their own handmade products. The initiative was check-out area (fruit and vegetable snacks instead ambition to be a better neighbor, 284 Albert Heijn tied into Albert‘s “Healthy Five” program; with every of sweets) in the stores, and an in-store shopping stores took part in the event. Supported by locals purchase, people received a healthy snack. coach: an Albert Heijn associate specially trained to and customers, Albert Heijn associates cleaned the Every year around Christmas, Albert organizes its inspire customers and colleagues to make healthier neighborhood around their stores, removing trash and popular Christmas Bazaar, in collaboration with food choices. recyclables. The result: many filled bin bags, pleased charity organization “Together for children”. In 2015, customers and happy locals. the event proved more successful than ever, with a “I strongly support Albert Heijn’s ambition to help record 40 stores welcoming children from more than Dutch people improve their health. We look 60 homes. For the first time, the children organized forward to seeing the impact of the programs promotion and media coverage themselves. that Albert Heijn is involved in on the health of Thanks to their creativity and commitment they children in Amsterdam.” Working miracles raised an impressive €15,000. Paul van der Velpen, Managing Director Public Health Service (GGD) Amsterdam Healthy communities start with healthy kids. Therefore, Ahold USA proudly supports Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals. Since its inception in 1983, this organization has raised more than $5 billion – most of it $1 at a time – for 170 children’s hospitals across the U.S. and Canada, which, in turn, use the money where it’s needed the most. Ahold USA’s donations have gone to providing life-saving medical care that helps millions of kids overcome disease Number of stores participating and injury. in community events 1,430 1,392 1,243 2013 2014 2015 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Community well-being Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 25 Our Tax Policy Compliance to Tax Regulations We aim to file our tax compliance complete and Ahold ranked 20th in tax We recognize that one of our obligations is to transparency benchmark contribute to the communities we operate in. timely and to discuss possible uncertainties about the While meeting this obligation, we also have the tax treatment upfront with the tax authorities. This helps Following the introduction of the Good Tax responsibility to our shareholders to control our tax Ahold to comply with local and international tax Governance Principles in 2014, the VBDO, costs. Our overall tax approach is in line with Ahold’s regulations. Ahold does not operate in countries a Dutch investor organization, launched overall business principles and code of conduct. which qualify as a tax haven according to the a tax transparency benchmark in 2015. European Union world tax havens blacklist. The benchmark examined to what extent Dutch Tax Control Framework and Oversight listed companies are transparent about their To assess and control tax risks we have a “Tax Tax in the Annual Reports and Accounts Our effective corporate tax rate over the past responsible tax strategy and tax payments. Control Framework” in place. For a summary of The methodology of the Tax Transparency the main tax risks we refer to page 76 of our 2015 year was 21.3% (24.4% in 2014) and we paid €227 million of corporate income tax, including Benchmark is based on the Good Tax Annual Report. Effectiveness of this framework is Governance Principles. regularly reviewed by the internal audit function. €111 million in the U.S. and €108 million in the Netherlands. The study ranked 64 Dutch listed multinational The tax function reports to Ahold’s CFO. At least once companies on the transparency that they a year a tax risk update is presented by Tax to the In addition, Ahold paid and collected many other local taxes like value added tax, payroll tax and provide into their responsible tax policy and Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. its implementation. social security premiums, property tax, sales and Tax Authorities use tax, real estate tax, packaging tax, excise tax, Ahold was ranked at a 20th place and scored Ahold communicates with the tax authorities in a customs duties etc. The total amount of these taxes relatively high in the area of knowing and transparent way based on mutual trust. In the USA exceeds €2 billion. managing its tax risks. we participate in the IRS Compliance Assurance Program/CAP and in the Netherlands we signed a transparency agreement with the Dutch tax authorities. The annual objectives for Ahold’s tax department are shared with the Dutch tax authorities. Government Relations Being a company close to society we value a constructive dialogue regarding many aspects of taxation with the government in the countries we operate and to respond to government consultations on proposed changes to legislation with the aim to achieve sustainable legislation. We are also active members of industry bodies and chambers of commerce. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 26 Our people Strong communities need people with the drive to help create a healthier, more active and more resilient environment where everyone can thrive. As a food retailer, we are a community, too. One made up of a skilled, healthy and caring workforce that is eager to develop their talents and take initiative. When associates feel good about themselves and their contributions, it has a positive effect on those around them, including our customers. And what is good for our customers is good for our business. Nurturing this type of dedicated workforce requires support, encouragement and leadership. So how do we make this happen? By creating a culture that fosters curiosity and initiative, and facilitates development and growth. Of course this requires ongoing dialogue, active listening and acting on our promises. This doesn’t mean we ignore the needs of the larger community of which we are a part such as, unemployment, a lack of skills in demand, at-risk groups looking to find a way to add value and be valued. We are taking a driving role in helping overcome these challenges, by creating initiatives that change the nature of work, and offer opportunities to those who want and need them. We are convinced that by truly taking care of our people – internally and externally – we build physical energy, mental focus and emotional drive. This lets us create exciting opportunities for ourselves, our company and our communities, so we make society fit for the future. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 27 Be the best Straight Talks: taking time to listen “Over the last few years I have engaged with Our ambition In 2015, we started organizing one-hour face-toTo make all Ahold businesses a better place to work, Ahold in my APG Asset Management role and face dialogue sessions at the Ahold headquarters Provide a better place to work, and our strategic actions focus on becoming best in place, on behalf of the PRI collaborative investor group between members of the Executive Committee and support our associates in living healthy best in people and best in performance. On the associates across the organization. The objective is on topics linked to their employees. I am pleased and sustainable lives following pages, you can read what this means for to see the progress they have made; introducing us and how we intend to deliver on these goals. to listen to and learn from each other. These Straight an annual cross-company engagement survey Talks have no agenda but what associates bring to Our “better place to work” promise and publicly sharing the result. In the future we the table. Based on the first, very positive results (a Best in place will continue our dialogue to encourage Ahold Our people are right at the heart of score of 8.5 out of 10), we will broaden the scope for more disclosure on human resource metrics Best in place for us means fostering a working to include more locations and more leaders. our Reshaping Retail strategy, as we and holding management to implement its environment where associates feel free to voice their lead the way forward to become the opinions and ideas, and are inspired to be the drivers Associate engagement survey commitments in practice.” best employer we can be. of their own careers, working together with us and In 2015, we invited all our 236,000 associates Anna Pot with their colleagues. to participate in our annual global associate All Pensions Group (APG) Our better place to work promise engagement survey. We are proud of the response aims to foster an environment where Associate engagement rate: a record-breaking 88% – an increase of 7% colleagues respect each other, In 2015, and over the past five years of our 2015 over 2014 – took the time to complete the survey have good working conditions, get strategy, we worked hard to increase the level of and provide us feedback on how we are doing. opportunities to develop, can count on conversation with our associates. We understand The overall results of the survey were encouraging; support from their manager and get that even the most engaged associates can become despite changes in our company in 2015, our recognition for performance. disillusioned if we do not pick up on the issues engagement remained a stable 68%. confronting them. So Group-wide, we took more To embed this in our organization we time to listen and build trust. To show our appreciation for the time and effort our have identified three key areas: best associates had put into completing the survey, we Visualizing our strategy made it a priority to communicate the findings as in place, best in people and best Many associates expressed a need to better quickly as possible. In fact, within two weeks after in performance. We measure our understand the company strategy and their role in it. the survey closed, managers could share results progress through the following metrics: We launched a campaign introducing visual maps with their teams, to start developing action plans of our local strategies. First, the maps were launched early. We also launched a robust communication kkAssociate engagement rating at Group level; then the businesses took them to their campaign to all our stores and distribution centers kkThe level of associate participation top leadership, followed by associates working at our across the company, showing key results including in healthy living programs offices, distribution centers and stores. Towards the the three highest scoring and the three lowest end of last year, the maps were shared with the entire scoring questions. kkThe number of active workforce, helping associates engage more in their sustainability programs local strategy, to better help carry it out. Percentage engaged associates 67 68 68 2013 2014 2015 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 28 Diversity and inclusion All calls are confidential, so callers can feel Best in people Our stores are at the core of the diverse communities comfortable providing useful information without fear In focus We are a people company, and having the right we serve. Embracing differences is essential to our of reprisal. people is crucial to our success. We strongly success as a leading global retailer; bringing people believe that we can bring out the best in people by Calls are registered in order of priority. from varied cultures and backgrounds together gives fostering their curiosity and initiative, and facilitating Priority A calls require immediate review and us a better understanding of the needs of our entire their development. Ongoing dialog, Individual action. Examples include theft in progress, threats of customer base. Diversity and inclusion are closely Development Plans (IDPs) and innovative, groundphysical harm or weapons on company property. tied to our core values and to our strategic business breaking employment initiatives help our people Priority B calls require prompt review and/or action goals. Throughout our businesses, we welcome develop so they can make a real difference in our and include ongoing drug abuse, safety issues, and and promote the recruitment, retention and growth workplace, and in the communities they serve. theft. Priority C calls require no immediate action. of a diverse workforce. Examples are complaints about company policies, As you can see from the following examples, we For example, the 1,000 “Wajongers” – young adults scheduling or requests for guidance. In 2015 we have achieved a lot in 2015. We are particularly with disabilities – who are part of the Albert Heijn received 2291 calls. By the end of 2015 over 94% proud to share some great examples of associateworkforce are very committed and proud of their of all the cases were closed. driven health and community-support initiatives. work. By the end of 2016, Albert Heijn plans to Priority employ up to 2,000 “Wajongers”. Number of whistleblower line calls Healthy living programs in 2015 A B C Whistleblower line In 2015, over 30,000 associates participated Financial Misconduct 0 8 1 in our healthy living programs; similar to last year. Nation’s biggest running event While we keep an open dialogue with all our Business Ethics/ This is an example of how we are “walking the talk”. As part of our “Better place to work” strategy we associates and other stakeholders like suppliers and Code of Conduct 1 11 118 We are impressed with how well our associates are encourage our associates to lead healthy, active customers, it is not physically feasible to be aware lifestyles. And successfully. In 2015, a record-breaking Theft/Fraud 0 8 50 supporting our healthy living philosophy: in fact, many of every incident in the workplace. Therefore we 3,100 Ahold colleagues participated in the hugely installed a whistleblower line. Via a local, toll-free Legal & Regulatory 2 188 191 of our health programs were initiated and developed popular Dam to Dam run (“Dam tot Dam loop”). number, people can express ideas and concerns, Employee Relations 5 77 1522 by associates. The Dam to Dam run is the biggest running event in the and report incidents, 24/7, 365 days a year. Customers, Vendors, Netherlands and is famous among professional and Benefits and Wellness Fair Business Partners 0 1 108 recreational runners. In 2015, it was a big spectacle with Associates in the Giant Carlisle office in the entrants running 10 English miles (16.1 kilometers) from Collective bargaining U.S. attended the 2015 Benefits and Wellness Dam square in Amsterdam to Dam square in Zaandam. We respect and protect the rights of associates: we Fair. As part of the fair, 37 vendors provided In addition to the main 10-mile race, the event hosted are committed to the principles of equal employment information on cancer, blood pressure and blood shorter races for children, a five-mile race by night through sugar screenings, home/child safety, credit reports, the streets of Zaandam, and several business team opportunities, freedom of association, and respecting competitions. The event attracted 88,000 people from the legal rights to collective bargaining. In the U.S. massages, cooking demonstrations, yoga, Zumba, all over the world. nearly 78,000 Ahold associates – or 66% of all Crossfit, fitness clubs, and children’s fitness. “Running the Dam to Dam run with so many colleagues associates in the U.S. businesses – are members Associates attending the Wellness Fair had the was a fantastic experience!,” says Nic Brassey, SVP of unions. Over 99% of our Netherlands-based opportunity to receive a free flue shot. HR Albert Heijn. Nic ran the 10 miles and was hugely associates are covered by collective bargaining impressed with the atmosphere and the professional organization. “I loved the atmosphere; the support of the agreements (“CAOs”). group and the crowd really kept me going. The event was Number of participants superbly organized too; no doubt an event of this scope in healthy living programs took months of careful preparation.” 28,644 30,103 27,000 2013 2014 2015 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 29 Fresh Fruit Program – eating fresh made easy Individual Development Plans For 1,835 Ahold USA associates, Wednesdays As part of our performance management program, In focus just got a little healthier. In 2015, Ahold introduced we encourage our associates to create Individual Albert Heijn hires 1,000th “Wajonger” an exciting Fresh Fruit delivery program; every Development Plans (IDPs). An IDP is a structured It’s February 8, 2016, and Sanne Jans has just signed Wednesday morning, Peapod delivers fresh fruit to plan focused on keeping associates’ skills up to her employment contract with Albert Heijn. This officially the Ahold USA support offices on a weekly basis. date for their current role, adopting new skills for makes Sanne the 1,000th “Wajonger” – young adult a special project, or preparing them for a new with a disability – employed by Albert Heijn. A holistic approach to feeling great position. IDPs help associates identify aspirations, Jetta Klijnsma, State Secretary for Social Affairs, In the Netherlands, Albert Heijn associates keep congratulates Sanne on her contract: “It’s so encouraging describe goals, choose activities that will help meet moving – at work and at home. Besides the longthat Albert Heijn has already 1,000 ‘Wajongers’ them, set key milestones and create a timeline for the running program, Fit&Fun, the company fitness plan working for them, providing these young people with an completion of their goals. irreplaceable opportunity.” and workout clinics, associates take part in a wide variety of sporting events throughout the year – from Our step by step guidelines help our associates With over 900 stores and some 100,000 associates, the annual Amsterdam Dam to Dam run, to company create realistic and robust IDPs and take a Albert Heijn is a major employer in the Netherlands, and takes its responsibilities seriously. “Our goal is to employ soccer games, golf tournaments and cycling 70-20-10 approach: 2,000 “Wajongers” by the end of 2016,” says Cees competitions. Many of these events are initiated by van Vliet, Albert Heijn EVP Stores & Distribution. This is aa 70% of developmental activities should be associates, and sponsored by Albert Heijn. an ambitious target that requires commitment and close challenging, work-related assignments to develop cooperation with our partners. To accelerate the process, Performance management necessary skills Albert Heijn has set up a dedicated team of motivated By fostering initiative, naturally we create a hunger associates – regional coordinators and job coaches – from aa 20% of developmental activities should be all over the organization. for development and growth. Because our ambitions through developmental relationships where they for the years to come require new skills and can develop through coaching and feedback management capabilities, we introduced a new from others performance management program globally in 2013, rolling it out across all stores and department aa 10% of developmental activities should be invested heads in 2014-2015. This program includes career in coursework and training development tools that enable associates to clearly express their career ambitions, build on their talents and progress towards their full potential. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 30 Succession planning Managing My Career site The web tool is supported by printed materials, Our global management development initiative At Ahold, we want our associates to continue to including posters and pamphlets, specifically for In focus supports the organization by maintaining pools of develop and help us to win in our marketplace. store associates. talented people who are eager to grow and gain Managing My Career – a new web-based tool was Following its success in the U.S., the tool is planned responsibility, to fill key positions. At Ahold, our built to help associates feel empowered in taking to be rolled out in Albert Heijn in 2016. management development starts with listening to our ownership of their career and can help to identify associates’ career ambitions. Then we align human Progressive employer: changing the nature of work opportunities for development and designing a resources activities with business objectives, ensuring Our communities today face many challenges career path. It is also a great resource for developing we always have a pool of qualified and engaged including unemployment with young graduates Individual Development Plans (IDP). people ready for management opportunities. and other workers lacking the right skills for today’s The Managing My Career tool was originally rolled economy. As a leading employer in our communities, Throughout the year, we organize four management out in Ahold USA to support associates, managers we are not only taking responsibility for our own development meetings to review successors for key and the business with the career development workforce, but are also introducing new employment executive positions, key retail positions and other key process. It provides a career development framework initiatives that change the nature of work. continental positions. We then coordinate and align that gives associates the ability to explore career individual development plans, identify key positions For instance, bringing education, training, and the interests and understand requirements that will help Rising stars help Stop & Shop shoot and appoint successors for these positions. During the labor market closer together, Albert Heijn is the first prepare them for their next move. rest of the year, management development is an retailer in the Netherlands to run several initiatives – up from good to great ongoing process that monitors and controls how The tool highlights key roles by function, provides local and national -, that enable scholars and students In the U.S., Stop & Shop launched a new effectively we manage succession within Ahold. the recommended skills and experience, and shares to combine their studies with a part-time or temporary comprehensive associate sustainability program in which management, District Centric Teams (DCTs) and success stories of associates working in those roles job at Albert Heijn. support staff take ownership of actions, results and who have built a career with the organization. their own personal development. We believe that young people cannot prepare for the labor market by studying only; they must be able The program is open to associates interested in to discover their talents and gain real experience in advancing their careers, and who are willing to take on additional responsibilities including traveling and a proper working environment. Our programs offer working nights. Once accepted into the program, the flexible scheduling, internships on several education associate is challenged to own a process or area within levels, and plenty of opportunity to discover and the store, receiving detailed learning objectives and develop basic management skills. We are proud to providing continuous updates to management. Rising Star provide them with a great way to start to their career, candidates wear pins on their name badges so they can be easily identified. in retail or elsewhere. The Rising Stars support personnel and store associates on a day-to-day basis, and the DCTs when they visit the store. Their successes are recognized, with personal stories and pictures communicated throughout the business. By investing in our associates’ personal and professional growth, we help position our organization for future growth. We have expanded the program to other U.S. divisions, where qualified, well-trained associates will ensure we continue our journey from good to great. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our people Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 31 Best in performance Making every Albert store a favorite of customers Training and development Ahold Retail Academy To support our growth ambition, we challenge and associates alike Our commitment to helping our associates fulfill their The annual Ahold Retail Academy (ARA) brings ourselves and our associates to be better In 2015, Albert rolled out its “Favorite store” concept full potential starts at the very top of the organization. together leaders from across Ahold’s businesses, for a every day. Performance management is crucial to its Albert supermarkets in the Czech Republic. Our executive board members and management program that focuses on our Reshaping Retail strategy to this. What are we doing to become ‘best in This concept combines format improvements with new have a strong commitment to our philosophy that and in particular our values of making ideas happen performance’? We have an excellent performance ways of working that give associates more autonomy leadership development should be leader led. and winning together. The ARA has been Ahold’s management cycle in place, designed to support to solve problems. Not only do they play an active role in helping cornerstone program for talent development since managers and associates in measuring, recognizing define training topics and material, but also in 1999. Talented managers around Ahold together Albert involved its associates to help create a more and encouraging performance. Throughout the cycle, leading sessions themselves. They take great pride take part in an intensive one-week course of study pleasant shopping experience for customers and a ongoing dialog keeps us tuned in with expectations in sharing their knowledge and expertise with our around retailing processes and strategy, Ahold’s better place to work for themselves. Over 20 store and goals, regular evaluations, personal development next generation of leaders. They believe 100% in Reshaping Retail pillars and promises, retail best associate ideas were implemented: in the stores, and career planning. the potential and future of our company and our practices and industry trends, and to build their own distribution centers and support offices. workforce – and it shows! Ahold-wide network. Many of the improvements were communicationsThe program includes presentations, discussions and related, including the “Happy Cars” project. As part working sessions led by senior management and of this project, associates from the different part of the colleagues from across Ahold as well as external organization will frequently visit each other to share speakers from Cornell University. Participants looked ideas and concerns on how new initiatives impact at the retail trends facing our company today, and at their work. how to bring our Reshaping Retail strategy to life so With positive customer reactions and sales uplifts in we can stay ahead of our customers’ expectations. the stores, the concept has been so successful that The experience was rounded out with a visit to the Albert is now also rolling it out to its larger-format new AH XL store in Eindhoven that truly reflects Albert former SPAR stores. Heijn’s passion for fresh and healthy eating, and is a testing ground for concepts for other stores. In focus Building new leaders The sixth annual Ahold Leadership Academy (ALA) took place in October 2015 at Harvard Business School in Boston. Participants had spirited discussions with members of the ExCo. Dick Boer outlined Ahold’s performance, leadership, culture and direction for the future; Chief Commercial Officer Hanneke Faber provided insight into our price/value equation; Chief Human Resources Officer Abbe Luersman spoke on the role of leaders, and Chief Legal Officer Jan Ernst de Groot gave an update on our Responsible Retailing strategy. The participants also worked on case studies, using best practices from companies such as Costco, HEB, Unilever and Home Depot, inspiring them to think about how to solve strategic issues, taking advantage of our collective strengths and capabilities. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible Products Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 32 Responsible products Years ago, food retailers simply sold food, but the world has changed. In the face of media reports on product recalls, depletion of natural resources, deforestation and questions about working conditions, consumer expectations have changed. They look to retailers to provide high-quality products, sourced with respect for the environment and the communities they come from, and clearly labeled so they can make well-informed choices. As a food retailer serving customers for 129 years, we are committed to sell safe, high-quality products that benefit everyone in our value chain – from farmer to customer. Therefore, we are continuously analyzing our supply chain to obtain maximum visibility of what’s involved in growing, producing and shipping our products, and are driving improvements where we can. Over the past few years, we have identified and addressed risks, further rolled out Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards to ensure the safety of our products and pushed responsible sourcing of critical commodities. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible products Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 33 Target Informed managers Ahold USA companies will support CIW to ensure Our ambition To ensure our success in driving supplier compliance, timely inspections and audits of the participating farms. Source our products – including their 80% GFSI standards we train our quality and sourcing managers on our Ahold USA has committed to continue to purchase packaging – with respect for people, We require all our own-brand food suppliers to meet social compliance and sustainability requirements. Florida tomatoes only from growers participating in the animals and the environment the food safety requirements as laid out by any of the They play a key role in our responsible sourcing program, and to support the Fair Food Program with Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) standards. At the efforts, and are in charge of negotiating prices and expanded marketing and advertising, including in‑store end of 2015, 96% of our own-brand food suppliers agreements. A strong supply chain is built on solid displays, online visibility and education materials for As part of our 2011-2015 strategy and mutually beneficial relationships. The following associates at the Ahold USA divisions. serving the European market, and 93% serving the we set ourselves the following targets: U.S. market had been GFSI-certified. examples show how we work together with suppliers kkEnsure that 80% of our own-brand and partners. “We are truly proud to welcome Ahold USA into Food safety (GFSI) food suppliers meet Global Food percentage of own-brand food suppliers GFSI certified Supporting Fair Food tomatoes the Fair Food Program and are excited about Safety Initiative (GFSI)-recognized Last year, Ahold USA became the first of America’s the opportunity to work with an industry leader standards by 2012 major grocers to join the Coalition of Immokalee like Ahold. Ahold USA is the first of the country’s Workers’ (CIW) Fair Food Program, the widelymajor grocers to join the program and, as such, kkEnsure that 100% of our own-brand 93% 96% acclaimed partnership dedicated to delivering not only will its partnership help propel our efforts food suppliers in high-risk countries U.S. businesses European businesses responsibly sourced tomatoes and improving the lives to protect farmworkers’ rights, but we believe are audited on social compliance of the country’s farmworkers. Ahold USA’s support for its market leadership will send an invaluable by 2012 the Fair Food Program extends its long track record message to the rest of the grocery industry on responsible product sourcing. that social responsibility is greatly strengthened kkSource 100% of the six critical when workers, suppliers and retailers work commodities for our own-brand Target Ahold USA is the first major grocer in the U.S. to join together toward a more modern, more humane products in accordance with industry the program, and its participation will increase the agricultural industry.” certification standards by 2015 100% social compliance number of U.S. grocery stores carrying Fair Food Gerardo Reyes tomatoes by approximately 75%. kkPerform an annual risk assessment In recent years, we have committed significant of the CIW resources to selecting our suppliers, monitoring to identify hot-spots in our own-brand their performance and supporting them in making supply chain improvements to their processes and working In focus kkReport on the number of conditions. Our goal was to have all suppliers in highSupporting Ghana and its products reviewed against 4R risk countries audited by the end of 2012. Despite our children to grow packaging guidelines Stepping Stone program (that gives selected suppliers Children in Obodan, Ghana, are excited: a brand new up to one year to comply with our regulations), we building with three classrooms and plenty of space have come in just under our target, achieving 96% has replaced the site of their former derelict school of suppliers serving our European market and 90% building. Obodan is a small village with only about serving the U.S. market. 1,500 residents, many of whom are pineapple farmers. Their pineapples are processed at Blue Skies, a local fresh fruit production facility that also has operations in Social compliance percentage of suppliers in South Africa, Senegal and Egypt. high-risk countries audited on social compliance Having the fruit grown, cut and wrapped at the facility helps 96 96 the local economy thrive. All the fruit cut at the Ghanaian 90 90 82 80 88 production facility ends up on Albert Heijn shelves, with the 74 72 70 Albert Heijn own-brand label. Harvested yesterday, the fruit 66 is cut and wrapped today, then flown to the Netherlands, 36 ready for our customers tomorrow morning. For more information on projects we do with the AH foundation please read the report which can be downloaded here. U.S. Europe U.S. Europe U.S. Europe 2013 2014 2015 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible products Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 34 Coffee, tea and cocoa Palm oil Soy Using our global reach We made great strides in coffee, tea and cocoa. The use of unsustainable palm oil is an ongoing To grow soybeans, vast expanses of land are As a global, forward-looking company, we 99% of Albert Heijn and 100% Albert own-brand concern and focus area for Ahold. To feed growing needed. Production in South America is overtaking also work with industry stakeholders, NGOs, coffee is sustainably sourced. We have one demand, tropical forests may be converted provide large areas in fragile ecosystems, threatening wildlife governments and other partners, including remaining non-certified product at Ahold USA but this land for oil palm plantations, endangering wildlife and biodiversity and adversely affecting people, the the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), the will be replaced with a certified alternative in 2016. habitats and emitting carbon. Our target is 100% global climate and water reserves. Food Marketing Institute (FMI) and the Dutch For tea, Albert Heijn and Albert achieved 100% certified, segregated and mass balance palm oil. Food Retail Association (“Centraal Bureau In Europe, we are working with industry-wide groups certification. All of Ahold USA’s newly sourced tea is Levensmiddelen” (CBL)). Globally, by the end of 2015, 65% of our total palm to increase the demand for sustainable soy, pushing 100% sustainable and existing stock will be depleted oil usage was physically certified; 17% of which is meat, dairy and egg producers to respond to that Together, we strive to improve sustainability, soon. In cocoa, we came under target at 85%. certified segregated palm oil and 48% of which is need. We have calculated our annual soy footprint, transparency, empower workers and Palm oil, soy and seafood certified mass balance. To meet our 100% target, and have asked our Dutch animal products suppliers drive compliance worldwide. For palm oil, soy and seafood, we dedicated we bought palm oil credits to cover the remaining to either purchase Round Table on Responsible Soy considerable efforts to better understand the volume. In 2015, we also reviewed our palm kernel (RTRS) or equivalent certified soy, or offset their annual Target challenges involved in reaching our 100% certified oil use and bought book and claim credits to cover volumes of by purchasing RTRS credits. We are targets on all three commodities. We are well this volume. getting a good response from our suppliers. By the 100% of six critical commodities underway towards achieving these targets. Also, end of 2015, 100% of soy embedded in simple Ahold has been working closely with each of its The production of commodities such as coffee, tea, as a partner in several initiatives, we are influencing animal products in the Netherlands was covered by suppliers – both large and small -to report their cocoa, palm oil, soy and seafood can have a big and even leading the retail industry in driving RTRS credits as a minimum. palm oil footprint, and check their sustainability status. impact, environmentally and socially. We partner positive change. For those suppliers who aren’t certified yet, we work Our U.S. suppliers use domestic soy that is not linked with organizations like UTZ to support sustainable together to set a timeline towards sustainable palm to deforestation in sensitive South American regions, farming, creating better opportunities for farmers, oil. Many suppliers, especially the smaller ones, find like the Amazon or Cerrado, and are therefore their families and our planet. the steps to becoming certified quite overwhelming, exempted from this target. We have set ourselves a target to source tea, so we’ve introduced them to group certification – coffee, cocoa, palm oil, soy and seafood 100% in which makes the process more accessible for accordance with credible sustainability standards small users. by 2015. Credible sustainability standards are In focus “Ahold is making sustainable palm oil a reality for multi-stakeholder initiatives or supported by multiple many companies that would otherwise dismiss the Smallholders stakeholders. They include third-party verification, and idea because of complexity or cost,” says Björn Smallholders, or small farmers, play a vital role focus on mitigating the main environmental and social Wevers, CEO of Alioth, an RSPO Group Manager. in palm oil production. They may each plant on issues associated with a commodity’s production. “Ahold not only educates, but works with suppliers small plots of land, but combined, they can have a Credible standards are science-based, globally by providing direction and tools enabling them to considerable impact on the environment. consistent and focus on continuously improving achieve certification.” Smallholders often face significant challenges production and supply chain practices. implementing more sustainable farming and management practices needed to achieve RSPO certification. Critical commodities These practices can bring higher yields and better market percentage of sales certified against industry standards access, resulting in a higher turnover, and an income that they can use to obtain better healthcare or education 99 100 100 for their families. 83 85 73 Although Ahold does not directly source from smallholders, 65 we do want to support them in achieving certification. In 2015, Ahold purchased a number of Book & Claim credits from companies that have a track record of helping smallholders achieve certification. coffee tea cocoa segregated palm oil soy seafood / mass credits balance palm oil Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible products Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 35 Seafood equivalent to MSC or ASC. To help our suppliers platform that aims to make more sustainable seafood “Ahold has shown leadership in how it has We strive to buy as much seafood as possible from achieve sustainability, we have set up a stepping available to everyone. tackled the sourcing of critical commodities sustainable sources that meet Marine Stewardship stone approach. We consider seafood produced locally in the Czech and engaged in international platforms that Council (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship Council Ahold USA offers 76 own-brand seafood Republic to be sustainable. However, as this seafood are changing the way global retail operates (ASC) standards and Best Aquaculture Practices species of which all but 4% are considered is not certified to a credible standard, we do not on sustainability. Although Albert Heijn’s (BAP). By the end of 2015, our Group-wide sustainable according to our approved certification include it in our numbers. performance in the area of seafood, coffee percentage of sustainable seafood was 73%, standards. Ahold USA is working with the New and cacao, have made the headlines, I believe a tremendous improvement over last year’s 44%. Pick the “tick” England Aquarium to transition the last 4% to its efforts to move the entire sector towards From 2015, all of Albert Heijn’s own-brand It is important to us that all our seafood suppliers sustainable programs. sustainable sourcing of soy and palm oil – for wood and paper products are FSC-certified. are MSC-, ASCor GAA 2 star certified. However, example through the Consumer Good Forum – Albert Heijn continues to concentrate its efforts on FSC certification is issued by the Forest Stewardship some suppliers find it difficult to become certified, deserve recognition. research and collaboration as a founding member Council (FSC) and ensures that products come from and use standards that are not (yet) considered of the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative, a global well-managed forests that are evaluated to meet Finally, I am pleased to see Albert Heijn is FSC’s strict environmental and social standards. increasingly adopting FSC-certified paper In focus for its products. This is an area where WWF Albert Heijn sells a range of FSC-certified products, challenged the leading Dutch supermarket to including cocktail picks and skewer sticks, rolling raise its game.” pins and wooden spoons, and a range of paper and cardboard products such as napkins, plates, Richard Holland Global Director, Market Transformation World Wildlife Fund tissues, toilet paper and office paper. All products carry the green FSC “tick-tree” logo, making it easier for customers to to choose products that support forest conservation. Albert Heijn’s popular magazine Allerhande – with a circulation of over 2 million – is now also printed on FSC paper. ASC-certified salmon Albert Heijn has made great progress in making considering most of the fish is sourced from Norway where its own‑brand sea food products more sustainable. only a very small percentage is actually ASC-certified. From 1 June, 2015, the bulk of Albert Heijn’s fresh Albert Heijn promotes the newly certified salmon products and frozen salmon is ASC-certified and labeled so both inside and outside the stores. For instance, customers customers can easily identify the responsibly sourced can read the story behind the products online, and win a visit sea food products. to supplier Marine Harvest in Norway, where they can see Albert Heijn is the first supermarket in the Netherlands to for themselves how ASC-certified salmon is farmed. offer ASC-certified salmon on this scale. This is remarkable, Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Responsible products Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 36 Target We now conduct an analysis of our own-brand climate, biodiversity, water, land, social conditions “We are glad that Albert Heijn took a serious assortment, screening any potential risks related to and animal welfare. Based on the results of the risk Sustainability hot-spots step to improve the living conditions of the environmental, social and animal welfare issues in analysis, we set policies to address the sustainability broiler chicken. For example, Albert Heijn’s New As reported last year, we no longer report on our our own-brand supply chain. This analysis helps issues identified. Chicken has a healthier growth cycle and more target to map 50% of our own-brand suppliers us set policies and improve the sustainability of In 2015, we carried out a risk analysis at all our living space, both of which are very important for environmental footprint. When this target was set in those products. operating units, and at Group level. Input for the its well-being. Albert Heijn took its responsibility 2011, we were looking at ways to map the footprint Own-brand risk analysis risk analysis was provided by associates from our as a market leader by being the first supermarket of our suppliers in detail. We recognize that we In 2010, we began conducting an annual Quality, Responsible Retailing and Product Integrity to take this step. We hope that Albert Heijn will can have a greater impact if we focus on so-called analysis of our own-brand assortment to identify departments, and external sources, including also be the first to take the next step: to chicken “hot-spots” linked not only to environmental but also to sustainability issues in our supply chain, such as The Sustainability Consortium (TSC). with one “Beter Leven” (Better Life) star of the social and animal welfare issues. Dutch Association for the Protection of Animals. Animal welfare Just like Albert Heijn did with pork.” In focus Supporting the globally recognized Five Freedoms of animal welfare, we are committed to working Hanneke van Ormondt Wakker Dier with supply chain partners to implement practices consistent with the Five Freedoms. These are: aa Freedom from hunger, thirst and malnutrition Ahold USA commits to sell only cage-free own-brand shell eggs aa Freedom from fear and distress In February 2016, and as part of its responsible aa Freedom from physical and thermal discomfort retailing efforts, Ahold USA announced that its companies will sell only cage-free own-brand shell aa Freedom from pain, injury and disease eggs by 2022. Cage-free means the hens laying aa Freedom to express normal patterns of behavior the eggs are able to roam freely within an open barn and utilize nesting boxes. This method enables While we know we still can improve, we do have a more natural behavior and full movement of the some best practices to share: hens to spread their wings rather than being restricted within a cage. Responsibly produced chicken guaranteed By the end of 2015, Albert Heijn had replaced Ahold USA and its retail divisions will continue to its existing “Dutch chicken” with the “New AH work with the most reputable suppliers to source chicken,” a Hubbard breed. The new chicken grows cage-free eggs produced with respect for the animal. more slowly, lives longer and is raised with more space and a natural day/night rhythm, and needs Packaging fewer antibiotics. We follow our Group-wide 4R packaging guidelines to: reduce the amount of packaging in both weight To communicate the advantages to our customers, and volume, develop reusable packaging and the “New AH chicken” label highlights the vitality of use recycled material where possible, and use the Hubbard breed and refers customers to the Albert renewable content like certified materials such as Giving customers more choice in organics Heijn website for more information. In addition, Albert Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified paper. Heijn offers the largest assortment of sustainable In 2015, Group-wide, we reviewed 3,470 of our Three out of four Dutch households buy organic food, opened for a week in Amsterdam, letting people see, chicken in the Netherlands, making up 77% of all and the number is increasing. experience, taste, and, of course, buy a wide range of own‑brand products. This is considerably more organic products. Following this success, a permanent, organic chicken and 62% of all free range chicken. than last year, when we achieved a Group total To serve their needs, Albert Heijn introduced “AH Biologisch”: a new, organic own-brand line of nearly 500 products. small‑scale Albert Heijn organic store was opened in Utrecht. of 1,704 products. As a result, in 2015 sales of organic products at Albert Heijn To mark the launch, an organic food pop-up store was were more than 3% as part of total sales. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Care for the environment Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 37 Care for the environment Today, some seven billion people live on our planet. Together, each year, we consume more natural resources than the earth can regenerate. With a growing population, if consumption follows the scale predicted by the United Nations, we will need 2 Earths worth of resources per year by 2030. Clearly, we must take action. Our planet is facing the impact of climate change driven by emissions of greenhouse gases, much of it caused by inefficient energy usage and packaging and food waste. At Ahold, we take our responsibility for using the planet’s resources sustainably very seriously. As a food retailer, we can make a difference by reducing waste – of energy, food and non-food materials – directly in our own operations and through actions with partners and suppliers. To protect the very resources we depend upon we are adopting fresh perspectives, new technologies and eco‑friendly business processes throughout our operations. This ensures our sustained growth, gives our customers a more positive shopping experience and makes us a better neighbor in our community. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Care for the environment Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 38 Target Our ambition In focus Reduce CO2 emissions per square meter Reduce our environmental footprint of sales area by 20% in our operations by 2015 against our 2008 baseline As part of our 2011-2015 strategy, Electricity we identified four key action areas for Grid electricity accounts for 49% of our overall improvement: electricity, refrigeration, CO2 footprint, so by using less energy, we decrease transport and gas, and (food) waste. our greenhouse gas emissions. We are reducing We set ourselves the following targets: our electricity consumption in a number of ways. kkReduce CO2 emissions per square In 2015, we: meter of sales area by 20% in our aa Implemented low-energy LED lighting systems operations by 2015 against our in all remodeled and new stores, reducing our 2008 baseline energy bill by approximately 41% kkEliminate landfill as a disposal aa Became the first retailer in the Netherlands to install method by 2020 fully-closable refrigerator doors, saving us around 25% in electricity for cooling kkBy 2015, reduce the number of aa Installed high-efficiency heat pumps, which uses disposable bags at the checkout waste heat from the refrigerators to heat the stores in the U.S. by one billion kkReport on the percentage of food Our initiatives resulted in a CO2 reduction of 25.8% waste compared to total food sales per square meter of sales area compared to our 2008 baseline. LEED and LED CO2 emissions In the U.S., we continue to be leaders in green retailing. Ahold USA businesses are purchasing nearly 350 million kg per square meter of sales area In 2013, we had already reported that a total of 56 U.S. kilowatt-hours (kWh) of green power annually and are buying stores received Leadership in Energy and Environmental renewable energy certificates from 3Degrees. In addition, Design (LEED)-certification from the U.S. Green Building Ahold USA is generating nearly nine million kWh annually Council (USGBC). from an on-site solar energy system. 567 574 543 507 480 473 465 LEED-certified buildings save money and resources, have “We congratulate and commend Ahold for its leadership 420 a positive impact on the health of occupants and promote as a LEED Volume Partner. With each new LEED-certified renewable, clean energy. This year, we can report that 74 of building we get one step closer to USGBC’s vision of a our stores are now LEED-certified and that all our distribution sustainably-built environment within a generation. With these 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 centers and stores have LED lighting systems. With this new certifications, Ahold USA has demonstrated its commitment total, we have the largest fleet of LEED-certified stores among to the green building movement and working toward a better grocery retailers in the U.S. future for everyone in the neighborhoods and communities in Legend: which these stores will be a part of daily life.” Rick Fidrizzi, In October 2015, Ahold USA received a Green Power 1 Electricity 49% president, CEO and founding chair of the USGBC. Leadership Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection 2 Refrigerants 29% Agency (EPA). The award recognizes EPA Green Power 3 Fuel 12% Partners who distinguish themselves through purchases of green power from a utility green power product, a 4 Gas 10% power purchase agreement or a renewable energy certificate product. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Care for the environment Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 39 Albert Heijn XL – LED there be light! best light. What’s more, LEDs have a 50,000-hour Refrigeration Transportation and gas With an innovative and extensive fresh food life, compared to halogen’s 3,000 hours, and require As a member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) Fuel consumption is responsible for another 12% selection, it is clear that the Albert Heijn XL store in less maintenance. It is proving to be a great return Sustainability Steering Committee we are committed of our overall carbon footprint. To cut greenhouse Eindhoven offers customers a shopping experience on investment, with an expected pay-back period of to reducing the environmental impact of our gas emissions from transportation, we enhanced that appeals to all four senses. But what is perhaps only three years. refrigeration systems. Refrigerant leakage accounts our loading and route planning procedures, installed less obvious is the sustainable design of the store that for 29% of Ahold’s carbon footprint. We are running side skirts on our trucks and started to switch to The Albert Heijn XL store in Eindhoven is one of the enables Albert Heijn to reduce its carbon footprint a global program to phase out HFCs in large-scale natural gas. This resulted in achieving a reduction 126 Dutch stores that have already fully switched to and protect its bottom line. refrigeration, and replace them with eco-friendly of 14% globally in exhaust emissions compared LED lighting. With the proven savings, Albert Heijn CO2 refrigerants. CO2 refrigerants are highly efficient, to 2010. The store features a mix of sustainable materials, has made the LED smart lighting system the standard reduce energy costs and increase the operational while 1,200 solar roof panels generate sufficient for all new and remodeled stores. Our efforts have already been recognized by the lifetime of the installation. green energy for everyday operations. A new lowLean and Green program that inspires companies energy LED lighting plan adjusts intuitively throughout CO2 refrigeration eliminates the need for gas to reduce their CO2 emissions as Ahold Transport the course of the day; when the sun is high, the light In the Netherlands, we are working hard to reduce in the Netherlands received a lean and green star intensity is 100%; at dusk it lowers to 60%; and in the our gas consumption. Since 2010, we have installed in 2015. evening it dims further, to 30%. So whatever time of integrated heating and cooling systems in new and day, fresh food products are always shown in their existing stores, using “waste” heat from refrigeration systems that use CO2 as a refrigerant for freezing. In focus The waste heat from this process now heats the stores, eliminating the need for gas altogether. So far, over 380 stores in the Netherlands have been retrofitted with the heat booster system, and are no longer connected to the local gas mains. Refrigeration update Albert Heijn was the first of our businesses to pilot In 2015, over 350 stores in the Netherlands and Belgium eco-friendly refrigerant in 2010, installing three were also running on hybrid CO2 systems, while more trans-critical refrigeration systems that use CO2 for than 60 stores had been fitted with full CO2 refrigeration both cooling and freezing. installations. What’s more, in June 2015, the new Giant store in Springfield, Virginia, running a full trans-critical CO2 By the end of 2010, Albert Heijn measured 2.2 metric tons refrigeration installation, received the EPA GreenChill Platinum of refrigerant substance leakage, equaling 8.3% of its total level certification, awarded to stores that are leading in installed base. In 2015, after further rollouts, refrigerant dramatically reducing their impact on climate change. leakage had decreased by 48% compared to 2010, to a total of 4.3% of the total installed base. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Care for the environment Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 40 Target Target In focus Eliminate landfill as a disposal method By 2015, reduce the number of by 2020 disposable bags at the checkout in Across Ahold, we aspire to achieve “zero-waste-tothe U.S. by one billion landfill” by 2020, diverting 90% to other uses. It’s a Our target in the U.S. was to reduce shopping bags bold ambition, but we have made good progress. by one billion compared to 2011, our baseline year. Internally, we are increasing awareness, training While we didn’t meet that target, we did give out associates on how to properly sort waste materials 853 million fewer single-use shopping bags, by such as paper and plastics. Results on sorting are making staff aware that “more is less.” By putting monitored, and we saw a reduction in our overall more products in a single bag, we help ensure that waste by 3% per square meter sales area compared fewer bags end up in landfill. to last year. In the U.S., organic waste is the second highest component of landfills, which are the largest source of methane emissions. During the year, Ahold USA diverted 88% of its total waste from landfills and 73% from landfill and incineration. Over 20% of this total waste represented organic waste diverted through composting, animal feed and digestion processes (see “Food waste”). Landfill as % food waste percentage of total waste 19 17 16 Turning waste into energy 11 11 Food that is no longer edible can still be put to use. Anaerobic digestion is a carbon-neutral technology that In 2016, we are taking a major step forward in diverting produces biogas that can be used for heating, generating zero waste to landfill by opening our very first anaerobic electricity, mechanical energy, or for supplementing the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 digester system. natural gas supply. The system will be based in Freetown Massachusetts in the U.S. All our local New England stores will divert their food waste to the system, which we expect to supply up to 40% of our local distribution center energy needs. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Care for the environment Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 41 Target Re-using Increasingly, we are donating surplus food to food In focus Report on the amount of food diverted banks and charities. Food that isn’t suitable for from waste in 2015 human consumption is diverted to livestock. In 2015, Every year, around the world, 1.3 billion tons of food these simple actions saved over two million food is wasted, at the farm and production level as well products from the Albert Heijn stores and distribution as the retail, manufacturing and consumer levels. centers alone. As a responsible food retailer, we are committed Recycling to eliminating food waste going to landfill, and to Food that is no longer edible can still be put to finding the right outlet for any unavoidable waste. good use. We strive to divert it to anaerobic Reducing digesters, where it can be converted into usable Company-wide, our food waste currently equals energy. In spring 2016, we will open our very 1-2% of our total food sales, which is lower than the first anaerobic digestion system in Freetown, industry average. We attribute this to our targeted Massachusetts, in the U.S. actions, such as offering a 35% end-of-shelf-life discount for perishable food at our Albert Heijn stores, and offering on-pack storage guidance. In addition, we continue to inform our customers of the latest packaging innovations and designs that help keep food fresher for longer. Cumulative bags saved millions 853 547 293 86 2012 2013 2014 2015 Instock Restaurant What can we do with food that is going to waste? So the menu is always a surprise: for the chefs as well as the At Instock, the answer is: use it to make delicious, customers. For breakfast, lunch and dinner; Instock chefs “turn nutritious meals. a brown banana into ice cream, and a misshaped Brussels sprout into kimchi for your burger.” At this restaurant, the brainchild of four Albert Heijn associates, food products that would otherwise go to Sponsored by Albert Heijn, but operated independently as waste are given new life. Every morning, the Instock team a foundation and as they point out, “Throwing away food is collects its “harvest,” (which changes every day) from Albert not only about money; it is also about the waste of energy Heijn stores. spent on packaging, transporting, cooling and preparing the food.” Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Performance and approach Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 42 Performance and approach Our governance structure 43 Scope of reporting 44 Reporting process 45 Awards and external benchmarks 46 Detailed performance 47 External assurance report 56 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Our governance structure Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 43 Koninklijke Ahold N.V. is a public company Within our businesses, the CEO is responsible for RR. under Dutch law with a two-tier board structure. In each business a dedicated RR team manages the Supervisory Board Our Management Board has ultimate responsibility RR strategy, activities and programs. for the overall management of Ahold. We also Reporting in our businesses is managed by their have an Executive Committee comprised of our finance function. We also have designated Management Board as well as certain key officers reporting leads who are responsible for coordinating Executive Committee of the Company. The Executive Committee is led by the reporting process and gathering the the Chief Executive Officer and is accountable to information for our RR Reports. Specific data (e.g. the Management Board. The Management Board electricity consumption, number of healthy living is supervised and advised by a Supervisory Board. RR Steering Committee PI Steering Committee products sold, etc) are collected by designated The Management Board and the Supervisory Board content owners working within our businesses. are accountable to Ahold’s shareholders. Chief Legal Officer Chief Legal Officer We have established two steering committees to The governance of Ahold’s responsible retailing manage Responsible Retailing. The Responsible (RR) activities applies to all Ahold’s financially Retailing steering committee and the Product Integrity Vice President Responsible Retailing Vice President Product Integrity consolidated operations in both Europe and the steering committee. For more information on the United States, as defined in our Scope of reporting. members and roles and responsibilities of these RR at Ahold is managed at all levels of the Vice President Product Integrity Vice President Responsible Retailing committees please see the graph on the right. organization, from a designated Executive Committee (ExCo) member to individual leads for each of the five priority areas at each of our businesses. Continental and brand responsible retailing leads Continental and brand product integrity leads Within the ExCo, Chief Legal Officer (CLO) Jan Ernst de Groot is responsible for RR and Product Integrity U.S. commercial representative Continental and brand legal leads (PI). The Vice President Responsible Retailing (VP RR) is responsible for Ahold’s Group-wide RR Strategy, for global reporting against Ahold’s RR Strategy internally European commercial representative and externally, for engaging external stakeholders on Ahold’s RR strategy and for monitoring RR-related trends and managing RR-related issues and risks. Responsible Retailing steering committee Product Integrity steering committee The Vice President Product Integrity (VP PI) is Responsible retailing is managed globally The Product Integrity Steering Committee meets responsible for product safety and our responsible through the RR steering committee which is each quarter to review product-related policies, products activities. Globally, reporting on our chaired by the CLO and includes the VP RR, VP and to provide recommendations to the ExCo. progress is managed by our finance function. PI, RR leads, and commercial representatives It is chaired by the CLO, and includes the VP PI, from our businesses. This committee meets four VP RR, PI leads, and commercial representatives. times a year to review progress against our Topics discussed in this committee include food targets, to review any proposed revisions to the safety, social compliance, critical commodities, strategy, including new or modified targets, and animal welfare policies and outcomes of our to provide recommendations to the ExCo. global product risk analysis. Topics discussed in this committee include our materiality matrix, 2020 strategy, quarterly data and reporting and our responsible retailing governance. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Scope of reporting Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 44 This report covers Ahold’s responsible retailing (RR) The scope of the 2015 report was determined based When reporting on our targets, the inclusion (or The scope of this RR Report excludes: strategy, practices and performance during the on Ahold’s RR priority areas and the principles of exclusion) of specific businesses is based on a aa Direct store deliveries, business travel and offices, period December 29, 2014 to January 3, 2016. materiality and completeness. Our priority areas materiality assessment of the companies, with all due to their limited materiality to our overall were selected according to their relevance to the excluded companies producing less than 2% of In it, Ahold reports progress on the targets set for performance in our care for the environment Ahold business model, our stakeholders and areas Ahold’s total sales. The segments and businesses each of the five RR priority areas: healthy living, priority area in which Ahold can make a meaningful difference. included in the data of this report – Ahold USA community well-being, our people, responsible The sustainability topics covered in this report were (Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New aa Outsourced distribution centers, which do not products and care for the environment. The report identified through ongoing engagement with our England, and Stop & Shop New York Metro), the qualify for inclusion according to the GRI criteria has been compiled in alignment with the Global businesses, stakeholders, international associations Netherlands (Albert Heijn), and Czech Republic of control, influence and impact Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4.0 Sustainability Reporting and roundtables. (Albert) – account for 94% of our total sales. aa Results from Ahold’s joint venture with Jeronimo Guidelines, including relevant aspects of the The Netherlands-based Etos, Gall & Gall, albert.nl, Martins (JMR). JMR delivers its own report, accompanying Food Processing Sector Supplement. Information relating to our RR strategy and our bol.com and Ahold Coffee Company, and U.S.including references to its corporate and social This report qualifies for GRI Core, which indicates the progress against the targets is reviewed for based Peapod were excluded, as they each account responsibility strategies and policies number of GRI G4.0 disclosures and indicators that significance and materiality from an economic, for less than 2% of total sales. have been reported, and against which the report environmental, and social perspective. The report aa Production facilities has been assured. (https://www.globalreporting.org/ therefore features information that is relevant to our From an operational scope perspective, the RR Report standards/g4/Pages/default.aspx). Ahold has been total revenue, our environmental footprint, and social includes the following parts of the business: publishing RR Reports since 1998; these reports have impact and sustainability issues. aa All stores, regardless of whether they are owned been published on an annual basis since 2007. by Ahold or are franchises aa Ahold-owned distribution centers, including all transportation from distribution centers to stores, regardless of whether the transportation companies are owned by Ahold or are outsourced Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Reporting process Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 45 In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over 100% completeness of the participants in healthy Care for the environment aa Sources for converting refrigerant substances: our Responsible Retailing information Ahold’s 2015 living programs cannot be guaranteed due to the In relation to our CO2 reduction target, the majority of Climate Change 2007 – The Physical Science Responsible Retailing Report was reviewed by our manual data gathering process. the data reflect current consumption. Where possible, Basis, Contribution of Working Group I external auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants this is an automated process; however, if actuals to the fourth assessment of Report of the N.V. (‘PwC’). Our RR Reports between 2009 and Responsible products are not available we use extrapolations. In other Intergovernmental Panel Climate Change (IPCC) 2012 were reviewed by our former external auditor All data provided for the targets on food safety and cases, where actuals and extrapolations could not and 2015 Guidelines for Defra Greenhouse Gas Deloitte Accountants B.V. social compliance are for production sites that have be applied, best estimates were used. To report on Conversion Factors for company reporting The following conditions per priority area apply been mapped as part of the process of mapping our leakage of refrigerant substances, waste types and to the data in this report. own-brand supply chain. waste disposal methods, data were provided by third-party service providers, on whose data we rely Data revisions ICTI-CARE is an Ahold-accepted standard (even The historic CO2 data have been adjusted based on Healthy living though it is not BSCI equivalent) because it is the for our monitoring and reporting. Food waste data include extrapolations from one division to the total the updated conversion factors as mentioned in the Ahold measures sales of healthy products as a best practice in the toy industry. previous section. This had no material impact on the Ahold USA data. The 2015 efficiency measures percentage of the total food sales. Healthy products data from previous years. For critical commodities, the percentage of sales of are adjusted to a 52-week period in order to be are identifiable in-store and online through the each commodity used in the production of our ownconsistent with previous years. No other data revisions were applicable in 2015. use of healthy-choice logos and shelf tags. brand products that has been sustainably sourced is Products featuring these logos and shelf tags comply based on the key product categories for which these CO2 conversion factors The 2015 data for Czech Republic includes the with strict criteria that are developed by leading former SPAR stores which were acquired in 2014. commodities are relevant. The product categories The total CO2 emissions calculation is the sum of health authorities. The criteria are available on our included are: the CO2 emissions resulting from fuel, electricity, company websites, accessible via www.ahold.com. Non-food sales were excluded, to avoid distortion aa coffee: all products based on coffee beans district heating, gas and leakage of refrigerant from category changes that have no influence on substances. Since the consumption of those elements aa tea: all products based on tea (black tea, green is not measured in CO2 kilograms, conversion Ahold’s performance as a healthy retailer. For the tea) and on rooibos tea, including all infusions. factors from other units of measurement are applied. healthy sales and product data, 100% completeness and accuracy cannot be guaranteed due to the aa cocoa: For electricity, each country has its own conversion manual data gathering process. factor, which is updated each year. The sources of aa chocolate bars, tablets and candies the electricity conversion factors are the International Customer perception scores are based on research aa seasonal products Energy Agency for Europe and the Environmental by independent market research agencies (SIRS Inc. Protection Agency for the United States. Each year, in the U.S., TNS Nipo for the Netherlands, and g82 aa bakery: chocolate muffins the 2008 baseline year is re-calculated using the in the Czech Republic) that conduct surveys of both aa seafood: fresh and frozen seafood latest electricity CO2 conversion factors. Sources for our brands and our main competitors in the regions conversion factors are from the 2015 Defra report. where we operate. aa palm oil: all own-brand products containing palm oil aa Sources for converting fuel and gas: 2015 Guidelines for Defra Greenhouse Gas Conversion Community well-being aa soy: all own-brand products. Ahold USA is not Factors for company reporting and Handboek 100% completeness on the contributions and included as North American soy, used primarily by CO2 prestatieladder 2.1. donations cannot be guaranteed due to the its supply chains, is not causing deforestation issues manual data gathering process. aa Sources for converting electricity: International For all own-brand products, 100% completeness Energy Agency (IEA), 2009 and Environmental Our people cannot be guaranteed due to the manual data Protection Agency (EPA), eGrid2012, version 1.0. gathering process. The score and participation rate of our engagement survey include also the businesses that account for less than 2% of total sales as explained in our Scope of reporting section. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 46 Awards and Global Reporting Initiative Global Compact external benchmarks The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a global, The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative multi-stakeholder network of business professionals, for businesses committed to aligning their operations aa Ahold scored 76 out of 100 in the Dow Jones representatives from labor organizations, investors, and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles Sustainability index world ranking, only 1 point accountants and others, who work together to in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and below the sector leader. develop an internationally accepted framework for anti-corruption. aa Ahold achieved Silver Class rating in the sustainability reporting. Ahold has been reporting RobecoSAM ranking of sustainability leaders Ahold’s own principles align with those of the according to the GRI sustainability reporting 2016 in the Food and Staples category. Global Compact, and we have been striving for guidelines since 2006, as it is recognized as the high standards against these principles for some aa Ahold ranked 1st retailer and 35th overall (out most comprehensive and widely used sustainability time. We signed the Global Compact in 2010, of 435 companies) in the Dutch Transparency reporting system. and continue to report on our own operations and benchmark conducted by the Dutch government. The reporting framework provides metrics and strategies in relation to these principles annually. aa Ahold pension fund ranked 9th for sustainable methods for reporting issues relating to environmental Our Global Compact table can be downloaded investments in the VBDO pensionfund benchmark and social priorities, the running of the business from www.ahold.com/rr2015.htm and the products sold. Ahold’s RR Report addresses aa Ahold ranked 20th in the VBDO tax a selection of indicators that are the most relevant transparency benchmark and material to our priority areas, and therefore aa Ahold USA ranked in the top 50 multicultural to our business and stakeholders. We have also opportunities by diversitybusiness.com benchmarked these indicators against our peers and competitors. Every year, we review the indicators aa Ahold USA was awarded the Green Power selected, and we are continually working to improve Leadership Award by the EPA our data collection processes. aa Gall & Gall, Etos and Albert Heijn online were The GRI framework outlines two “Application Levels” awarded best retail chain and best webshop that indicate the extent to which the guidelines have respectively by the Best Retail Chain awards in been applied in a company’s sustainability report. the Netherlands. These levels are “Core” and “Comprehensive”. aa Albert won the EXCELLENCE category for the In 2015, we reported according to the GRI second time, as well as a two star rating for G4 – Core Guidelines. Our RR Report 2015 its sustainability strategy from the European has been reviewed by Ahold’s external auditor, Foundation for Quality Management PricewaterhouseCoopers, which has provided limited assurance. aa Albert received a two star rating for its sustainability strategy from the European A summary of our application of the GRI guidelines can Foundation for Quality Management. be downloaded from www.ahold.com/rr2015.htm Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 47 Healthy Sales of healthy products living Percentage of total food sales1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 24.6 24.2 24.8 24.5 24.1 The Netherlands 27.0 26.2 25.9 26.0 21.5 The data Czech Republic 17.2 12.8 12.1 9.6 9.0 The sales of healthy products as a percentage Total 25.0 24.4 24.5 24.2 22.3 of total food sales increased in all areas of the business during 2014, by 0.4%pts in the U.S., 1 Sales of healthy products at Ahold USA include the sale of labeled national brands. The sales data for the Netherlands and Czech Republic does not include all national brands, as there was no uniform national labeling system 0.8%pts in the Netherlands and 4.4%pts in the Czech Republic. The increase in the Czech Republic can be attributed to the acquisition of the SPAR stores in Q1 2015. Albert Heijn’s increase is caused by an increase in the number of healthy products. Overall, our number of healthy products increased by 570 compared with 2014. Albert Heijn and Czech Republic both increased the number of healthy products with around 20% where the number of healthy products at Ahold USA was stable. Number of healthy products 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 6,783 6,763 6,643 7,126 7,008 The Netherlands 2,254 1,852 1,567 1,384 1,301 Czech Republic 874 726 609 459 433 Total 9,911 9,341 8,819 8,969 8,742  Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 48 Community Contributions and donations well-being € thousand1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 63,716 54,523 50,592 52,181 37,098 The Netherlands 4,017 2,442 3,255 3,262 3,085 The data Czech Republic 606 575 697 776 820 Financial donations Total 68,339 57,540 54,544 56,219 41,003 Total donations increased by 19% to €68.3 million in 2015, however against 1 Including food bank donations. constant exchange rates donations are flat compared to last year. The majority of our donations (around 90%) is generated by Ahold USA where total donations decreased by 2%. Food bank donations Value of food donated to food banks Donations to food banks remained stable at € thousand 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 constant exchange rates compared to 2014. Albert Heijn increased its food bank donations Ahold USA 30,134 25,300 21,378 19,492 – with 92% due to the increased cooperation The Netherlands 1,971 1,027 1,497 1,781 – with the local food banks and two large donations as a result of assortment changes Czech Republic 221 200 199 72 – during the year. Total 32,326 26,527 23,074 21,345 – Children educated The number of children educated increased to 946,000. This increase is mainly driven by the expansion of the “I eat better” program at Albert Heijn. Number of children educated in healthy living1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 336,003 296,427 310,369 56,562 29,537 The Netherlands 542,0482 368,004 347,233 374,283 305,139 Czech Republic 68,836 57,377 147,240 96,438 54,588 Total 946,887 721,808 804,842 527,283 389,264 1 All businesses have web-based programs that include estimates of the number of children educated based on the number of downloads of the program. 2 The number of children educated for the Netherlands is based on the number of participants in the “I eat better” program; some children may have participated twice – once in the spring in one grade and again in the autumn in the next grade. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 49 Our people Number of associates Thousands 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 The data Ahold USA 121 115 117 121 117 The majority of the data relating to Our People The Netherlands 102 97 94 93 89 disclosures remained stable during 2015, as Czech Republic 13 15 11 11 12 there were no major changes to the way we operate our businesses. The data in the tables Total 236 227 222 225 218 is based on the following Ahold businesses: for Ahold USA, the four retail divisions Giant Carlisle, Giant Landover, Stop & Shop New England and Stop & Shop New York Metro – as well as Peapod and the USA support organization. For Ahold in the Netherlands, the four retail divisions Albert Heijn, Etos, Gall Percentage of workforce by contract type & Gall, bol.com, as well as the support offices are included. For Ahold in the Czech Republic 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 the retail division Albert and the Czech support Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time Full-time Part-time organization are included. Ahold USA 27 73 28 72 28 72 28 72 29 71 For the data from 2011-2012 we included The Netherlands 10 90 14 86 13 87 13 87 14 86 the data from our Slovakia business which was sold in 2013. During the reporting year, Czech Republic 62 38 53 47 53 47 68 32 67 33 there was an overall increase in the number of associates by 9,000 compared to 2014, bringing the total to 236,000 across all Ahold businesses. This increase can be attributed to the opening of additional stores across our markets. Percentage of workforce by gender 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Ahold USA 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 47 53 The Netherlands 54 46 55 45 53 47 53 47 53 47 Czech Republic 77 23 79 21 81 19 81 19 80 20 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 50 Percentage of workforce by age The data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 The combined membership of the Executive <20 20s 30s 40s 50+ <20 20s 30s 40s 50+ <20 20s 30s 40s 50+ <20 20s 30s 40s 50+ <20 20s 30s 40s 50+ Committee and the Supervisory Board Ahold USA 12 28 14 15 31 12 28 14 15 30 12 29 13 16 30 16 28 13 16 27 14 28 13 17 28 decreased by one during the reporting period. Judith Spieser left the Supervisory Board which The Netherlands 54 26 6 7 7 54 26 6 7 7 56 23 6 8 7 57 22 7 8 6 57 21 8 8 6 altered the gender composition of Ahold’s Czech Republic 11 26 23 20 20 1 23 29 25 22 1 23 30 25 21 7 28 25 21 19 1 23 30 24 22 leadership slightly, bringing the total number of females in leadership roles at Ahold to 3, while the total number of males in leadership roles remained stable at 11. Composition of Ahold’s leadership 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Executive Committee 2 5 2 5 2 5 – 4 – 4 Supervisory Board 1 6 2 6 2 5 2 6 2 6 Total 3 11 4 11 4 10 2 10 2 10 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 51 Responsible Food safety (GFSI) products Percentage of own-brand food suppliers GFSI certified 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 U.S. businesses 93 94 81 70 NR European businesses 96 97 93 84 NR The data Food Safety (GFSI) By the end of 2015, 96% of our own-brand food suppliers in Europe had been certified against a GFSIrecognized standard, as well as 93% of products in our U.S. businesses. We saw an a decrease in the Czech Republic due to expired or not yet certified Social compliance suppliers increased. Percentage of suppliers in high-risk countries audited on social compliance1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Social Compliance Social compliance saw a general increase U.S. businesses 70 72 36 22 NR in the high-risk countries audited against BSCI European businesses 88 80 66 48 NR or equivalent; with 88% in our European and 70% in our U.S. suppliers in high-risk counties 1 When taking into account social standards other than BSCI, BSCI-equivalent or recently expired programs, the percentage of suppliers that have been audited rises to 90% for our U.S. businesses and at the last-stage of production sites have been 95% for our European businesses. audited against BSCI or equivalent. Accepted social compliance standards The audits we recognize as BSCI or equivalent are: Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI)/SMETA, Intertek Workplace Conditions Assessment Number of Fairtrade certified products at year-end (WCA), Social Accountability (SA) 8000, Rainforest Alliance/SAN, Fairtrade/FLO2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 CERT, MPS – Socially Qualified (SQ), Initiative Clause Sociale (ICS), Sustainable Ahold USA 302 2761 272 251 160 Agriculture in South Africa (SIZA) and Floverde. The Netherlands 182 145 134 127 141 We also recognize ICTI‑CARE as an AholdCzech Republic – 4 12 4 – accepted standard (even though it is not BSCI equivalent) because it is the best practice in the Total 484 425 418 382 301 toy industry. 1 The total number of fair trade products in 2014 is adjusted as products were identified that were certified against a different standard. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 52 Number of certified organic products at year-end The data 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Critical commodities Ahold USA 4,391 4,388 4,333 3,821 2,916 For all critical commodities we have made The Netherlands 1,461 1,081 500 526 447 progress in 2015. For coffee we have one remaining non-certified product at Ahold Czech Republic 317 240 284 262 299 USA but this will be replaced with a certified Total 6,169 5,709 5,117 4,609 3,662 alternative in 2016 and all of Ahold USA’s newly sourced tea is 100% sustainable and existing stock will be depleted soon. In cocoa, we came in just under target at 85%. By the end of 2015, 65% of our total palm oil usage physically contained sustainable palm oil; 17% of which was certified segregated palm oil Critical commodities and 48% was based on certified mass balance. By the end of 2015, 100% of soy embedded in Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Total Percentage of sales certified against industry simple animal products in the Netherlands and standards1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2015 2014 2013 2012 2015 2014 2013 2012 2015 2014 2013 2012 Czech Republic was covered by credits. Coffee 98 46 20 8 99 99 99 100 100 100 100 – 99 83 79 83 By the end of 2015, our Group-wide percentage of sustainable seafood was 73%, a tremendous Tea 1 12 6 – 100 100 100 95 100 33 32 – 83 82 85 82 improvement over last year’s 44%. Albert Heijn Cocoa 19 1 – – 99 98 94 93 74 5 31 3 – 85 40 35 32 Ahold USA offers 76 seafood species of which Palm oil4 100 – – – 100 – – – 100 – – – 100 – – – all but 4% are considered sustainable according to our approved certification standards. Soy3,4 NA NA NA NA 100 – – – 100 – – – 100 – – – Albert Heijn introduced sustainable salmon in Seafood 2 79 50 12 12 64 36 33 18 6 12 14 13 73 44 25 14 the summer of 2015 increasing the percentage of sustainable seafood to 64% on a yearly basis. 1 The percentage of each critical commodity that is sustainably sourced is the percentage of sales that have been certified based on key products within selected categories in the Netherlands, Czech Republic and United States. See Reporting process for the list of key products and associated categories. 2 When taking into account seafood standards other than Marine Stewardship Council (MSC), Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) and Best Aquaculture Practices 2 Star (BAP), the total percentage of certified seafood sales rises to 80%. 3 Ahold USA is not included as mainly North American soy is used in their supply chains which is not causing deforestation issues. 4 Palm oil and soy consumption is measured in volume instead of sales. Coffee 5 The increase can be mainly contributed to the fact that products containing less than 5% of cocoa are excluded. Tea Cocoa Palm oil Soy Seafood Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 53 Care for the CO2 emissions1,2,3 environment Volume Efficiency (thousands of metric tons) (kg per sq. m. of sales area) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 20154 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 1,418 1,569 1,566 1,543 1,620 469 533 530 526 565 The data The Netherlands 298 305 316 322 330 245 264 286 302 318 Contribution to our CO2 emissions Czech Republic 303 216 225 241 226 540 551 574 619 587 10% Gas 29% Refrigerant Total 2,019 2,090 2,107 2,106 2,176 420 465 473 480 507 leakage 1 CO2 emissions comprise electricity, leakage of refrigerant substances, gas, fuel and district heating. Given the limited impact of district heating, we do not report on this separately. 12% 2 Since the consumption of all elements is not measured in CO2 kilograms, conversion factors are used. Historical data are corrected for the change in conversion factor. See CO2 conversion factors section for more details on the methodology applied. Fuel 49% Electricity 3 578 GWh of the electricity consumed have a zero conversion factor, as green energy certificates were purchased in 2015 for this quantity. (2014: 370 GWh) 4 The 2015 efficiency measures are adjusted to a 52-week period in order to be consistent with previous years. This applies to all tables with an efficiency per square meter of sales area. CO2 consumption Electricity consumption CO2 consumption is 420 kg per m2 which is almost 45 kg per m2 lower compared to Volume Efficiency (millions of kWh) (kWh per sq. m. of sales area) last year and over 25.8% lower compared to 2008 baseline. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Electricity Ahold USA 1,953 2,008 2,082 2,110 2,109 645 682 705 719 736 Compared to 2014 electricity consumption The Netherlands 590 573 562 551 553 485 496 508 518 534 decreased by 5% per square meter of sales Czech Republic 296 216 223 234 242 527 550 570 600 626 area. This is mainly caused by the further roll out of LED lighting in our stores. Total 2,839 2,797 2,867 2,895 2,904 591 623 644 659 677 Reducing our electricity consumption is not only good for our CO2 footprint, it also has a financial benefit. For example, as part of our initiatives Albert Heijn reduced electricity Leakage of refrigerant substances1 costs by €2 per square meter of sales area compared to 2014. Volume Efficiency (metric tons) (as percentage of total refrigerants) Refrigerants 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Refrigerant leakage decreased at Ahold USA and in the Netherlands due to preventive Ahold USA 156 173 166 160 182 11.8 13.4 12.9 12.2 14.2 measures like remodelings and leak detectors. The Netherlands 16 21 22 24 23 4.3 5.5 5.8 6.6 6.9 In Czech Republic refrigerant leakage Czech Republic 19 11 11 14 9 14.9 11.1 11.3 13.8 9.6 increased due to some big leaks in a limited number of stores. Total 191 205 199 198 214 10.5 11.6 11.3 11.2 12.5 1 Refrigerants measured include CFCs, HCFCs and HFCs. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 54 Fuel consumption The data Volume Efficiency (thousands of liters) (liters per 1,000 products sold) Fuel consumption 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 In 2015, fuel consumption has increased in all areas of the business due to the increase Ahold USA 49,227 48,285 48,371 49,350 51,024 6.1 6.2 6.0 6.2 6.4 in sales. At the same time fuel efficiency The Netherlands 25,297 23,991 24,241 24,620 26,019 3.6 3.6 3.6 3.6 3.9 increased due to several initiatives for more efficient transport like. Czech Republic 6,705 5,886 6,133 6,162 6,471 2.5 2.8 2.9 2.8 2.9 Gas consumption Total 81,229 78,162 78,745 80,132 83,514 4.6 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.9 Natural gas consumption increased generally; in the U.S., more gas consumption was influenced by a strong winter. Albert Heijn reduced their gas consumption due to re-using excess heat produced by refrigeration with the Natural gas consumption help of high efficiency heat pumps. Volume Efficiency (thousands of cubic meters) (cubic meters per sq. m. of sales area) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 84,383 83,321 78,099 70,446 73,790 27.9 28.3 26.4 24.0 25.7 The Netherlands 15,934 16,094 20,054 20,403 20,903 13.1 13.9 18.1 19.2 20.2 Czech Republic 5,135 3,788 4,694 4,883 5,080 9.1 9.7 12.0 12.5 13.2 Total 105,452 103,203 102,847 95,732 99,773 21.9 23.0 23.1 21.8 23.3 Waste production Volume Efficiency (millions of kg) (kg per sq. m. of sales area) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 430 424 424 430 420 142 144 143 146 147 The Netherlands 139 129 125 118 118 114 112 113 111 114 Czech Republic1 44 34 33 35 36 78 86 85 89 94 Total 613 587 582 583 574 128 131 131 133 134 1 Excluding meat waste Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Detailed performance Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 55 Waste by type The data Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Total Waste by type Percentage of waste 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 We increased our percentage of organic Organic 20 15 13 9 7 31 29 28 27 27 10 8 8 18 20 22 18 16 13 12 waste as part of total waste with 4%pts compared to 2014. This is mainly driven by Cardboard 46 45 45 44 45 52 53 54 56 55 43 42 42 42 41 47 46 45 46 47 Ahold USA’s focus on separating organic Wood 6 7 6 6 6 – – – – – 1 1 1 1 1 4 5 5 5 4 waste from the other waste category. Metal – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – – Waste by disposal method Plastic 1 1 1 1 1 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 As a result of our efforts to separate our waste better, waste going to landfill decreased by Other 27 32 35 40 41 14 15 15 14 15 43 46 46 36 35 25 29 32 34 35 5%pts compared to 2014. We also increased Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 our re-used, recycled or recovered and composted waste. Recycling waste has also a financial benefit. Waste by disposal method This year Albert Heijn generated over €9 million by collecting and recycling its Ahold USA The Netherlands Czech Republic Total cardboard and plastic. Percentage of waste 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Re-used, recycled or recovered waste 65 63 59 56 57 55 56 57 60 61 51 51 45 46 44 62 60 58 57 57 Fermented waste – – – – – 31 29 28 27 27 5 4 5 4 3 7 7 6 6 6 Compost waste 8 5 6 4 2 – – – – – 5 3 6 7 8 6 4 4 3 2 Incinerated waste 15 14 15 16 29 14 15 15 13 12 5 3 7 11 11 14 13 15 15 24 Landfill waste 12 18 20 24 12 – – – – – 34 39 37 32 34 11 16 17 19 11 Total waste 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Water consumption Volume Efficiency (millions of liters) (liters per sq. m. of sales area) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Ahold USA 3,474 3,499 3,622 3,459 3,139 1,148 1,188 1,226 1,179 1,095 The Netherlands 467 466 467 442 465 384 403 422 415 448 Czech Republic 415 289 310 NR NR 739 739 793 NR NR Total 4,356 4,254 4,399 NR NR 907 947 988 NR NR Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information External assurance report Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 56 Independent assurance report What we are assuring Limitations in our scope Reporting criteria To: the Management Board of Koninklijke Ahold N.V. We have reviewed the Responsible Retailing The Report contains prospective information, such Ahold developed its sustainability reporting criteria The Management Board of Koninklijke Ahold N.V. Report 2015 (hereafter: ‘the Report’) of Koninklijke as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and on the basis of the G4 Guidelines of the Global (‘Ahold’), Zaandam engaged us to provide limited Ahold N.V., Zaandam. This report includes the projections. Inherent to this information is that actual Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are disclosed together assurance on the Responsible Retailing Report 2015. scope of reporting as defined by management future results may be different from the prospective with detailed information on the reporting scope in We believe these procedures fulfil the rational (page 44), Ahold’s policy for sustainable information and therefore it may be uncertain. We do section ‘Scope of reporting’ (page 44), and section objective as disclosed by Ahold on page 45. development, the activities and events during the not provide any assurance on the assumptions and ‘Reporting Process’ (page 45). We consider the year and Ahold’s 2015 performance relating to feasibility of this prospective information. sustainability reporting criteria to be relevant and sustainable development. appropriate for our review. Our conclusion A review is focused on obtaining limited assurance. Based on the procedures we have performed and The procedures performed in obtaining limited Understanding reporting and The basis for our conclusion assurance are aimed on the plausibility of information measurement methodologies the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Professional and ethical standards applied which does not require exhaustive gathering of The information in the scope of this assurance Responsible Retailing Report for the period ended We conducted our assurance engagement in evidence as in engagements focused on obtaining engagement needs to be read and understood 3 January 2016 does not provide a reliable and accordance with Dutch law, including Standard 3810N reasonable assurance through audit procedures. together with the reporting criteria, for which the appropriate presentation of Ahold’s policy for ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’ The procedures performed consisted primarily of company is solely responsible for selecting and sustainable development, or of the activities, events (hereafter ‘Standard 3810N’). Our responsibilities making inquiries of management and others within applying. The absence of a significant body of and performance of Ahold relating to sustainable under this standard are further described in the “Our the entity, as appropriate, applying analytical established practice on which to draw, to evaluate and development during the reporting year 2015, in responsibilities” section of this report. procedures and evaluating the evidence obtained. measure non-financial information allows for different, accordance with Ahold’s reporting criteria. We are independent of Ahold in accordance with Consequently, a review engagement provides less but acceptable, measurement techniques and can the “Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van assurance than an audit. affect comparability between entities and over time. This conclusion is to be read in the context of the remainder of our report. accountants by assurance-opdrachten” (ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the “Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA) and other relevant regulations. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information External assurance report Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 57 Our assurance approach Area of particular focus How we addressed the area Materiality Healthy living indicators We set thresholds for materiality at the planning Increasing consumer demand and ongoing public debate on health, underlines the In addition to the review procedures performed as disclosed in the “work done” stage and reassessed them during the engagement. relevance of healthy living for Ahold. Ahold considers this a key priority for acting as section, for several healthy products we reconciled the nutritional information of These helped us to determine the nature, timing a responsible retailer and has defined two healthy living indicators to demonstrate healthy products in the database with the information on the supplier’s product label. and extent of our procedures and to evaluate the their performance in making healthy living choices easier for its customers (see We then deployed data analysis methods to compare the healthy product data effect of identified misstatements on the information page 7). Within Ahold, healthy living products are identified by assessing nutritional maintained in the database (i.e. the ingredients) with Ahold’s healthy product criteria. presented, both individually and in aggregate. information per product and comparing the results with healthy product criteria set We also assessed the mathematical accuracy of spreadsheets used by Ahold to Based on our professional judgement, we determined at country level by external bodies like the Dutch industry healthy food foundation calculate the reported values for the two indicators. specific materiality levels for each element of the “ik kies bewust” or by a team of health experts and nutrionists (see page 18). sustainability information. When determining our Given the continuously changing assortment and recipes, and the related manual materiality thresholds, we considered the relevance efforts to keep Ahold’s database and spreadsheets up to date, we consider this to of information for both the stakeholders and the be a key focus area in our review. company based on the materiality analysis of the company (page 14). Responsible products indicators Areas of particular focus In recent years there has been much public debate about the way in which food In addition to the main procedures performed as disclosed in the “work done” We have identified two areas of particular focus that, is produced and distributed. In response, food is increasingly being certified with section, for several registered products, we reconciled the information in the food in our professional judgment, are of most significance respect to matters such as food safety, social compliance and sustainable sourcing. certification label administration with certificates, results from supplier audits, or other in the assurance engagement of the sustainability In its Responsible Retailing report, Ahold discloses the number of certified products supporting evidence. information, including the allocation of our resources and suppliers to demonstrate their awareness of the integrity of the food they sell. and effort. Below we provide an explanation of how we tailored our procedures to address these specific We consider this to be a key area of focus as the continuously changing supplier areas. This is not a complete list of all risks and/or base complicates the monitoring of Ahold’s food certification label administration. matters identified by our work. We have communicated the areas of particular focus with the Management Board. These areas are addressed in the context of our assurance engagement of the sustainability information as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon. We do not provide a separate opinion on these areas of particular focus. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information External assurance report Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 58 Work done aa reviewing internal and external documentation Responsibilities We are required to plan and perform our work in to determine whether the sustainability The Management Board’s responsibilities order to consider the risk of material misstatement of information, including the disclosure, presentation The Management Board of Ahold is responsible for the Report. and assertions made in the report, is the preparation of the Report in accordance with Our work is carried out by an independent and substantiated adequately; Ahold’s reporting criteria, including the identification multi-disciplinary team with experience in sustainability of the stakeholders and the determination of material aa assessing whether the Report has been prepared responsibility reporting and assurance and was subjects. Furthermore, the Management Board is ‘in accordance’ with the Sustainability Reporting performed at the head office in Zaandam and responsible for such internal control necessary to Guidelines version G4 of GRI. during conducted visits at the retail operations in the enable the preparation of the Report, that is free from Netherlands, United States and Czech Republic. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We believe that the evidence we have obtained Our main procedures included the following: is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for Our responsibilities our conclusion. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the aa performing an external environment analysis and Report based on our assurance engagement in obtaining an understanding of the relevant social accordance with Standard 3810N. This requires that issues, relevant laws and regulations and the we comply with ethical requirements and that we characteristics of the organisation; plan and perform our work to obtain reasonable and aa evaluating the acceptability of the reporting limited assurance about whether the Report is free policies and consistent application of this, such from material misstatement. as assessment of the outcomes of the stakeholder The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s dialogue and the process for determining the judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material subjects, the reasonableness of estimates material misstatement of the Report, whether due made by management, as well as evaluating the to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, overall presentation of the sustainability information; the auditor considers internal control relevant for aa understanding the systems and processes for data the preparation of the Report in order to design gathering, internal controls and processing of procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, other information, such as the aggregation process but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion of data to the information as presented in the on the effectiveness of the company’s internal sustainability information; control. An assurance engagement aimed on providing limited assurance also includes evaluating aa interviewing management and relevant staff at the appropriateness of the reporting framework corporate and local level responsible for the used and the reasonableness of estimates made sustainability strategy and policies; by management as well as evaluating the overall aa interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing presentation of the Report. the sustainability information, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and the Amsterdam, 2 March 2016 consolidation of the data in the Report; PricewaterhouseCoopers Accountants N.V. aa analytical review of the data and trend Original has been signed by explanations submitted for consolidation at drs. P.J. van Mierlo RA group level; Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Other information Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 59 Other information Glossary60 Contact us  62 Cautionary notice 62 Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Glossary Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 60 Glossary of field specific lexis included within Composting Global Compact Landfill the report which may need explaining for A process in which organic waste – including food The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative Final placement of waste in or on the land in a reader understanding waste – decomposes naturally, resulting in a product for businesses committed to aligning their operations controlled way according to sanitary, environmental rich in minerals that can be used for gardening and and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles protection and other safety requirements. farming as a soil conditioner. in the areas of human rights, labor, environmental and ASC Last-stage of production sites anti-corruption. Aquaculture Stewardship Council. District heating The suppliers at the stage in our supply chain where Through its consumer label, the ASC promotes Centrally generated heat distributed for residential Greenhouse gases our products are manufactured or produced. certified responsibly farmed products in and commercial heating requirements such as water Gases such as carbon dioxide or methane, which LEED the marketplace. heating and space heating. potentially contribute to climate change. Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Biodiversity EPA GRI is a “green building” certification program which The diversity of plant and animal life in a particular Environmental Protection Agency. The agency that Global Reporting Initiative. An international, multiencourages environmental responsibility and an habitat, or in the world in general. coordinates U.S. programs aimed at reducing stakeholder initiative that provides a standard for efficient use of resources. pollution and protecting the environment. environmental and social sustainability reporting. BSCI LED Business Social Compliance Initiative. A nonFairtrade Group Light-emitting diodes. LEDs produce more light per profit organization, supporting more than 1,000 A certification program with a consumer label that All brands that are in scope of this report as defined watt than incandescent light bulbs, are more efficient international companies in the process of monitoring contributes to sustainable development by offering in the Scope of reporting section of this report. and more durable. and improving working conditions in the global better trading conditions to disadvantaged producers HCFC Materiality matrix supply chain through its own auditing program. (often in countries in developing nations), and by Hydrochlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse In a materiality matrix, social, environmental and protecting their rights. CFC gas that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be used economic issues are plotted along two dimensions: Chlorofluorocarbon. A powerful greenhouse gas Food waste as cooling element in refrigerants. their importance to stakeholders and their importance that has an ozone-depleting effect; may be used as The food component of shrink (stores and to the company in terms of the impact these issues HFC cooling element in refrigerants. warehouses), which is discarded, as a percentage have on its reputation, operations and finances. Hydrofluorocarbon. A greenhouse gas that may be of total sales. In contrast to shrink, this food waste CGF used as a cooling element in refrigerants. MSC percentage excludes theft, food bank donations, Consumer Goods Forum. An independent, global, Marine Stewardship Council. A certification cash shortages and other product losses. IEA parity-based platform focused on improving business program with a consumer label for well managed, International Energy Agency. An intergovernmental practices for efficiency and positive change across FSC sustainable fishing. organization that acts as energy policy advisor to the consumer goods and retail industry in order to Forest Stewardship Council. FSC is an independent, 28 member countries in their effort to ensure reliable, National brand benefit shoppers, consumers and the world without non-governmental, non-profit organization established affordable, and clean energy. The brand name of a product that is distributed impeding competition. It brings together the CEOs to promote the responsible management of the nationally under a brand name owned by the and senior management of over 400 retailers, world’s forests. Incineration producer or distributor. manufacturers, service providers and stakeholders The burning of trash and garbage. GFSI from the consumer goods sector across 70 countries. NGO Global Food Safety Initiative. A CGF activity that kWh Non-governmental organization. CO2 enables continuous improvement of food safety Kilowatt hour. This is a unit of energy. Energy Carbon dioxide; a colorless, odorless, nonmanagement across the supply chain, through delivered by electric utilities is expressed and charged NR combustible greenhouse-gas that contributes to benchmarking, collaboration and harmonization for in kWh. Kilowatt hour is the product of power in Not reported. global warming. of food safety certification programs. kilowatts multiplied by time in hours. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Glossary Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 61 Omni-channel RR Zero waste Omni-channel is a multichannel approach to sales Responsible retailing. A pillar of the Reshaping Retail Zero waste means designing and managing that seeks to provide the customer with a seamless at Ahold strategy. products and processes to systematically avoid shopping experience whether the customer is and eliminate the volume and toxicity of waste and RSPO shopping online from a desktop or mobile device, materials, conserve and recover all resources, and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil. A global, multiby telephone or in a store. not burn or bury them. Implementing zero waste will stakeholder initiative concerned with the production of eliminate all discharges to land, water or air that are Organic product sustainable palm oil via its certification program. a threat to planetary, human, animal or plant health. Agricultural product produced by organic farming RTRS Business and communities that achieve over 90% methods and certified as such by an independent Round Table on Responsible Soy. A global, multidiversion of waste from landfills and incinerators are organization. Organic agriculture is a system that stakeholder initiative concerned with the production of considered to be successful in achieving zero waste. relies on ecosystem management rather than external responsible soy via its certification program. agricultural inputs. Shrink Own-brand All product losses in our stores as a percentage of Own-brand products include store brands, exclusive total sales. This includes all forms of losses such as brands and non-branded products, including fruit and theft, food bank donations, stock differences, expired vegetables, meat, seafood and dairy. products, markdowns, unsalable discontinued items, PI damages and cash shortages. Product Integrity. All activities related to minimizing the Stakeholders risk that suppliers, their products, or the products we All the groups that participate in the economic life of sell do not meet legal requirements or fulfill Ahold’s the company (employees, customers, suppliers and requirements in the areas of Product Safety and shareholders), who monitor the company (unions and Responsible Products. NGOs) or who are more or less directly influenced Priority areas by it (society, local government and others). These are the five responsible retailing areas on Sustainability hotspots which the company is focusing under its current Areas in the supply chain which are linked to strategy. The priority areas – healthy living, community environmental, social and animal welfare issues. well-being, our people, responsible products, and care for the environment – were selected on the basis UTZ of their relevance to Ahold’s business model, to our A certification program with a consumer label for stakeholders, and to those areas where Ahold can responsibly produced and sourced coffee, tea and make a meaningful difference. cocoa, which aims to achieve sustainable agricultural supply chains. Rainforest Alliance A certification program with a consumer label that Value chain aims to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable A value chain is the whole series of activities that livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, create and build value at every step. The total value business practices and consumer behavior. delivered by the company is the sum total of the value built up all throughout the company. Ahold at a glance Looking forward: Our 2020 strategy Looking back: Our performance in 2015 Performance and approach Other information Contact us Cautionary notice Ahold Responsible Retailing Report 2015 62 Contact information Ahold actively encourages our stakeholders to sign This Responsible Retailing Report (RR Report) contains Annual Report 2015 and this RR Report. Accordingly, Ahold proactively maintains an open dialogue with up to receive electronic communications, as part forward-looking statements, which do not refer to this RR Report is subject to this notice and it is stakeholders, providing accurate information in a of our commitment to being a responsible retailer. historical facts but refer to expectations based on qualified by the assumptions, qualifications and the timely and consistent way. The Company does For information about how to register to receive management’s current views and assumptions and risk factors detailed in Ahold’s public filings and this through press releases, the Annual Report, the electronic communications, please visit the “Contact involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties other disclosures. Readers are cautioned not to place Responsible Retailing Report, presentations, webcasts, us” section of our corporate website. that could cause actual results, performance or undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, and regular briefings with analysts, fund managers vents to differ materially from those included in which speak only as of the date of this RR Report. and stakeholders. Contact us such statements. Ahold does not assume any obligation to update any In order to help us get better every day we invite public information or forward-looking statement in this These forward-looking statements include, but are RR Report to reflect events or circumstances after the Corporate website a dialogue with our stakeholders. We therefore not limited to, statements as to Ahold’s responsible welcome your feedback on this Responsible Retailing date of this RR Report, except as maybe required by Whether you want to view the Company’s latest retailing strategy, the impact of the intended merger Report and on our responsible retailing strategy and applicable laws. Outside the Netherlands, Ahold press releases or learn more about our local brands between Ahold and Delhaize, Ahold’s promises, targets in general. presents itself under the name of “Royal Ahold” or and heritage, our commitment to being a responsible Ahold’s stakeholder engagement, Ahold’s key priority simply “Ahold.” For the reader’s convenience, “Ahold” retailer, or our approach to corporate governance, Please contact: areas being community well-being including but not or “the company” is also used throughout this RR Ahold’s corporate website provides a wealth of limited to Ahold’s tax policy, its people, responsible Report. The company’s registered name is “Koninklijke products and care for the environment, the Global information for stakeholders. You can access the Responsible Retailing team Ahold Ahold N.V.” The main responsible retailing principles corporate website at www.ahold.com Reporting Initiative, the United Nations Global P.O. Box 3000 and commitments as discussed in this RR Report imply Compact, governance, scope of reporting and the 1500 HA Zaandam obligations to perform to the best of one’s ability and Electronic communication reporting process. The Netherlands do not imply obligations to guarantee a certain result. In recent years, changes in legislation have removed These forward-looking statements are subject to Certain products and services named in this report the requirement for companies to mail large quantities Telephone: +31 88 659 5100 risks, uncertainties and other factors that could feature trademarks owned by Koninklijke Ahold N.V., of paper communications to stakeholders. Instead, Email: responsible.retailing@ahold.com cause actual results to differ materially from future its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. companies are choosing to communicate with their results expressed or implied by the forward-looking Copyright © 2016 Koninklijke Ahold N.V. stakeholders via the internet, because of its speed statements. Many of these risks and uncertainties All rights reserved. and environmental benefits, and to save costs. relate to factors that are beyond Ahold’s ability to control or estimate precisely, including but not limited to, Ahold’s ability to successfully implement Media Relations Responsible Retailing and complete its plans and strategies and to meet its targets, the benefits from Ahold’s plans and Tim van der Zanden Emma Coles strategies being less than anticipated, the effect of Head of External Communications VP Responsible Retailing general economic or political conditions, the actions of competitors and other third parties, increases or communications@ahold.com responsible.retailing@ahold.com changes in competition, Ahold’s ability to retain and +31 88 659 51 34 attract employees who are integral to the success of the business and other factors discussed in Ahold’s Investor Relations Responsible Retailing Henk Jan ten Brinke Harm-Jan Pietersen VP Investor Relations Manager Responsible Retailing investor.relations@ahold.com responsible.retailing@ahold.com +31 88 659 52 13 +31 88 659 52 13
