CSR Report 2016 CSR Report 2016 (Previous issue: June 2015 as Environmental and Social Report 2015) Issued June 2016 (Next issue: scheduled for June 2017) Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/ For further information regarding this report, please contact the Public Relations Department, Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3246-5091 Fax: +81-3-3246-5096 e-mail: sec-pr@shinetsu.jp Your opinions, inquiries, and requests regarding this report are welcomed at our website: URL: http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/inquiry/kankyo_enq.php Table of contents Editorial Policy Shin-Etsu Group Corporate Mission Statement About This Report page The Shin-Etsu Group’s “Environmental Report” has been The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, issued since 2000, and, in 2004, the contents were expanded 1 Shin-Etsu Group Corporate Mission Statement/Basic CSR Policy conducts fair business practices and contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to to include corporate social responsibility in general. The “Environmental and Social Report” continues to be issued every 2 Table of Contents/Editorial Policy the advance of industry and society by providing key materials and technologies. year. 3 Message from Management With respect this time to the corporate social responsibility imposed on the Group, since we continue to promote more 5 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Basic CSR Policy accurate dialogueue with everyone in society, this is compliant with the standard disclosure items indicated by the Global Reporting Initiative’s “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 4th Management edition (GRI G4)”, which is an international reporting guideline. The Shin-Etsu Group: Furthermore, this report is titled “CSR Report”. 9 Corporate Governance The Report also serves as a report on our Responsible Care Will do our best to increase the Group’s corporate value through sustained growth and 13 CSR Promotion Structure 1. make multifaceted contributions to society. programs1. 14 Risk Management Referenced Guidelines 2. GRI “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 4th edition” Will carry out all of our company activities by making safety always our utmost priority. Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Report Guidelines Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues 2012 Edition” Will constantly pursue energy-saving, resources-saving and the reduction of the 15 Specifying Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues 3. Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Edition” environmental impact, and seek to help create a sustainable future world in which we 17 Expectations of the Shin-Etsu Group’s CSR Activities all live in harmony with the Earth. Period Covered by the Report (indicated where otherwise) Will endeavor to contribute to the prevention of global warming and the conservation Efforts towards Key CSR Issues 4. of biodiversity by means of our cutting-edge technologies and products. Japan: April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 Overseas: January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 Organizations Covered by the Report 19 The cornerstone of all activities: legal compliance, fair corporate activities Will strive to respect human dignity, assure equality in employment opportunities and The report covers our 147 Group companies including Shin-Etsu 20 Key Issues 1: 5. support the self-fulfillment of our employees. Chemical Co., Ltd, herein after called the Company. The range Health and safety for workers of entities from which data were collected is in principles as stated below. Where otherwise, this is indicated in a separate 23 Key Issues 2: 6. Will appropriately disclose information in a timely manner. note. (1) Environmental Activity Report Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact The report includes data from the 124 companies of the 34 Key Issues 3: Will carry out trustworthy corporate activities that are based on the integrity of the Product quality improvements and product safety control 7. Group’s ethical values. Group. 67 manufacturing bases in Japan 36 Key Issues 4: 122 non-manufacturing bases in Japan Promoting CSR procurement and the diversification of supply sources Issued June 2011 47 overseas manufacturing bases 57 overseas non-manufacturing bases 37 Key Issues 5: (2) Environmental Accounting Respect for human rights, the development of human resources and the Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. promotion of diversity (3) Other 42 Key Issues 6: Upholding the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact The Group, except for the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group2 Respect for and protection of intellectual property The Shin-Etsu Group joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in November 2010. 1 Responsible Care programs 43 Key Issues 7: The Group upholds the ten principles advanced by the UNGC in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. A campaign encouraging enterprises that handle Contribution to industry and social initiatives chemical substances to voluntarily ensure protection Human Rights Environment of the environment, safety and health in all processes, 45 Key Issues 8: from the development of chemical substances through Accurate and timely information disclosure and communication with stakeholders Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the protection Principle 7: B usinesses should support a precautionary approach manufacture, distribution and utilization to final of internationally proclaimed human rights; and to environmental challenges; consumption, disposal or recycling, to publish the 46 Responsible Care Audit of the Report Principle 2: m  ake sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 8: u ndertake initiatives to promote greater results of their activity, and to engage in dialogue and abuses. environmental responsibility; and communication with society. Labour Principle 9: e ncourage the development and diffusion of 2 For a report on the Shin-Etsu Polymer Group, see “ShinPrinciple 3: B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association environmentally friendly technologies. Etsu Polymer Sustainability Report 2016” (to be published and the effective recognition of the right to collective Anti-Corruption at the end of September 2016). bargaining; Principle 10: B usinesses should work against Principle 4: t he elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory corruption in all its forms, labour; including extortion and bribery. Principle 5: t he effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: t he elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. * CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) The idea that enterprise, rather than concentrating solely on profit, needs to value their relationships with a wide range of stakeholders in the conduct of their business. GRI Guidelines Comparison Table WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr For information on our Corporate Mission Statement, Basic CSR Policy and UNGC participation, please refer to WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/ 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 2 Message from Management Contributing to the development of society by working on our Key CSR Issues and putting our Corporate Mission into practice Growing Sustainably Together with Society Supporting and Implementing Principles and Key CSR Issues Global Charters With legal compliance and fair corporate activities as The Shin-Etsu Group’s Corporate Mission is to “strictly The Group signed and put into practice the Responsible the cornerstone of all of its activities, the Group has comply with all laws and regulations, conduct fair Care Global Charter of the International Council of defined eight Key CSR Issues. business practices and contribute to people’s daily lives Chemical Associations (ICCA) in 2006, and in 2014, we as well as to the advance of industry and society by signed the revised Responsible Care Global Charter. • Health and safety for workers providing key materials and technologies.” We are In 2010, the Shin-Etsu Group became a participant • Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of working towards furthering the development of society in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and has the environmental impact by making safety our utmost priority above all else and been voluntarily supporting and practicing in our • P roduct quality improvements and product safety by making strenuous efforts to apply our cutting-edge business operations and strategies the UNGC’s Ten control technological strengths to help reduce the Principles with regard to human rights, labor standards, • Promoting CSR procurement and the diversification of environmental impact. the environment and the prevention of corruption. supply sources These principles are all in line with the Group’s • Respect for human rights, the development of human Contributions to the Future of the Earth Corporate Mission and Basic CSR Policy. Through these resources and the promotion of diversity activities, the Group will endeavor to build even deeper • Contribution to industry and social initiatives The Group seeks to help create a sustainable future relationships of trust with people around the world. • Respect for and protection of intellectual property Chihiro Kanagawa Shunzo Mori world by pursuing the thoroughgoing reduction of any • A ccurate and timely information disclosure and Chairman Director-Adviser environmental impact resulting from its manufacturing communication with stakeholders processes, and at the same time, it is striving to pursue Promoting Social Contribution Activities Rooted in the development and sales of products that will help Local Communities throughout the World The key issues that are defined here are issues that we reduce the environmental impact on the earth. The Group companies and their employees around the have concentrated our efforts on for many years. Within The products that the Group is providing to the world are carrying out social contribution activities that the Group, we have repeatedly conducted studies world, such as PVC, semiconductor silicon, silicones and are rooted in their local communities. The activities of concerning the most effective ways to fulfill our rare earth magnets, are indispensable materials for the S h i n t e c h I n c . , o u r U . S . G ro u p c o m p a n y, a re a corporate social responsibilities and we have officially sustainable development of global industry and the representative example. decided to once again clearly specify these important quality of people’s daily lives. Shintech Inc. through its business activities is making issues as our Key CSR Issues. The fields in which the Shin-Etsu Group’s products a great contribution to the U.S. economy, and at the play essential roles are infinite, and they include the same time, many of its employees by means of their The Group aims to steadily achieve its corporate social promotion of energy-saving, the spread of renewable voluntary participation in the activities of local charities responsibilities by responding to the requests from e n e r g y, t h e i m p ro v e m e n t i n t h e re l i a b i l i t y o f are deepening relationship of trust with the people of society, and contributing to the solution of key issues infrastructure, the protection of the ecosystem and the the local-area communities. through our cutting-edge technologies and products. challenges of coping with an aging society. We sincerely ask for your continued understanding and We will continue to meet new challenges with our support in the future as well. manufacturing, sales and research-and-development departments united as one and strive to move ahead so June 2016 that we can contribute to the future of the Earth. 3 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 4 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group As of March 31, 2016, the Shin-Etsu Group comprises of Shin-Etsu Chemical and 147 Group companies, which share responsibility for sales, manufacturing and other operations and cooperate to develop their respective business activities. These business activities are divided into six segments: PVC/Chlor-Alkali Business; Silicones Business; Specialty Chemicals Business; Semiconductor Silicon Business; Electronics and Functional Materials Business; and Diversified Business. In each of these fields, we have products with a strong market share around the world and in Japan, with the world’s top share in polyvinyl chloride (PVC), semiconductor silicon, photomask substrates for LCDs, and the top domestic share for silicones. Shin-Etsu products are a familiar part of our everyday lives and they play an essential role in society. Resolution examples of the main social challenges with the technology, raw materials and products of the Shin-Etsu Group 11 1 11 Oxide single crystals (Lithium Tantalate) 10 Oxide single 2 crystals Products Cellulose derivatives 1 Cellulose derivatives ■ Basic materials to support a highly Compound (Lithium Synthetic information-oriented society 10 semiconductors Tantalate) pheromones ■ Prevention of marine pollution ■ Maximizing the performance of P.7 Resolution Example Semiconductor pharmaceutical products silicon Aroma chemicals Rare earths Materials 10 Semiconductor silicon,Compound semiconductors Rare earths Gallium elements, Others Pulp Silane & Acetylene LED/ 2 Synthetic pheromones ■ Basic materials to support a highly Poly Silicon Semiconductor information-oriented society encapsulating ■ Environmental protection, preventing disruption ■ Responding to an aging society materials of ecosystems 9 Silicones/ P.7 Resolution Example Epoxy Rare earth Single-crystal Technology magnets Rare earths growing Organic synthesis technology 3 9 Rare earth magnets technology Silicon 3 Silanes metal Silanes ■ Basic materials to support a highly ■ Energy savings information-oriented society ■ Responding to an aging society P.7 Resolution Example The Shin-Etsu Group Powdering/ Silicon metal Silica sintering technology Phenol derivatives 4 Photoresists 8 Synthetic quartz 4 ■ Basic materials to support a highly ■ Basic materials to support a highly Electrolysis information-oriented society information-oriented society technology Photoresists CVD1 ＆ PVD2 Plastic & Film Pyrolytic boron Boron Polymerization processing Industrial nitride (PBN) technology technology salt 5 Silicones 7 Photomask blanks Silane ■ Energy savings ■ Basic materials to support a highly ■ Renewable energy Chorides, information-oriented society 8 Molybdenum Fluorine Caustic soda ■ Prevention of marine pollution Silicon compound Synthetic quartz Fluorine Chlorine & Silane P.7 Resolution Example polymers PVC/ Silicones Ethylene 7 Liquid Photomask fluoroelastomers blanks 5 6 Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) Pellicles 6 Silicones ■ Energy savings PVC/Silicones Polyvinyl ■ Renewable energy P.7 Resolution Example processed goods chloride (PVC) Business segment ● PVC/Chlor-alkali business Classification of social issues ● Silicones business 1 Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) ■ Addressing climate change and its impacts ● Specialty chemicals business A method for depositing thin films onto a substrate, involving gas energized by thermal, optical, or electromagnetic radiation to cause excitation or decomposition, and involving ■ Promotion of the development and innovation of infrastructure ● Semiconductor silicon business steps such as attraction, reaction, and dissociation. ■ Conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity loss prevention ● Electronics and functional materials business 2 Physical Vapor Deposition (PVD) ■ Securing healthy living and welfare promotion ● Diversiﬁed business A method for depositing thin material films onto a substrate, using originally solid substances vaporized by thermal or plasma energy. 5 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 6 Overview of the Shin-Etsu Group Social issue resolution example Corporate Overview Number of employees (Consolidated: Total 18,407 people) Products Social issue resolution example Trading name Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. By Region By Gender Location 6-1, Ohtemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Japan 7,975 people Male 13,593 people Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) ■ Energy savings Tokyo 100-0004, Japan United States 2,625 people Femail 4,814 people In comparison to aluminum ■E  xtending the life of Established September 16, 1926 Europe 1,387 people window profiles, PVC based resin infrastructure Capital 119,419 million yen Asia/Oceania 6,420 people window profiles can reduce the PVC water and sewer pipes do not amount of heat loss from windows Representative Chihiro Kanagawa, Chairman need replacing for 50 years or by 71%. (Note 1) more. Yasuhiko Saitoh, President (Photo) LIXIL Corporation Business activities Production and sales of polyvinyl chloride, semiconductor silicons, silicones, rare earth Silicones Smart grid magnets, synthetic quartz, cellulose IoT ■ Energy savings derivatives and other products HV/EV An annual reduction of 54 million ■ Renewable energy Oil Powder to ns of CO2 g re enho us e gas By utilizing silicones for sealing Major Group Companies emissions is possible through the solar batteries, the batteries can be use of silicones in automobiles, used for 30 years or more. construc tion and solar panels. Japan Overseas (Note 2) Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., ShinShintech Inc., S.E.H. Malaysia SDN. BHD., Shin-Etsu Handotai Shape Etsu Astech Co., Ltd., Shin-Etsu Engineering Co., Ltd., Nagano America Inc., Shin-Etsu PVC B.V., SE Tylose GmbH & Co. KG, ShinSmart grid Electronics Industrial Co., Ltd., and others Etsu Handotai Taiwan Co., Ltd., Simcoa Operations Pty. Ltd., Shin■P  revention of marine IoT HV/EV pollution ■ Responding to an aging Etsu Silicones (Thailand) Limited, Asia Silicones Monomer Ltd., and Highly safe silicones were applied society others to the bottom paint of ships instead Use in cushion material for nursing of organic tin compounds used in Europe care robots. bottom paint, and they prevent the 17 companies North America Liquid rubber Rubber adhesion of marine organisms. 21 companies Semiconductor silicon ■ Basic materials to Japan support a highly information-oriented ■ Responding to an aging 60 companies Smart grid society society IoT Used in the elec tronic device HV/EV Basic materials which support a Central America control of nursing care robots. Smart grid highly information-oriented society 1 companiey IoT such as a Smart grid1, IoT2, etc. Asia/Oceania HV/EV 48 companies Cellulose derivatives ■ M aximizing the ■P  revention of marine South America performance of pollution pharmaceutical products 1 companiey To minimize the separation of Adjusts the time, dosage and concrete in water, it is possible position of tablets dissolving in the *Non-consolidated companies are included in the number of regional group companies. to pour concrete without body, and removes the bitterness contaminating the water. and odor of tablets. Financial Highlights Synthetic pheromones Smart grid Net Sales by Segment (Fiscal year ended March 2016) Net Sales by Region (Fiscal year ended March 2016) (Enclosed in a brown string-like tube) IoT ■ E nvironmental HV/EV ■ P reventing disruption of conservation Diversified business ecosystems Reduces soil contamination 103.4 （8％） Controls only specific pests, and PVC/Chlor-alkali business Japan through the reduc tion of the avoids effecting other organisms. Electronics and 441.7 （34％） 331.4（26％） Asia/Oceania amount of applied pesticide. functional materials Consolidated Consolidated 394.6（31％） business net sales net sales Overseas 186.7 （15％） 1,279.8 1,279.8 Rare earth magnets billion yen Other billion yen United States Semiconductor ■ Energy savings silicon business 113.2（9％） 295.6（23％） ■R  esponding to an aging Improves the efficiency of motors society 243.3 （19％） Smart grid Europe and generators, and contributes to 144.7（11％） IoT Use in joint motors for nursing care Specialty chemicals business Silicones business improving the per formance of 116.8 （9％） 187.7 （15％） HV/EV robots. next-generation vehicles. (Note 1) Rating: Aa3 long-term debt Indices for Socially Responsible 1 Smart grid rating received from Moody’s WEB Note 1 For more information, please see the Shin-Etsu Chemical homepage CSR site. Investment Next-generation power grid. A transmission network that can be optimized and http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr Investors Services that can control the power flow from both the supply side and the demand side. As of January 4, 2016 2 IoT Note 2 From the World Silicone Industry Report “Balance of Silicone (2012)”. Investigation results Financial & IR Information WEB Abbreviation for ‘Internet of Things’. This is technology that connects everything were targeted in Europe, North America and Japan, where silicone products are mainly used. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir on the Internet. 7 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 8 Managament Corporate Governance Corporate governance is one of our important management tasks The Company considers Corporate Governance to be operations in accordance with the Companies Act, the Outside Directors one of the important management tasks, and it is Company articles of incorporation, etc. Meanwhile, the focusing on the following points. Managing Directors’ Meeting makes deliberations and For the purpose of the fulfilled advisory and supervisory functions of management from an independent position, the • D evelopment of an efficient organizational decisions on a variety of other operational issues. Company welcomes four Outside Directors. Advice has been obtained from Outside Directors about the enhancement of structure and institutions The Company has adopted an Audit & Supervisory growth strategy and governance. We believe that these points are extremely important in order to raise corporate value. • Improving transparency in management Board Member system. The Audit & Supervisory Board • Strengthening internal controls is composed of five members, including three Outside • Accurate information disclosure Audit & Supervisory Board Members. As well as attending the Board of Directors meetings, Managing ■ Outside Director List Board of Directors, Managing Directors’ Directors’ Meetings, and other important internal Name Status of significant other positions held Meeting and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members Frank Peter Popoff Former CEO, The Dow Chemical Company (US) review documents, visit factories in Japan and overseas, Former Representative Director and President, Former The Board of Directors consists of 23 members, of and carry out other tasks in order to audit the execution Tsuyoshi Miyazaki Representative Director and Chairman and current Advisor, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation whom four are Outside Directors with a wealth of of operations by the directors. Furthermore the Audit & Former Governor of the Bank of Japan management experience and exceptional insight. Super visor y Board Members also hold monthly Toshihiko Fukui Outside Director, Kikkoman Corporation Two organizations to discuss and decide on the meetings with the Auditing Department where they President, The Canon Institute for Global Studies execution of operations: the Board of Directors and the receive progress reports on activities, internal auditing Former President, The University of Tokyo Hiroshi Komiyama Chairman, Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Managing Directors’ Meeting, which are each held on a results, the situation of the Auditing Department Outside Director, JX Holdings, Inc. monthly basis as a general rule. The Board of Directors business, and other matters. In addition, they also As of June 29, 2016 sets out the Company principle and deliberates and provide advice and make requests on topics including makes decisions regarding key aspects of Company these activities and the selection of key auditing topics. ■ Corporate Governance System at Shin-Etsu Chemical From the left, Hiroshi Komiyama, Toshihiko Fukui, Frank Peter Popoff, Tsuyoshi Miyazaki General Shareholders’ Meeting Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Election/Dismissal Reporting Election/Dismissal Reporting Election/Dismissal For the purpose of the fulfilled advisory and supervisory functions on management through an independent position, the Committee Report Audit & Supervisory Board Company welcomes three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members are Officers’ Remuneration Committee Auditing Five Audit & Supervisory Board Chairman: Outside Director Board of Directors Members of whom three are Outside auditing the Company’s management as experts in their respective fields or from a broad point of view based on Election/Dismissal 23 directors, including four Outside Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members corporate management experience. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Auditing is contributing to ensure the Company’s Judgment of compliance system. Advice and Requirements Supervision, Election/Dismissal Accounting Audit Adequacy Auditing Representative Directors Accounting Auditor Reporting ■ Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member List Reporting Name Status of significant other positions held Managing Directors’ Meeting Taku Fukui Lawyer Managing Partner, Kashiwagi Sogo Law Offices Instruction Professor, Keio University Law School Deliberation on operational issues, etc. Auditing Department Yoshihito Kosaka Certified Public Accountant, Certified Public Tax Accountant Reporting Reporting Counselor, Kisaragi Audit Corporation Auditing Former Representative Director, Chairman and President, Instruction/Supervision Committees for each main management task Kiyoshi Nagano former JASDAQ Securities Exchange, Inc. Outside Director, SBI Holdings, Inc. Outside Director, LEC INC. Investigation/Guidance As of June 29, 2016 Marketing, Manufacturing, Research & Development and Management Departments As of June 29, 2016 Corporate Governance Report (only Japanese available) WEB From the left, Yoshihito Kosaka, Kiyoshi Nagano, Taku Fukui http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/jp/csr/pdf/CG160708.pdf 9 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 10 Managament Directors’ Remuneration Operation of Group Companies Internal System for Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information In order to ensure transparency and validity in the The Company aims for development of the whole decision-making process of the Direc tors’ Group by supporting and respecting the autonomy of In accordance with the regulations regarding Remuneration, the Officers’ Remuneration Committee the Group companies. Group companies are managed information disclosure set by the stock exchange and has been in place since 2002. The committee consists of on the basis of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Group Company the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the five directors, with Outside Director Frank Peter Popoff Operational Regulations. The 91 companies that are Company has formulated internal regulations regarding as chairman. The committee comprehensively reviews consolidated subsidiaries are conduc ting prior collection, management, and timely disclosure of the evaluation results of the contribution to business consultation and reporting on the following projects. corporate information. These regulations include the performance and management of each director in each (1) Prior Consultation Item Example Regulations on Timely Disclosure of Corporate fiscal year, and reports this to the Board of Directors. • Capital increase or decrease, mergers, dissolutions, Information and the Rules on Regulation of Insider amendments to the Articles of Incorporation Trading. These rules are communicated to all of the Internal Control System and Operational Audit • New business and capital investment plan departments in the Company and Group companies to • Transfer or acquisition of business promote smooth and timely disclosure. The Company has formulated a Basic Policy on Internal • Appointment and dismissal or transfer of officers Controls to help put in place “structures to ensure that and seconded executives the execution of duties by the directors is fully (2) Reporting Item Example ■ State of the internal system for timely disclosure compliant with relevant legislation and the articles of • Operations review Collection and management of corporate information Timely disclosure of corporate information incorporation, and structures to ensure the propriety of • Financial results business operations within the corporate group • Risk information recognized by Group companies consisting of its subsidiaries as well as this corporation • I mportant information such as deficiencies in Directors, Audit & Supervisory and other corporate business”, as stipulated by the internal control Board Members or Board of Directors Each Department Companies Act and an Ordinance of the Ministry of Furthermore, by holding meetings which are Reporting Approval Justice. attended by the presidents of our main Group Shin-Etsu Chemical Reporting Contact Contact Finance & Timely Office of Public Relations Internal controls are an important management companies twice each year, we actively promote the the President Department Accounting Department disclosure responsibility at the Company. Accordingly, the internal sharing and exchange of information among Group Person in charge of Consultation control system is structured and implemented in companies. handling information Group companies accordance with the above policy. It is subjected to Relevant Decisions of the necessity constant review to make the system more appropriate departments and timing of timely disclosures and efficient. Internal operation audits and assessment of internal controls over financial reporting are handled by the Auditing Department. The results of these audits and assessments are reported to board members including Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to strengthen coordination between Auditing Department and Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Results briefing in fiscal year ending March 2016 11 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 12 Managament CSR Promotion Structure Risk Management The Shin-Etsu Group implements various activities We make preparations to counter the risks to fulfill its corporate social responsibility surrounding the Company CSR Promotion Initiatives Risk Management Regulations Risk Management Committee We believe that it is the social responsibility of the activities. In order to promote CSR activities in an The Company has established the Risk management T h e R isk M a na g e m e nt Co mm i t te e ha s b e e n Group to contribute to our stakeholders, such as effective and appropriate manner at a company wide Regulations. Comprehensive risk considered in carrying e s t a b l i s h e d . T h e Co m m i t t e e co n s t r u c t s r i s k shareholders, investors, customers, business partners, level in all aspects of corporate activity, we have set up out business activities in the Company and the Group management structures, establishes regulations, and local communities and employees. a CSR Promotion Committee comprising managers are specifically defined in a long-term perspective in the works to identify and prevent potential washout of risks To achieve this, we formulated the Basic CSR Policy from the relevant divisions and departments, and have regulations. In addition, risk handling methods and a arising in connection with the operations of the and internal regulations, and are carrying out CSR appointed a director in charge of CSR. risk management system has been established. Company. The Committee also promotes broad-based activities such as the development of business ■ CSR Organizational Chart continuity planning, education, and information ■ Risks Defined in Risk Management Regulations provision. The Committee reports directly to the Board Board of Directors (1) Risk factors related to business activities of Directors, the Audit & Supervisory Board, and the Managing Directors’ Meeting (1) Business risks (8) Environment and safety risks Managing Directors’ Meeting on major issues in risk (2) Research and development risks (9) Information management risks management. President (3) P roduction and quality (10) Intellectual property, contract, and management risks litigation risks Handling in the Business Continuity Plan and Instruction Appointment Reporting (4) Sales risks (11) Fraud risks during an Emergency (5) Purchasing risks (12) Country risks Corporate Social Responsibility The Group offers a number of products used in special (CSR) Promotion Committee (6) Finance and accounting risks (13) Legal risks (7) Personnel and labor risks (14) Other applications in state-of-the-art industries and has a high market share in products not only in Japan but around Committee Chairman (2) Risk factors not related to business activities (Director) the world. For that reason, if these products can not be (1) R isks caused by economic (4) R  isks caused by scientific and/or factors technical factors supplied due to an accident or serious disaster such as a Nomination Appointment Audit & Supervisory Board (5) R  isks caused by natural massive earthquake or fire, it will have an affect on Reporting (2) Risks caused by social factors environmental factors and/or society. disasters In the Company, each division and each factory is Committee Members (3) R isks caused by governmental (6) Other Sales/Administration Department Heads Secretariat factors preparing for a disaster and accident and formulates a business continuity plan on the basis of the Companywide Business Continuity Management Regulations. In addition, if a disaster or accident occurs, we will Promotion of CSR activities work using the structure shown below. Each of the The Shin-Etsu Group countermeasures head office and organizations carry out emergency response and recovery support on the basis of pre-defined business standards. Masaki Miyajima Transmission of CSR Initiatives inside and outside the company Managing Director Risk Management Committee Chairman A variety of information is being disseminated so that the CSR Initiatives in the 信越グループのCSRについてわかりやすく解説します。 CSR 推進委員会 事務局 後藤裕子さん （通称：ヒロコ姉さん） CSR推進委員会設立以前から、 CSRに関する業 Group can be understood. ■ System and major response operation in the occurrence of a disaster or accident 務を一手に引き受けている。家庭では母として大 CSRを知ろう！ 奮闘。テニスとスキーが趣味。 1時間目 CSR ってなに？ CSRは慈善活動？ The Company’s website CSR site was updated in February 2015, and the CSRはCorporate Social Responsibilityの略で、 業の社会的責任」と訳されています。最近では、 るさまざまな責任を果たしながら、 社会とともに成長、 日本語では「企 「企業が社会に対す 発展していくこ CSRは寄付や社会貢献のような慈善活動と混同されること もありますが、 慈善活動はCSRの一部であって、 動ではありません。慈善活動のような余力による社会への貢献 CSR＝慈善活 amount of information on it has greatly increased. と」という解釈が主流になっています。 は、 余力がなくなったら続けることができなくなるかもしれませ Disaster countermeasures head office 初期のCSRは慈善活動が中心でしたが、 企業の不祥事、 公害、事故、 ん。 そのため、 永く続けることが可能な、 本業を通じた貢献が求め 欠陥や偽装商品、 地球規模の環境、 貧困などの問題を受けて、 法令遵 られています。 守、 公正な事業活動、 環境保護、 労働者保護、 安全重視、 人権尊重、 消 費者保護などの考え方が加わりました。これらは企業活動の基本で CSRを推進するメリットは、 In addition, a CSR feature has been serialized from the October 2015 issue of Director: President あり、 会社の大切な土台です。昨今はさらに、 「 社会に対して本業を通 信越グループが成長するだけでなく、 じた貢献を行い、 ともに成長すること」もCSRに含まれています。業 会社としての質も高まることで 種や業界によって土台や本業の内容は異なりますが、 これらを実践す 社会からさらに信頼され、 当社グループで働く全ての皆さんや ることで、 「企業が社会に対して責任を果たしている」とみなされます。 その家族の皆さんが誇りを持てる the company magazine in order to enrich transmission within the company. The 会社になるということ！ ヒロコ姉さん 私たちはなにをすればいいの？ 信越グループの本業は 「製品や技術の開発、 製造、販売」です。従って、 法令 遵守、 公正な事業活動、 安全第一、 環境保全、 人権尊重、 製品の安全性や品質 following articles have been published so far: “What is CSR?”, the Corporate 私たちのするべきこと の確保などを実践した上で、 適正な納税を行うとともに、 社会に役立つ製品 や技術を開発、 製造、 販売することで、 社会とともに成長、 発展する、 つまり、 企 信越グループの 展 本業を通じた 業理念である「遵法に徹し公正な企業活動を行い、 素材と技術を通じて、 暮ら 、発 With the countermeasures head office Division countermeasures head office Factory countermeasures head office 社会に役立つ 社会への貢献 長 成 製品や技術の の しや産業、 社会に貢献する」の実践が求められます。 社 会 開発、製造、販売 と プ また、 当社は当社だけで存在しているわけではなく、 株主や投資家、 顧客、 取 ー ル Mission Statement of the Group and reconfirmation of the Basic CSR Policy, and グ ・法令遵守 ・製品の安全性 越 信越グループの ・公正な事業活動 ・品質の確保 引先、 地域社会、 従業員といったステークホルダー（グループを取り巻くさま 信 ・安全第一 ・適正な納税 大切な土台 ・環境保全 … ざまな関係者）とともに成り立っています。ステークホルダーと互いに満足の ・人権尊重 (Head office administration department) (Appropriate division) (Appropriate factory) いく関係を保ちながら事業活動を行い、 利益を上げて国や地方に納税し、 社 会に貢献しなければなりません。 “How the Group's products and technologies can solve social issues?” 信越グループのCSR担当 2005年にCSR推進委員会が発足し、 現在に至ります。 委員会ではさまざまな方針や 当社のCSR推進の詳細は、 環境・社会報告書をご覧ください。 • • • Report, contact regions, head office, employees 規程の制定、 整備の推進、 CSRの取り組みの社内外への発信、 調査会社や顧客、 報道機 信越化学トップ＞会社案内＞環境・安全・社会との関わり Grasp the situation of the accident, disaster Grasp the damage, confirm the stock 関によるCSR調査への対応、 CSRに関する最新情報の収集、 展開などを行っています。 http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/jp/company/csr.html 【あなたへ幸運を呼び込む占星術 （11月）byレイナ里亜】かに座 「仕事運」2日まで発言注意。3日以降、20日まで案はすぐ実行へ。 • • • Grasp the damage to production equipment, 7 2015 October vol.744 後半、細部に配慮を。 「金運」8日まで小さなツキあり。後半、家族への出費マル。 「健康運」13日以降、ケガに注意。 Information collection, transmission Grasp the customers’s situation • Confirm the safety of employees, ensure necessary personnel • Respond to customer inquiries employee safety • Situational awareness of business partners, • Implement alternative measures, • Secondary disaster prevention CSR Site secure alternative suppliers re-examine the recovery plan • Ensure necessary personnel WEB https://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/ • Respond to outside inquiries • Recovery plan proposal, implementation 13 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 14 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Specifying Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues The Group established the CSR Promotion Committee (“the Committee”) in 2005, and in order to practice the Corporate Mission Statement to “The Group strictly complies with all laws and regulations, conducts fair business practices and contributes to people’s daily lives as well as to the advance of industry and society by providing key materials and technologies.” we have been working on a wide variety of activities. What the Group must address in particular was defined as “Key CSR Issues” through the following procedure in fiscal 2015. Having targets set for each Key CSR issues, we will work and evaluate to improve the current situation in order to achieve the targets. Re-examination in the Committee and 1 Clarifying Key CSR Issues 2 Creating a scatter plot of Key CSR Issues and organizing them 3 Interviews with Outside Directors 4 approved by the management 1 Clarifying Key CSR Issues 4 Re-examination in the Committee and approved by the management In the Committee, the following investigations were done for all of the Company’s departments and major domestic Based on the suggestions and opinions from the Outside Directors, the Committee has re-examined key issues. The Group companies. Managing Directors’ Meeting, which is the decision-making body with all the directors and audit & supervisory board ① Stakeholders for each department and each company are reconfirmed and reorganized. members also examined and has decided the items in the figure below to be Key CSR Issues of the Group. ② In reference to ISO26000 core subjects, Key CSR Issues are listed in each department and each company. The Group will work equally on all of these Key CSR Issues without an order. ③ Level of importance of each key issue for the Group as well as for stakeholders is scored. Each point of the Also, the Group has set a goal to contribute to the future of the Earth by practicing the Corporate Mission Statement importance for stakeholders and the importance for the Group in each key issue is scored. while working on these issues. The Group now has a goal to “Contribute to the future of the Earth” while working on Key CSR Issues. 2 Creating a scatter plot of Key CSR Issues and organizing them Shin-Etsu Group Aims The Committee created a scatter plot of key issues on ■ Key CSR Issues Scatter Plot the basis of the key issues and their scores submitted by 非常に重要 法令遵守の徹底 Contributions to the Earth’s future each department and each company. The result showed 保安防災 環境保全 労働安全 省エネ製品開発 環境負荷低減製品の開発 that the majority of key issues were “very important” 新規事業創出のための研究テー マの設定と実施 当社グ ルグー プ プに と っ のて の 度重要度 issues. 販売製品のリサイクル 主要原料の調達先の多様化や生 顧客満足度の向上 産拠点の複数化による、製品の Strengthen existing businesses 安定供給の実現 人権侵害リスクの排除 The Committee organized the listed key issues and サプライチェーンを通じた社会的 製品・サービスの品質と安全性の Create new businesses 信越 ルー にとって 重要 確保 also created a draft of Key CSR Issues with these being グローバル人材の育成と拡充 責任の推進 投資家との対話 品質特性の向上と安定化 生産性の向上 情報開示の拡充 化学物質管理の徹底 人材の多様性の推進（女性の活 reflected in the scatter plot. 躍、外国人登用、障がい者雇用） 仕事と生活の適切なバランスの Energy-saving, resource-saving and 第三者の知財権の尊重 実現 Health and safety for workers 地域貢献 the reduction of the environmental impact 発明等の適正な権利化 環境 社会 Product quality improvement and Promoting CSR procurement and 組織、体制 事業 product safety control the diversification of supply sources 重要 ステークホルダーにとっての重要度 ステークホルダーにとっての重要度 非常に重要 Respect for human rights, the development of Respect for and protection of intellectual property human resources and the promotion of diversity 3 Interviews with Outside Directors Contribution to industry and social initiatives Accurate and timely information disclosure and communication with stakeholders Individual interviews were conducted with all Outside Directors with prepared proposal. The followings are the suggestions and opinions provided in the interviews. Legal compliance, Fair corporate activities ① Compliance with Laws and Regulations are related to all the other issues. ② All of the Key CSR Issues listed are equally important for the Group, and it is difficult to prioritize them. ③ The Group should clarify what we are aiming at as a goal as the Group specify Key CSR Issues. 15 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 16 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Expectations of the Shin-Etsu Group’s CSR Activities Advices and suggestions for the Group’s CSR activities are given from the Outside Directors. The nature of the business with the value recognized. The Group has achieved great action plan with deadlines and persons in charge, and activities of the Group work We must keep in mind to lead the market results through constant and execute the plan and evaluate it. behind the scenes by participants in the direction where environment will robust efforts. I think the same Among the key issues, I believe that human providing the highest gradually have higher priority through these processes. is true for CSR activities. resource development2 is critical. The Group’s Basic quality material1 to the entire Having each one participating in the activities with We have the Key CSR CSR Policy needs to be widely disseminated to the economy, both in Japan and “Evolution of the market” mind will open the way to Issues newly specified1 with people other than those in charge of CSR. Human worldwide. realize the goal. today's needs by which CSR resources necessary for this should be cultivated. In order to fulfill this role, should strongly be promoted. I As the Group just reached our 90th anniversary, I 1 p.34-35 Product quality improvements and product safety control the highest quality materials 2 p.5-6 R  esolution examples of the main social challenges with the technology, raw totally agree with this sincerely hope that further advancement of CSR Toshihiko Fukui must satisfy at least two of the materials and products of the Shin-Etsu Group Tsuyoshi Miyazaki approach. activities will meet the demands of society for the next following requirements. Identified Key CSR Issues 90 years. ① Using our material should are one of many core 1 p.15-16 Specifying Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues enable us to create products with added values much management issues. Since the issues have been 2 p.37-38 Respect for human rights, the development of human resources and the higher than those of previous products recognized by the company management, an itemized promotion of diversity ② The process of creating the material and products as well as the products themselves need to be those with high environmental values (with low environmental impact) 2. In order to keep providing high-quality materials in The CSR Program at Shin-Etsu is an outstanding example of the internal and external economic dynamics that are best practices in the chemical or any other industry. It addresses rapidly changing, it will be essential to constantly create both internal operating issues and external social policies insuring new businesses. that all the concepts of responsible care1 are fully covered. Even further sales efforts are required so that our I have a special interest in energy conservation2 and its dual customers will be satisfied and their eyes for materials benefits of resource cost savings and the reduction of will develop, and the materials will be properly priced environmental impact. I am most pleased to note all that ShinEtsu does to employ the latest in technology and operations to capture maximum benefits. 1 p.2 Editorial Policy Note 1 2 p.25-27 Response to climate change Frank Peter ③ The CSR Promotion Structure should be shown I believe that the Group should Popoff in a figure2 to make it easier to understand. send out more messages with ④ Specifically describe what the Group emphasizes for awareness of ESG*. Activities of strictly compliance with laws and regulations. Also, it the Group are the ones will clearly stated that bribery is prohibited not only profitable not only for the domestically but also internationally in order to company (internally) but also transmission of rare earth magnet/PVC recycling The Group has always disclosed prevent corruption3. for society (externally). efforts1 is a good example. our CSR initiatives externally, ⑤ The system prepared for an emergency response is The Group has been We can of course contribute to society by paying but improving the following of extremely high importance. The system is easier to developing materials more taxes with increased profit, but we would like to points would make disclosure be understood when shown in a figure4. Hiroshi Komiyama satisfactory to the customers keep working further on Contribution to industry even more meaningful. ⑥ The greenhouse gas emissions graph5 should be who are aware of the external and social initiatives2 as well. ① Customers and business largely dealt with since it shows the results the Group influence which resulted in partners are strongly interested has been working on for many years. 1 p.30 Resource recycling contributing to the society ourselves. It is a right thing 2 p.43-44 Contribution to industry and social initiatives in the business continuity of the 1 Shin-Etsu Chemical website CSR Site to do itself. However, we should now work with an *ESG Masashi Kaneko Group. We take this situation http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/ This refers to Environment, Society, and Governance. even more positive attitude with both directors and (Previous Outside Director) seriously and add “due to the 2 p.13 CSR Promotion Structure 3 p.19 Legal Compliance, Fair Corporate Activities employees having a mind for social contribution. It is fact that there are unremitting 4 p.14 Risk Management 5 p.25-27 Response to climate change important for directors and employees to raise management efforts for the business community” to awareness so that employees will be proud of one on Basic CSR Policy. themselves as well. It also helps human resources ② The Group has obtained a rating that has development. Let us proudly send the Group’s d e s c rib e d a n ex p la nat i o n of t h e s o c ia lly challenges and achievements outside the company. The responsible investment index 1. 17 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 18 Shin-Etsu Group Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key CSR Issues Cornerstone of All Activities Key Issues 1 Legal complince, fair corporate activities Health and safety for workers Ensuring Full Compliance Awareness and business partners. Also, the status of compliance The Group is working on having a comfortable and safe Process Safety and Prevention Plan with ethical standards is one item included in personal workplace where people can “prevent the occurrence The Group emphasizes the importance of Compliance evaluations. Furthermore, we provide education on of serious accidents” and where there is a “reduction of Prevention of serious accidents is a top priority in the with Laws and Regulations in the Corporate Mission preventing bribery and carry out regular internal audits lost time incidents to zero”. Group, and we continue to work on a variety of safety Statement and periodical management objectives. We for corruption, embezzlement and bribery. and disaster prevention activities. always work with strictly compliance with laws and Occupational Safety Since fiscal 2013 we have worked to enhance safety regulations. Export Control management by performing risk evaluations and by In the event of promulgation of or amendments to Each of Group’s plant clarifies every single possibility implementing effective safety measures, particularly of legislation pertaining to corporate activities, the Legal From the viewpoint of maintaining world peace and that could cause any kind of injury or illness and works envisaged abnormal plant conditions. Department serves in a central role by issuing internal security, the Company has created the “Control hard to eliminate those risks. The Company has been participating in the Japan bulletins and disseminating knowledge of these Program on Security Control” to comply with the In addition, they are KY1 hazard prediction activities Societ y for Safet y Engineering’s Japan Safet y changes. Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other e.g. pointing and calling prior to work and reconfirming Competency Center since its inauguration in fiscal 2012. All of the officers and employees submit a export related legislation. The followings are our safety. Each plant uses the center’s “Safety Evaluation System” Compliance Pledge to the Company. For the eventuality initiatives based on this program. Furthermore, the workers are taking measures to further improve the situation and works even harder of inappropriate action occurring, disciplinary measures • Classification, customer review and transaction against unsafe areas by regularly collecting “close calls on the Process Safety and Prevention Plan. are available. review when exporting products and other incidents of concern” from case examples of In addition, officers and employees can consult with • Internal audit workers who have experienced close-call incidents and Education and drills and report to the Compliance Consultation Office • Training officers and employees and instruction to matters of concern. At the same time, we share our risk related to violations of the rules and regulations as well Group companies information and prevent similar accidents by disclosing To keep plant operation constantly safe, it is important as laws and ethics. The office then carries out a detailed this risk information internally and externally. for each employee to improve his /her skills and investigation in response to the information received. Cutting Ties with Anti-social Forces knowledge and be aware of danger. 1 KY (Hazard activities) With necessary investigations, the office will take Risk prediction activities workers will confirm and reliably carry out activities and So besides providing safety education such as on necessary corrective actions. Confidentiality will be The Group declares in its the Basic Policy on Internal safe working methods in order to prevent the occurrence of possible disease or material handling and possible dangers involving injuries. maintained for consulters and whistleblowers. There is Controls that the Group shall adopt a consistently processes as well as simulating possible dangers, we no unfavorable treatment as a reason for consulting resolute attitude towards anti-social forces and shall plan and conduct emergency drills for abnormal and reporting. take measures necessary to cut itself off from any and situations such as major earthquakes or fires. In all associations with them. In accordance with this addition, we work on handing down operation at skills Initiatives Aimed at Preventing Corruption policy, we will endeavor to develop internal systems for manufacturing equipment. under the leadership of the department in charge of Furthermore, we are working to foster an awareness The Company has created the Anti-Bribery Regulations managing these issues. At the same time, we are of safety by creating a workplace atmosphere in which and prohibits actions that involve unfair transfer of promoting the signing of memorandums and letters of operation processes and rules are observed. profit from or to parties such as domestic or foreign confirmation with customers and business partners. government officials, customers and business partners. In addition, we are working closely with external Moreover, by having a Compliance Pledge, we assuredly specialized agencies. Awarded for High-Pressure Gas Safety prevent unfair benefits or unfair demands in respect to our customers, domestic or foreign government officials Kashima Vinyl Chloride Monomer Co., Ltd. has been working on safety first, accident free activities since the start of its operation in 1970. Masayuki Shimada, the High Pressure Gas Production Safety Officer of Conduct webinars to ensure compliance with the competition laws the Company was awarded the fiscal 2015 High Pressure Gas Safety Kanto / Tohoku Industrial Safety Director award by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry Kanto / Tohoku Industrial Safety and The Group conducts webinars to ensure compliance with the competition Inspection Department. Mr. Shimada was highly evaluated and awarded laws. This course aims to disseminate a better understanding of for his total management efforts, and improvement of technology, competition laws for officers and employees with the Guidelines education and maintenance of equipment and also his contribution to the Regarding Compliance with Competition Laws and the Rules related to improvement of the manufacturing methods of high-pressure gas in order contact with other companies in the same industry (competitors). In fiscal to prevent high-pressure gas disasters. 2015, the officers and employees of the Company and major Group companies inside and outside the country took the course. Close-Call (Hiyari-Hatto) Incidents WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/csr_society.html 19 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 20 Environmental Control and Safety Audits Reporting of accidents and lost time injuries Targets and Results In order to confirm that activities such as environmental In fiscal 2015, there were four lost work time injuries in Every fiscal year, the Group creates environmental and safety management plans based on Responsible Care code. The conservation, occupational safety and health, process the Group companies in Japan. We have analyzed entire Group works on key issues such as the prevention of major disasters including explosions and fires and industrial safety and prevention plan are carried out as planned, causes for each incident and reviewed safety on accidents according to the management plan prepared. the Group conducts an audit. handling hazardous materials and possible hazardous In referring to cases from other companies in fiscal operations to eliminate possible dangers and also Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2015 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2016 1) Zero serious accident • Achieved target of zero serious accident ◎ • Zero serious accident 2013, we communicated the status of “Thorough secure equipment safety, and have implemented Process Safety and Prevention Plan •R  eview non-routine work and operational safety Management of Plant Safety” and “Nonroutine Work appropriate safety measures. Furthermore, we are 2) Risk assessment of • Implemented assessment of process risks measures facilities and processes, •A  pplication of Security Evaluation System by the Japan Safety Measures” within the company. The fiscal 2015 working on revising the operation manuals to help • Maintained operation manuals ○ and implementation of Safety Competency Center • Implement non-routine work, safety measures for work audit was conducted focusing on these points. Their prevent re-occurrence of the incidents. preventive measures • Inspection of criteria for hazardous material storage facilities and their management conditions implementation status in fiscal 2015 was conducted as We will continue to work on preventing work3) Improvement of facilities • Investigated causes of facility troubles and formulated • Investigate causes of facilities issues and prevent a special audit theme. related accidents complying with what was decided. and maintenance measures to prevent recurrence ○ recurrence management • Implemented planned facilities maintenance • Improve facilities maintenance • Implement worst-case scenario measures for serious • Implemented worst-case scenario measures for serious Health Considerations 4) R  eliable emergency disasters and earthquakes disasters and earthquakes ○ •M  aintenance of emergency-response criteria and response •M  aintained emergency-response criteria and manuals manuals • E nhancement of business continuity planning training We work on promoting worker’s healthy life-styles both ■ Number of Lost-Time Injuries and Changes • E nhance business continuity planning training 1) A  chieve zero accidents physically and mentally and work to prevent any in Frequency Rates requiring an absence of a • The Shin-Etsu Group: four person • Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved zero accident × • Achieve zero accidents requiring an absence of a day or more possible disease by encouraging them to undergo (Group companies in Japan) day or more 2) Rate of accidents not physical check-ups, receive necessary advice and • The Shin-Etsu Group achieved its goal with a rate of Number of Lost-Time Injuries accompanied by an of • Rate of accidents not accompanied by an absence of a (Number) 0.22 ◎ absence a day or more: day or more: 0.5 or less counseling, and to join in physical activities. 20 Lost-Time Injuries Frequency Rate (%) 0.5 or less • Shin-Etsu Chemical achieved its goal with a rate of 0.18 Our head office and branch offices have a Health • Promoting “zero accident” activities (practiced Hazard • Implement “zero accident” activities (practice Hazard 0.39 prediction activities, pointing and calling, and 5S Committee, and each plant has a Safety and Health 15 prediction activities, pointing and calling, and 5S activities) activities1) Committee. The committee works to improve the 0.28 0.26 3) Improve work safety • Implemented improvement and promotion of close-call ○ • Implement improvement and promotion of close-call incident proposals and improvement proposals (setting workplace environment and to promote worker’s health incident proposals and improvement proposals of promotion targets) 10 0.18 0.17 • Implemented assured horizontal expansion of accident with advice and information from industrial physicians. • Implement assured horizontal expansion of accident 0.09 8 examples of the Group companies examples of the Group companies We also have special programs such as physical fitness 6 6 0.09 4) R  eview and reorganize • Strengthened hazardous work management and • Reflect “Review non-routine work and operational checks and seminars which help workers to maintain 5 4 operation manuals and ◎ Occupational Safety 4 maintained manuals safety measures” into manuals ensure strict compliance 2 2 and improve their physical conditions. • E xtract risk, enhanced and upgrade details of measures Fur thermore, we have set up Family health 0 • L ist predicted risks at time of non-routine work and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 overhaul safety measures consultation with our health insurance union and an 5) Work risk assessment and • Implemented work risk assessment based on plans ○ • Identify hazardous work risks due to difficulty preventive measures improving facilities and strengthen monitoring affiliated insurance company. It is available 24 hours a frameworks of relevant works day. This consultation can also be used by the family • Implementation of the risk assessment of the hazardous materials and their appropriate labeling. members of employees. • Clarified work instructions and procedures and •C  larify work instructions and procedures and 6) Safety measures of implemented hazard prediction activities implement hazard prediction activities construction and • Applied thorough construction rules ○ •A  pply thorough construction rules Safety Efforts of Overseas Group Companies non-routine work • Created and made thorough confirmation method of •C  reate and made thorough confirmation method of pre-operation, work completion and recovery pre-operation, work completion and recovery • Implemented education and training based on plans D. Michael Parker Our Emergency Response Team’s efficiency and 7) T raining and drill • Promoted acquisition of qualifications ○ • P lan promotion of education and training promotion • Implemented rules and principle education to ensure • P romote acquisition of qualifications Safety Supervisor effectiveness has been elevated to the next level with process safety Plaquemine Site, Shintech Inc. • Implemented review of safety cooperative structure • S trengthening the guidance of safety management to value added training, state of the art equipment and with subcontractors subcontractors and promoting risk assessment recognition for their accomplishments. 8) E nsuring subcontracting • Implemented review and provided safety operation ○ activities safety procedures manuals, harmful and hazardous •R  eview and provide safety operation procedures At Shintech Plaquemine and The Safety Steering Committee with representatives information (SDS) manuals, harmful and hazardous information (SDS) Addis, safety is not just a from all units/departments has had a significant and • Implemented working environment measurements and • Promote working environment measurements and creation of appropriate working environments program. It is fully integrated into every part of our positive impact on our safety culture by developing and promoted creation of appropriate working • Thorough Implementation of chemical substance 1) C  reate and maintain environments process. implementing improvements to our safety process. handling education and strict wearing of personal Occupational health comfortable workplace • Thorough Implementation of chemical substance ◎ protective equipment The emphasis is on having well trained employees in We are continuously trying to improve some part of environment handling education and strict wearing of personal • Implementation of the revised Industrial Safety and protective equipment safety and emergency response. This high level of our safety process, not relying on past performance but Health Act • Promoted workplace communication • Promote workplace communication quality training has established a cultural mindset that trying to be the best we can be so everyone goes home • Implemented follow-up and utilizing medical • F ollow-up and utilizing medical examination results all accidents and injuries are preventable and that Safety the same way they came to work… safe and healthy. examination results • Compliance with additional inspection criteria due to 2) Promote physical and • Compliance with additional inspection criteria due to ○ regulatory amendments is “Everyone’s Responsibility”. mental health wellbeing regulatory amendments • Promote health promotion program • Promoted health promotion program • Promoting Stress check • Promoted mental health well-being programs 1 5S activities Seiri Seiton (put thing straight), seiso (cleaning), seiketsu (cleanliness), and shitsuke (bringing-up). The name “5S” comes from the fact that the first letters of each word begin with “s.” 21 22 * Evaluation standards Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 ◎: Goal achieved ○: Goal basically achieved △: 50% achieved ×: Far from achieved Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact Environment Management Environment Management System Promoting the Reduction of Environmental Targets and Results Impact The Group works on Energy savings, waste and The following are Targets and Results for environmental protection and chemical substance management for fiscal 2015 chemical substance management. We annually create The Group constantly works so that manufacturing as well as Targets for fiscal 2016. the Shin-Etsu Group Environmental Safety Management produc t s will have the least influence on the Plan in accordance with the Responsible Care code and environment. Furthermore, we do examinations so that Item Priority Issues (Target) Implementation Status for Fiscal 2015 Evaluation Planned Implementation Items for Fiscal 2016 set goals using numerical numbers. The Company and our products will have the least environmental 1) Zero environmental accidents • Achieved target of zero environmental accidents ◎ • Zero environmental accidents all the Group companies set goals annually according to influence, which is also energy saving as well as 2) Thorough environmental • Continued appropriate compliance with • Appropriate compliance with environmental laws this plan and work on their activities. resource saving. Research, Manufacturing and Sales ◎ management environmental laws and regulations and regulations In order to increase the level of activity, each plant divisions are united to develop such products. These 3) Promotion of energy savings • The Shin-Etsu Group reduced at an annualized rate of and the Group companies perform several internal well-examined products are used in various fields (Reduction of energy consumption 3.2% • Reduction of energy consumption in intensity at an ◎ audits a year to check if their goals are appropriately set including industry, our daily lives as well as renewable in intensity at an annualized rate of • Shin-Etsu Chemical reduced at an annualized rate of annualized rate of 1% 1%) 3.1% and the progress they have achieved. In addition, we energy. Environmental conservation check the activities and achievements plants have made 4) R  educing greenhouse gas • Reduction to 45% of 1990 level in intensity by emissions • The Shin-Etsu Group reduced to 56.9% and Shin-Etsu fiscal 2025 also through periodical environmental control and ○ (Intensity reduction to 50% of Chemical 53.8% compared to the fiscal year 1990 • Appropriate response to the revised Fluorocarbons safety audits. 1990 level by fiscal 2015) Recovery and Destruction Law • Promote achievement of zero waste emission 5) Reduce waste (Achieve zero (waste to landfill ratio to 1% or less) waste emission (waste to landfill • L andfill waste to total waste ratio of 1.63% △ • Promotion of waste generation reduction through ratio to 1% or less)) intensity unit 6) Reduced emissions of • Regular review and strict compliance with specific substances causing water • Reduced at an annualized rate of 3.7% for BOD1 facility using hazardous substances pertaining to the pollution or air pollution • Reduced at an annualized rate of 5.7% for soot and ◎ Water Quality Pollution Control Act and installation (Reduction in intensity at 5.6% for SOx standards for designated storage facilities annualized rate of 1%) Environmental Control and Safety Audits • The Shin-Etsu Group reduced in intensity at an • Achieve reduction of water withdrawals in intensity 7) Reduction in water withdrawals annualized rate of 6.4% by 1% at an average annual rate (Reduction in intensity at ◎ • Shin-Etsu Chemical reduced in intensity at an • Plan and implement measures for improving ■ Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Activities annualized rate of 1%) annualized rate of 7.9% recycling water ratio INPUT OUTPUT • Thorough management of permitted production • Thorough management of permitted production 1) T horough new chemical volumes (confirmed) and production results volumes (confirmed) and production results ◎ Energy Products substance management • Communicated reporting of harmful substance • Communicate reporting of harmful substance information, etc., at the time of acquisition information, etc., at the time of acquisition Chemical substance management 2,512 million liters Air Discharges of Water discharge (crude oil equivalent) • Respond to revisions and strict compliance with Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Total Discharges of water: • Responded to revisions and strict compliance with Chemical Substances Control Law, Industrial Safety Manufacture 4,633,000.tons of CO2e 180.million m3 2) Compliance with legal and Chemical Substances Control Law2, Industrial Safety and Health Act, PRTR Law, Poisonous and Water Soot: ,031.tons COD: 4,714.tons other requirements for chemical and Health Act, PRTR Law3, Poisonous and Deleterious ◎ Deleterious Substances Control Act substance control Substances Control Act • Compliance with overseas laws and regulations NOx: 1,204.tons BOD: 584.tons • Strict compliance with overseas laws and regulations 188 million m 3 • Control of PCB waste and process required by the SOx: ,166.tons SS: 847.tons deadline Waste Chemical substance 3) Information disclosure on • More information disclosure and awareness raising Raw materials • Information disclosure and awareness raising of harmfulness of chemical ○ of substances handled by contractors and Amount of Waste Generated: PRTR controlled substances1 substances handled by contractors and subcontractors substances subcontractors 101,000.tons Amount released: 171.tons Amount of Waste Recycled: 70,000.tons Amount transferred: 898.tons 1 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) Biochemical oxygen consumption. The amount of oxygen required when decomposing contaminants in the water by microorganisms. This indicates the degree of water pollution. Waste Recycling Ratio: 69.5% 2 Chemical Substances Control Law Amount of Waste for Landfill: 1,600.tons Short for “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by chemical substances that can be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. Final Disposal Ratio: 1.63% 3 PRTR Law Short for “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” A law 1 PRTR controlled substances intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the risk of damage to the environment. 426 substances designated as Class I designated chemical substances from the “Pollutant Release and Transfer Register in the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific * Intensity unit Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management.” A measure calculated from the production volume of a reference product. * In order to clearly define the reduction efforts, the average power CO2 conversion factor from 2000-2009 is used. * Average annual rate for implementation * Waste standards and PRTR controlled substances differs from country to country, the figures for the Company and Group companies in Japan were counted. Average annual reduction rate from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2015 * Waste recycling ratio indicates the ratio of an amount recycled to total waste generated. * Evaluation standards * Final disposal ratio indicates the ratio of an amount of landfill waste to total waste generated. ◎: Goal achieved ○: Goal basically achieved △: 50% achieved ×: Far from achieved Environmental Data ISO14001 Certification List WEB WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/csr_manage.html 23 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 24 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact Response to climate change Mid-term target (until Fiscal 2015) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 50% of 1990 level by 2015 Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Results and evaluation The Shin-Etsu Group was at 56.9%, and Shin-Etsu Chemical was at 53.8%, and they could not achieve the target The Group’s Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions for fiscal 2015 were 4,409 thousand tons of CO2e, amounting to 49% in New mid-term target (Fiscal 2016 and after) Reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 45% of the 1990 level in emission intensity unit by 2025 the supply chain1. 1 Supply chain Refers to all stages of a product from raw material production until it reaches the final customer Fiscal 2015 target Reduce energy consumption in intensity at an annualized rate of 1% ■ Scope 3 Emissions by Category The annualized reduction rate from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2015 was 3.2% for the Shin-Etsu Group and 3.1% Fiscal 2015 results for Shin-Etsu Chemical (Unit: 1,000 tons of CO2e) Both the Shin-Etsu Group and Shin-Etsu Chemical reduced 1% or more at an annualized rate and have Fiscal 2015 evaluation achieved the target Category 5 Waste Generated in Operations Fiscal 2016 target Reduce energy consumption in intensity at an annualized rate of 1% 52 Category 10 Category 9 Processing of Sold Products Category 4 Downstream Transportation Upstream Transportation and Distribution and Distribution Starting from fiscal year 2010, the Group have been promoting energy savings and installation of a cogeneration system 700 in order to achieve the mid-term goal which is “Reduce the greenhouse gas emission intensity rate for the fiscal year 2015 Category 1 to 50% compared to that of the fiscal year 1990”. The results were that the Group’s greenhouse gas emission intensity Purchased Goods and Services Category 11 was 56.9% of the 1990 level in fiscal 2015 and the Company was at 53.9%, but we were only slightly short of that 2,834 Use of Sold Products target. Scope 1 In fiscal 2016 we set a new mid-term target of “reducing the greenhouse gas emissions intensity to 45% of the 1990 1,593 Category 2 Scope 2 level by 2025”, and we are working towards that goal. Category 12 Capital Goods 3,040 368 End-of-life Treatment of Sold Products ■ Energy Consumption (crude oil equivalent) ■ Greenhouse Gas Emission Volume Trends Category 3 Fueland Energy-Related Activities Category 8 Consumption Emissions (Million liters) (Thousands tons of CO2e) Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 Category 6 Category 7 Upstream Leased Assets Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) 4,000 8,000 112 420 Business Travel Employee Commuting 106 102 104 100 115 100 98 13 22 ■ Supply Chain Upstream 92 96 96 93 93 92 ■ Supply Chain Downstream 3,000 6,000 2,426 2,433 2,487 2,512 2,282 4,565 4,633 Greenhouse Gas Emission Calculation Range 4,269 4,470 4,447 2,007 SCOPE 1: The company itself has direct emissions from facilities it owns or governs (example: emissions during combustion of materials such as heavy oil and natural gas). 2,000 1,884 4,000 3,794 3,581 SCOPE 2: The company itself has emissions during production of purchased energy (example: emissions during power generation of purchased power). SCOPE 3: Emissions from the supply chain of the company itself 1,000 2,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Hold a lecture about “the prevention of global warming” ■ Changes in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Relative to Fiscal 1990 Levels (%) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Group) Emissions intensity index relative to 1990 (Shin-Etsu Chemical) The Shin-Etsu Chemical Naoetsu Plant welcomed a lecturer from the 110 General Foundation Joetsu Environmental Sciences Center, who gave a 100 100.0 lecture related to the prevention of global warming. The lecture was a 100.0 good opportunity to learn about the current global warming situation 90 79.3 through energy saving quizzes related to day-to-day life, in addition to 78.3 80 73.8 72.8 commentary about country rankings for greenhouse gas generation and 80.0 70.0 69.2 71.1 70 76.9 74.1 73.3 66.9 64.0 65.8 62.8 energy used in daily life. 67.7 66.2 68.8 57.7 57.5 60 66.1 56.9 61.6 60.6 59.6 58.5 50 53.8 53.8 2015 target 40 Environmental Data 1990 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr 25 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 26 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact Water resource conservation, water pollutant elimination Achieve 1% reduction of water withdrawals in intensity at an annualized rate Thermal energy recycling initiatives Fiscal 2015 target Achieve 1% reduction of water pollutant discharge in intensity at an annualized rate The annualized reduction rate from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2015 was 6.4% in the water withdrawals amount and Fiscal 2015 results 3.7% in the BOD emissions amount Each plant in Shin-Etsu Chemical is working on the recycling of heat energy. Fiscal 2015 evaluation The annualized reduction rate was more than 1%, and the target was achieved ■ Cogeneration promotion Achieve 1% reduction of water withdrawals in intensity at an annualized rate Steam and electricity are produced in a plant using a cogeneration system1. Electricity made with the cogeneration Fiscal 2016 target Achieve 1% reduction of water pollutant discharge in intensity at an annualized rate system is supporting the operation of manufacturing facilities. In addition, steam is being used for heating and thermal insulation for manufacturing equipment. Steam used for heating will not be emitted but will be reused for manufacturing equipment in which steam with lower temperature can be used. The steam is finally changed into The Group’s major manufacturing plants are located where clean water is abundant. However, due to the scarcity of water to be collected to be used again. water in many regions of the world, the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) has predicted that water scarcity in some regions will become serious by the year 2025. To enable the Group to continue to operate in those regions where ■ Waste heat recovery there is a risk of water scarcity, we are actively engaged in conserving water resources by reducing our daily water Heat is recovered from the production process and is used as thermal energy in another process. Furthermore, the withdrawals and recycling and utilizing water. remaining waste heat is mainly collected as steam to make cold water in the absorption refrigerator. This chilled We also comply with regulations concerning water contaminants in emitting water so that the water we discharge will water is used for cooling the manufacturing equipment, etc. be of sufficient quality with sufficient values. We also check the water quality ourselves for verification. Flow of steam and electricity at the plant ■ Water Withdrawals Trends ■ BOD Emission Volume Trends Water Withdrawals Emissions (million m3) (tons) Flow of steam Flow of electricity 400 100 Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) 1,000 Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) 97 99 87 141 139 82 114 115 81 105 Recovery Heating Recovery 300 74 750 100 92 642 573 567 584 200 200 200 199 Boiler 200 180 171 188 500 434 362 383 Heating 100 250 Natural A process B process Gas 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cogeneration Reactor system ■ Amount of Water Recycled Trends Amount of Water Recycled (million m3) Recycling water Ratio (%) 4,000 Absorption Cooling of the reactor 91.0 90.9 90.9 91.0 91.1 refrigerator 90.6 91.7 3,000 Cold water Mechanical 1,989 1,991 2,033 2,027 2,076 2,000 refrigerator Lighting and motors, etc. 1,743 1,741 Electricity 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mr. Makoto Koganezawa, who is in charge of management of water in Shin-Etsu Chemical Gunma Complex 1 Cogeneration system (heat and power combined) Isobe plant This system generates power with engines, turbines and fuel cells using natural gas, petroleum, liquefied petroleum gas, etc. and simultaneously collects heat which would be generated. Environmental Data WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr 27 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 28 Shin-Etsu Group Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Key Issues 2 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact the environmental impact Waste reduction Resource recycling Fiscal 2015 target Achieve zero waste emissions (landfill waste 1% or less of the final amount of all waste generated) The Group collaborates with customers and related ■ Rare-Earth Magnet Resource Recycling Process industry groups, using cutting-edge technologies to Fiscal 2015 results The final waste landfill disposal rate was 1.63% in the Shin-Etsu Group and 2.02% in Shin-Etsu Chemical recover used products, extract resources, and reuse Fiscal 2015 evaluation The target was not achieved them in the Group's products. Through these initiatives, it is possible to reduce the waste output of our Achieve zero waste emissions customers and the Group it self. We are also Rare earth Fiscal 2016 target raw material Promotion of reduction of waste generation through intensity contributing to environmental conservation through reuse of resources. The production volume in fiscal 2015 increased compared to fiscal 2014, but the generated amount of waste was reduced Rare Earth Magnet Resource Recycling by 8.7%. Also, the amount of waste recycled was reduced by 4.0%, and the amount of waste for landfill was reduced by 12.1%. However, due to the characteristics of the manufacturing formula, a zero waste emission could not be achieved The Group manufactures rare earth magnets by our because there is a process where a certain amount of residue occurs. We will continue to work on fewer emissions and integrated production process using separation and less waste for landfills. refinement techniques to extract rare earth magnets Rare-earth magnet material processing Rare-earth magnet processing We have external contractors to handle our disposals. We check to confirm that the contractor properly handles from rare earth raw materials. disposals by regularly inspecting the site, etc. A s one of the measures to achieve stable Magnet procurement of raw materials, since 2007, the Group powder has been recycling magnet powder generated by our recovery rare ear th magnet manufac turing pro ce s s e s . ■ Flow of Waste Disposal ■ Amount of Waste Recycled Furthermore, from March 2013, we have also been Amount of Waste Recycled developing techniques for recycling rare earth magnets Waste generated (thousand tons) 100,440 tons 200 Waste Recycling Ratio (%) used in recovered power-saving air conditioners and Rare earth Rare-earth magnets hybrid cars in order to re-use resources. 150 70.6 69.5 These initiatives have made it possible to reduce the Incinerated 65.8 68.2 65.1 66.1 Internal disposal 63.9 environmental impact that comes along with resource 21,000 tons development and to safely and securely protect the 100 Amount of 80.0 85.1 valuable rare earth resource. The Group's rare earth waste recycled 72.8 72.8 69.9 59.0 63.7 magnets create significant economic and social value as 300 tons 50 recycled products and also contribute significantly to Rare-earth Amount of internal landfill disposal energy conservation. magnet recovery 700 tons 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Rare earth separation and refinement plant Amount of Amount of waste processed waste recycled: by outside contractors 69,900 tons 78,440 tons ■ Amount of Waste for Landfill Recycling of PVC Products External Waste reduction disposal (incineration, (thousand tons) Amount of Waste for Landfill Initiatives for the recycling of products containing PVC dehydrating, etc.) 7,900 tons 8 Final Disposal Ratio (%) are making progress. There are various methods for Amount of recycling PVC, the most common of which is material waste recycled recycling. Material recycling uses used PVC products as 69,600 tons 6 2.76 2.45 raw materials to create new PVC products. PVC pipes, Amount of internal 2.01 2.04 flooring materials and other PVC products are not landfill disposal 4 1.65 1.69 1.63 940 tons 2.98 3.33 greatly influenced by foreign substance contamination, 2.15 so various kinds of recycling are conducted for those 1.85 1.64 1.86 1.64 Amount of Waste 2 products. In particular, 60% of used PVC pipes and for Landfill 1,640 tons joints are recycled for reuse in new PVC pipes and 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 joints, and 70% of agricultural film is recycled for use in flooring material. * Because waste standards differ from country to country, the figures for the Company and Group companies in Japan were counted. Mr. Masao Shimizu, who is in charge of Environmental Data the recycling of rare-earth magnets in WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr Shin-Etsu Chemical Takefu plant 29 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 30 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of the environmental impact Conservation of biodiversity initiatives, pollutant countermeasures Conservation of Biodiversity Prevention of Air Pollution The Group aims for environmentally considerate product design starting already from the product development stage. At The Group is working to reduce emissions of air pollutants by setting emission reduction targets at each of our Group the same time, we are also meeting our responsibility as a chemical company by working actively to ensure strict control companies and by converting to fuel components with less sulfur. Each group company carried out regular investigations of chemical substances, mitigate global warming, reduce energy consumption, reduce the amount of waste generated, on emitted gas to confirm compliance with laws and regulations. prevent water pollution, and make other environmental contributions. We are also engaged in activities such as river In fiscal 2015, SOx Emissions slightly increased due to an increase in production, but soot emissions decreased by cleaning in areas neighboring our plants. Furthermore, we request that our business partners implement environmental 23.0%. conservation initiatives concerning forest conservation and similar activities. The Group preserves the earth’s ecosystem through these efforts. ■ Soot Emissions Trends ■ SOx Emissions Trends Release of Chemical Substance (tons) Soot Emissions (tons) SOx Emissions Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) Index of Financial (Sales) Intensity Compared to Fiscal 2009 (%) 80 800 The Group has chemical substances which requires strict release management. The Group works on reducing chemical 100 100 112 95 release with proper manufacturing processes as well as establishing the proper operation conditions of pollutant 60 88 90 600 85 82 treatment facilities. In addition, the Group reports the amount of chemical substance released and moved in natural 73 68 environment according to the PRTR system1 in the PRTR Law2. The main factor in the increase of chloroethylene release is 43 41 40 40 400 54 54 the increase in the number of work days at the PVC plant. On the other hand, release amount per consumption has 33 31 33 31 286 281 40 41 declined by 5.2% compared with fiscal 2014 due to the production equipment running at optimal conditions. 239 197 20 200 172 156 166 ■ PRTR Controlled Substance Total Release ■ PRTR Controlled Substance Total Amount 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Trends Transferred Trends Released amount Transferred amount (tons) (tons) 300 1,500 Prevention of Soil Pollution 197 Groundwater and soil monitoring at each plant is being carried out in accordance with the Soil Contamination 200 177 182 183 1,000 909 924 898 173 171 827 161 795 812 Countermeasures Act, and we make sure that we are in compliance with laws and regulations. 535 100 500 0 0 Pulp purchasing biodiversity conservation efforts 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Tomoyoshi Tada Shin-Etsu Chemical Headquarters Material Department ■P  RTR Controlled Substance: ■ PRTR Controlled Substance: We have bought pulp derived from wood as the main raw material of Chloromethane Release Trends Chloroethylene Release Trends cellulose derivatives in the Group. Upon purchase, we ask all our pulp Released amount Released amount (tons) (tons) purchase partners to consider conservation of biodiversity, and we have 150 15 confirmed that they all have obtained national and/or international forest 12.5 certifications. In addition, we work hard to know about our partners’ 109 11.2 10.8 11.2 10.4 9.6 activities on biodiversity activities. 100 10 9.4 86 88 87 83 78 73 1 PRTR system 50 5 Chemical substance release and transfer notification based on the “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” 2 PRTR Law Short for “Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof.” A law intended to promote improved self-directed control of chemical substances by business operators, in order to prevent the risk of damage to the environment. 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Environmental Data * The figures for the Company and Group companies in Japan were counted based on the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the WEB Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof and the PRTR. http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr 31 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 32 Shin-Etsu Group Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key CSR Issues Key Issues 2 Key Issues 3 Energy-saving, resource-saving and the reduction of Product quality improvements and product safety control the environmental impact Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Quality control Quality audits and support In fiscal 2015, the Company referring calculated to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 prepared by the The Group is making an effort on stable supply of the To solve the zero quality problem, the claim and Ministry of the Environment in Japan calculated the investments and expenditures involved in the reduction of the high quality products requested by the customers. complaint information from the customers are closely environmental impact of air pollution, water pollution, environmental release of chemical substances, etc.; energy-saving Each the Company’s division and/or Group company examined. In quality audits, quality control activities and measures to conserve the global environment; and waste reduction and recycling to improve reuse of resources. are promoting quality control activities. The sales the quality control system are checked and improved. department, research and development department, Also, quality control activities are evaluated according manufacturing department and quality assurance to two different viewpoints, which are the customers’ ■ Environmental Conservation Costs in Fiscal 2015 (Millions of Yen) department cooperate in roles as in the following in viewpoint and quality cost viewpoint. We work to find order to meet the demands of our customers. the root cause of quality issues and to make an effort Category Details Investment Expenditure • Sales department toward the recurrence prevention. Plant area costs 979 8,255 Recieve to the customer requests, and promptly Furthermore, Six Sigma programs are deployed on a inform them to the research and development company-wide basis in order to improve the quality (1) Pollution prevention costs Prevention measures for air, water, noise and other types of pollution 435 3,577 department as well as the manufacturing department level. (2) Global environmental conservation costs Energy saving and global warming mitigation measures 310 2,613 • Research and development department as well as the 1 Six Sigma programs manufacturing department Quality improvement method developed by Motorola in the 1980s. Focused on (3) Resource recycling costs Waste reduction, recycling and other measures 234 2,065 Utilize the customer requests for the improvement processes where quality variation appears, it is designed to minimize variation within the processes and thereby reduce the incidence of quality defects. This Upstream and downstream costs Green purchasing and container and packaging measures 0 58 of existing products and research and development of approach has been adopted across the Group. Environmental management, environmental impact monitoring and new products Administration costs 3 422 environmental education measures • Quality assurance department Research and development of environmentally conscious products and Research and development costs processes 0 1,847 Make a final confirmation on product taking into account the product characteristics and the customers Social engagement costs Donations and contributions to environmental saving 0 17 use Environmental remediation costs Assessment, handling and other costs related to environmental pollution 0 31 Almost all of the Group's manufacturing bases, both domestic and overseas, have obtained certification of Total 982 10,631 the quality control systems such as ISO 9001, ISO/TS 16949, etc. ■ Economic Benefits of Environmental ■ Cost of Environmental Conservation (millions of yen) Response to complaints Quality audits Accounting in Fiscal 2015 ■Pollution prevention 250 76 Economic benefit ■Global environmental 312 We have established a strict rule to make an initial Details of benefits conservation 336 (millions of Yen) response to all quality complaints from customers ■Resource recycling 7 Energy savings 554 ■Upstream and Fiscal 2002 within 48 hours of receipt. downstream 5,186 In particular, the recall and product liability problem 2,544 Improved production ■Administration that has a social impact is defined as a critical quality 1,446 efficiency ■Research and 1,272 development claims and is given high priority distinguished from 389 Production process 1,306 ■Social engagement 17 31 other claims. When a serious claim occurs, it is ■Environmental immediately reported to the top management so that a Secondary materials remediation 140 1,847 3,577 costs company-wide response can be implemented. Reduction in waste treatment costs −8 422 Profit from sale of valuable 126 resources Fiscal 2015 Total 2,118 58 10,631 2,065 2,613 List of Shin-Etsu Group companies with ISO 9001 certification WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/quality.html 33 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 34 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 4 Promoting CSR procurement and the diversification of supply sources Product safety control Basic Procurement Policy Procurement Conferences Product safety is being managed from product 1 Chemical Substances Control Law A Basic Procurement Policy has been formulated for the The Purchasing Department holds a company-wide Short for “Act on the Evaluation of Chemical Substances and Regulation of Their development to transport based on internal regulations. Manufacture, etc.” A law intended to prevent environmental pollution by chemical purchasing of supplies needed for production activities, meeting every six months with all procurement substances that can be harmful to human health or to ecosystems. The safety is confirmed and risk assessment is including raw materials, sub materials including department personnel company-wide to discuss per formed for environment and health in the 2 RoHS (Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances) Directive transpor tation packaging, and machiner y and material procurement. This meeting is not only for EU directive on restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and development of new chemical substances. We also electronic equipment. equipment. This policy is ensured in the Group and reporting material procurement but also for checking focus on developing products as well as their posted on the website. Business partners are expected the status of CSR procurement. Training on CSR 3 SDS (Safety Data Sheet) manufac turing technologies which do not use SDS lists the physical and chemical properties of the chemical substance together to understand the Basic Procurement Policy and asked procurement and sessions to study latest cases inside with harmfulness and emergency response procedures. Designed to promote safer hazardous substances that have been designated by the use of chemical substances and prevent accidents and incidents, SDS are supplied to incorporate the content of the Policy into their supply and outside the company are also provided. Industrial Health and Safety Law and Chemical by manufacturers, importers and distributors to customers at the point of sales or contracts. shipment. Substances Control Law1, as well as the EU RoHS Direc tive 2 . Fur thermore, we submit necess ar y 4 Yellow Cards Compliance with the Act against Delay in The yellow cards are cards on which all relevant information on treatment required notifications and reports according to laws and in case of an accident during transportation of chemical substances is described. Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to regulations. The cards are handed to the transport contractor to be brought by tanker lorry or other means at the time of transportation. Subcontractors Customers are offered information such as product 5 Container Yellow Cards hazards and risks in SDS3 in order to ensure proper The standard yellow card system is not suitable for use with mixed cargoes and St af f m emb er s in charg e of purchasing and transmission of information to the supply chain. small-lot deliveries. Instead, each container carries a label displaying safety procurement attend external seminars and internal information such as UN number of chemical name and emergency response Procurement conferences Through SDS, customers are requested to handle procedure number. training sessions to learn specific examples in order to products safely by complying with laws and regulations, 6 GHS (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals) support thorough compliance with the Subcontract Act. installing abatement equipment, wearing protective Internationally standardized system of classification and labeling of chemicals. Also, we make sure that all the subcontractors that are Business Continuity Initiatives equipment, etc. applicable for the Subcontract Act are in full compliance As a transportation safety measure, we issue Yellow by periodical checks and through new transaction The Group has formulated a Business Continuity Plan Cards4 and/or Container Yellow Cards5 that are affixed report. and is prepared for contingencies. We would like to containers. Furthermore, pictorial indication of business partners to understand the effectiveness and hazard and harm is also implemented in accordance Initiatives Aimed at Eliminating the Use of practicality of the Group’s Business Continuity Plan and with GHS6. Conflict Minerals draw up a business continuity plan of their own. In our Basic Procurement Policy, the Group has declared Control of Chemical Substances Used as Raw Product safety management in the laboratory our dedication to eliminating conflict minerals1 from all Materials product procurement. We ask that all business partners adhere to this policy, and we regularly perform studies The Group checks the ISO 14001 status of business Sachiko Yamada of pertinent minerals, tracking their production all the par tn er s and co nsid er s preferential busin e s s Manager’s office way back to the smeltery level. transactions with business partners that have ISO Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. Silicone-Electronics Materials Research Center certification so as to purchase materials of lower 1 Conflict minerals environmental impact. On making contracts on About 300 kinds of new silicone products are produced every year in the Minerals used to fund conflicts between the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighbor countries. These conflict minerals are tantalum, tin, gold, tungsten, and specifications for raw material supply, we work to Silicone-Electronics Materials Research Center. In recent years, the their derivatives. confirm the following. circumstances surrounding chemical substances have been rapidly • T he business partners’ use of chemical substances changing, and the substance survey and safety management of new products have become very important. My job is to investigate substances Procurement Audit with environmental impac t in produc t s and packaging, their environmental management systems in new products developed by researchers. We work to acquire the Before and after transactions, the business partner is • Their handling of prohibited substances as stipulated chemical substance CAS Registry Number1, to submit applications asked to complete a procurement audit checklist, the in the RoHS Directive concerning domestic and foreign laws and regulations, to judge GHS in results of which are used for evaluation. Additionally, • Their Green Partner certification status view of the safety control and to create SDS as necessary in cooperation we visit business partners in Japan and overseas with the business department and factory quality assurance department. whenever necessary to carry out audits. 1 CAS Registry Number Compound numbers are used in the Chemical Abstracts journal issued by the American Chemical Society. Numbers identify chemical substances which are submitted as material information for the regulatory report. Basic Procurement Policy WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/company/procurement.html#basic_proc 35 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 36 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 5 Respect for human rights, the development of human resources and the promotion of diversity Respect for Human Rights Furthermore, the Company has been a member of • Cross-cultural communication training Transparency is increased by making evaluation both the Tokyo Industrial Federation for Human Rights • Chinese conversation classes standards available and disclosing the results. In Observance of International Labor Standards and the Osaka Dowa / Human Rights Issues Industrial addition, there is a system of interviews between a The Group respects the human rights of employees in Federation and participates proactively in events held by Auditing system for students person who evaluates and the person who is evaluated accordance with the international labor standards both federations as well as training sessions held by In 1962, the Company established an auditing system to ensure that they can communicate successfully. through the International Labour Organization (ILO). administrative organizations. for students. Under the learning system with the goal During interviews, each staff member and his/her The following items are confirmed every year whether of improving the workforce, up to about ten operators immediate superior are using Communication Sheets to or not they are properly implemented against the Education/Training and Personal at manufacturing sites of the Group each year are ensure mutual awareness of the superior’s expectations consolidated companies. Development chosen and sent to study at universities for one year. In and are setting half-year goals. Furthermore, feedback the 53 years since the system was introduced, a total of on progress is given for further ability development. Confirmation Items The Group supports employees to grow through 521 employees have completed the program and are Prohibition of child labor, proper working hours, decent various training systems. The training system has now functioning in various workplaces. wages, proper employment contract in writing, training for different staff grades, international prohibition of inhuman treatment, prohibition of adaptation training, auditing student s ystem, Performance-based Personnel Evaluation discrimination, freedom of association environmental education, safety education and mental Systems and Equal Opportunities health education. The Company has introduced a personnel system that Efforts for human rights awareness Conduct international adaptation training places importance on employee ability and work Experience as an auditing student T h e Group has e s t ab lish e d a H uman R ight s The Group is expanding its business ac tivities performance. This system proves useful for increasing — 1 year to face myself — Enlightenment Promotion Committee. This committee throughout the world. Competency to communicate in employees’ motivation, as their treatment reflects their holds regular human rights awareness training for foreign languages is therefore an essential skill for performance, attitude, and evaluations of how they directors and employees. Human rights Q & A are smooth operations. Therefore, the Company offers the meet their challenges to achieve higher goals. Shota Suzuki serialized in our internal company newspaper, and we following kinds of training. To operate the personnel system in a fair and 2015 Fiscal Year Auditing Student (Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd. compile a human rights enlightenment motto to appropriate manner, evaluation training is provided for Shirakawa Plant CZ Production Department) coincide with our annual human rights week in • English language training (meeting skills course and all managers who conduct performance review so that December. presentation skills course) they can carry out personnel evaluations in a fair way. As an auditing student for one year, I experienced 1 QC Quality Control. Or, activities in manufacturing industry that encourage employees university lectures, training at the head office, ■ Training system list to make proactive contributions to workplace management and improvement, leading to improvements in quality. factory tours and dormitory life. Since all of this was new, I was greatly stimulated and was able to Environment and spend valuable time. Training for different staff grades Specialized education General education Special education Quality control education Six Sigma education safety education That one year was a short period of time, but I was able to spend meaningful days thinking about myself in the past and for the future. The time five General Advanced S staff group/ manager level management training M staff group training of us auditing students shared in fiscal 2015 was Black belt training • Patent training very beneficial to me. I am committed to working • Training for hard to fulfilling my tasks using the knowledge and adaptation to internationexperiences I received as an auditing student. alization Course for management Specialized education Section Middle management training development trainning in environmental QC1 master course manager level English language Green belt training (external training) control and safety training, meeting skills Mental health seminars Job family change training course I/II Human rights English language awareness training Line management Staff management training, presentation skills Junior manager training training course I/II Supervisor education QC intermediate level course Leader training Chinese conversation classes Auditing student Safety education system (1 year) Special education Intercultural Junior leader training Basic education communication training Regular employees New employee second-phase training QC basic course Fiscal 2015 auditing students (This person is second from the right) New employee induction training New recruit education 37 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 38 Promotion of Diversity ■ Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities System for work-life balance Nursing care leave system …… Legally mandated employment rate The Company has a nursing care leave system as shown Active promotion of diverse human resources (Employment rate: %) Shin-Etsu Chemical employment rate Childcare support system in the chart below. The system enables employees to 2.50 As a group engaged in business operations around the The Group supports employees having and raising work in the Company while caring for elders. world, the Group hires local employees at overseas children. Employees can use the Company's childcare The Nurcing Care Guidebook is issued in which all 2.16 2.12 2.12 group companies and hires foreign nationals in Japan. leave system for children up to three years old. About the necessary information on our nursing care system 2.05 The entire Group is also working to proactively 40 employees on average use the childcare leave and care insurance is provided. Furthermore, we started 2.00 1.95 employ people with disabilities and create environments 2.00 system in the Company and consolidated companies in “health care and nursing support” services in fiscal where it is easy for them to work. Our employment Japan. In addition, employees can use the shorter 2014 and provide counseling by external experts. 1.80 population for persons with disability exceeds the working hour system and shorten their working hours legally mandated employment rate. for a maximum of two hours. This system can be used ■M  ain system for the care system We have created the Internal Re-Employment 1.50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 until children graduate from elementary school. (Shin-Etsu Chemical) Program for employees who have reached the Furthermore, three days of paid leave are granted when 93 days One year retirement age of 60 years, which allows employees a spouse delivers a child. who wish to be re-employed to stay until a maximum Childcare is supported according to local laws and Care leave * Legally 93 days age of 65. regulations in overseas Group companies. Measures such as Furthermore, the Group promotes the activities of short-time work, etc. * * Legally 93 days women. In the next five years, along with supporting childcare or nursing care while working in this ■ Main system for childcare support Time off for Five days per year when having one person to be cared for 10 days per year when having two persons to be cared for company, the Company will ensure that: (Shin-Etsu Chemical) nursing care * As per the legal requirements 1. T he rate of women when hiring is 40% for Graduating Entering from * Flextime system, measures to start/finish early or late administrative positions and 10% for engineering elementary elementary Legal Progressive measures at Shin-Etsu Chemical positions. Childbirth Three years old school school 2. T he number of women in managerial positions Six weeks before and eightweeks after the including junior manager level will be doubled Maternity childbirth compared to the number in fiscal 2014. leave Three days when a ■ Number of people obtaining nursing care leave spouse has childbirth Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Consolidated companies in Japan 1 3 3 Childcare leave * Legally 1.5 years old Five days per year when having one child Sick/injured 10 days per year when having two children child care Active foreign employees in the Group leave * As per the legal requirements Yun Don Hui and Wan Kai Short hours Work Silicone Division, Shin-Etsu Chemical head office * Legally three years old Legal Progressive measures at Shin-Etsu Chemical Mr. Yun Don Hui (South Korean citizen) and Mr. Wan Kai (Chinese citizen) have a most interest in Japan with its state-ofthe-art technology and have studied at universities in Japan. ■N  umber of Employees Who have Taken They also thought that working in Japan with what they Childcare Leave learned would help them grow. While looking for work before Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 graduation, they came to know the Company, and they joined Male Female Male Female Male Female it after feeling attracted to the world-class technology and Shin-Etsu Chemical 1 6 2 8 0 6 management power. Co., Ltd. They worked in a plant at first, and are currently working as Consolidated 2 43 3 44 2 36 companies in Japan sales representatives for silicone products in the Silicone Consolidated Division of the Company’s head office. companies total 6 80 56 86 44 73 * The length of childcare leave differs from country to country, as the program is based on local law. 39 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 40 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 6 1 Respect for and protection of intellectual property Welfare and Benefits Welfare and benefits facilities Intellectual Property Management Regulations are set under the Information Asset We have dormitories and company housing near the Management Basic Policy to protect, utilize, control and Accumulated holidays head office and plants for employees who live outside The Company has established the Basic Regulations for manage information assets. If a certain number of annual paid holidays granted in the commuting area. Intellectual Proper t y which has set regulations Furthermore, related rules and regulations such as accordance with labor regulations have expired without We also have directly operated recreational facilities regarding acquisition, management, and application of Information Asset Management Standards set details being taken, a certain number of days can be treated as in Kanagawa, Shizuoka, Fukushima and Niigata intellectual property. The Company’s intellectual concerning our customers, handling all the information saved holidays. Employees may use these saved holidays prefectures. The Group's employees can use these property is protected from infringement by third parties concerning our customers, management, storage for nursing care, for injury or illness, for volunteer work facilities with family and friends. Furthermore, we have on the basis of these regulations. These regulations also period and waste. In addition, we have formulated the for regional disasters or for donating organs or bone partnerships with external recreational facilities, and require respect for the rights regarding all intellectual Standards for Preventing Technology Leaks in order to marrow transplants. subsidies are given to the users. property of third parties. prevent the outflow of technologies. Moreover, information in forms such as an annual We also carry out training and implementation Employee hot line report is disclosed to allow all persons involved with the related to the Information A sset Management As a counseling service for trouble with work or other Group to have a precise collection of the status of the Department, regularly conduct checks on the status of issues, we have set up Dial Shin-Etsu, which is staffed Group’s intellectual property assets. compliance with the Information Asset Management by external counselors who are specialists from outside In addition, employees who have devised useful Regulations and other regulations, and perform internal of the Company. Consult ations are re cei ve d inventions, improvements and devices in business have audits. anonymously and treated with strict confidentiality, but been awarded in systems such as the following. • Actual compensation awards 1 Confidentiality if requested by the consulter, the counselor will contact Information is to be protected from unauthorized users. the Personnel Department to discuss possible solutions. A system to recognize and award employees who 2 Integrity Shin-Etsu Chemical Hakone Shinsensou (Kanagawa Prefecture) Information is to be protected from falsification, deletion, destruction and loss. greatly contributed to the company by creating an 3 Availability Shinkansen commuting system invention or idea which brings great profit to the Ensure authorized users have access to information when needed. Since 1989, the Group has allowed commuting by Labor-management Relations company in the form of patents Shinkansen at company expense. This system is • Multiple inventor awards Protection of Personal Information promoting more employees to own houses. It also The Company engages in various dialogues with the A system to recognize employees who have made a enables personnel who are reassigned to head office Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor Union to promote mutual large number of inventions and who have acquired a In order to properly protect personal information in from plants and other business sites in Gunma and understanding between labor and management. The large number of patent rights in the Company accordance with the Act on the Protection of Personal Fukushima prefectures to transfer to jobs in Tokyo Central Labor-Management Meeting is held once a Information, we have established our Privacy Policy, without changing their lifestyles. As of March 2016, 72 m o nt h at t h e h e a d of f i ce at te n d e d by to p Initiatives for Information Asset which is available on our website. employees use this system. management. They engage in thorough discussions Management Moreover, we have been providing education on law with labor union regarding subjec t s such as and regulations and holding lectures regarding personal Other systems management policy, and outline information about The Information Asset Management Basic Policy have information protection in trainings for different staff The Dr. Kanagawa scholarship was established in June individual businesses, and the personnel system. Also, been established to maintain the confidentiality1, grades in order to ensure the appropriate handling and 2012 for employees to study at St. Clark State College each business site holds a monthly Local Labor Meeting integrity 2, and availability 3 of information possessed by protection of personal information. in Washington, USA for one year. This scholarship was with the local branch of the Shin-Etsu Chemical Labor the Group. The information Asset Management enabled due to the trusting relationship which was built Union. over many years between the College and our Repeated dialogues and discussions between labor Chairman, Mr. Kanagawa. and management deepen mutual understanding and “Top 100 Global Innovators” awarded five years in a row In addition, we have established asset-building trust and facilitate the expansion of business operations schemes, an employee shareholding system, and a in which staff and management can come together to mutual aid society to provide support for weddings, carry out speedy responses to the changing business Shin-Etsu Chemical was selected as one of the “Top 100 Global childbirth, and sudden hospitalization of family environment. Innovators” for five years in a row. It is a global intellectual property members. award given by Thomson Reuters. This award is to evaluate total ability on patents based on influence, success rate, global influence and number of patents held. The Company has consecutively won this award since its creation in 2011. From the left, Thomson Reuters Professional, Inc. Director Yoshiko Tanahashi, the Company’s Senior Managing Director in charge of Patent Affairs Toshinobu Ishihara, the Company’s Patent Director Jun Watanabe Personal Information Privacy Policy (only Japanese available) WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/jp/privacy.html 41 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 42 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Key Issues 7 Contribution to industry and social initiatives Japan Japan Malaysia Thailand Cooperation in the Great East Japan Demonstration for traffic safety for Participating in local safety education Disaster-affected area support activities Earthquake Disaster Relief Marché local children programs The Disaster Relief Marché has been held in the Asahi In April and May 2015, Shin-Etsu Handotai Co., Ltd. A large number of people lost their jobs, homes and In June 2015, Shin-Etsu Silicone (Thailand) Ltd. and Asia Seimei Otemachi Building where the Company’s head Shirakawa plant employees stood near the plant lives due to severe floods on the East Coast of Malaysia Silicones Monomer Limited. participated in a safety office is located every year since 2012 a year after the entrance gate, and they demonstrated for traffic safety in December 2014 and a big earthquake that occurred education program provided for local schools through Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, and local for local elementary school children going to school. in Borneo in June 2015. Fund-raising activities were AIE-CSR1. Both companies gave lessons with the theme specialty products from the three prefectures hit by the This initiative was held in conjunction with the national done by employees of SEH Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. and SEH of “how to use electricity safely” to children and taught disaster are sold at the event so that disaster relief can traffic safety campaign in the spring of 2015. During (Shah Aram) Sdn. Bhd. to support the victims of these basic knowledge on electricity, how to use electrical be done in Tokyo. The Company and Shin-Etsu the demonstration in April, pocket tissues with disasters, and funds and daily necessities were delivered products safely and how to act in case of electric Handotai Co., Ltd. have also been in cooperation with employees’ handmade traffic safety leaflets were to the victims. In addition, we also delivered donated shocks. the Marché management since the 1st event. distributed. funds to the country’s Ministry of International Trade The 5th Marché was held in March 2016 and the and Industry and the Ministry of Energy, Water and venue was filled with many visitors. Communications. 1 AIE-CSR The CSR Working Group consists of 11 companies in the industrial park where both companies are located. Japan Rwanda Shintech Inc. Contribution to society activities United Nations “World Refugee Day” Donating Shin-Etsu Group products to Rick Gros Site Services Manager Shintech Louisiana, LLC for children to relax, socialize and enjoy an array of fund-raising activities the People in Republic of Rwanda fun and educational activities. With Shintech and SE Since before startup of the first Shintech Louisiana Tylose’s help, the playroom is now stocked with Over the years, the Group has been conducting fundThe Company has been supporting the NPO Millennium plant in 2000, the company has been actively enough games, toys, and electronic equipment for raising activities for “World Refugee Day” which takes Promise Japan (MPJ). The MPJ took Japanese students involved in organizations, sponsorships, leadership children of all ages to enjoy. place on June 20 and was set by the United Nations. to the Republic of Rwanda and gave them trainings development, and civic activities that further the Community involvement is important to the longFunds raised and matched by the Group in the form of there for about two weeks from February 2015. During development and success of the communities in term success of Shintech. It benefits the long-term donations are entrusted to the Japan Association for thus visit to Rwanda, the Company donated PVC ecowhich we live and work. well-being of our employees, our families, our friends UNHCR where they are used to support refugees bags and PVC food wraps. Several Shintech employees and contractors and those who will both join us and succeed us as we around the world, who continue to increase each year. returned to “Safety Town” for the ninth year in a continue to grow. As a recognized good neighbor, it * M PJ is working mainly for Africa on promoting poverty reduction, education, We have received a letter of appreciation from the gender equality and self support. row. “Safety Town” is a safety program designed for is our privilege to be located in our community, and Association every year for the Group’s support. kindergartners to help educate them in the proper we work hard to support those around us. way to cross streets, ride bikes, handle emergencies (such as home fires) and other safety related issues. Furthermore, for the past seven years, the employees of Shintech Louisiana, LLC, SE Tylose LA, LLC and many of the plant contractors have collected toys during the Christmas holidays to benefit Children’s Hospital in Baton Rouge. A group representing Shintech and SE Tylose employees and contractors has made the annual delivery of toys to the hospital. The hospital playroom is a special place Contribution to Society WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/csr/csr_society.html#contribution 43 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 44 Shin-Etsu Group Key CSR Issues Responsible Care Audit of the Report Key Issues 8 Accurate and timely information disclosure and communication with stakeholders Information Disclosure Dialogue with Stakeholders The Group believes the appropriate and timely The Group, through a variety of methods and disclosure of company information promotes of opportunities, is carrying out an active dialogue with stakeholder understanding of the Group, and also leads stakeholders. We believe that this effort contributes to to proper evaluations of the market. a sustainable growth of the Group and increases We therefore implement fair and transparent corporate value. information disclosure by posting information on the Company’s website and announcing it to stock ■ Major communication method and opportunity exchanges and the news media. We also publish the Shareholders and Investors Annual Report and other reports for shareholders. General Shareholders’ Meeting Earnings presentations for analysts and institutional investors One-on-one meetings with analysts Small meetings and conferences hosted by securities companies Information provided by the homepage, annual report, etc. Customers www.shinetsu.co.jp Day-to-day communications by sales representatives Information provided by the homepage, exhibitions, etc. Shin-Etsu Chemical Co., Ltd. ANNUAL REPOR T 2015 For the year ended March 31, 2015 Business partners Day-to-day communications by the purchasing department Local communities Shin-Etsu Report (only Japanese available) Annual Report Dialogue with bodies such as local governments Participation in local events Employees Dialogue and consultation with Labor Unions Information provided by the company magazine and intranet Nomura Investment Forum Membership Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Plastic Waste Management Institute Global Compact Japan Network Japan Chemical Industry Association The International Friendship Exchange Council Millennium Promise Japan, etc. Vinyl Environmental Council The Japan Committee for UNICEF Financial & IR Information WEB http://www.shinetsu.co.jp/en/ir/ As of March 31, 2016 45 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 Shin-Etsu Chemical CSR Report 2016 46
