ASLANLI TEKSTİL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2015 CONTENTS United Nations Global Compact – 10 Principles Scope of the Report Corporate Profile / Shortly Aslanlı Tekstil Message of the Chairman of the Executive Board Our Vision and Mission History Our Products Human Rights Workers Environment Society The Fight Against Corruption Contact UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT – 10 PRINCIPLES Human rights Environment Businesses should: Businesses should: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Standards Anti-Corruption Businesses should uphold: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 3: The freedom of association and the bribery. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 1 SCOPE OF THE REPORT AND THE PROMISE OF ASLANLI TEKSTIL This report is Aslanlı Tekstil’s (Aslanlı Uluslararası Tekstil ve Tarım Ürünleri Dış Tic. A.Ş.) first UN Global Compact Progress report. Aslanlı Tekstil has promised to uphold the universally proclaimed principles in the frame of UN Global Compact on human rights, labor rights, environment and the fight against corruption, and notified the Office of UN Secretary-General in written in March 19th, 2015. UN Global Compact Progress Report is done annually, and this report consists information on Aslanlı Tekstil’s social, economic, and environmental activities for the period of January 1st, 2015 and December 31st, 2015. This report has been prepared in accordance with UN Global Compact reporting standards. In this regard, the fundamental principles of the Compact, which are transparency, accessibility, trueness, trustworthiness, and sustainability, has been given the utmost regard. Aslanlı Tekstil has promised that, in view of the articles noted in the UN Global Compact, it has acted, in every phase of production and commerce, according to these articles, and that it has been an implementer and follower of the UN Global Compact. The publication date for this report is March 2016. 2 ASLANLI TEKSTİL CORPORATE PROFILE / SHORTLY ASLANLI TEKSTIL Aslanlı Tekstil’s foundation reaches back to 1950s The bleached absorbent cotton the firm produces has in cotton trade at first, and it has officially started a wide range of use in health and medical sector, and manufacturing in the year 1997. Aslanlı Tekstil cosmetics and personal care sector, and also in the produces bleached, absorbent, and is a worldwide basic necessities used in our daily lives. The bleached known manufacturer and is one of the foremost cotton absorbent cotton Aslanlı Tekstil produces is used in the bleaching facilitations in Turkey. The firm has made production of such materials as the following: a difference in its sector of activity with high quality products and increasing customer satisfaction. · sanitary pad, Aslanlı Tekstil has a view that makes no compromises · padding, to institutionalism, transparency, trueness and · diaper, trustworthiness, and as of the end of the year 2015 operates with 65 employees in the Sales Office in · baby cleansing napkin, Istanbul, and Kırklareli Compound. · make-up remover pad, Aslanlı Tekstil carries on its productive activity in the two production lines in the modern compound in · ear stick, Kırklareli, in an area of 45.000 m2 of whose 23.000 m2 is · medical absorbent cotton an indoor area. Aslanlı Tekstil sells 98% of its products to foreign The Firm’s annual bleached absorbent cotton markets. Aslanlı Tekstil, with an export area ranging production capacity is 18.000 tons. from European countries to North and South America, is one of the greatest exporters in its sector today in Turkey and worldwide. Aslanlı Tekstil Factory, Kırklareli-Turkey What is the bleaching process? Bleaching process is a textile finishing process in order to give fibers made from cotton in the first place, and linen, silk, and wool, as well as textile products made from these fibers a bright white color, or to ensure that the textile products can be dyed in lighter and brighter colors. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 3 MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Dear Shareholders, In order to eliminate the risks that the climate change causes, we look out for the environment, and thrive to We are proud to share with you the first Progress take the necessary preventive measures in every step Report we have prepared in accordance with the UN of our activities. On one hand, we develop and use Global Compact Aslanlı Tekstil has signed on March methods that consume less natural resources, and on 19th, 2014. the other hand we focus on projects that will increase productivity and effectiveness of resources. We give Our world and global markets, which are shaped by the great importance to, and look out for the limited and rapidly evolving technology, increasing population, and natural resources such as water and energy, and take the increase in competition, impels the corporations to great care to use them in our manufacturing cycle in an act more responsibly; and encourages us to take more effective and economical way. sustainable steps. In the context of environment, our goal is to create Aslanlı Tekstil has adopted the 10 universal principles a positive effect in the whole of our value chain, not of the UN Global Compact brought together under the just in Aslanlı Tekstil. In this regard, we join forces with titles of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and our supplies in potential areas, and take great care in the Fight Against Corruption, and promised to uphold meeting our customers’ expectations in the issues of and apply these principles at all times. The progression production cycle and environmental standard in relation we have made and our goals toward the future to our productions. Similarly, carry out activities to are presented here in this report to you esteemed increase the awareness levels of our employees that shareholders for your consideration. are our social shareholder, about the environment. Our firm is determined to look after the human and Aslanlı Tekstil has acquired crucial gains in its water employee rights, which is the basis of UN Global saving and energy conservation and efficiency Compact; manufacture with materials that are ecostudies. friendly and that do not threat human health; protect and uphold a managing understanding that is both In the textile sector that we carry on our business, one accountable and transparent. of the most essential resources is water. Aslanlı Tekstil continues on with its activities with view Aslanlı Tekstil, as a result of research and development of ethical trade and honest competition, which are both study that it has carried out concertedly with İstanbul of most importance to us since our foundation. Technical University (ITU) on the water consumption, achieves water saving status by the ways that provide Also, our firm is one of the foremost frontiers in fighting recovery and re-use of the water used in the production corruption and bribery, and lives on as an honest and process. astute merchant. As a result of the project named “Water Minimization” Climate change and global warming threatens our done in collaboration with the university, in the last future. two years we managed to save approximately 40% of We see the climate change and global warming as the the water. On the other hand, our biological treatment most important and common risks that threaten both system, with its 1.600 m3/day capacity, purifies the human future and the earth’s future that we live on. processed water we use in production. The adversities that occur in our environment and the human habitat today will affect the future generations greatly, and irrevocably. 4 ASLANLI TEKSTİL Our firm concurs that energy management and efficient We use chemicals in accordance with REACH. use of energy is an area of utmost importance in need of improvement. As a result of our endeavors and Being European Union’s policy on chemicals that improvements, we have managed to save 20% of our entered into force in 2007, REACH (European energy annually. In this regard, the heat exchanger Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization system that enables the heat coming out of processed and Restriction of Chemicals) is a regulation for water drained as a result of production process has chemical substances that aims to protect human health been set up, and thus, we have achieved a 10% and environment from hazardous chemicals, and at the conservation of natural gas. same time, encourages innovation and competition. The illumination system in our factory in Kırklareli has Aslanlı Tekstil uses chemicals in full accordance with been changed with the new generation LED system. REACH in every phase of its production, and takes all Our illumination infrastructure has been moved out of kinds of preventive measures in order to protect the the factory building within the scope of this project that nature and human health. enables us to conserve our power consumption, and Also, with “Substance of Very High Concern” (SVHC) thanks to this outside illumination infrastructure, we within the scope of REACH regulation, the list of have eliminated risk of fire breaking out as a result of banned chemicals is being followed, and chemical power consumption. selection that is fit for periodical updates is carried out. Bleached absorbent cotton is our foremost We also choose the firms that we supply chemicals contribution to sustainability. used in the production very carefully, and in this Aslanlı Tekstil, by evaluating cotton with shorter fibers regard work with suppliers that are in full harmony with than a set amount that could not be used in any other REACH criteria and globally accredited. branch of the textile industry, produces bleached absorbent cotton. Because of its short fibers, the cotton that is generally put aside as a waste in other branches of textile industry, is being used as raw material and brought back into the economy. By this virtue, a product with a high added value that meets its consumers in vastly diverse lands from Canada to Korea is made. Cotton, with its sustainable, renewable, and reusable structure is eco-friendly; being natural, soft, absorbent and hypoallergenic, it is the most favored fiber in almost every sector. Aslanlı Tekstil, by making use of these properties of cotton, and with the knowledge and technology produces bleached absorbent cotton. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 5 MESSAGE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Aslanlı Tekstil has secured its production and We see our Quality Control Laboratory as an important quality of its production that is in line with global element with regards to providing unconditional standards with the diverse quality systems it customer satisfaction, and we aspire to uphold our applies. determination in continuing to invest in this area. Aslanlı Tekstil, in the Quality Management within Our employees are our most valuable asset. the scope of quality management system pursues “ISO 9001:2008”, “ISO 14001:2004” in Environment Since its foundation until this day, Aslanlı Tekstil sees Management, “BRC/IOP Global Standard” in its employees as assets and believes that the lion’s Packaging and Packaging Materials. Moreover, our share in the success of our firm belongs to them. firm owns the usage certification for the logo “Cotton Our 65 employees in the Sales Office in Istanbul and USA” that describes products with higher quality and Kırklareli Plantation that know the sector very well, performance. These standards that we apply play a key experienced, and competent in their area continue to role in sustaining Aslanlı Tekstil products’ quality and strengthen us. eco-friendly property on a global scale. We are aware of our responsibilities in the context of In today’s world, as in many other production branches, human resources. In this regard, by; we see that in our sector organic raw materials are more and more favored and its use increasingly providing a healthy and secure working environment, becoming widespread. In this context, our firm, in every phase of production from the picking of the raw protecting their individual dignity and rights, material to production with an eco-friendly approach, ensuring an equal opportunity principle on personal has been working on a project in accordance with development and career, “Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS)” in order to meet the requirements recognized worldwide, to providing training in such diverse areas as evaluate the quality of organic production, and to occupational health and safe present the consumer with a trustworthy product; and in line with the demands of our consumers, produces we are focused to improve their satisfaction level, organic productions certified internationally. personal development, and belonging to the Aslanlı brand. Another subject that is of notice in regards to the sustainability of the standards is Aslanlı Tekstil’s Quality IN a recent Employee Satisfaction Survey that we Control Laboratory equipped with new generation had an independent research company carry out puts technological test equipment. Some of the high-tech forward that our human resources is happy to be a devices we have in the laboratory that are the fruit of member of Aslanlı Tekstil. One of the most striking our business understanding that comprises working results of the survey is that the issue of unconditional with scientific methods can only be found in Aslanlı customer satisfaction that is the Firm’s one of the Tekstil in our country, Turkey. strategic goals is known and embraced by all the employees. In our Laboratory where 4 technicians work, we officiate the duties of supervision and guidance with If we internalize sustainability in a corporate level, and up-to-date methods on from raw material to the final bring it to the center of our lives it will be possible to production, and customer feedbacks; the quality look upon the future with more confidence, and we will continuity ensured with tests and as the process is have contributed to the sustainable development goals being recorded, we can manage customer complaints of our country. instantly. 6 ASLANLI TEKSTİL Customer satisfaction and quality make up the Our goal is to leave a better and more habitable world most important elements of Aslanlı Tekstil’s to the generations to come. For this goal to come true, success. we believe all individuals, NGOs, and institutions has to do their part of the work, as only then will we be able Aslanlı Tekstil has never given up since its foundation, to achieve this. One basic thing we should not forget and never will even if years pass and generations come about is that every little action we take is an investment and go, on two things: customer satisfaction which is toward the future, not just for today. an absolute must for our firm, and the understanding of quality on the international standards that we will never Aslanlı Tekstil is determined to realize these principles sacrifice on any condition. in production-trade-social cycles, and continue to uphold the UN Global Compact with regards to our These two factors were the foremost factors in the commitment. success of our firm that has exported 98% of its production to mostly European countries as of 2015. I am deeply grateful to our fellow employees, From the year 2016 and onward, these two factors will shareholders on behalf of the Executive Board continue to be our guides. and myself for their utmost devotion, efforts and performance. Everything we do is an investment toward the future. It is a key point for us that the UN Global Compact Alp Uysal gets across to every one of our shareholders, from Chairman of the Executive Board employees to our customers, and partners. We present every action we take to our shareholders with the transparency principle on mind, and focus on success in our activities as a Company that respects human rights, and is environmentally-conscious, upholds its employees’ rights, freedom, and security; honest, and also principled. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 7 OUR VISION AND MISSION Aslanlı Tekstil; within the scope of its understanding of corporate responsibility gives utmost importance to efficiency, and minimizes the risks. uses resources with our world, environment, people, and future generations in mind, for it believes the success of a firm is not solely based off of financial numbers. Aslanlı Tekstil, because of common use resources, believes that it has responsibility toward the society and people, and its success as a corporation lies in leaving a better world to the future generations to come. In short, Aslanlı Tekstil’s foremost mission is to leave a better world to the future generations. 8 ASLANLI TEKSTİL HISTORY The roots of Aslanlı Tekstil, founded by Uysal 1998 The Company’s annual manufacture capacity has Family, reaches back to 1950s with cotton trade reached 8.000 tons. activities. 2002 In Aslanlı Tekstil that has increased its annual The Company, in its journey from trade to manufacture capacity to 12.000 tons, Willowing and production, which afterwards evolved into Carding Lines has been employed. corporation has turned to bleached, absorbent cotton manufacture with the knowledge and 2006 With the renovation efforts in the manufacture experience based upon a firm footing, and capacity, the manufacture capacity has increased to has become a manufacturer and supplier on a 15.000 tons annually. worldwide scale. 2012 With the acquisition of organic cotton production 1950s The founder of the Company, father Alparslan license, new products have been taken in on the Uysal has laid the groundwork for Aslanlı Tekstil’s product range. foundation with cotton trade. 2013 With regulations and modernization in the 1960s The activities began with the purchase of a production lines, annual production capacity has cotton gin factory in Antalya. reached 18.000 tons annually. And as a result, cost saving has been ensured. 1970s By forming an association, it has started manufacturing Absorbent Cotton. Uysal Family’s 3rd generation individuals, having finished their higher education started working at the 1980s Uysal Family’s second generation individuals, Company. having taken engineering training, has started working in the Company as shareholders. 2014 As the Company’s Quality Control Laboratory has been equipped with new and modern equipment, the 1996 Uysal Family has withdrawn from the partnership, Company has started working in innovation and fiber and founded Absorbent Cotton factory in Kırklareli, a engineering fields. city to northwest of Turkey. 1997 Aslanlı Tekstil has started manufacturing with an annual capacity of 5.000 tons. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 9 OUR PRODUCTS Organic Products Organic cotton is grown without using any kind of pesticide, fungicide or substance that destroys plants. Also, the genes of the organic cotton stay the same (GMO / Genetically – Modified Organism). All of the organic cotton used in the products of Aslanlı Tekstil has been certified by accredited institutions (Organic Content Standard). Benefits of Organic Cotton 100% eco-friendly Natural and soft to touch Much more absorbent Hypoallergenic Standard Products Products such as high quality raw cotton, high quality cotton with short fibers, recycled cotton with short fibers are bleached in autoclaves depending on demand, and absorbent cotton is manufactured. Also, in Aslanlı Tekstil progress control and technical inspection is carried out in every phase of manufacturing process since 1997. 10 ASLANLI TEKSTİL HUMAN RIGHTS Aslanlı Tekstil sees full harmonization with and HUMAN RESOURCES AND GENERAL MATTERS IN maintenance of UN Declaration of Human Rights, ASLANLI TEKSTİL UN Global Compact, and the regulation that promotes human rights and life of the employees in Aslanlı Tekstil sees its human resources as one of Turkey as the basis of all kinds of activity. the most important shareholders. The Company characterizes the human resources as a virtue; gives ASLANLI TEKSTİL CIVIL SOCIETY INITIATIVE AND great significance to the training and gaining technical ITS SCOPE expertise of its employees. Social responsibility is one of the subjects that are As of the end of the year 2015, we have 65 employees given the utmost importance in Aslanlı Tekstil. in total. 60% of the employees are in Kırklareli Plant, and the 5% in the Sales Office in Kadıköy, İstanbul. The Company, as well as its financial and operational 3% of the employees are white-collar, 62% blue collar; success, carries out activities that strengthens 4% of the employees are women (technical personnel enhances social responsibility principles. working at the laboratory), while 61% is male. Within this scope, goals of working out beneficial The Company’s employment policy is focused on local solutions for such wide-ranged subjects as improving employment. All of the employees in the factory that the lives of the employees, protection of the are employed live in Kırklareli. environment, and the issue of HSE has been carried out within the scope of Civil Society Initiative. Equal rights to employees Aslanlı Tekstil, in order to make the necessities of social Aslanlı Tekstil thrives to provide equal rights and responsibility an internal virtue of the Company, has opportunities to its employees. The Company, on such prepared Civil Society Initiative, and has applied it in subjects as accounting, distribution of work, setting up the year 2015. professional cadre, training, and progression in career, and also on other areas such as the employment phase The Company, with the Civil Society Initiative, while of the personnel selection, and in every phase of work providing its customers with products and services, thrives to prevent indiscrimination and takes great protects its employees’ rights within the framework care in providing equal rights and opportunities to its of related law and legislation. Civil Society Initiative employees while applying the equality principle. also underlines the importance and necessity of occupational health and safety. In Aslanlı Tekstil within the context of employeremployee relations, the protection of the employees’ The realization of principles and working principles in individual rights and provision of an environment for the the Civil Society Initiative in Aslanlı Tekstil is carried trustworthiness principle to thrive in the work place are out by Executive Member, in charge of Administration given the utmost priority. and Finance; while the Factory Manager acts as the representative of the operation team in the related processes. Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Initiative has reached every one of its employees with a contact meeting with the participation of all the personnel, and with the distribution of Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Initiative Pocket Book. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 11 LABOR STANDARDS The Principle against child labor Disciplinary and maltreatment practices Within the context of Aslanlı Tekstil Civil Society Aslanlı Tekstil, in the context of discipline/maltreatment Initiative, as per the Labor Law numbered 4857, it is promises to respect every one of its employees’ promised that we act according to the methods and character and honor; not to chastise, take a disciplinary principles of employing child and young labor, and action outside of law, not to apply verbal, physical, or not to employ children under 15 and young people mental abuse, or whatever the reason may be not to between the ages of 15 and 18. force them. With this goal in mind, the Company has prepared and Working Principles entered into force a legislation containing a policy for improving child labor. Trueness and trustworthiness are the foremost ethical principles in Aslanlı Tekstil. In the Company, within As of December 31st, 2015, there is no child labor in the context of working principles designated in Civil any unit of Aslanlı Tekstil. Society Initiative, it is of great importance that the activities are done with no interruptions, efficiently Preventing forced labor and with no problems, and with the participation of all employees. Principle against forced labor is applied with great care and devoutness in Aslanlı Tekstil. Aslanlı Tekstil expects its employees to respect the working principles and adjust to them. In the Company, no one in any condition may be forced into labor in any way, and as such; no employee is Workplace and employee satisfaction forced into overtime without their consent, and they are employed with their consent into proper positions. The Aslanlı Tekstil’s goal is to maintain a contemporary and Company’s rudiments it keeps are as follows: decent workplace that fully respects employee rights. The employees in the Company cannot be forced Aslanlı Tekstil, determined to fulfill its responsibilities for into labor by indebting them or making them sign a its employees, expects and encourages its employees bill. to adopt the work ethic, working principles, and social values; and act as individuals that are environmentally Labor force of a convict is never made use of under conscious and aware of their social responsibilities. any condition. In Aslanlı Tekstil, within the framework of employee After the overtime, the employee cannot be made to satisfaction, in order to pursue the social responsibility stay. activities in a more effective way, and to determine the employees’ thoughts and assessment toward the The employees’ papers (Passport, ID) cannot be Company, has contacted an independent firm to do an taken to prevent them from getting off the work. Employee Satisfaction Survey. Privacy of employee information Upon the evaluation of survey reports in question, it Confidentiality of personal and private information of appears that the employees give great importance to employees is another responsibility of Aslanlı Tekstil, customer satisfaction, and also employee satisfaction and is taken great care to fulfill. level and their devotion to the Company are on very high levels. The Company prepares a personal file for every one of its employees. The information on employees Accounting and other financial rights the executive board has is used under the rules of In Aslanlı Tekstil, we pursue a just and competitive trustworthiness, and within the framework of law, and policy with regards to accounting. in such cases the privacy principle is taken as a basis. 12 ASLANLI TEKSTİL Macroeconomic data, the accounting policies currently In the Company, twice in a year for summer and used in the markets, sector, and competitors, the winter, work shoes, work pants, t-shirts for winter and Company’s long-term goals, individual’s competence, summer, coat, bonnet, ear protector, work gloves, and seniority determine our approach to accounting. and mask are provided free of charge. The principles Aslanlı Tekstil takes as basis are as follows: The Company pays its employees a bonus once every year. In accordance with the applicable law framework in Turkey, 45 hours of labor is taken as the basis. Work In the Company, a box of provisions in Ramadan, and over 45 hours is considered overtime. For every 1 meat distribution in Feast of Sacrifice is provided, hour of overtime work, 50% more than a regular and in the New Year cake, nuts and beverages are hourly wage is paid. provided. The employee’s consent is taken for overtime work. Regulations on working hours and day offs In holidays in work days, the full wage of the day is Aslanlı Tekstil fully adjusts itself to the laws and paid with no expectations in return. industrial standards on working hours and day offs. The wages of employees are paid as advance and Except for such reasons as condition of the country, salary. In cases of death, bankruptcy, sickness, nature of the work, or increasing the production rate, custody, and other such cases, annual salaries are working hours is 11 hours for a day, and 45 hours paid on the fifth day of every month, while advances weekly, while the overtime hours cannot exceed 270 are paid on 22nd day of every month. hours annually. For monthly salaries and overtime work pays the It is closely monitored that the overtime work not personnel is given work slips. exceed a set amount weekly, and the employees are given one day off. Aslanlı Tekstil, within its responsibility for its employees’ personal rights, periodically monitors and applies In cases of discontinuance due to such cases as death, all the updates in the legal legislation regulating sickness, or other reasons, and in cases of leave of working life by ways of the Company’s financial employment, the related representative is informed advisor, treasurers department, and Administration as soon as possible; while monitoring continuance, and Treasurer. Within this context, on subjects of and arrival to work on time is done via documents the minimum wage, tax brackets, Social Security Institution employees sign and computer assisted fingerprint subsidies, and other such topics, the updates made by scanners. the state and changes announced are notified to the Activities on preventing discrimination employees, and other related parties, and as of the day of entering into force they are shown in the pay slips. In Aslanlı Tekstil, in no condition can a person be discriminated for such reasons as religious view, Social Aids Provided to the Employees language, race, sex, political view, and ethnicity. Aslanlı Tekstil provides diverse social aids to its The reason in question still applies in cases of employees. In this regard; employment of the worker, compensation, education, The daily commute of the Company employees is rewarding, and also breaking the contract of provided by a personnel service. employment, or retirement. The Company provides lunch and tea service daily, Also, the Company does not prevent, or intervene in its and offers snacks for the overtime workers. employees from becoming members of foundations, unions, associations, organizations or institutions. In the freedom of association and membership of nongovernmental organizations adoption of laws and codes of contact is sought. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 13 LABOR STANDARDS Aslanlı Tekstil employs handicapped personnel that is A Health and Safety Employee Representative has registered on İŞKUR (Turkish Employment Agency) and been appointed as chosen by the employees of the placed a notice upon, as per the principle of equality Company, in order to apply the necessities of OHS in and within the framework of laws, in order to support line with law, and to be responsible for the health and the handicapped’s participation into the society. occupational safety of all the employees. As of the end of the year 2015, the number of Within the OHS, the Company’s Risk Analysis report handicapped employees in the Company is 1 (one), has been prepared and entered into force. and this personnel works in the internal cleaning department. To all the employees within the Company, trainings on OHS are given, and they are notified on the Freedom of association subject matter. Aslanlı Tekstil recognizes its employees’ right to form Within the Company, activities in order to regulate an association and/or sign a collective contract of their OHS, and to prevent accidents are carried out. Also, own free will. all kinds of warning signs and documents required by the business branch and equipment used has been As of December 31st, 2015, there is no unionization prepared, and placed within the production grounds within Aslanlı Tekstil. where it can easily be seen/noticed/reached by the employees. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY IN ASLANLI TEKSTİL The Company carries out preventive activities in order to eliminate accidents with a goal of facilitating and Aslanlı Tekstil values the preventive measures and maintaining a safe and healthy working environment, applications toward occupational health and safety and in cases of possible accidents, takes preventive as an essential element of production and working measures to eliminate injuries. process. In order to protect the employees’ health and safety, Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) in Aslanlı Tekstil the Company provides the personal protective gear is managed through systematic processes. Within the required by the business branch fully, and distributes to framework of laws, it is of great importance that rules its employees. and principles relating to OHS are applied. Also, within the frame of OHS, accredited firms are The activities of the Company on the OHS subject are being contacted in order to measure the noise, dust, summarized below. illumination in the working environment within the We take action on the subject of OHS within the factory, and also to test the employees’ hearing on an framework of laws, and in this regard make regulations. annual basis. As is specified in the law, a Board of Occupational The employees in Aslanlı Tekstil are required to use Health and Safety with an OHS advisor has been personal protective gear provided to them. The use of formed in Aslanlı Tekstil. It is ensured that the board aforementioned equipment is periodically monitored carries out its activities competently. and checked, which is done by the Factory Manager Within the general law of Board of OHS, it is formed and Operating manager. by employee representatives that are elected, as is Should an accident occur, in the evaluations following, required by law. The board periodically convenes every the causes of the accidents are identified, and month and meeting minutes are recorded in “Evaluation necessary measures and recuperative actions are of and Suggestions on OHS” and “Occupational taken, and it is aimed that the occupational safety has Safety” as proposed by law, and notarized. As well as zero risk of accidents. the agenda articles on related subjects, employees’ suggestions, complaints, and wishes are delivered to As of December 31st, 2015, 3 occupational accidents management through representatives, and taken into have happened in Aslanlı Tekstil. In this regard, while consideration. there was no loss of life or disability, the injuries that have occurred are of minor nature. 14 ASLANLI TEKSTİL TRAINING ACTIVITIES IN ASLANLI TEKSTİL The employees file their complaints and suggestions to the upper management through the use of complaints/ Aslanlı Tekstil provides training and catch-up work suggestions box, and they can also contact the in order to improve the Company employees’ Employee Representative, and in this way, the subject technical and occupational competence, and to matter can be discussed in the Board of Occupational keep it up to date. Health and Safety. Within its corporate management understanding, The employees can not only make themselves Aslanlı Tekstil regards training activities with utmost heard either written or verbally, but the complaints/ importance not only because it is valuable for the suggestions and solutions to these are also recorded employees’ occupational futures, but also because by OHS Board. it can improve the efficiency and productivity of the Company. SUPPLIERS OF ASLANLI TEKSTİL The Company provides various trainings on the subject Aslanlı Tekstil’s suppliers are chemical material of OHS on an annual basis, and also at the start of manufacturer and supplier firms, and spinning work, the employee is trained and taught about the factories. general safety rules, the working environment, and the machinery parkour. Aslanlı Tekstil shows regards to such subjects as ethical values, environmental consciousness, and Apart from these, twice in a year fire and first aid, and social responsibility, as well as costs and quality within consciousness raising trainings are provided to the the cooperation with its suppliers. employees on the subject of environment by Aslanlı Tekstil Environment Consultancy. The Company demands the universally acclaimed principles and applications on the subject of COMPLAINT AND SUGGESTION MECHANISM IN sustainability be adopted by its suppliers as a principle, ASLANLI TEKSTİL and encourages them in this context. Aslanlı Tekstil gives utmost importance to its dialogue Aslanlı Tekstil takes extra care in ensuring the materials with employees. All employees are able to get in supplied are eco-friendly, protects human health, and contact with the Company management office through that are manufactured in hygienic conditions, and the complaints and suggestions mechanism with either meets the required quality and standards. written or verbal notifications. ASLANLI TEKSTİL 15 ENVIRONMENT Aslanlı Tekstil adopts as a principle that in Biological purification system and water treatment every activity it carries out, it will not harm the environment and protect it meticulously, and aims Since it has started manufacturing activities, Aslanlı to contribute in leaving the future generations a Tekstil has incorporated biological purification; and cleaner and more livable world. started treating the water by purifying the processed water used in the manufacture process. Aslanlı Tekstil is in full harmony with the laws and administrative regulations on environmental regulation, Within the framework of legal borders specified by and in this legal framework fulfills all of its duties. the TR Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, the Company realizes its purification activities, and its total In this regard, the Company promises to; purification rate is 1.600 m3/day. Improve in every possible area related to environment Aslanlı Tekstil systematically and in a planned way within the context of its activities, carries out maintenance, repair, and improvement of the Biological Purification System, and by following Provide its employees to fulfill their duties with an the technological developments, implements environmental awareness, and encourage them in improvements to ensure that the system effectively this regard, works at 100% of its capacity. The Company takes Ensure that the products it develops and extra care in ensuring that the purification system manufactures do not harm the environment, and they works without interruptions and continuously. are made with eco-friendly materials, The necessary analyses are made by either authorized Prevent pollution, reduce the wastes in their source, external laboratories that meet the conditions, or by recycle as much as possible, eliminate wastes that the Company laboratories, and thus the purifications cannot be recycled without harming the environment monitoring is regularly ensured. by following the technological developments, Aslanlı Tekstil has achieved to reduce its water Reduce the use of natural resources by continuously consumption in manufacturing process greatly with developing environmental performance, the activities it has carried out. Fulfill the obligations within the framework of its Water, as is nature of Aslanlı Tekstil’s area of work, is legislation and administrative regulations, one of the most used natural resources. The Company carries out activities in order to save water it uses in Provide training on the various subjects of manufacturing processes with the goals of decreasing environment with the aim of raising consciousness of usage of natural resources, and increasing productivity. its employees as responsible individuals beneficial to the society on environment protection. Aslanlı Tekstil, as a result of the aforementioned projects has achieved to save 40% water in the last Aslanlı Tekstil’s activity cycle is based upon two years. The projects carried out in order to save protection of the environment and respect to the water are listed below. nature. With innovation activities carried out together with Aslanlı Tekstil gives utmost importance to protecting chemical manufacturers and suppliers, we have the environment, and respects the nature and looks managed to save water greatly. out for the nature; in every phase of its activity cycle it approaches the aforementioned values with great care. Within the context of collaboration with Istanbul Technical University (ITU) Environmental Engineering The Company holds meetings and provides training Faculty, a joint research and development project in order to meet the requirements specified by law, has been carried out. As a result of this study, “Water raise awareness on the subject of sustainability and Minimization” project has been incorporated, and environment from the lowest rank to the highest rank in water saving has been achieved by recycling and its activities. re-using the processed water used in manufacturing process. 16 ASLANLI TEKSTİL Energy saving and efficiency activities The Company gathers mineral oil, hazardous packaging, accumulator, cell battery, electronics, Aslanlı Tekstil carries out energy saving and efficiency fluorescence, yarn waste, dirty fabrics, and activities in order to protect the environment and purification sludge resulting from the manufacturing nature, and reduce the usage of natural resources. processes, and within the legal framework, delivers them to licensed gatherer firms with national waste In this context, in order to recycle the heat of the transportation documents. processed water that was left out of production in the year 2013, a Heat Exchanger Unit has been installed, The notifications related to the processes carried out and has managed to save up 10% of natural gas. are given to Provincial Department of Environment as specified by law. Also, the illumination systems in Kırklareli Plantation has been completely changed with new generation, UALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN ASLANLI modern LED illumination systems. As a result of this TEKSTİL change, illumination from outside the factory building through the windows has been achieved; as a result Aslanlı Tekstil documents the quality, safeness, and not only have we achieved to save energy, we have compatibility of the manufactured goods within the also eliminated any fire risk that could be caused by Quality Management System with certificates that illumination indoors. are internationally acclaimed. The Company keeps its certificates up to date periodically. Waste management activities The Company’s products and the products it uses in its Aslanlı Tekstil carries out activities in order to protect products do not contain substance that is hazardous to the environment and nature, and to prevent wastes environment and human health, and is in full harmony from harming the environment. with REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals), European Union’s policy on chemicals that entered into force in 2007. The summaries of the certificate Aslanlı Tekstil owns can be found in the table below. Name of the Certificate Date of Issue Date of Renovation Explanation 9 June 2015 9 June 2016 Global Organic Textile Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) Standard ISO 9001:2008 6 November 2016 6 November 2017 Certificate of Quality Management System ISO 14001:2004 4 February 2016 4 February 2017 Certificate of Environment Management System BRC/IOP Global Standard 4 February 2016 4 February 2017 Packaging and Packaging Materials Standard Cotton USA 1 January 2016 31 December 2016 Certificate of Use of Cotton USA Logo ASLANLI TEKSTİL 17 SOCIETY Aslanlı Tekstil’s foremost contribution to the society STRUGGLE AGAINST BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION is direct or indirect employment it provides to the society. Aslanlı Tekstil, within its corporate management understanding has adopted the principles of Aslanlı Tekstil, in its Kırklareli Plantation derives most equality, transparency, honesty, equity, and of the employees from the local community. The accountability that are the rising values of today’s Company also gives priority to local firms in selecting business world. suppliers, and in cases where the local firms cannot meet the needs, suppliers from other cities are In its area of activity, Aslanlı Tekstil has taken upon contacted. itself as a principle that it shall act in accordance with legislation and regulations within the context of bribery As well as the city it carries out its activities in with and corruption, universal legal rules, and ethical and local employment, Aslanlı Tekstil contributes to Turkish occupational principles. economy in an increasing rate, and creates added value. The Company, within the context of this principle acts with a “zero tolerance” approach on the issues of Aslanlı Tekstil exports most of its goods to foreign bribery and corruption, and promises to continue to markets, and in doing so supports the recognition of carry out its activities with equity, honesty, and in full Turkey and Turkish society on international platforms, harmony with legal rules and codes of conduct. and helps form new business collaborations, as well as supporting the economy with the collaborations it Aslanlı Tekstil, within the context of its sensitivity forms with foreign business partners. towards work ethic, has prepared and put into action a “Policy Prescription on Struggle Against Bribery and Corruption”. As the subject matter is about work ethic and also an act that requires legal punishment, the Company expects its employees to approach this matter with great care, and evaluate this as part of their individual duty and responsibility outside their work life. Aslanlı Tekstil prohibits bribery and corruption in all of its activities clearly. The Company acts within the borders that the national and international laws have drawn in the period of decision taking and its application, and takes preventive measures for possible corruption cases. Should such cases occur, the case is sorted out as soon as possible, and ensures that the legal procedures begin and the shareholders are informed. 18 ASLANLI TEKSTİL CONTACT Aslanlı Uluslararası Tekstil ve Tarım Ürünleri Dış Tic. A.Ş. Sales Office Bağdat Cad. Kılıçoğlu Apt. No: 451 Kat: 4 Daire: 10 Suadiye İstanbul, TURKEY Phone: +90 216 416 18 70 +90 216 416 18 71 +90 216 416 18 74 Fax: +90 216 416 18 89 E-Mail: info@aslanli.com sales@aslanli.com Factory Kavaklı Beldesi Merkezaltı Mevkii, Değirmencik Koyu Yolu Üzeri Kırklareli, TURKEY Phone: +90 288 246 19 31 (4 lines) Fax: +90 288 246 19 25 E-Mail: factory@aslanli.com qualityassurance@aslanli.com www.aslanli.com www.aslanli.com
