UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Friday, July 01, 2016 Letter from the president “Committed to a collective profitable and sustainable growth plan” Edenred is a worldwide leader with an essential mission: help organizations, whether public or private sector, better manage their expenses while improving the purchasing power of employees and citizens. The Group is at the heart of a virtuous ecosystem that benefits more than 41 million people worldwide every day. Edenred has been a pioneering group for 50 years, with 6,300 committed employees in more than 40 countries. Our sustainable development approach, with our “Ideal” program, combined with our corporate culture and Human Resources policies are key drivers of this sustainable growth. Our CSR policy, a federating approach consistent with our activities Edenred’s solutions have long been built around an employee-led social responsibility commitment. Our Ticket Restaurant® meal voucher was invented to address a social issue by encouraging employees to take a lunch break, thereby improving sanitary conditions and limiting the use of lunchboxes in the workplace. Today, our “Ideal” program is demonstrating this commitment in three areas: healthy eating habits, environmental stewardship and local community development. Ideal acts as a driver of growth, performance and team mobilization. A corporate culture positioning our stakeholders at the heart of our actions Our Customer Inside management approach is designed to place our Customers at the centre of all our actions and decisions, in support of the Group’s development strategy. By our Customers we mean our direct clients, beneficiaries or affiliates, but also our employees, shareholders, public authorities and the Community. Listening and answering the needs of these stakeholders is the focus of our philosophy. Our employees, first ambassadors of our values As our most valuable asset, people have been a core component of Edenred’s growth strategy over the past 50 years. They embody the pioneering spirit that has driven our success, demonstrating every day their ability to take action and deliver superior performance. In today’s changing environment, we rely more than ever on our employees to achieve our goal in the spirit of our values. With these solid strengths and a clear strategic plan for the future, I am very confident that we will meet conditions to keep and accelerate our development. Bertrand DUMAZY Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Edenred 1 Official statement of support Bertrand DUMAZY, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Edenred, has renewed his support of the Global Compact’s 10 principles in the following statement: “I renew Edenred’s commitment, undertaken at the time of our 2015 endorsement, to respect the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles for the upcoming year”. Company Name Edenred Date June 2016 Address 178 bd Gabriel Peri, 92240 Membership date 2015 Malakoff Country France Number of employees 6300 (year end 2015) Contact name Charlotte.malvy@edenred.com Contact Position Corporate Social Responsibility 2
