Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Editorial Policy Contents Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (the “Group”) has issued Top Message 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since Introduction of Businesses 4 fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of its business activities on society and the environment. Promotion of CSR To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 6 CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. management, this Report describes precisely and in an Promotion of CSR for every employee, emphasis on communication 9 easy-to-understand manner the promotion of CSR as Confirmation of major CSR activities 10 well as each of the seven core subjects described in the Organizational Governance “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and 12 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR strategies; Review of goals, standards, etc. established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.; and 13 and the International Organization for Standardization Confirmation of the implementation of action plans (ISO). Respect for Human Rights Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period Improvement of awareness of human rights 14 Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics the Report: Corporation (“the Company”) and its group Appropriate Working Environment companies. Respect for labor-management relations; and Employment 15 and the importance of the employment relationship Reporting This Report covers our business activities for the Rewarding and friendly working conditions 16 Period: period from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015. To Ensuring the security of workers 19 ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, certain relevant information regarding events that Human resources development and training 20 occurred prior to and/or after this period have been included. Environmental Conservation Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for reducing climate change 23 Publication Date Use of renewable resources 25 Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system 26 February 2016 Reference Guidelines Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 27 ■ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) promotion of fair and open competition ISO 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) ■ Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2007 Version) Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 28 ■ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 30 Guidelines 2006 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Contribution to cultural activities 32 CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Contribution through donations, etc. 33 Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact Tokyo Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 34 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 Company Profile 35 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Web You may view some of the relevant data presented in this Report on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 1 Top Message Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses on activities and engages in sincere and fair to the realization of an affluent and Introduction Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our stakeholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the Code of Conduct. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our information network, starting with our core warehousing business, and including overland transportation, port and harbor operations, and international transportation. Our real estate business focuses on leased buildings constructed on company-owned property. Of especial note, the involvement of our logistics operations in every industry countrywide provides a key function in the economic foundation of Japan as a highly public social infrastructure not only in peacetime but also in case of natural disasters or other emergencies. We continue to make the utmost effort to support the daily Akio Matsui lives of people everywhere and the business activities President of our customers at every level of product procurement, production and sales. Final Year of the Management Plan (2013–2015) The current fiscal year is the final year of the Management Plan (2013–2015), which started in April 2013. Overseas, the U.S. economy continued to recover and a moderate recovery was seen in Europe. The economies in Asia including China saw moderate expansion, although the rate of growth slowed. The Japanese economy is expected to recover gradually given the effects of the economic strategies called Abenomics and other government policies. In these circumstances, this plan is designed to move forward 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 lobal environment-friendly usiness activities, contributing ustainable society. with measures already under way, without changing accepted norms in the areas of human rights, labor, the fundamental concept of pursuing the growth the environment and anti-corruption as fulfilling its potential in overseas businesses while ensuring social responsibility in its profitability in the domestic businesses. business activities and leading The management plan has defined the ideal image of to an affluent and sustainable the Mitsubishi Logistics Group to be pursued as society. To firmly instill this follows. stance throughout the entire Group, we have clarified that we aim to be an enterprise that 1. To be a reliable logistics service provider that practices CSR management in can quickly cope with diversifying customer the management plan as needs and market changes in Japan and described previously and have overseas; incorporated such initiatives in specific measures. Our logistics and real estate business activities are 2. To be an enterprise with proven reliability deeply connected to society. To earn recognition for that provides safe and comfortable space the value of our existence as a member of society and and trustworthy services to support people’s continue to grow in the future, the Group needs to jobs and lives; steadily implement the goals set forth in the plan. In 3. To support customers’ value creation from a particular, taking into account the increased demand customer-based standpoint to realize true for reducing natural disaster risk stemming from the customer satisfaction; and global increase in natural disasters, we are promoting the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly 4. To be an enterprise, which practices CSR Warehouses equipped with reinforced disastermanagement that contributes to society, in prevention functions and enhanced global which every employee has a strong sense of environmental measures, as well as Disaster-Resistant mission and the ability to manage any crisis. and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings that have similar functions. As part of this initiative, the Nihonbashi Dia Building (of which the lower floors are used as the Initiatives for CSR management Company’s Head Office and trunk rooms) was completed in September 2014. We also intend to continue initiatives for global environmental measures With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in from the perspective of biodiversity. 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and approach toward further enhancing our level of Conclusion adherence to relevant laws and regulations, disclosing appropriate corporate information, addressing and resolving global environmental issues, and providing As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to place safe, quality and socially useful services. In addition, top priority on sincerity and fairness, supporting the Company approved and declared in May 2014 its customers’ value creation with a focus on global support for the UN Global Compact, which is a set of environment-friendly activities while fulfilling our universally accepted CSR-related principles. The responsibilities to society with stable growth, we ask Company considers complying with internationally for your continued understanding and support. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. Real estate development and leasing Air transportation Warehouses and distribution centers Harbor transportation Domestic Ocean transportation Trunk room service Overland transportation Trucking and railway transportation Logistics information system Logistics services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer the full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are located through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is at major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, transportation and delivery networks; and the logistics information systems and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have that organically link them. In this business, fixed temperature storage and expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially refrigerated warehouses for pharmaceuticals and fresh and processed foods for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified are sufficiently offered in addition to ordinary warehouses for room transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for temperature storage to ensure the provision of safe and efficient storage/ import and export cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant distribution processing/delivery services using our original information facilities. Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure technology and the latest facilities. transportation services by drawing on our information technology and promoting Meanwhile, we strive to reduce the green management. Furthermore, with the cooperation with DP Network Co., Ltd., a environmental impact by promoting green subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals established in November management. Furthermore, we are active in 2011, we strive to realize the further sophistication of transportation quality. the construction of advanced facilities that aim to coordinate with local communities under the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is Misato Warehouse No. 2, which was completed in March 2013. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the leasing of condominiums. We are also active in developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Import/Export Overseas Shipping Agent Customs clearance Ocean transportation Harbor transportation Overland transportation Shipping-related Trucking and operations railway transportation Harbor Transportation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for integrated containerized needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-toshipments at all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, door worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation kind of customer need. We also offer a wide range of other means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. marine shipping related services such as importing/exporting Meanwhile, our overseas operating bases provide of vessels, ship registration, and agency operations for comprehensive logistics services such as cargo transportation, special ships such as oil-drilling rigs. customs clearance and storage of goods, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we intend to not be limited to transport operations but to further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 120 years. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 5 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on social responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility” (see the chart on the right) in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility (see the chart on the right). The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities. Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The spirit and values of this Sankoryo remain alive and current today as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both Maintain principles of Expand business, based on materially and spiritually, transparency and openness, an all-encompassing global while contributing toward conducting business with perspective. the preservation of the integrity and fairness. global environment. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize our corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group Coordination with An organization An organization should be Local Communities and Holistic should respect human transparent in its decisions International Society approach Respect for rights and recognize Respect for and activities that have Human Rights Transparency Community both their importance human rights impact on society and the Involvement Human and their universality. environment. and Rights Development An organization Accountability Organizational Governance should respect Respect for An organization An organization Provision of Safe, Appropriate Consumer Labor international norms international should be Ethical should behave Observance of Quality and Issues Organization Practices Working of behavior, while accountable for its adhering to the norms of impacts on society behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment times. principle of respect behavior and the for the rule of law. environment. Fair Operating The An organization should An organization should Practices Environment Respect for accept that respect for Respect for respect, consider and Fulfillment of Sincere and stakeholder Fair Business Activities Environmental the rule of law is the rule of law respond to the interests of Interdependence Conservation mandatory. interests its stakeholders. (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our Code of Conduct. Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC (Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation)-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as “concrete guidelines” regarding the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to cope with future tightening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” The Company promotes Group-wide environmental measures including appropriate responses to laws and regulations based on this plan. Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the Code of Conduct. Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 7 Promotion of CSR Management plan (2013–2015) (Basic Policy) Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the following four items of Basic Policy to reinforce foundations for its growth potential and profitability. The Group intends to increase its corporate value and achieve future growth by executing each of these diverse measures in accordance with the Basic Policy. Basic Policy 1. Expand logistics business activities in response to globalization. 2. Reinforce and expand the foundations of real estate business activities. 3. Improve the quality of Group services. 4. Strengthen crisis management including countermeasures against natural disasters and thoroughly implement global environmental measures. The outline of the management plan is as follows: 1. Ideal image The management plan has defined the ideal image of the Group to be pursued as a corporate group in compliance with the four-item Basic Policy. ( see page 3: Top Message). 2. Plan period FY2013–FY2015 (covering three years) Consolidated revenue Consolidated operating income 3. Performance targets (Unit: ¥billion) (Unit: ¥billion) Figures of consolidated business results 3,000 200 (Unit: ¥billion) 2,500 175 2,500 155 Operating Ordinary 1,981 2,043 150 Revenue Net income 2,000 121 114 income income 125 1,500 100 Actual results 1,981 121 141 85 75 for FY2013 1,000 50 Actual results 2,043 114 144 91 500 25 for FY2014 0 0 Targets for FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 2,500 155 165 102 FY2015 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥60.0 billion (¥22.0 billion in logistics, ¥33.5 billion in real estate and ¥4.5 billion in disaster countermeasures and global environmental measures). In-house Decision Making Responses to Stakeholders’ Expectations Corporate governance system Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group (Chart of corporate governance system) (Chart of stakeholders) Enhance our commitment General Shareholders Meeting to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working earning our customers’ environments while Board of Corporate Board of Corporate Independent trust through high-quality ensuring the safety and Directors Auditors Auditors Auditor logistics and real estate Customers Employees professional growth of services. the employee. Corporate Auditors’ Chamber Aim to manage internal Perform fair information strictly and Shareholders Mitsubishi Public business activities disclose information at by complying with Executive Committee (Consultative body consisting of directors Chairman of the Board President the appropriate time & investors Logistics administration laws, rules and and in the appropriate social norms. with special titles) Managing Directors manner, in accordance Group Internal Control with the law. Respective Divisions, and General Managers’ Chambers of the Head Office Committee Local Meeting Suppliers 6 branches Internal Audit CSR and Develop common communities Sincere and fair business Department Compliance Committee interests with local activities based on 57 subsidiaries (including communities as a good mutual trust. Group Management corporate citizen. Meeting 20 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management 15 affiliates Committee 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Web You may view the news releases on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Promotion of CSR for every employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group Our IR information site is open on the Company’s Web CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) site. We strive to transmit information by providing to nurture the awareness of each employee on CSR “Management planning and policy,” “Stock and compliance. The handbook was information,” “IR calendar,” “Financial data” and “IR distributed to all executives and information” (Flash report, Annual report and Results employees within the Group in briefing). January 2012 for their daily reference. For the convenience of foreign shareholders and We position the handbook as a investors, English-version sites are also available to starting point to help them address disclose significant information thereto. small questions and significant issues in their routine business operations. CSR & Compliance Dialogue between shareholders/investors, Handbook analysts and top management Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings CSR and Compliance Awareness Survey When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide easy-to-understand information for the The Company and domestic Group companies provide convenience of attending shareholders by using video Web-based surveys on awareness based on the business reports with narration. Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Results briefing Handbook and the Environmental and Social Report to Company holds results briefings disseminate the understanding of CSR and compliance. twice a year (May and November) The surveys aim to increase employees’ awareness by for investors and analysts. In providing occasions in which every employee thinks of addition to the explanation of the familiar issues and finds the answers. settled accounting results, the top management of the Company explains management policies and アナリスト説明会 Training on CSR and Compliance the progress of management plans, conducts Q&A and As measures to address the status of compliance with the Code transmits a variety of management information. We are of Conduct and any issues noted in the internal audit results, we active in encouraging dialogue with market players not endeavor to establish good working environments by only through transmission of the information desired by disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and the investors and analysts but also by integrating the feedback Code of Conduct and promoting CSR. of useful views therefrom in our actual business judgment. As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning You may view the materials for the results briefing on Web compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis on the HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation methods for managing and handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Web Actual performance data on the CSR and compliance awareness Internal reporting system survey and the training on CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are Report>Extended version in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an internal Emphasis on communication whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition and encourage use of Timely and appropriate news releases the system, at the time of the “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in November 2014 we checked whether all As the Group emphasizes the principles of social executives and regular employees of the Group were familiar responsibility such as accountability and transparency with our internal reporting system and whether they intended in organizational decision making, news releases on to use the system. Consequently, it was confirmed that almost business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time all the respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, and in the appropriate manner. suggesting widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 9 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as a voluntary corporate culture. Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Reinforce CSR and compliance Governance Review of goals, standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement of the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, Rewarding and friendly working conditions undertake necessary security procedures, and support the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life Appropriate Working Ensuring the security of workers Ensure the security of workers Environment Develop competent human resources who meet the Human resources development and training requirements of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Global environmental measures from biodiversity Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality high-quality services Provision of Safe, Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Coordination with Contribution to the community’s cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge ● Briefing meetings on our Management Plan held at each branch by Managing General Affairs Division Director in charge of personnel and planning. Personnel Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. ● Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate philosophy Planning & Business Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. and our Management Plan). Coordination Division ● Mar. 2015: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee meeting (for CSR promotion). Other Divisions, Chambers and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights among all ● FY2014 Human Rights Enlightenment Training held with 39 participants. employees by establishing a dedicated promotion system. ● Delivered lectures on human rights upon request from the Industrial Federation for Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Human Rights, Tokyo. Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where ● Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three times a employees can demonstrate their personality and competence. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and year. enhance employees’ health. ● Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkups. Personnel Division ● Beneficiaries of the child-care leave system: 8; beneficiaries of the care leave Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of the nextsystem: 27. generation children. Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases Personnel Division in an aim to prevent occupational disasters. ● Monthly convening of Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Harbor Promote the prevention of occupational disasters and conduct periodic ● Number of serious occupational accidents in the Port and Harbor Operation Transportation disaster prevention drills and meetings in the Port and Harbor Operations Business: zero. Business Division Business. Branches ● FY2014 onsite logistic capability training with 91 participants. Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to ● Training for young staff at subsidiaries and affiliates held with 15 participants. corporate growth but also to social development. ● Training for employees engaging in the real estate business for the first time held Personnel Division with 8 participants. ● Sept. 2014: The Nihonbashi Dia Building (Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on ensuring business continuity in case of a disaster Office Building) completed. Technical Division and considerations for the global environment. ● FY2014: The Nihonbashi Dia Building and the Kobe Harborland commercial facility Real Estate Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting by utilizing complex umie MOSAIC received the Good Lighting Award 2014. Division governmental subsidy funds. ● FY2014: The existing lighting devices (more than 2,800 units in total) at our Branches warehouses was changed to LED lighting. ● FY2014: Solar power generation facilities with total energy output of 1,560 kW We promote the implementation of large-scale solar power generation started operation at the Tosu Warehouse (in June), the Rokko Cold Storage facilities in existing facilities in line with the government’s policy of enhancing Warehouse (in October) and the Sendai Warehouse (in December). Technical Division the use of renewable energy. ● FY2014: Five “i-MiEV” electric vehicles introduced. Branches Expand the use of “i-MiEV,” Mitsubishi Motors’ electric vehicles. ● Feb. 2015: The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “Top Level Facility” under the Nagoya Branch Promote the reduction of waste. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. General Affairs Conduct reforestation through volunteer activities and donations as a partner ● Reforestation activities called off due to bad weather. Division of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment ● FY2014: Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract General Affairs of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. Proceeds, etc.; Number of participants: 1,826 (Web-based check). Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness ● FY2014: Prevention of Insider Trading Course; Number of participants: 40. Information of security. ● Number of respondents to the FY2014 Information Securities Questionnaire: 2,679. Systems Division Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, ● Regular quality improvement conference held. Planning & Business subsidiaries and affiliates. ● Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information exchanges at Coordination Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center regular conferences with customers conducted. Warehousing and Distribution operations to improve the quality of logistics. ● Mar. 2014: A new warehousing and distribution center operations system (G-MIWS) Business Division implemented at the Aomi Office, Tokyo Branch. Tokyo Branch Perform joint drills for earthquake countermeasure. ● Mar. 2015: Head Office and the Tokyo Branch jointly performed an earthquake Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of countermeasures drill (with approximately 50 participants). General Affairs Division large-scale disasters. ● Participated in FY2014 disaster logistics training, which was sponsored by the Kobe Branch Pursue additional designations of our facilities as relief supplies and materials Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Warehousing and Distribution facilities, which is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, ● Two of our facilities were additionally designated as relief supply and material Business Division Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. facilities, bringing the total to 11. Nagoya Branch Real Estate Division Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan ● Aug. 2014: Held the “Tohoku Marché” and the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Yokohama Dia Earthquake. ● Nov. 2014: Conducted the “Yokohama F-Marinos Charity Auction.” Building Management Corporation General Affairs Division Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and Other Divisions, overseas. Chambers and Branches Group companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 11 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals and standards, etc.” Promoting the realization of our In executing the Basic Strategy and the Detailed Strategy above, the Group complies with the seven corporate philosophy and strategies principles of social responsibility under the Guidance on Social Responsibility. The Group companies have Disseminating the corporate philosophy stipulated the Code of Conduct in line with the seven and the management plan (Basic Strategy) principles, and their employees strive to self-check and confirm their behavior by using the CSR & Compliance The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to Handbook. the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in its corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) to make its intent of strengthening social responsibility known to every party concerned within the Group. To facilitate this goal, the Company formulated in its Review of goals, standards, etc. management plan the following Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (excerpt) and endeavors to Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance disseminate it at worksite meetings and other Committee (meetings held in March) occasions. To promote CSR activities in the Group, the CSR and Compliance Committee was established in September Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (Excerpt) 2006. 1. Reinforce risk management centering on natural In fiscal 2014, the committee met in March and disaster countermeasures. deliberated on the reports and revisions regarding CSR 2. Strengthen global environmental measures. activities in accordance with the Guidance on Social 3. Create a corporate culture in which all Responsibility, which is used as the basis for the executives and employees are eager to behave Environmental and Social Report, as well as on the positively by thinking independently. improvement of compliance based on the self-check of 4. Promote personnel development fostering the status of complying with the Code of Conduct. expertise and global perspectives. 5. Strengthen initiatives to revitalize organizations by drawing on diversified human resources. 6. Improve the quality of services. 7. Reinforce in-house education and the check system in the pursuit of thorough compliance. Worksite meeting (Minamihonmoku) Worksite meeting (Fukuoka Branch) 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Entrenchment of the Confirmation of the compliance of standards, etc. implementation of action plans Disseminating the awareness of Confirming the appropriateness of compliance operations via internal control The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to through the employee’s self-check on the status of ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and complying with the Code of Conduct, which was formulated regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. as the social norms for employees in executing their duties, Furthermore, the Company improves the systems necessary as well as by thoroughly promoting training on compliance. for ensuring the appropriateness of financial reporting and The self-check on the status of compliance previously prepares and submits the Internal Control Report regarding the targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control relating to Effective from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has financial reporting in accordance with the Financial Instruments been extended to cover overseas Group companies using and Exchange Law. English texts. Web Actual performance data on the compliance situation of Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., the Code of Conduct may be viewed on Mitsubishi under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program is a system for Report>Extended version certifying managers of bonded warehouses and bonded factories as authorized warehouse operators after they meet set Business processes are confirmed via conditions concerning compliance and other regulations, in internal audit accordance with the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) guidelines of the World Customs Organization (WCO). These The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by authorizations ensure preferential treatment such as the Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit implementation of simplified procedures requiring only notification regulations and the internal audit plan. The audit operation to build bonded warehouses, exemptions from permit fees, etc. is supported by branch auditors and audit assistants Mitsubishi Logistics received approval as an authorized positioned at Head Office and respective branches. The warehouse operator from the Director-General of Tokyo Customs purpose of the internal audit is to precisely grasp the status in April 2008. We will further enhance compliance activities in of corporate affairs and the financial position so as to be of customs-related processes and all other import/export services help for management’s prevention of fraud, errors and in our sincere attempt to provide highly reliable and dependable faults, and rationalization such as improvement of business logistics services for our customers. operations and raising operating efficiency. The Audit Meanwhile, Monryo Transport Corporation and Keihin Naigai Division reports the results of audits regarding the Company Forwarding Co., Ltd., both of which are Group companies, and subsidiaries to the management team. The General acquired certification as Authorized Customs Brokers as of Affairs Division supports the follow-up checks on any issues September 25, 2012, and June 9, 2014, respectively. An noted in the audit results, if any, and reports the results to Authorized Customs Broker is a customs clearance operator the management team. subject to various preferential privileges, which is authorized by The Audit Division keeps close contact with the the customs office to arrange for security management and corporate auditors and provides them with internal audit compliance regarding cargo. Both companies intend to improve information to cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. customer services by leveraging their qualification for preferential declaration. We will work to compatibly ensure higher security and more trade facilitation in the field of international logistics. Worksite meeting (Tokyo Branch) Worksite meeting (Osaka Branch) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 13 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is the basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Improvement of employees’ awareness of human rights.” Improvement of the Slogan on human rights (Employees’ section) awareness of human rights Precious are all lives being born, Striving to disseminate the awareness of No difference where in the world it is. respect for human rights with every employee by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan on human rights (Family section) The Company is committed to enlightening of human rights issues among employees with the aim of creating Whoever it is, Everyone is different, and it’s a “positive worksite atmosphere in which every employee’s human rights are respected and personal natural that way. competence and personality can be fully demonstrated.” Specifically, every year the Company offers a human VOICE rights enlightenment course of 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights training promotion system. In fiscal 2014, a total of 39 employees participated Reflection on the Human in the training, which targeted new employees and Rights Training newly appointed managerial staff. Minami Sawada At the training sessions, participating employees Rokko Cold Storage Office, Kobe Branch not only received lectures but also exchanged views on t the training, we learned mainly about “What diverse concrete examples to deepen their A understanding. are human rights?” and other issues such as The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of “Discrimination on the basis of race and disability,” human rights by inviting slogans on human rights “Gender discrimination issues” and “Power enlightenment even to loaned or dispatched staffers. In harassment.” Based on an actual lawsuit as an parallel with this approach, we have established a example, and concerning some cases that are harassment-dedicated counseling contact that takes considered discrimination that could happen in our initiatives to prevent or resolve various worksite daily lives, we, the participants, exchanged views harassment cases. and together considered how to create a safe environment where we can focus on work without Web Actual performance data on human rights training can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in such sensitive problems, as well as how to ensure “Extended version.” diversity and prevent harassment. The training helped us realize that we all are HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version trapped by our own subconscious prejudices and illusions and the issues related to discrimination and human rights affect us daily. To create a society that is good socially, environmentally and from the perspective of human rights, I keenly feel the importance of each of us having such recognition, being aware of the various situations of people other than ourselves, respecting each other and valuing human connections. 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the security of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Respect for laborEmployment and the importance management relations of the employment relationship Having close communications with the Endeavoring to ensure human resources labor union systematically and stably while respecting equal The collective labor agreement entered into between employment opportunities and diversity the Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect stipulates the responsibility of the Company and that of equal employment opportunities and diversity. the union as follows on the stance of laborIn our recruiting activity, we have introduced an management cooperation. openentry system without making any distinction as regards the school of graduation or faculty that takes 1. (Company’s Responsibility) into account the fair employment of applicants from a The Company shall proactively strive to maintain long-term perspective to systematically and stably and improve the working conditions and promote ensure human resources. the welfare of employees to improve the status of We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new employees and ensure stable livelihoods. and professional or experienced applicants by making 2. (Union’s Responsibility) the most of the Company’s Web site and various kinds The labor union shall strive to maintain public order of PR media. at the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its affiliated employees, as well as fully cooperate with the Company for the growth of Status of employees (as of the end of March 2015) the Company’s business based on democratic Item In fiscal 2014 foundations. Number of regular 4,452 employees (consolidated) Labor-management consultations and negotiations are handled at the Management Conference, which is Number of temporary 2,367 attended by representatives of both parties. employees (consolidated) There are two types of Management Conference: the Central Management Conference, which is held *Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ between Head Office and the union’s headquarters, average age and years of service. and the Operating Site Management Conference, Number of regular employees which is held between each branch and each lodge. 845 (564 men and 281 women) (non-consolidated) Each conference meets once per month. Average age 40.1 years (non-consolidated) Average years of service 17.2 years (non-consolidated) Number of temporary employees 682 (non-consolidated) Central Management Conference (Head Office) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 15 Appropriate Working Environment Rewarding and friendly Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to enhance employees’ good health working conditions To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is Strive to improve the environment in which both required of every corporation, the Company proactively takes initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ employees and the Company can raise mutual values health. The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel Regular medical checkup policy is to assist its employees to grow and improve A medical checkup is conducted once a year that their worklife balance and to assert that both focuses on tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although employees and the Company can raise mutual values long working hours have become a social problem in through the sustainable growth of the Company. recent years, the Company has implemented a To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors framework to minimize the health risks of employees to improve worksite environments so that employees due to a heavy workload through enhanced interview can demonstrate their individuality and competence to guidance from industrial physicians to those with long the utmost with improved motivation and better working hours. workplace environments, through a variety of personnel Health promotion and educational systems. Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit (on mental health and eating habit guidance) given by of creating worksites where employees can experts, simple aerobics dance programs are offered demonstrate their individuality and competence to encourage employees to engage in light physical exercise. The Company strives to improve worksite environments in which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her individuality and competence. Involvement in mental health activities focusing Self-declaration system on “prevention and recurrence prevention” According to the self-declaration system, the Company’s employees declare their satisfaction rating The Company considers it important to support every with their current duties and career plan among others, employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring once a year. The declaration includes the desired systematic and constant care for his/her mental health. conditions of their next workplace, etc., so that the To promote mental health care in accordance with Company may pay attention not only to employees’ the “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of business duties but also to every employee’s life plan. mental health for workers” of the Ministry of Health, The content of the declaration is actually used for Labor and Welfare, the Company has taken a variety of personnel transfers and the career development initiatives such as reinforcement of in-house education program. and training, cultivation of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, execution of stress checks and Evaluation and treatment of employees improvement of networks via collaborations with The Company treats employees in accordance with external professional organs. fair, transparent and well-received appraisal systems. Direct interviews between managers and subordinates, which are held three times a year (at the time of target setting, midyear retrospection and year-end retrospection) are especially emphasized. The evaluation results are used for an appropriate division of labor within the business unit and advice on career planning. 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 VOICE Promoting the work-life balance to support the sound development of the next-generation children Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Care Leave Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextTomomi Koga Generation Children, the Company formulated the Retail Property Team, Real Estate “Ordinary Business Owner Action Plan” and Div., Head Office implemented the “Child-care leave system,” the “Shorttime regular employee system,” the “Nursing or a family with both parents working and a F preschool age child, when we wake up in care leave system,” the “Care leave system” and the “Family care leave system” to assist with the the morning to find our child has a fever of more coexistence of employees’ working life and home life. than 37.5˚C, the situation is serious. A child can get Furthermore, the Company encourages the enhanced a high fever in the morning even without any sign of use of annual paid vacations to reduce working hours it the night before. Wishing to keep working without in a year and has introduced a systematic granting interruption, I worry if I can find someone to take system (six days per year) of annual paid vacations care of my child. However, I can take a care leave if under labor-management collaboration. necessary to switch my mind and make an appropriate decision as a parent and care for my child at home. Especially in the case of sudden VOICE illness, I really feel sorry for my colleagues. Thanks to their understanding, since I returned to work after my child-care leave, I have been able to Having Taken Child-care Leave continue working, keeping a balance between work Aya Urata and life. Although the care leave system previously Warehousing and Distribution was limited to use only for illness, it was changed Business Dept. A, Yokohama Branch to cover vaccination and health checkups as well. I was able to take a care leave to take my son, who took child-care leave I twice, once for my son and once for my started going to school in April of this year, to a health checkup before entering school. With daughter. Children grow every day, but infancy appreciation and a total sense of responsibility, I elapses quickly and every moment is precious. passionately engage in the operation I am in charge Using the child-care leave, I was able to spend of. priceless time with my children during an important period of their growth. My children are now six and two years old, and they still need much care, but I am able to keep a good balance between child care and work thanks to much support from my colleagues. Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Childcare leave 14 9 6 7 8 until a child becomes 2 years old. Short-time regular Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours 11 16 17 17 18 employee per day for nurturing a child. Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period Nursing care within one year to take care of a family member in 0 0 1 0 0 leave need of nursing care. Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 Care leave 23 33 27 31 27 days per year) Family care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in 5 3 1 1 0 (newly established in FY2010) need of nursing care (up to 10 days per year). *Child care leave system and nursing care leave system are counted beginning from the time of system introduction. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 17 Appropriate Working Environment Promoting welfare measures to help To ensure employment opportunities for the employees store up the energy to work elderly, motivated retiring employees are provided A variety of systems are available in compliance with with places to demonstrate their competence the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house the Company has strived to guarantee the employment acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. of employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the establishment of the related laws through measures such as a job placement service to help them be Major welfare programs of the Company: reemployed by subsidiaries or affiliates and the 1. Provision of security reemployment of those with expertise in certain Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family business fields. allowance, housing allowances, condolence In response to the establishment of the relevant money, celebration of a birth, the ESOP (Employee laws, we established our continuing employment Stock Ownership Plan) association, group system to ensure that applicants can continue to work insurance, the reserve for pension and asset up to 65 years old under certain criteria, and the formation, multipurpose accommodation loans and system has been applied to 80%–90% of those the granting of company-owned houses to applicable. employees via job transfers 2. Recreation Recreation facilities, in-house sports events Improving access in the work environment to increase (baseball, tennis and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts tournament, refresh leave (long-service the employment of physically challenged people and midlevel workers) There are physically challenged employees who work 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition in diverse operations of the Company. As of June 1, Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, 2014, the Company filled its legal employment quota of in-house loans and tie-up loans physically challenged employees as a result of the aggressive execution of various initiatives. We will continue to steadily strengthen improvements of the worksite environment in which physically challenged persons can easily demonstrate their capabilities and competence. Employment ratio of physically challenged employees June June June June June In-house recreation event (Group picture, karate section of the Mitsubishi 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 firms’ martial arts tournament at the Nippon Budokan) Number of physically 13 16 18 17 16 challenged employees (actual) VOICE Employment ratio (%) 1.70 2.06 2.30 2.15 2.05 Participated in the Mitsubishi Firms’ Martial Arts Tournament Takaaki Kito Business Coordination & Development Dept., Warehousing and Distribution Business Division he purpose of the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts T tournament is building friendship among employees of the Mitsubishi Group companies through competing in the kendo, judo, kyudo (Japanese archery) and karate sections. This time, I participated in a karate team representing our Company—our Company's first-time entry to the karate section. Although our team lost its first match, I felt proud of having participated as part of a representative team of our Company. I keenly felt the joy of working together with other people toward the same goal. I also got to know the participants from other companies, which made this experience even more significant. 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Ensuring the security of workers accident examples and that effective countermeasures are always pursued and proactively executed. We are confident that the cumulative effects of these safety-focused daily efforts will help Striving to conduct industrial safety and health prevent serious occupational disasters and ensure the safety of activities via collaborations among operating bases workers. in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents Specific initiatives executed at the respective ports are summarized in the table below. Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating bases including operation-commission and cargo-handling companies to which operation is outsourced with regard to diverse initiatives related to industrial safety and health. In addition, we strive to prevent occupational disasters by Safety patrol (Minamihonmoku Safety and health meeting (Minamihonmoku conducting safety and health Office, Yokohama Branch) Office, Yokohama Branch) education and safety patrols Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective inside and outside the facilities. Health Committee (Head Office) ports and results/achievements Description Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring ● We hold a briefing meeting before the ship operations to confirm the safety with safety measures and the prevention of content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the accidents in the transportation field fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). ● A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (an overland transportation-dedicated (monthly). company in charge of the overland transportation business of the ● We strengthen the safety patrols at operating sites jointly with the Company), aims to increase the security of transportation and ensure relevant suppliers (monthly). safety through concerted efforts with the recognition that ensuring (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) the security of freight transportation is the pillar of our business ● We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place management. operations, fluorescent safety armbands, emergency stretchers, etc.). In addition, fully recognizing the public nature and importance of ● Information such as cases of accidents is shared with other operators the trucking business apart from compliance with relevant laws and operating at the same harbor terminal at operators’ liaison meetings, regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation Business Act and etc., and the content is shared at safety conferences at our worksites the Road Traffic Act, we check operations at all times from a safety and with suppliers. viewpoint. As initiatives for daily accident preventive activities, we ● We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are hold safety conferences, conduct safety patrols and all-branch driven within the container yards (via the successive installation of marketing staff conferences, and conduct thorough checks at all excessive speed lamps). car-allocation bases using a high-performance alcohol detector unit ● We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). to check at the roll call whether any crew members have been Results/Achievements drinking. No serious occupational accidents were reported in fiscal 2014. In addition, we implement initiatives for industrial safety and health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew VOICE members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck crews is conducted. Strengthening the Task Harbor transportation: Promote the prevention of Ensuring Safety of occupational disasters and conduct periodic Manabu Namatame Section Chief, Sales Division, disaster prevention drills and meetings Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a variety of cargo s a trucking business operator, I strive to ensure safety handling work in association with the receipt and delivery at ports. A and security, complying with relevant laws and We therefore regularly conduct safety-related drills and hold regular regulations, in the pursuit of higher transportation quality, aiming conferences as specific countermeasures that have been prepared for logistics that can contribute to people’s lives. We conduct by operating sites to safely and smoothly perform cargo handling safety patrols and hold monthly safety conferences to provide operations. related training for crews and clerical employees according to To prepare for various kinds of occupational disasters and cargo the type of their tasks. We also share safety-related information accidents, it is important to raise awareness of safety and health and and are establishing an internal communications system. share the intent with all workers. To this end, we strive to understand Furthermore, the content of operation is reviewed at each and improve the operating site environment from all angles. operating base, thereby aggressively improving operations. Furthermore, to prevent occupational disasters and cargo  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) accidents, it is vital that warnings are given with reference to past Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 19 Appropriate Working Environment Chinese national staff training 1 Human resources development and training the Company offers several training programs to raise employees’ expertise such as management capabilities, readiness for globalization and operational capability to Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not enable employees to acquire professional skills in only to corporate growth but also to social development response to the content of their business duties. Ideal image of desired human resources Extending the Scope of In-House Lecturers With the Code of Conduct in mind, every employee for the Onsite Logistics Capability Training aims to undertake a role not only in corporate growth but also in the development of society by conducting At the onsite logistics capability training, the lecturers are himself/herself in the following manner. dispatched from among active employees so that employees assigned to posts at logistics sites can 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with integrity and a improve their necessary expertise and skills. sense of fairness. Onsite training was conducted with a warehouse site 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. as a case study. In order to learn practical management 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. and improvement methods for warehouse sites geared to 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. the actual situation, and for the acquisition of knowledge 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with your required to enhance safety at worksites as a leader of colleagues. each site, a new practical onsite improvement seminar has been established. Training system Participants toured around the warehouse taken up as The Company focuses on developing human resources the case study, looked for issues and ingenious points that can precisely respond to internal and external needs. that are devised, and discussed methods of improvement The Company therefore strives to upgrade employees’ within the training groups. These tasks enabled business skills and the organization’s strength through participants to learn practical knowledge which can be training by service year of employment. At the same time, utilized in the improvement of each of their worksites. VOICE Reflection on the Onsite VOICE Reflection on the Onsite Logistics Logistics Capability Training Capability Training Atsushi Nishida (Initiative to Reduce Overtime) Daikoku No. 2 Office, Yokohama Branch Tatsuya Yokoyama took the safety and health and logistics Sairyo Service Co., Ltd. I improvement courses. At the logistics learned about the actual initiative to reduce improvement course, I reconfirmed that I overtime work at the Komaki Office, Nagoya eliminating even a few seconds of wasted time can lead Branch, as an example of a specific measure to to significant long-term improvement in the efficiency of reduce overtime, its rationale and the resulting actual operations. I noticed that my awareness of improvement reduction of overtime. in operational efficiency had not been strong enough, The busier the situation, the more difficult it is to distracted by handling many daily duties. Also, I learned change the status quo. However, I was impressed by the about the Nagoya Branch’s initiative to reduce overtime concerted efforts throughout the worksite toward work. I would like to contribute to creating a better work improvement, which also refreshed my belief in the environment at my worksite so that everyone can work importance of teamwork as a driving force toward with ease. improvement. It was a good opportunity that helped me reconsider Applying what I learned to my worksite, I intend to the creation of a more pleasant work environment and cooperate with colleagues and associates toward the improvement of daily operations at warehouse sites. operational improvement.  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Chinese national staff training 2 Chinese language training The middle level staff training Offsite meetings Training for (Deputy) General Managers Conducted Training Targeting the Young Conducted Training Targeting Employees Engaging Staff of Subsidiaries and Affiliates in Real Estate Business for the First Time We conducted two trainings for the young staff of subsidiaries For employees engaging in real estate business and affiliates at the Sengokuhara Training Center, on February operation for the first time, we conducted training on 5–6, 2015, and March 9–10, 2015, for the purpose of February 16–25, 2015, so the participants could improving the management capability of the entire Group in acquire basic knowledge on the real estate business. accordance with the Management Plan. Eight participants learned basic knowledge on the These training programs, each attended by about 15 outline of the Company’s real estate business, lease/ persons from the Company’s subsidiaries and affiliates, rental contracts and income and expense calculation. focused on safety and health, communication capabilities and They acquired a deeper understanding of the outline of followership, which is designed to nurture future leadership. businesses conducted by the buildings, residences These programs became a place where one could and commercial facilities businesses of the Company. interact with employees from other companies of the Group and helped enhance the motivation of each participant. VOICE Participating in the Training for Young VOICE Participating in the Training Targeting Staff of Subsidiaries and Affiliates Employees Engaging in Real Estate Noriko Tohyama Business for the First Time General Affairs Division, Dia Systems Corporation Takaya Kikuchi Real Estate Business Dept. Nagoya Branch t the training for young staff of subsidiaries and A affiliates, I learned about safety and health, mental t this training, which lasted about two weeks, I healthcare, young staff’s roles/responsibility and A learned the general content, including the followership. Company’s real estate business and issues, by The group workshop, where various opinions were listening to lectures given by each of the office building, exchanged among diverse participants from different types residences, commercial facilities and operations teams, and of business, was a great experience for me, as I felt that via workshops and property tours. The property tours were listening to diverse viewpoints helped to broaden my conducted by senior-level staff who had been part of the perspective. Also, because all the participants were young, it Nihonbashi Dia Building project, residential development and was easy for me to make comments and it didn’t take much operation of a commercial facility (Yokohama Bay Quarter), time to get to know each other. It was a good opportunity for and I listened to their way of thinking and their experiences, employees of subsidiaries and affiliates to interact with each which was a great experience for me. Using the knowledge I other, and we enjoyed learning many things there. gained through this training and with a sense of responsibility I would like to strive to use the knowledge I got at this and self-awareness, I would like to strive daily to help training for my work. improve the building management operation at the Nagoya  (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) Dia Building, which I am assigned to. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 21 Appropriate Working Environment Human resources (training) systems National-type employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Development policy: Have the participants experience a variety of roles and duties. For 12 years after joining the Company, transfers are conducted at intervals of about four years, in principle. Strengthen management capability Enhance readiness for globalization Upgrade operational capability Stratified training Health Selfpromotion, etc. development Training for (Deputy) (Objective of the common stratified training) · Acquire skills necessary for Life plan General Managers Management training for employees seconded to subsidiaries different levels seminar · Clarify the Company’s DNA by · Recognize the role required for reflecting on the corporate each level history of Mitsubishi Logistics Health · Raise organizational management capability promotion Leadership training for managerial seminar section chiefs and general managers Onsite logistics capability training English conversation course Chinese conversation course Emerging countries’ legal and labor affairs and accounting training (as needed) Global mind development training (as needed) National staff training (as needed) · Leadership, etc. (Applicable to Executives) Correspondence education · Improve onsite operating capability Training for newly appointed managerial The middle level staff training · Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. section chiefs and general managers · Acquire operating knowledge on distribution · Acquire basic management skills · Understand the management centers, transportation, etc. · Improve perspectives via action policy and management skills · Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. learning, etc. · Nurture problem-solving capabilities at worksites, etc. Newcomers’ Training at the 6th year Management training by theme worksite instructors Training via · Nurture leadership and training dispatching to followership (Compulsory) Leadership subsidiaries or · Acquire basic marketing · Improve nurturing capabilities, etc. (Compulsory) Labor management capability as affiliates Training at the 2nd year Young staff overseas dispatch program (Compulsory) Accounting worksite instructors (Selective) Marketing · Improve logical thinking capability (Selective) Motivation management · Acquire legal expertise on logistics, etc. (Selective) Critical thinking Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training · Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs · Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination · Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course · Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. Region-type employee development course: Upgrade operational capability Stratified training Health Selfpromotion, etc. development Basic role: Become familiar with and (Objective of the common stratified training) understand the characteristics · Acquire skills necessary for Life plan or features and local business different levels seminar · Recognize the role required for duties of a certain region in each level Health preparation for the smooth * Training may be conducted for each region or at the store level. promotion fulfillment of corporate Onsite logistics capability training seminar operations. · Improve onsite operating capability Development policy: Nurture employees via OJT· Acquire knowledge on safety and health, etc. · Acquire operating knowledge on distribution Correspondence education focused training and rotate jobs centers, transportation, etc. Training on regional office duties so that employees can become · Acquire knowledge on logistics improvement, etc. · Grasp one’s own strengths and weaknesses familiar with operating knowNewcomers’ worksite · Improve communication capabilities how in various areas. instructors training · Improve nurturing capability as Training at the 6th year worksite instructors · Nurture leadership and followership, etc. Training at the 2nd year · Acquire knowledge on logistics, etc. Training by division Newcomers’ second-half training Newcomers’ first-half training · Learn basic knowledge on general corporate operations Registered customs · Learn basic knowledge on trading practices specialist examination · Visits to logistics and real estate facilities of the Company course · Acquire business manners as a member of society, etc. 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of people. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group strengthens such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Reduction of CO2 emissions as a 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company measure for reducing climate change All offices of the Warehousing Business Division Port and Harbor Operations Division (Part of the container terminals of the Port of Certified under the Logistics Efficiency Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) Improvement Act*, we are integrating logistics 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group bases and reducing the environmental burden. Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing Obtaining the same certification under the following six business (Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the Warehousing business plans, we made transportation and Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) distribution systems more efficient by integrating logistics bases for customers who used to employ multiple logistics bases, thereby reducing the number of delivery trucks. By collecting customers’ freight and We ensure compliance with the Law implementing joint delivery, we reduce emissions of Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc. greenhouse gases (CO2), contributing to a reduction of As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Law the environmental burden. Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, the Company is obliged to reduce per-basic unit energy use more 1. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, North than 1% on an annual average on a mediumto longBuilding (Started operation in November 2005) term basis at facilities we own and rent. Moreover, we 2. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 3 submit a regular report on energy saving and a (Started operation in April 2008) mediumto long-term energy-saving plan to the 3. Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse (Started Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. The values operation in November 2008) we reported to the Ministry in fiscal 2014 (the actual 4. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 1 (Started results for fiscal 2013) show that our energy-saving operation in December 2008) measures resulted in a more than 10% reduction of 5. Osaka Branch, Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 (Started per-basic unit energy use compared with the base year operation in October 2012) fiscal 2009. We are also striving to reduce CO2 6. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 2 (Started emissions at our real estate facilities subject to the operation in March 2013) Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Web The actual results of our environmental conservation efforts and our total CO2 emissions reduction directive under the * The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance can be Integration and Streamlining of Distribution Business, implemented on viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” October 1, 2005) The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social logistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics Report>Extended version bases and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics processing comprehensively. Business plans under this law are approved We continue to achieve a significant energy-saving effect as a comprehensive efficiency plan and supported by the authority. by improving our air-conditioning heat source system. Through obtaining the Green Management Certification, At the Ohi Cold Storage Warehouse of the Tokyo we are promoting environment-friendly business activities. Branch, we renewed a chiller that was nearing the end of its life. The renewal work was completed and The Group obtained the Green Management operation started in March 2015. For the renewal of Certification, which pursues profitability and chillers, we plan to change the heat source from city environmental conservation by promoting environmentgas to electricity and introduce high-efficiency screwfriendly business activities from the certification type chillers, thereby reducing energy consumption by registration organization Foundation for Promoting about 45% compared with the energy use before the Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation renewal. (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 23 Environmental Conservation We are promoting renewal of the a new landmark with an LED lighting plan that distinguished the arch window on the fifth floor and the historic “captain’s onboard existing lighting system to LED lighting cabin” sitting on the roof of the lower part of the building. This LED to achieve significant energy saving. lighting plan includes highly energy-efficient point light source To save energy and reduce CO2 emissions with regard to the equipment at the ends of the warehouse exhausts, which were lighting systems inside the Company’s warehouses, we are installed on the exterior walls of the preserved lower part of the promoting renewal of the existing lighting systems nearing the building. end of its life, to high-efficiency lighting equipment. The Kobe Harborland commercial facility complex umie In fiscal 2013, the Company shifted a total of 3,100 existing MOSAIC was selected for creating a splendid night view of its lighting units to LED lighting at warehousing facilities (Tokyo entire facility, which improved the capability to bring in more Branch, Ohi Warehouse A; Yokohama Branch, Daikoku customers; using the color of LED lighting close to the ambience Warehouses A and D; Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse A; of gas light, thereby expressing an atmosphere of a port town; and Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1, 1F and 3F; Kobe converting existing overseas furniture lighting into LED to continue Branch, Rokko Warehouses A through C; and Fukuoka Branch, to cherish it in a more energy-efficient way with environmental Chuo Futo Warehouse). In fiscal 2014, a total of 2,800 lighting considerations. units were converted to LED lighting at six facilities (Tokyo Branch, Ohi Warehouse B; Yokohama Branch, Atsugi Warehouse The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “Top E; Nagoya Branch, Kinjoh Warehouse; Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1, 2F and 4F; Kobe Branch, Rokko Level Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Warehouse D; and Fukuoka Branch, Hakozaki Warehouse A). Environmental Security Ordinance. A reduction of approximately 840 thousand kWh in electric The Eitai Dia Building was certified as a “Top Level Facility” under energy, which corresponds to approximately 1.7% of the annual the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance, in electric energy consumption at the Company’s warehousing February 2015, under the Green Building Program for “Top-Level facilities, is expected by renewing the existing lighting to LED Business Facilities in Measures Against Global Warming” lighting (5,900 units in total). certification system.*1 The “Certified Top-Level Business Facilities in Measures We are promoting solar power Against Global Warming” are “business facilities that have made generation. outstanding progress in the implementation of measures against global warming” recognized by the Tokyo Metropolitan In line with the government’s policy of enhancing the use of Government as offices complying with the standards designated renewable energy to cope with global warming and other issues, by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government under the Tokyo the Company is promoting the adoption of large-scale solar Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Under the power generation facilities at the Company’s existing mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas warehousing facilities using the Renewable Electric Energy emissions and an emissions trading program, less stringent Feed-In-Tariff (or fixed-price purchase system of electricity from reduction targets are applied for the certified facilities.*2 renewable energy). Although the Eitai Dia Building, which was completed in In fiscal 2014, solar power generation facilities were 1991, is quite aged, the proper renovations, renewal, and completed and started operation at three facilities—Tosu maintenance of the facilities and equipment were highly evaluated Warehouse (started operation in June 2014; 760 kW), Rokko and certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility in fiscal 2010. After Cold Storage Warehouse (started operation in October 2014, being certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility, the air-conditioning 310 kW) and Sendai Warehouse (started operation in December heat source for computer rooms has been updated to a high2014; 490 kW)—for total output of 1,560 kW. efficiency version; inspection and verification of the performance The total output resulting from the adoption of large-scale of the adopted facilities and equipment (commissioning) has been solar power generation facilities at the Company’s existing conducted; and continual improvement of the building warehousing facilities using the Renewable Electric Energy management has been made in cooperation with the residents of Feed-In-Tariff is 2,030 kW, including the 470 kW output from the building and a building management company of the group. Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, which was completed and started These efforts were highly evaluated, and the Eitai Dia Building operation in fiscal 2013. now is ranked a Top-Level Facility. At the Tokyo Dia Building, which was certified as a Near-TopThe Company received the Good Level Facility in fiscal 2011, and at other facilities of the company Lighting Award. as well, we will make aggressive efforts to further reduce the environmental burden by promoting renovations and renewals of The Nihonbashi Dia Building and the Kobe Harborland commercial facilities and equipment to environment-friendly versions, and facility complex umie MOSAIC received the Good Lighting Award improving management and operation. 2014, awarded by the Illuminating Engineering Institute of Japan. The Good Lighting Award, initiated in 1957, is awarded to *1. The Tokyo Metropolitan Government certified five business facilities as facilities that are evaluated by the Illuminating Engineering Institute Top-Level Facilities in fiscal 2014. Since the certification system started of Japan to be superior in visual environment, lighting technique, in fiscal 2010, a cumulative total of 87 business facilities have been certified (40 Top-Level Facilities and 47 Near-Top-Level Facilities). and lighting effects, etc., from among the buildings completed *2. The mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas during the year. emissions for Top-Level Facilities are reduced by half and those for The Nihonbashi Dia Building was highly evaluated for creating Near-Top-Level Facilities by a quarter. 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., obtained Green We are promoting environmental conservation Management Certification in its trucking with regard to information system equipment. business, striving for environmental conservation. In adopting information system equipment, we select For trucking business operators, addressing models that use less energy. In fiscal 2014, we adopted environmental issues is one of the highest priorities. 266 selected units at our operating bases. Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso Transportation”), a specialized trucking company that is We are promoting environmental conservation not the center of the Company’s trucking division, has obtained the Green Management Certification*1 at all only at our operational sites but also at our offices. six of its branches (seven operational bases) starting in Promotion of summertime energy saving 2005, striving to reduce environmental burden. We strove to save energy during the summertime (May In fiscal 2014, Ryoso Transportation improved gas through October 2014) by participating as a Group in mileage by 3.2% compared with fiscal 2006. the Cool Biz campaign, which calls for offices to set Specifically, in our efforts to promote eco-driving to their air-conditioning thermostats at a warmer-thanimprove gas mileage and reduce emissions of air usual temperature of 28˚C. pollution substances, we are conducting vehicle Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery inspections and maintenance with our own high and other office supplies standards. We also adopt low-pollution vehicles that When we purchase office supplies, we not only meet the latest restriction regulations for gas emissions. consider quality and price but also choose products Promotion of “Green Purchasing” with less environmental impact—Green Purchasing. Business operators are also facing demands to purchase products and services with less environmental burden. At Ryoso Transportation, we are aggressively purchasing retread tires,*2 eco-stationery, etc. Use of renewable resources *1. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological The construction of a Disaster-Resistant Transportation is a public utility foundation that has been certifying and registering business operators making efforts to reduce the and Eco-Friendly Office building was environmental burden at a level exceeding the standards outlined in the Green Management Promotion Manual since October 2003. completed and the operation started. *2. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby restoring the tire’s original functionality. Nihonbashi Dia Building, a commercial building for rent The commissioning of recapping to produce retread tires is listed as a with 18 aboveground floors, a basement and a total “Designated Procurement Item” under “Services” in the Green floor area of 30,000 m2, is a Disaster-Resistant and Purchasing Law. Eco-Friendly Office Building completed in September 2014. The lower floors of this building are used as the Change of total gas mileage at all operational sites Company’s Head Office and trunk rooms. (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2014) (Unit: km/L) Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Vehicles for 2.45 2.53 2.59 2.63 2.58 2.59 2.52 2.48 2.53 business (100.0) (103.1) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) (105.7) (102.9) (101.3) (103.2) use Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. 114 112 110 107.5 108 105.6 105.5 105.7 106 104 103.1 102.9 103.2 101.3 102 100.0 100 98 96 94 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) Nihonbashi Dia Building Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 25 Environmental Conservation (1) Major disaster-prevention functions (2) Major environmental functions a. Earthquake-proof performance a. Solar power generation system The whole building is designed to ensure high Solar power generation facilities that can generate earthquake performance 1.5 times superior approximately 45 kW of energy are installed on the wall and to the requirements set by the Building rooftop surfaces and contribute to reducing CO2 emissions Standards Act. by approximately seven tons per annum. We adopted a seismic-isolation structure for b. LED lighting the intermediate stories of the building by The lighting of the entire building is now LED lighting. An installing 22 seismic-isolation rubber units, advanced energy-saving lighting system, which combines four oil damper units and 11 steel dampers daylight control and motion sensors, is adopted. under the floor at the seventh floor of the c. Reduction of air-conditioning load building for the purpose of seismic isolation For the rental offices on the eighth to 17th floors, light of higher stories and improving earthquake shelves have been installed to shield sunlight; the southresistance of the lower stories of the building. facing core placement helps reduce the air-conditioning b. Flood-control measures load; and the west-side windows have automatic electric Electricity rooms and other critical facilities blinds that adjust the slats’ angle according to the are installed on the seventh floor and the movement of the sun. rooftop, and the equipment rooms such as The second to sixth floors, where the Head Office of the the water-receiving tank, which needs to be Company is located, have improved insulation functions at installed underground, are watertight. In openings to reduce the air-conditioning load. addition, water shut plate has been installed d. Low-E Glass on the exterior walls of the building. Low-E Glass (heat-shielding high-insulation double-glazed c. Power outage measures glass), which has a high infrared thermal radiation reflection To prepare for an emergency power supply ratio and high insulation performance, has been adopted. system, two power supply systems (mainline e. Rooftop greening and standby) are available to receive To help address the urban heat island issue, greenery electricity from two different substations. For spreads across an approximately 300 m2 area of the rooftop emergency power generation that operates in of the building to create an environment where people can case of a power outage, the Dual Fuel system enjoy nature. has been adopted, using two types of fuel— f. CASBEE city gas (no limit of operation) and heavy oil The building has obtained the highest “S” evaluation (lasting 72 hours). according to the Comprehensive Assessment System for d. Water supply and sewerage system measures Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE) by implementing Equipped with a special well for use in case energy-saving systems and other measures. of a disaster and a system to filter flushed g. Energy-saving performance assessment water from toilets, toilets can be used as The building is expected to acquire the highest evaluation usual even in case of a disaster when water of “AAA” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Government supply and sewerage system is shut down. Building Energy Performance Certificate program, Well water taken from a special well is made significantly surpassing the standard values in terms of the drinkable by a filtering device. Perimeter Annual Load (PAL), which is the annual burden coefficient, by approximately -37%, and the energy reduction rate (ERR) by approximately 45%. We are expanding the use of the electric car i-MiEV manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. Contribution to the recovery As one measure under the Environmental Voluntary Plan that of the eco-system the Company formulated, we are promoting the replacement of gasoline cars, which consume gasoline and emit much CO2, Conducting reforestation through volunteer with electric cars that emit no CO2 exhaust. We have activities and donations as a partner of formulated an electric car introduction plan considering the use reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture of various subsidies for electric cars and the completion status of the relevant infrastructure To address the global environment from the perspective including high-speed charger of preservation of biodiversity, we participated in a equipment for adopting such partnership program of reforestation of Kanagawa cars. As a result, in fiscal Prefecture and initiated related activities in April 2011. 2014 we introduced five (The reforestation activity that was scheduled in June electric vehicles in our 2014 was called off due to bad weather.) stores, with 27 electric vehicles now in use. MINICAB MiEV at the Nagoya Branch Web The data on the status of introducing electric cars can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version 26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition In fiscal 2014, we conducted a questionnaire with regard to Web site information security in August 2014 (answered by 1,444 and promotion of fair and open competition persons), in September 2014 (427 persons) and in November 2014 (808 persons), thereby raising the awareness of information We conduct training concerning compliance with the security among the cumulative 2,679 people who answered the questionnaire. Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading. Web with regard to Information Security can be viewed on In March 2015, we conducted training concerning the Act against Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., covering the HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Company and its domestic group companies. Approximately 1,826 Report>Extended version employees who are in charge of implementing the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and related associates from each division attended the training and learned the Management of Information Security purpose of the law, the scope of applications, responsibilities and 1. Security of customer information (personal information) prohibited matters using related questions on our Web site. In 2. Security of intellectual property rights February 2015, we conducted training related to the prevention of 3. Confidentiality obligation insider trading for a total of 40 new employees and verified their 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, obligation understanding using related questions on our Web site. of compliance with regulations and penalties Also, in March 2015, we conducted training related to the Act 5. Management of information assets against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., at our 6. Formulation of security measure standards (Development Tokyo, Osaka and Fukuoka branches. A total of 113 employees standard, management standard, outsourcing standard) who are responsible for or in charge of implementing the Act 7. Monitoring and supervision against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., from each 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses branch and affiliated company learned and discussed the purpose 9. Access authority control of the law, the scope of applications, responsibilities and prohibited 10. Information security education matters based on the gist of the in-house manual and case studies presented in the manual. Management of Network Security Web Actual performance data on the training concerning thorough compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house Proceeds, etc. and prevention of insider trading can be viewed on network) Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” 2. Rules for e-mail use HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 3. Rules for dispatching information Report>Extended version 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the Company We focus on information security to provide high-quality and secure services for customers. Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch trunk room office and Dia Systems Corporation (our To provide the best services for our customers, the Company subsidiary to develop and manage our information formulated various rules related to information systems. We have system) both acquired ISO27001 certification, an disseminated our information security policy to all employees. international information security management system To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, standard, and receive periodic evaluation by a certifying we formulated specific compliance matters as to the use and organization-approved third-party organization, thereby management of our in-house network. Also, we appoint a LAN attesting to our efforts to improve our information manager from each branch’s information system section and OA security. promotion staff from the relevant section of each division that uses the network, ensuring safety and the effective use of our in-house network. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 27 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally useful and high-quality services and maintain service functions even during emergencies. Provision of socially and environmentally The Warehousing Business Division has quality management groups. beneficial high-quality services At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes of maintaining and improving the quality of business We will continue to promote the improvement of activities of the entire Division, the Head Office and all quality, aiming to be a company that enhances branches have a quality management group. We the quality of our customers’ products. complete operational documents and share information on various measures. We will continue to aim to The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote enhance customer satisfaction. its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of services to get acknowledged by customers as a constantly reliable partner. Each operating site and affiliated company We aim for high quality from the customers’ conducts specific quality improvement measures. perspective. To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics To become a corporation that is continuously chosen Group conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at by customers, we conduct business activities based each operating site and affiliated company. The content on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. and results of such efforts are horizontally developed To achieve customer satisfaction, we have broadened across the Group. Some of these measures are as the framework of quality enhancement to include the follows. quality of operations, business duties and the corporation itself. Moreover, to ensure trust from customers, we will build on our efforts at ensuring good quality to become a corporation that can boast “quality” as its strength. Our Quality Declaration has been disseminated. We put up an “Our Quality Declaration” notice at each worksite, distributed the “Our Quality Declaration” cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group and explained about it during stratified trainings, etc., to further disseminate the information. We connect employee satisfaction to customer satisfaction. To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable element. We strive to enhance the motivation of each employee. We believe that creating a good work environment where employees can engage in business activities with confidence and contact customers with a smile will eventually lead to Customer Satisfaction (CS). Warehouse patrol conducted and meetings held by the 4S Activities Promotion Committee 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies Divisions or Branches and Content of measures Group companies Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all Distribution the operating bases to share information on Business Division improvement of quality. Determined issues on operational procedures by Tokyo Branch monitoring the interior of warehousing facilities. Office where the G-MIWS was adopted G-MIWS screen The 4S Activities Promotion Committee (Ohi Office, Tokyo Branch) Yokohama Branch patrolled the warehousing facilities and made evaluations on each checklist item. VOICE Conducted a campaign to continue zero Osaka Branch accidents and commended a group that engaged most passionately. Conducted a safety patrol at all the operational Working to install Ryoso sites including the business sites of the Transportation delivery subcontractors to prevent accidents the G-MIWS system and raise awareness of safety. Naoki Yamaguchi Kyokuryo Warehouse Conducted a safety patrol inside the premises Group Manager, System Co., Ltd. every day to prevent accidents. Implementation New MIWS Project Promotion Div. Shinryo Koun Co., Provided full technical training to improve Dia Systems Corporation Ltd. workers’ technical capability. ollowing the first full-scale operation, which Mitsubishi Logistics Improved and implemented the human F took place at the Aomi Office, Tokyo Branch, resources development system at all the China Co., Ltd. in April 2014, we have been promoting the adoption Group companies in China. Collected accident-related information at each of the G-MIWS system at all 47 Mitsubishi Logistics Shanghai Linghua division and department, analyzed the tendencies operational bases, aiming to complete installation Logistics Co., Ltd. and gave feedback to all managerial staff. within the first half of fiscal 2017. Yokohama Dia Collected information on complaints from customers For the installation of the system, we are paying Building Management through outsourced companies and shared the Corporation information at meetings with the tenants. attention to the following points: Newly established the Quality Management 1. Contribute to customers by improving the Dia Buil-Tech Co., quality of our logistics services. Division and formulated a manual for standard Ltd. procedures of building management operation. 2. Review office operations to achieve “1” above (improve the operational flow and utilize the system). To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we are 3. To deepen the understanding of the operation adopting the G-MIWS (a new information system related to through the installation of the new system, thereby strengthening the capability of the warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation). system department. As a successor model of the current system, MIWS/ Although it will take a while to complete the MESH (Mitsubishi Intelligent Warehouse System/ installation of the new system, I would like to Mitsubishi Efficient and Speedy Handling System), the continue this effort so the operation of the new Company developed a new system, G-MIWS, of which system can start smoothly at each operational the first full-scale operation took place at the Aomi base. Office, Tokyo Branch, in March 2014, followed by the (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) start of operation of the system at the Ohi Office of the same branch in September 2014. Our goal is to complete the installation of the G-MIWS by the end of fiscal 2016. The “G” of “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” aiming to expand the Company’s logistics business to integrate nationwide and overseas logistics, which is included in the Basic Policy of the Company’s Management Plan. Our system is available in English and Chinese for overseas use and is designed to be effective in standardizing operations, improving service quality and reducing costs. By dislosing various types of logistics-related data, we will analyze operations, formulate sales strategies, provide useful information for customers’ decision making in a timely manner and provide even higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully support customers’ business development from the aspect of logistics. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to We implemented training for earthquake measures. maintain service functions In March 2015, via the joint efforts of the Head Office and the Tokyo Branch, we implemented training for We are working on crisis-preventive measures earthquake measures in which an executive in charge and measures to focus on crises promptly and approximately 50 employees participated. This and effectively in case of such occurrence. training simulated the first few days after the occurrence of an earthquake immediately below the The basic purpose of our crisis management measures Tokyo metropolis, which was newly predicted in is to predict various crises that can seriously affect December 2013. Through this simulation training, we corporate management, prevent such crises and, in learned how to make status judgments; verified the case of occurrence, focus on the crisis quickly and liaisons among the Head Office, the branches and the effectively to minimize damage to human and physical operational worksites; and confirmed the roles of each management and restore the normal operational department and operational site; and integrated structure quickly. Especially, with an aim to become information management. disaster-resistant in software and hardware, we have developed “Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Web Actual performance data on the training for earthquake measures can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web Warehouses.” site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version To fulfill our corporate social responsibility, we intend to: 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and related people; 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. To respond to trust in our corporation from society, we will: 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders (customers, shareholders and business partners), and Headquarters for earthquake Branch office for earthquake measures 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. measures and training (Head Office) and training (Tokyo Branch) We implemented disaster prevention training. VOICE Participating in the training To take the initial measures to prevent disaster damage from for earthquake measures spreading, we organized a self-defense disaster prevention Hiroyuki Sekiguchi squad for each building. We conducted disaster prevention Harbor Transportation Dept., Tokyo Branch training at the Head Office on April 25, 2014, raising the he training simulated a highly specific preparedness for emergency. In addition, as an emergency T emergency situation and had extensive measure, we implemented large-scale disaster measure content. training with mandatory employee participation, thereby In a situation where issues are incoming one reinforcing the disaster countermeasure system. The training after another, it dawned on me how difficult it is to involved use of a mobile phone safety confirmation service, take the most appropriate measure quickly, which restoration from disaster damage, a walking route for entering was a valuable experience for me. and leaving the office and using MCA wireless At the occurrence of an actual earthquake and communication. Moreover, by adopting an emergency my facing an emergency situation, I would like to earthquake and tsunami quick reporting system, we are address the situation fully utilizing this experience. striving to collect information quickly. Disaster prevention training led by a self-defense disaster prevention squad (Tokyo Dia Building) 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 The Nihonbashi Dia Building was The Company’s 11 facilities are support/relief goods commended by the Tokyo Fire Department. logistics base facilities designated by the Ministry At the Nihonbashi Dia Building, we worked on measures to of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. cope with earthquakes, flooding and power outages, etc. under The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Tourism, learning from its reflection on the Great East Buildings, with a primary focus on customers’ security, safety Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference, and business continuity. As a result, our aggressive initiatives attended by experts, logistics business operators and were highly evaluated, which included improving safety, such as people related to industry organizations, among others, ensuring the functionality of the building as a “property under fire to compile the “Basic concept on the support/relief prevention measures” and the launch of disaster-prepared goods logistics system,” which aims for the efficient building management and operation, were highly evaluated, and and smooth delivery of support/relief goods to afflicted we received a letter of areas at the time of a disaster. appreciation from the Fire Mr. Watabe, then General Manager of the Station Chief of the Warehousing and Distribution Business Division of the Nihonbashi Fire Station of Company, assumed a position as a committee member the Tokyo Fire Department representing warehouse operators, requested by the dated November 11, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, 2014, for our contribution and actively commented from the perspective of a to improving the safety of warehousing business operator. These discussions “property under fire Letter of appreciation from the Fire Station Chief of the concluded with the shared recognition that for the prevention measures.” Nihonbashi Fire Station of the Tokyo Fire Department delivery of support/relief goods at the time of a disaster, it is essential to fully utilize the expertise and facilities of We participated in the Disaster Logistics Training given by private logistics operators. the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, As part of the Disaster Logistics Training initiated by the Ministry mainly in the Kanto, Tokai and Tonankai regions, where of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism in fiscal 2013, a large-scale earthquake is foreseen in the near future, training for logistics for the delivery of support/relief goods was were designated as support/relief goods logistics held November 4-7, 2014, targeting logistics administration staff bases, including the Company’s seven facilities located of national and local governments, industry organizations of in the Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. In fiscal 2012, logistics business operators and logistics business operators two other facilities of the Company (in Fukuoka and from private corporations to prepare for a large-scale disaster. Saga) were newly designated as support/relief goods The Company’s staff also participated in the training. logistics bases. Based on the lessons learned from the Great East Japan In fiscal 2013, the further addition of two Earthquake, directions were shown on matters such as selection warehouses in Tobishima and Honjoh (both in Aichi of support/relief goods logistics bases and conclusion of Prefecture) brought the number of the Company’s agreements between municipalities and industry organizations to facilities to 11. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our cope with disasters. Via group discussions, participants gained public role as a warehousing business operator so that much knowledge about preparations such as the operational the designated 11 facilities of the Company can procedures taken by the personnel handling support/relief goods function well during a future large-scale disaster. and the information communication methods. Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief Web We will continue to work hard to fulfill our public role as a goods logistics bases can be viewed on Mitsubishi warehousing business operator in cooperation with the Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” government. HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version We are strengthening our information system crisis management structure to focus on disasters and other crises. To ensure continuous use of the information system even during an emergency, we established a disaster countermeasures center in the Kansai region to back up data and made our in-house network a duplicate information system. In addition, the Company has formulated a Aomi Warehouse No. 1, Tokyo Branch Rokko Warehouse D, Kobe Branch manual focused on information system disasters and other measures as countermeasures taken during operation of such systems against information Disaster countermeasures center in system disasters and failures. the Kansai region Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 31 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. Contribution to cultural activities We conducted a charity auction and a charity fair. VOICE Holding the charity event at Yokohama Bay Quarter At the Yokohama Bay Quarter, the Company’s Yui Ota commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held Sales Division, our fifth charity fair on Sunday, August 24, 2014, which Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation is the date of the Company’s inauguration. Blessed t Yokohama Bay Quarter, we held two events with good weather, the charity fair was enjoyed by far A this year—a charity fair during the summer more visitors than usual, and the products prepared for and a charity auction in the winter. the fair sold out. Sales proceeds from the charity fair Our fourth charity fair enjoyed a record number were ¥95,400, twice as much as usual. of visitors, including a family consisting of three The charity auction, our fourth, is a staple Christmas generations who called the fair a place where event we have held at this facility every year since games from the good old days could be enjoyed. 2010. The charity auction held in November 2014 had At our charity auction, which has been held popular soccer players of the local Yokohama since 2010, out of appreciation to visitors for F-Marinos team as guests, and participants ranged attending despite cold weather, we conducted our from children to adults. Sales proceeds from the first “high-five” event with Yokohama F-Marinos auction amounted to ¥229,000 by selling various players, which was immensely popular among the goods with the players’ autographs and popular visitors. Yokohama Bay Quarter products. We will strive to continue to implement The revenues from both events were donated to the enjoyable social contribution events to make Great East Japan Earthquake relief fund via the Yokohama Bay Quarter a shopping mall loved by Japanese Red Cross Society. At Yokohama Bay local customers. Quarter, we intend to continue to hold these events to (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics) contribute to society. Charity fair Yokohama F-Marinos charity auction High-Five Event ©Y.F.M. 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 We conducted a public benefit tree Contribution through donations, etc. planting event in China. Cosponsored a charity bazaar at our As part of our CSR activities in China, a public benefit overseas subsidiary in Vietnam tree planting event was conducted on Sunday, March 8, 2015, in collaboration among Mitsubishi Logistics At our overseas subsidiary in Vietnam, we offered China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding goods to and helped purchase admission tickets for a Co., Ltd., and Shenzhen Lingyang Global Forwarding charity bazaar that was sponsored by the Japanese Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch. Business Association of Ho Chi Minh City. Proceeds This event helped enhance the environmental from the charity were donated to hospitals in Ho Chi awareness of the employees and their families and Minh City to cover surgery and other medical fees for provided an opportunity outside work for them to underprivileged children. interact with each other to build friendships. Tree planting activity We conduct social contribution activities as a member of the Mitsubishi Group and participate in Charity bazaar the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Liaison Council. As a social contribution activity within the Mitsubishi We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf Group, we donate to academic and charitable as a community contribution. enterprises and conduct various volunteer activities. Also, as a member of the Mitsubishi Social Contribution Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group Liaison Council, we report on our related activities and cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup exchange information. Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as We participate in locally rooted one of the participating companies. volunteer activities. We participate in local communities’ cleanup activities as a volunteer. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 33 Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact. The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should, support and The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global respect the protection of Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval internationally proclaimed human Human in May 2014. rights; and Rights The UNGC is a voluntary Principle 2: Make sure that they are not corporate responsibility complicit in human rights abuses. initiative for businesses that are aiming for sustainable Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the growth as a responsible freedom of association and the member of society. The UNGC effective recognition of the right to asks companies to voluntarily collective bargaining; participate in creating a global Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of framework to take creative forced and compulsory labor; leadership. Labor At the World Economic Principle 5: The effective abolition of child Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Annan, then labor; and Secretary-General of the United Nations, proposed that Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in companies should observe the 10 principles in the respect of employment and areas of human rights, labor, the environment and occupation. anti-corruption to solve various problems that could occur due to internationalization and the global Principle 7: Businesses should support a expansion of businesses. In July 2000, the UNGC was precautionary approach to launched at the UN Headquarters in New York. As of environmental challenges; March 2015, approximately 12,900 companies and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote organizations around the world were members of Environment greater environmental UNGC. responsibility; and Based on its Code of Conduct, the Group will strive Principle 9: Encourage the development and to practice the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles as a diffusion of environmentally good member of international society. friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network Japan’s web site http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2015 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2015) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2014) Consolidated: ¥204.3 billion Nonconsolidated: ¥141.6 billion The number of employees 4,452 (excluding 64 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,375 temporary staff and 992 of the Mitsubishi employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) Logistics Group The number of 845 (excluding 145 employees on leave to work for other companies, 118 temporary staff and employees of the 564 employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Company Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operations; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (50 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyo Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Operations Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Service Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) Nippon Container Terminals Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated)  (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated)  (Unit: ¥billion) Revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 2,500 150 150 145 145 144 5,000 3,000 141 136 4,330 2,630 2,036 2,043 125 123 121 121 3,962 2,500 2,000 1,922 1,981 120 114 120 4,000 3,751 2,278 2,366 1,758 3,504 3,532 2,058 2,115 2,000 1,500 90 90 3,000 1,500 1,000 60 60 2,000 1,000 500 30 30 1,000 500 0 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 (fiscal year) CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Environmental and Social Report 2015, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2014. The environment Environmental conservation activity data (by business) *Basic unit denominator (figures from Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Basic unit denominator CO2 emissions Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 CO2 emissions basic unit Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,350 1,370 1,372 Warehousing and distribution Thousand t-CO2 32.8 37.1 36.4 business kg-CO2/m2 24.3 27.1 26.5 Thousand tons <Handling tons> 40 30 71 Harbor transportation business t-CO2 5.0 15.0 8 kg-CO2/thousand tons 124.5 504.2 112.7 Million km <Total transportation distance> 3.7 3.9 4.1 Overland transportation Thousand t-CO2 3.3 3.6 3.7 business kg-CO2/thousand km 896.7 921.1 911.8 Thousand m2 <Operational area> 635 684 681 Real estate business Thousand t-CO2 35.0 41.0 42.6 kg-CO2/m2 55.1 60.4 62.6 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 71.1 82.0 82.8 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kwh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 878 916 932 200 200 100 151.5 80.1 74.9 136 136 145.3 140.7 750 150 131 150 75 52.7 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m ) 3 (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 20 82.0 82.8 16.1 17.2 75 71.1 3 15 2.3 2.1 50 2 1.9 10 25 1 5 2.3 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) 2012 2013 2014 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard ● Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the harbor transportation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. ● Although the overland transportation business is not under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● Business sites for the harbor transportation business were restricted to three places where the Company is in charge of transportation under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy) were added. ● The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the guidelines of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. ● For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission volume shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (excluding the real estate business) and a number of the Group companies. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance Large scale companies CO2 emissions Unit: t-CO2 Status of introducing electric cars Emissions standard Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Tokyo Dia Buildings 33,531 36,062 31,661 29,593 26,607 Total number of 5 4 5 5 3 5 Eitai Dia Building 10,132 7,400 5,558 5,836 5,341 cars introduced Ohi Cold Storage Office 4,394 3,705 3,645 3,645 3,620 Total 48,057 47,167 40,864 39,074 35,568 Reduction 890 7,193 8,983 12,489 romotion of CSR Number of persons participated in awareness surveys and trainings aimed at disseminating the ber of timely and appropriate news releases Unit: case corporate philosophy and better understanding of CSR and compliance. Unit: persons Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements istics 8 2 3 Awareness surveys concerning l Estate 3 1 1 CSR and compliance 8 9 7 In-house 1,510 1,596 1,586 R 2 3 3 Domestic group companies 2,045 3,017 2,943 er 4 2 4 Total 3,555 4,613 4,529 al 25 17 18 Group training concerning CSR and compliance In-house — 133 60 rganizational Governance Domestic group companies — 44 69 Total — 177 129 ber of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination wareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 achievements achievements achievements ck on status of compliance Code of Conduct n-house 1,444 1,433 1,556 omestic group companies 2,952 2,938 2,671 verseas group companies — 72 90 otal 4,396 4,443 4,317 espect for Human Rights ber of persons participated in human rights enlightenment course for mination of employees’ awareness of human rights Unit: persons Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 achievements achievements achievements nings with lectures mployees, second-year employees, sixth-year 113 49 39 ees, middle-level staff, newly appointed erial section chiefs and general managers) ulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ber of persons participated in compliance lecture for Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act against ention of insider trading Unit: persons Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. Unit: persons Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements ouse 52 40 40 In-house 779 903 807 ber of respondents to information security questionnaire Domestic group companies 867 962 1,019 Total 1,646 1,865 1,826 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 achievements achievements achievements ber of questionnaires conducted Once Three times Three times ber of respondents (Unit: persons) 1,398 4,352 2,679 rovision of Safe, Quality and Useful Services ber of persons participated in training for earthquake measures Support/relief goods logistics base facilities at a glance Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Area used for Year/month of achievements achievements achievements Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction support/relief goods cution period February 2013 February 2014 March 2015 Tokyo Aomi Warehouse No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 Head Office, Head Office, Head Office, Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 ce Yokohama Branch Kobe Branch Tokyo Branch Yokohama Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 mber of participants Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Around 40 Around 60 Around 50 it: persons) Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse 2008.11 1,000m2 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Warehouse 2003.4 1,000m2
