sustainability report CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 ABOUT CLAS OHLSON Contents About Clas Ohlson From Here to Sustainability 1 About Clas Ohlson Our priorities Sights set on value creation: Interview with CEO and 2 Clas Ohlson is an international retail company that is expanding through new offerings, new stores and by establishing operations in new markets. 6 markets Head of Sustainability 4 Clas Ohlson offers products and services to solve everyday practical problems in six countries via more than 200 stores and online shopping. OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Our value chain How we prioritise 6 8 We have a wide range of affordable products in five product areas: Hardware, Electrical, Multimedia, Home and Leisure. The company is listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, has sales of more than 7.6 billion SEK and more 4,700employees What drives change? 9 than 4,700 employees. A 360° analysis 10 Our targets 11 Clas Ohlson offers a proactive, knowledgeable and available customer service, and an inspirational shopping experience through all sales 76 million visitors PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR channels. Our operations must be sustainable and respect people and Management approach and progress 14 the environment. Products for a more sustainable lifestyle 15 Resource-efficient business models Being an attractive employer 17 18 Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order business based in Insjön, Dalarna, Sweden. We have nearly one hundred years of retail 7.6 Energy efficiency 20 tradition and we like doing good business. Salesmanship is the core billion SEK Materials and chemicals in products 22 of the Clas Ohlson spirit and rests on four cornerstones: drive, warmth, in sales Human rights, children’s rights innovation and commitment. and working/labour conditions 23 Business ethics 25 Our role in society 26 Sales by market About this report 28 annual report 34 Outside Nordic countries, 5% 73 stores stores Finland, 10% Sweden, 46% Norway, 39% 85 stores OUR VISION 13 To develop Clas Ohlson stores into a leading international 1 store modern hardware retailer, 1 with high profitability that adds store* Dubai value for all stakeholders. Read more about Clas Ohlson in our Annual Report * Franchisestore CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 FROM HERE TO SUSTAINABILITY From Here to Sustainability Clas Ohlson has taken a structured approach to sustainability for almost ten years. For the past two years, we have focused on more emphatically integrating sustainability in our operations and strategies, so that we have the best basis for achieving our long-term ambition. Long-term ambition Resource-efficient value 2020 chain We reuse, recycle and invent products A sustainable customer offering and services and develop our ways of 2015/16 We promote products and services for working. All with the ambition of contria more sustainable lifestyle and help our buting to a more resource-efficient customers practically to reduce their envalue chain. An integrated approach We have made good progress in integrating social and vironmental impact. environmental issues into our strategy and our processes. Our sustainable customer offering plays an We have continued to systematically develop our range increasingly tangible role and helps us to of products for a more sustainable lifestyle. realise our vision. We have clear targets and key indicators, and we constantly monitor how we manage the impact of our operations. We strive to be an effective company that is an attractive employer for the dedicated employees who will help us to shape the future. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 1 OUR PRIORITIES Our priorities Our eight prioritised areas constitute the platform for how we strategically tackle sustainability issues. These areas are divided into three categories based on strategic relevance. CRITICAL IN REALISING OUR VISION SOUND BASIS FOR LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY Products for a more Resource-efficient Being an attractive Energy efficiency sustainable lifestyle business models employer As we continue to grow as a Clas Ohlson’s ambition is to have Our society is shifting slowly from Today, Clas Ohlson has about company, it is essential that our the right product offering in order a traditional linear approach to 4,700 employees in seven countriCO2 emissions do not increase at to achieve our financial targets and manufacturing, use and waste es. We must be an employer that the same rate. Consequently, our strengthen our brands. Our range toward a more circular economy. can retain and develop its employlong-term ambition is to decouple of products for a more sustainaWe intend to contribute by ees while simultaneously attracour CO2 emissions and growth. ble lifestyle plays a key role in this. creating more resource-efficient ting new talent if we are to contiClas Ohlson transports more than More than 10 per cent of our sales business models. Spare parts nue to be successful. Increased 550 million tonne kilometres of stems from products that distinguish sales extend our products’ service competition for employees means goods. More than 70 per cent of themselves as our most sustainable. life. Collecting ink cartridges, for that it is even more important to the CO2 emissions that we can Because many products have the example, helps customers to be a company that shares the address are linked to the transgreatest environmental impact when recycle. We will continue to devevalues of its employees. We find portation of goods. This makes they are used, we have an important lop services that solve everyday leverage in being a sustainable it imperative that we enhance role to play in enhancing awareness problems for our customers with and ethical company. Leadership, transportation efficiency even about environmental performance the lowest possible impact on the skills development and focus on more. But our work does not end and presenting alternatives, and environment. health and well-being equips us there. We also reduce energy use thereby enabling our customers to for the future and cultivates an in our daily operations – in our make well-informed choices. organisation prepared to shoulder stores, our distribution centre and new challenges. our offices. Read more on page 15 Read more on page 17 Read more on page 18 Read more on page 20 The three categories are described in more detail on page 11. 2 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 OUR PRIORITIES ONE STEP AHEAD OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS Materials and chemicals Human rights, children’s Business ethics Our role in society in products rights and working/labour Clas Ohlson has zero tolerance By acting as a positive force Clas Ohlson has more than conditions for corruption and bribery. Good in the communities in which 15,000 products in five different Clas Ohlson buys products from business ethics demands a strong we operate, we improve the product categories. Every year, 600 suppliers in Europe and 700 foundation in the form of goverconfidence that our employees, we replace about 15 per cent of manufacturers in Asia – mainly in nance, clear values and well-inforcustomers, and other local stakethe company’s product range. China, where the risk of violations med employees. We endeavour holders have in us. By viewing We see more consumer engagefrom our Code of Conduct are to ensure that all understand the impact that we have from the ment, more stringent legislative relatively high. Therefore, we place their roles and that the company perspective of future generations, requirements and raised insight great emphasis on making sure expects that everyone conducts we acquire the long-term thinking into the impact of hazardous that our partners meet our requithemselves in line with our Code we need in our work. Subsechemicals on our health and the rements concerning human rights, of Business Ethics, regardless of quently, we focus on children’s environment. Through setting working/labour conditions and the where in the world we do busirights. Our social engagement clear supplier requirements, good environment. To achieve lasting ness. In doing so, we can reduce stretches from Insjön in Dalarna control and increased transpachange, we invest in training and ethical risks and establish credibilito the local communities in the rency, we ensure that we are guidance for our suppliers. ty for our way of doing business. countries where our products are always one step ahead and can The greatest risk of bribery and manufactured. retain our customers’ confidence. corruption exists in the sourcing process. Read more on page 22 Read more on page 23 Read more on page 25 Read more on page 26 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 3 SIGHTS SET ON VALUE CREATION Sights set on value creation In an interview from earlier this spring, Clas Ohlson’s CEO Klas Balkow and Head of Sustainability Åsa Portnoff Sundström explained what From Here to Sustainability means for the company and in relationships with consumers and other stakeholders. What role does Clas Ohlson and retail play in the Consequently, sustainability is a key element in reafor how we should develop and improve in the transition to a more sustainable society? lising our vision: to develop Clas Ohlson into a leading long term. We clarify what we do, why we do it KB: This is a huge question and, from my perinternational modern hardware retailer, with high and in what way it helps to create value. Our eight spective, one I would describe as retail being the profitability that adds value for all stakeholders. prioritised sustainability areas help us to navigate place where production and consumption meet. In ÅPS: Value creation is also a critical component in our our journey. combination with a large customer group and loyal business model. Increasingly more people are interested consumers this gives us a unique position to influin Clas Ohlson and have high expectations regarding Can you see today that your sustainability agenda has ence our entire value chain. Clas Ohlson contribuour offering, how we work and our role in society. We had positive financial impact? tes mostly to sustainability through our products create value by fulfilling these expectations. KB: The longer perspective is most important, but and services – both in how they are manufactured we can already see results. We see more sales of and the functions and features they provide. Information about From Here to Sustainability is readily sustainable lifestyle-supporting products, such as ÅPS: And, we can change customer attitudes and available in your stores. Can you explain? LED lightings. One of our new resource-efficient behaviour through the products we sell and the ÅPS: From an outside perspective, it is our platform business concepts includes the successful launch of knowledge we convey. for communicating our sustainability agenda and how deposits on cartridges, an initiative that we rolled we improve the customer offering in order to help our out in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK. On If we flip the question, what role does sustainabilicustomers maintain a more sustainable lifestyle. top of this, spare parts sales continue to climb. ty play for Clas Ohlson as a company and to your KB: It is more than that. From Here to Sustainability ÅPS: Timing is everything. We know where we strategy? also details the journey we as a company are making. are headed and we have set up clear targets along KB: It is our conviction that sustainability is a It provides clear direction for how we should persuade the way. While we must strategically launch new prerequisite for a long-term profitable business. our value chain to become more resource-efficient and 4 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 SIGHTS SET ON VALUE CREATION From Here to Sustainability provides clear direction for how we should persuade our value chain to become more resource-efficient and for how we should develop and improve in the long term. concepts and drive demand, we must do so when workers and their families. This is a good example of journey. But integration and management’s sincere the market is ready. how we try to learn from other organisations that have commitment are two of our greatest strengths. expertise in areas that are not our core business. What is the difference between what consumers want ÅPS: Another example of how we work strategically What challenges do you see? today and what they want in the future? with suppliers is our endeavour to gradually transition KB: All changes take time and we see a challenge KB: Consumers of today want a broad range of overland freight to rail. Our target is 50 per cent by in continuing to develop our organisation, procesproducts at affordable prices, but not at any cost. 2020. We’ve gone from 41 to 44 per cent this year and ses and systems. In addition, our store employees Without a doubt, consumers expect the products we were recognised for our efforts with PostNord’s must have the right expertise about the products to be manufactured with respect for people and the environmental award for the second time. The way and their impacts in order to serve as good sustaienvironment. Looking to the future, consumers will we transport goods has a big CO2 impact, making it nability ambassadors when they meet our custoexpect products and services to offer even better essential that we identify sustainable transportation mers. For this reason, more employees need to environmental performance. The ramification of solutions. take part in the sustainability training program we this is that more resource-efficient solutions will introduced last year. become more important parameters in purchasing Klas, you mentioned that sustainability affects how Clas decisions. This opens up business opportunities for Ohlson evolves as a company. How much progress have you In conclusion, what is the next step in your us. I feel that we are moving in the right direction made in integrating these issues? sustainability work? with solar power lighting and sales of spare parts, KB: The eight prioritised sustainability areas are inteÅPS: To gain more in-depth knowledge within a for example, but we can more and plan to do much grated in our strategy. Our sustainability agenda is not few priority areas before defining how we measure more. something we do on the side, but an integral compoand follow up our work – particularly in resournent when we plan our business. It requires commitce-efficient business models, materials and chemiIt is also a matter of making tough demands on suppment from management and emphasis that every funccals, and business ethics. Eventually, we also want liers, certainly? tion is responsible for advocating and developing these to better understand how sales channel choices KB: Absolutely. It is crucial for our industry. Comareas. I feel we are making progress all the time. Our – online shopping or store shopping – affect CO2 pliance with high labour and environmental stansustainability forum, made up of me as CEO, function emissions. Based on this knowledge, we can advise dards during the manufacture of our products is managers and other relevant representatives, define our customers to opt for the sales channel that has paramount, as is our ability to monitor this through our strategic orientation, targets and key indicators. the best environmental profile. We will also idenregular audits. Last year, we carried out 370 suppWe also monitor the work that is done. We apply the tify new strategic partnerships to strengthen our lier audits and we see that 98 per cent comply with ten principles of the UN Global Compact concerning position and potential for developing our product our requirements, with no major deviations. Of human rights, working conditions, the environment range and more resource-efficient business models. course, we also want to develop our collaboration and anti-corruption. with Save the Children to help Chinese migrant ÅPS: As you can tell, we are at the start of a long CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 5 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Our value chain To effectively manage our negative and positive impact, we must understand where in the value chain we can make the biggest difference. The value-chain perspective helps us to identify possibilities and risks, take responsibility and create value for our stakeholders. Manufacturing • Human rights, children’s rights and working/labour conditions • Business ethics Product development • Our role in society Transportation • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Energy efficiency • Materials and chemicals in products Operations • Being an attractive employer • Business ethics Sales End of the product life • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Materials and chemicals in products Product use • Resource-efficient business models • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Business ethics • Resource-efficient business models CRITICAL IN REALISING OUR VISION SOUND BASIS FOR LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY ONE STEP AHEAD OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS The three categories are described in more detail on page 11. 6 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA Product development Manufacturing Transportation Operations Sales Product use End-of-life products Together with strategic partClose to 70 per cent of our Transportation of more Some 4,700 employees in 205 stores in six countries Products often have the Participate in collection and ners for our own brands products manufactured than 550 million tonne seven countries and online shopping in four greatest environmental recycling schemes AREA in Asia kilometres of goods markets impact when being used • Water and energy • Code of Conduct and • Emissions of CO2 and • Skills development • Availability of products • Product lifetime • Waste efficiency quality requirements energy consumption • Diversity that have favourable • Environmental impact • Recycling • Replace material with • Anti-corruption and • Transportation efficiency • Health and well-being environmental during the product life • Reuse ISSUES more sustainable bribes • Packing rate and • Young people in our workperformance • Hazardous chemicals • Producer responsibility alternatives • Human rights freight consolidation force • Information about pro• Product safety and collection system • Packaging in new and existing • Energy efficiency and ducts for a more • Services for a more • Chemicals • Recyclability markets waste sustainable lifestyle sustainable lifestyle • Functionality • Migrant worker condi• Anti-corruption and bribes • Energy efficiency in stores • Spare parts • Product lifetime tions • Reduced impact from • Improved standards for • Reduced CO2 emissions • A high-performing • Loyal customers • Extend product usage • Less waste and more product use and resuppliers, their workers • More cost-efficient organisation • Dedicated employees • High confidence in the material recycling cycling and families and local transportation solutions • Attract and retain • Attractive, unique and products • Less chemicals to the VALUE CREATION • Relevant and unique communities skilled employees relevant product offering • Less waste and more environment products • Increased confidence in • Increased employee • Reduced energy costs resource efficiency the Clas Ohlson brand commitment • More information about • Less chemicals to the environmental impact environment • Reduced energy consumption and CO2 emissions • Cost savings ABILITY TO MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM HIGH HIGH LOW LOW INFLUENCE CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 7 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA How we prioritise Proliferation of chemicals ANALYSIS OF DRIVERS Climate change Clas Ohlson works according to a well-defined process for analysing, Access to Digitalisation prioritising and validating our most important sustainability issues. resources Demographic Environment Human We continue to develop our processes in order to identichanges rights and LONG LIST fy the most relevant sustainability issues, which provides Working conditions children’s rights OF ISSUES us with greater insight into the development of these Labour Governance issues and their importance to our business. conditions A five-stage process Society Relevance for Creating value The materiality process – the five stages are described Clas Ohlson’s WEIGHING for stakeholders in the diagram – provides year-by-year comparison of development OF ISSUES how the significance of these issues changes. We gain understanding of how we create value for our stakeholShareders by involving internal and external representatives. holders Players This also helps us better analyse the impact of sustainaSTAKEHOLDER in society Employees Consumers INTERVIEWS bility issues on how we manage risk and pursue business Customers opportunities. We have identified five global drivers as the basis of this analysis that are of particular importance to our industry VALUE CHAIN and market and we must therefore relate to. We have ANALYSIS drawn up a list of sustainability issues that could potentially be relevant to Clas Ohlson in its efforts to meet these drivers. The issues were then weighted based on EIGHT PRIORITISED an overall assessment of key stakeholders priorities and AREAS their role in developing the business within the strategy period. Our eight prioritised areas comprise the most material issues and are the result of the analysis. Supported by the Board Changes to analysis Development Goals (SDGs), the business sector has The outcome of the analysis is supported by senior Compared with prior years, we now see clearer commitaccepted calls to play a more important role in solving management and the Board and is integrated into the ment to climate issues from countries, intergovernmechallenges faced by society. Human rights also feature strategy. This year, focus was directed to enhancing ntal organisations and legislators, as well as regarding on the agenda. We see clearer expectations of companies understanding of the priorities of key stakeholders. Inchemicals and use of resources. The sharing economy to understand and be transparent about working condidepth interviews with key stakeholders provided greater has taken hold in the Nordic countries, offering new tions and human rights further down the supply chain, insight into the contribution of the sustainability work opportunities and altering the conditions for retail comfor example, new guidelines and legislation on conflict to the development of Clas Ohlson (page 10). panies. With the launch of the UN’s 17 Sustainable minerals. 8 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA What drives change? An analysis of global drivers and their long-term impact on our industry, market and society helps us to manage future risks and prepare us for new business opportunities. Clas Ohlson performs continuous analyses of the factors Digitalisation Proliferation of chemicals that affect our market and customer needs, which enhanWe are now beginning to see how digitalisation will The consumer society is also driving up the use and ces our ability to rapidly react to changes. The trends that impact and change society at large. Continuous access to proliferation of hazardous chemicals from consumer currently affect us the most are described in the 2015/16 information and a global market makes consumers more products. We can expect even tougher laws as we gain Annual Report (page 12). aware and engaged. Digitalisation makes it possible to greater knowledge of how these chemicals affect humans interact with customers through their customer journey and the environment and with a greater interest among In order to ensure the long-term aspect of our sustainaand guide them in making conscious and sustainable and higher transparency requirements from both legibility efforts and to provide a basis for our materiality choices. It also facilitates the development of more reslators and consumers. To meet such requirements, we analysis, we also study global drivers that help us to source-efficient services. Stiffer competition and expectahave to manage information about hazardous chemicals understand how changes in society will affect us over tions on adjustments, transparency and flexibility will in products, while striving to replace these with more the next 15 years. continue to change the customer offerings in retail, our sustainable alternatives. relationships with customers and how we are expected Climate change to assume responsibility across our value chain. Demographic changes Both the Paris Agreement of 2015 and the UN’s 17 SusToday’s population of the Nordic countries is expected tainable Development Goals are global agreements that Access to resources to rise by 10 per cent by 2030. Growth will primarily be put climate change at the top of the agenda for nations The consumer society consumes vast quantities of concentrated to the cities (Nordregio research). We see and society. The consequences for our industry are higher resources in the form of water, energy, materials and growing diversity among people with different cultural costs for the transportation of goods using fossil-fuel food. According to the WWF, we will need two Earths backgrounds and a larger elderly population. These intense modes of transport, such as air freight and trucks. to sustain our lifestyles by as early as 2030. Rising dedemographic changes could present challenges in terms Since household energy accounts for about 20 per cent mand for resources will affect both costs and availability, of customising the product range to more consumer of total CO2 emissions in the EU, consumers will increwhich results in a focus on improved resource efficiency, groups. Another challenge is to secure access to skilled asingly demand products and services that help them to innovation and lower environmental impact throughout people in an increasingly competitive labour market. reduce their costs and negative environmental impact. the value chain. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 9 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA We want to see a climate strategy, quantifiable targets and work being in line with business. That will make it long term. The highest priority is a sustainable supply chain. A 360º analysis Anna Nilsson, Head of Sustainability, Swedbank Robur We gain a better understanding of what is essential to the long-term, positive development of the company based on an overall assessment of key stakeholders priorities and the impact of sustainability issues on our possibilities to create value. Compiling information and knowledge from our most impact and enhanced transparency and control of Eight areas in three categories important stakeholders and understanding their view chemicals in products were also highlighted. Save the The assessment of our stakeholders analysis and the of the future helps us to meet expectations and provide Children stated that Clas Ohlson’s responsibility exteneffect of these issues on Clas Ohlson’s ability to create insight into how we can create value for them. We also ded beyond the employees of suppliers and also meant value resulted in eight prioritised areas, divided into analyse sustainability issues based on how important improved social conditions for employees’ families. three categories, based on strategic relevance (page 4): they are to the development of our business. • Critical in realising our vision: By being an The 2015 customers satisfaction survey revealed that industry leader with a sustainable offering as well Defining priorities our customers were aware that Clas Ohlson actively as by reaching out to as many as possible with our We identify the expectations of our key stakeholders works on environmental issues. The product category message, we can position ourselves and help our – shareholders, customers, employees and players in that has the most relevant offering of products for a customers to live with a higher level of awareness. society – and integrate their views into our analysis of more sustainable lifestyle is Electrical. • Sound basis for long-term profitability: By offsetthe most important issues. We conduct employee surting our negative impact from transportation and veys to obtain employee opinions on how to be a better The most recent employee survey from 2014 also shows our own operations on the environment, by manaemployer. We carry out annual customer satisfaction a good work climate and good leadership. More than ging and controlling chemicals in products and by surveys that include questions about how well we meet 85 per cent of our employees are proud of working for attracting and retaining the right composition of expectations regarding sustainable customer offerings. Clas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to employees, we have the right conditions to contiWe also hold in-depth interviews with representatives others as an employer. nue to positively develop the company. of strategic partners, investors and Board representati• One step ahead of our stakeholders’ expectations ves to understand their view of future developments. By being a listening organisation, acting in line with the expectations of others and by being aware Stakeholders’ view of Clas Ohlson We must start where we can make of our role in society, we create confidence in our One of the issues highlighted in the interviews conduthe greatest impact based on human brand and our way of doing business. cted during the financial year was the importance of a rights. For Clas Ohlson, this is the greater focus on innovation in general and long-term supply chain and migrant workers and Based on the results of the materiality analysis, we have profitability. It was emphasised that sustainability the situation of their children. defined relevant targets, key indicators and activities for efforts play a key role in this respect and, accordingly, Elisabeth Dahlin, the eight prioritised areas and integrated them into the this will be of greater importance in investment deciSecretary General of Save the operations and the strategy. sions. The significance of managing future risks in the Children Sweden supply chain, monitoring suppliers’ climate and water 10 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA CRITICAL IN REALISING OUR VISION Our targets Products for a more sustainable lifestyle Resource-efficient business models The eight prioritised areas for our sustainability work We have defined five criteria for proWe are working to identify and define what we should work with, why these areas are ducts for a more sustainable lifestyle evaluate new business opportunities important and how we will measure our progress. (page 15) to positively set apart that contribute to a higher degree of and clarify the products that have a resource efficiency. We already have significantly enhanced environmegrowing sales of spare parts and our ntal performance than comparable repair service is available in all of our products. To achieve our target, we markets. Within the framework of will continue to stimulate consuFrom Here to Sustainability, we will The value we create for mer demand, while we identify and engage consumers in reusing and create partnerships for developing extending the lives of products, while our stakeholders products for a more sustainable we also clearly state the significant lifestyle. environmental impact of the proCUSTOMERS ducts. • High availability of a broad, affordable and attractive range • Safe in the knowledge that what they buy has the Target: The percentage of products The area must be analysed in more lowest possible impact on people and the environment for a more sustainable lifestyle is detail in order to define long-term EMPLOYEES to represent at least 12 per cent of targets and key indicators. • A reliable and long-term employer who offers a sales by 2020. stimulating, developing and safe work environment SUPPLIERS Sales of products for Sales index for spare parts • Long-term and beneficial business relationships a more sustainable lifestyle, % (base year 11/12=100) • Guidance on responsible business SHAREHOLDERS 488 • A long-term, secure investment that yields solid 10* returns 349 SOCIETY 6 • Contribution to economic development 225 • Job opportunities 150 100 • Contribution to higher resource efficiency and lower 14/15 15/16 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 environmental impact Target 2020 12 % * The increase was partly due to the adjustment of the starting level. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 11 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA SOUND BASIS FOR LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY Being an attractive Materials and chemicals employer Energy efficiency in products Heath and well-being are indicators More efficient transport solutions We already impose higher requireof how we as an organisation live up contribute the most to our CO2 ments than those set by legislation to our core values. We are deveemission reductions. Most of our for products used by children or loping current employees through products – 93 per cent – are now that come into contact with skin or training. Enhancing suitability knowtransported by sea or rail, both of food. We are continuing to improve how is a focus area at all levels of which have favourable CO2 profiles. our processes to manage, control the organisation, as is attracting Our challenge lies in continuing to and remain transparent with this innew, talent employees with new skill manage the remaining 7 per cent, formation, which will also provide us sets. Part of successful leadership primarily by transferring transport with better conditions for identifying includes taking into account diversity from truck to rail and by continuing and prioritising chemicals that can issues, since we believe this benefits to use air freight as little as possible. be phased out. innovation and helps us to anticipate We also work with reducing energy the needs and challenges of our use in our daily operations – our growing markets. stores, our distribution centre and our offices. Target: Employee attendance Target: Reduce relative emissions The area must be analysed in more should exceed 96 per cent. of CO2 attributable to freight 50 per detail in order to define long-term cent by 2020 compared with 2007. targets and key indicators. Relative CO2 emissions from transportation, grams CO2 per tonne Employee attendance, % kilometre 95 95 95 94 94 25 22 23 22 18 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 Target 96 % Target 2020 16 grams CO2 per tonne kilometre Base year 2007 32 grams CO2 per tonne kilometre 12 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 OUR SUSTAINABILITY AGENDA ONE STEP AHEAD OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS Human rights, children’s rights and working/labour conditions Business ethics Our role in society For Clas Ohlson working conditions, Clas Ohlson has a strong company A priority area is working to strengfreedom of association, health and culture and our core values form then children’s rights. We support safety and child labour particularly the basis of being a responsible and the UN’s Children’s Rights and in the supply chain are the most trustworthy company. Our Code of Business Principles, which were deimportant areas to work with. Conduct and our Code of Business veloped by the UN Global Compact, Almost 70 per cent of our products Ethics define the requirements that Save the Children and UNICEF. are manufactured in countries both employees and partners are For many years, Clas Ohlson has where there is an increased risk of expected to live-up to. The greatest pursued preventive efforts on issues deviations from our Code of Conrisk of bribery and corruption is in the related to child labour and children’s duct, meaning that it is important to sourcing process and we have derights to their parents in China. We continuously check and monitor that veloped a training course in practical have also worked to inform and inour suppliers respect human rights guidance regarding business ethics volve children in our home markets and labour conditions, and address to highlight and inform employees in activities on important environenvironmental issues. Alongside about our requirements and expectamental issues. conducting audits, we work on tions about these issues. creating a lasting, positive change among our suppliers by offering and conducting trainings together with other companies and organisations. Target: 98 per cent of suppliers Target: All employees in relevant The area must be analysed in more compliant with our requirements, functions undergo a course in pracdetail in order to define key indicawith no major deviations. tical guidance regarding business tors. ethics. Percentage of suppliers compliant with requirements, without major deviations, % 96 98 14/15 15/16 Target 98 % CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 13 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Management approach and progress Sustainability issues must be prioritised at management level and integrated in relevant processes in order to apply an integrated work approach. Clas Ohlson has a sustainability forum that defines identified, measured, monitored and reported. Internal To ensure that our sustainability work is making a difstrategy, sets targets, plans and follows up our environaudits, third-party audits and trainings contribute to ference, we must follow up and report on our targets. mental and social responsibility and community inmanage risks that may impact us or our suppliers. Over the past year, Clas Ohlson made progress in all volvement work. The composition of the group repreeight prioritised areas. We have worked to clarify our sents all relevant parts of our operations, including the The process of identifying and managing our risks is priorities and to identify relevant targets and key indiCEO. The Board is regularly updated on the progress described in more detail in the Clas Ohlson’s Annual cators. We now need to define targets and key indicaof work in this area. Report. In 2016/17, we will continue work on more tors for resource-efficient business models and materials clearly integrating sustainability related risks in the and chemicals in products, and key indicators for our Focus on risk management existing risk process. role in society. We made the most progress during the We are continuing to develop our tools for identifying financial year in products for a sustainable lifestyle, and managing risks. Among our operational risks, we Integrated business processes human rights, and energy efficiency. have identified a number of areas in the field of enSustainability aspects are a natural part of the implevironmental and social responsibility that could affect mentation of our new business system, and processes Our progress, the next steps and how we are working our brand, delivery precision and product quality. Clas and management approach are in place for the priorion each of the eight areas are presented on the folOhlson continuously updates the Group’s risk situation tised areas. We are also working to ensure compliance lowing pages. by conducting a documented process in which risks are with our Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics. 14 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR By introducing targets and key indicators for such things as eco-labels and choices of materials, we have a clearer focus on lower environmental impact in the entire purchasing organisation. We need to continuously drive the development of our more sustainable Products for a more range in order to bring about a change among our customers. Eva Berg, Head of Assortment sustainable lifestyle The percentage of products that fulfil our criteria is increasing and we have made solid progress on achieving our target. At Clas Ohlson, we aim to promote products that gene• Help reuse or reduce waste rate optimal financial results, strengthen our brands and • Have an improved environmental performance, support our From Here to Sustainability journey. The key such as eco-labelled products. to achieving a balance between these aims is to expand • The use of materials is optimised or potentially our range of products for a more sustainable lifestyle. hazardous chemicals are replaced. Based on surveys we have carried out, we know that this is something demanded by our customers, and we are Our target is for products for a more sustainable lifeconvinced that environmental performance will be an style to increase from 6 per cent in the 2014/15 finanincreasingly vital parameter in purchasing decisions in cial year to 12 per cent of total sales by 2020. We the future. achieved 10 per cent during the financial year. The increase was partly due to the adjustment of the starFive criteria for a more sustainable lifestyle ting level, but we can also see a large number of new Our definition of products for a more sustainable lifestyle products that contributed to the positive development. is products that meet at least one of the following criteWe must now challenge ourselves to continue to pursue ria: an ambitious change process and to further develop • Reduce energy or water consumption in the home this category of products. • Support recycling or are made from recycled materials CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 15 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR In the spring of 2016, we ran a big campaign on solar power lighting operated by renewable energy. The trend is moving toward solar power lighting that is similar to traditional electric light sources. How we manage our work We have criteria and a clear process for assessing New opportunities and requirements buying and using products. This is essential since products for a more sustainable lifestyle. The proOne of the steps we took towards a more sustainable products with superior environmental performance are duct manager prepares the basis and nominates offering during the year was to define priority product currently often more expensive, which means that we products. A committee comprising the Head of areas, with a particularly focus on the categories of must clearly inform customers about the value of the Assortment, Head of Sustainability, and chemical Home and Electrical. product in order to justify the price difference expert assess whether the product meets at least one of the five criteria described on page 15 and While a clearer positioning offers opportunities, it also Green speech bubbles highlight choices can thus be classified as a product for a more imposes new demands on Clas Ohlson as a company Part of From Here to Sustainability is for us to attract, sustainable lifestyle. All of the products in our and on our suppliers. We must be even better at identihighlight and guide customers in choosing products range were assessed during the financial year fying and developing new product areas that strengthen with good environmental performance. We launched and slightly more than 450 were approved. our customer offering, and thus we need to build up a new communications concept in September 2015 strategic partnerships that strengthen our long-term whereby we group together information and communiWe define targets and key indicators, such as position. cation about sustainability under a single symbol – the energy efficiency, chemical content and choice green speech bubble. The concept was launched in all of materials, for the product areas that are to Another challenge in increasing our share of such sales channels and we will continue our work in further continue to drive the development of our more products is to distribute information to customers improving the visibility of sustainable solutions for sustainable range. about the sustainable choices that they can make when both customers and employees in the years ahead. 16 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Resource-efficient business models We increased sales of spare parts and are continuously seeking new ways to solve customers’ everyday problems, with resource efficiency as the guiding principle. The main focus today is to extend product lives. We offer customers spare parts and repairs in our own Reuse of ink cartridges To better meet the expectations of our future customers workshops to extend the life of products. By making We accept empty ink and toner cartridges for printers and position ourselves as a sustainable company, we our broad range of 10,000 spare parts more visible in to simplify reuse and reduce the risk of these cartridwill continue to develop our existing and new concepts, our online store, we have increased our sales by more ges being mixed with household waste. We accepted and more resource-efficient business models. than 40 per cent each year in the past four years. This more than 330,000 cartridges during the financial year. is good for our business and for our customers, and Customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK also means that we together are using fewer resources can return end-of-life products. Members of the Club and producing less waste. Clas loyalty program and our Clas Office business How we manage our work to business customers also receive compensation for We prioritise and evaluate project initiatives Given the positive trend in online sales of spare parts returns. We send used ink cartridges to our supplier, based on investment requirements, complexiand our expansion into additional sales channels, we where they are refilled and delivered back to us. We ty, risk, use of resources in relation to potential believe that demand will be even greater in the future. then sell them under our own brand at a favourable return and payback period. Once priorities have The next step in the development of our spare-parts price. been set, the projects are included in our general business is to offer our most frequently used spare project planning. We will focus more on deveparts in our stores. loping this areas over the next financial year. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 17 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Being an attractive employer Our employees rate us highly. They believe that we offer a stimulating workplace and they are proud to work for us. The challenge is now to continue to strengthen as an employer, reduce sickness absence and increase diversity. Competition for labour is intensifying and to remain the company’s targets. We have also started leadership endeavour to increase diversity through recruitment successful we must develop our current employees and development activities at various levels in the company. and focused skills development. During the forthcoattract new skills and new employees to the company. ming financial year, we will focus on becoming even The next employee survey is scheduled to be carried out better at setting relevant targets, defining key indicators Motivated employees in the autumn of 2016. and our direction. We are convinced that a growing number of people, particularly young people, feel it is important that the Good health a prerequisite for success In the financial year, 33 per cent of senior management company they work for shares their personal values. Ensuring the well-being of our employees is naturally were women, the same figure as in the preceding finanOur goal is to be the workplace where employees are important when it comes to creating the right condicial year. We have an equality target stating that neither treated well and responsibly and to offer safe working tions for long-term success. Our goal is for employee men nor women should account for less than 40 per conditions. attendance in the Group to exceed 96 per cent on an cent of any individual professional category. annual basis. Employee attendance for 2015/16 was 94 We conduct regular employee surveys in order to better per cent. An organisation with many understand and measure how well we are meeting our young employees employees’ expectations. A full 89 per cent of Clas A pilot project was conducted during the financial year We have a relatively low average age among our Ohlson’s employees participated in the most recent to investigate the possibility of reducing short-term abemployees with 47 per cent under the age of 30. Tosurvey from 2014, which suggests that our employees sence by immediately facilitating contact between the gether with the Swedish Public Employment Service, are committed to improving their workplace. individual and healthcare professionals, and by improwe have been working since 2013 to help young people ving follow-ups and feedback. The project encompasses who are excluded from the labour market to gain imWe use a Net Promoter Score (NPS) to measure how a number of stores in Sweden, with both employees portant practical work experience. In 2015/16, within attractive Clas Ohlson is as an employer and how motiand managers considering it to be positive. The project the framework of this program, we hired 103 trainees vated our employees are. In total, just over 85 per cent contributed to lower short-term absence figures. in our Swedish stores, approximately 30 per cent of of the employees who responded stated that they are whom were offered jobs at the end of their trainee proud of working for Clas Ohlson, and the majority Greater focus on diversity period. We are now working to expand the program to would recommend us to others as an employer. As Diversity creates innovation and helps us to anticipate include training in other areas in order to provide the part of improvement activities, we have strengthened the needs and challenges of our growing markets. We participants with additional skills and experience. the link between employees’ individual targets and 18 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR How we manage our work We have common policies and processes that govern how we work with HR issues, such as recruitment, introductions, skills developments and remuneration. Work is also managed through our HR Forum where we prioritise, coordinate, follow up and evaluate our activities. For the past three years we have been working with redevelopment plans, leadership development program countries and functions, together with a representacruitment training in Finland. The aim of the programand skills development for all employees. tive from Save the Children, gained insight into Clas me is to recruit young people aged between 18 and 30 Ohlson’s sustainability work in the supply chain. They with upper-secondary school qualifications or lower, Through our induction program, we also ensure that all followed our audit team when they inspected worand threatened by unemployment. Participants comnew employees receive a broad understanding of Clas king/labour conditions at the factories from which we plete a five-month placement in stores combined with Ohlson’s history and core values to carry with them purchase products. They saw how we check product theoretical courses which leads to a basic professional when dealing with customers. Learning about our quality and visited a Save the Children centre for diploma in retail. We were able to offer employment to sustainability work is a natural element of the program. migrant worker families that Clas Ohlson supports. about half of the program participants. A sustainability course has been included since the The six employees shared their experiences from their summer of 2015, and a total of 810 employees have journey in different ways when they returned home. How we develop our employees completed the training. Increasing the level of knowledge among employees During the year, we focused on developing our leaders about how we work with various sustainability issues is and strengthening our internal supply of expertise Employee field trip to China central to becoming even better at meeting customer through our work with succession planning and related We arranged a field trip to China in April 2016. expectations and in engaging, attracting and retaining Employees with different experiences from different skilled employees. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 19 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR I would say that we really have put environmental aspects higher on the agenda with our work on transportation over the past few years. When we negotiate transportation agreements, we mainly look at quality, cost and environmental issues.” Peter Bergestål, Transport Manager Energy efficiency In maintaining our high level of ambition, we are now further reducing the impact from transportation on the environment, while at the same time we are optimising energy consumption in our own operations by changing to more energy efficient lighting in our stores. More than 70 per cent of the CO2 emissions that we Higher fill rate leads to lower CO2 to our distribution centre in Insjön. Products are relocan address to a greater extent are linked to the transWe reduced our relative CO2 emissions to 18 grams aded at a terminal in Landskrona and are then transportation of goods. Accordingly, we are focusing intenper tonne kilometre of goods during the financial year, ported by road to Helsingborg for onward transport by sely on further improving our transportation efficiency. down 4 percentage points year on year, which was the rail to Borlänge. The goods are reloaded in Borlänge to Long-distance transportation takes place by sea and result of increased shipment consolidation, improved trucks for the final 40 km of their journey to Insjön. rail rather than by road and air as far as possible, which fill rates on outbound pallets and the better environhelps us control our CO2 emissions. mental performance of our sea transport. The fill rate We also use rail transportation between Borlänge and per pallet increased by 3.8 per cent compared with the Oslo for the distribution of goods to the Norwegian New European transportation agreements have genepreceding year. The number of pallets leaving the distristore network, which means that about 80 per cent rated positive results and during the year we reduced bution centre fell by 1.4 per cent. of transportation from Insjön to Oslo takes place via our total CO2 emissions from transportation despite rail. We won PostNord’s environmental award for the company having expanded and transported higher Higher percentage of rail transportation the second time in three years for this transportation volumes of goods. The number of tonne kilometres of During the year, we changed to using rail rather than solution. The goods are subsequently distributed to six goods that were transported fell by 7 per cent compared road to transport goods from Europe through Sweden hubs by rail transport from Oslo. with the year earlier period, while sales have increased. 20 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR How we manage our work Transportation is procured centrally. As part of the decision-making process, we assess the environmental work of suppliers and require them to sign off on compliance with the requirements of our Code of Conduct and commit to providing annual CO2 data and key indicators as a basis for our calculations. These changes have contributed to a total increase in our ongoing energy efficiency program. Average elecoverland freight by rail from 41 per cent in the precetricity consumption in store that have converted to Clas Ohlson’s Design Manual specifies the choiding year to 44 per cent in 2015/16. Our target is LED has declined 38 per cent and energy intensity ce of certain materials and requires that only 50 per cent by 2020. per m2 has halved from 30 W/m2 to 15 W/m2. We LED lighting is installed when new stores are will intensify our work on changing our stores to established. The Design Manual will be revised Change to more energy efficient LED LED next year. and updated during the forthcoming financial During the year, we continued to focus on the change year. to LED lighting in our stores within the framework of CO2emissions from electricity Percentage of total overland CO2emissions from transportation consumption and energy CO2emissions from operations, % freight carried by rail, % and travel, tonnes CO2 production, tonnes CO2 Travel, 2% 15,000 1,000 5,000 100 Transportation, 74% Energy consumption, 12,000 800 4,000 80 24% 44 40 41 9,000 600 3,000 60 33 33 6,000 400 2,000 40 3,000 200 1,000 20 0 0 0 0 11/12 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target 2020 50% Transportation Travel Electricity * Energy** Baseline 2007 25% * IEA conversion factors for electricity production were used in the calculations. Data was shifted three years. ** A conversion factor of 670 g CO2 per kWh was used for oil. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 21 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Materials and chemicals in products We are preparing to tackle new challenges from our stakeholders by focusing on improving processes and clarifying requirements. Clas Ohlson’s work with chemicals in products largely Conflict minerals – an area underwatch involves ensuring that we meet legislative requirements Clas Ohlson is monitoring the progress of European and have access to correct information. Through setting legislation regarding what is known as conflict minerals clear requirements and close follow-up with suppliers, and is preparing for expected new laws and regulations. we can provide our customers and authorities with the Our requirements regarding conflict minerals have been information they need and are entitled to. We impose included in our Code of Conduct since 2014. Our ammore stringent requirements than those set by legislabition is to perform a risk assessment during the forttion for products that come into contact with skin or hcoming year and identify the product areas and the food and for products intended for children. suppliers that we will initially focus on, in accordance with the OECD’s Due Diligence Guidance for ResponRenewable and certified candle ingredients sible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-affected We developed our range of indoor candles during the and High-risk Areas. How we manage our work year. We now have a complete offering manufactuWe are continuing to strengthen our processes red from renewable materials in the form of stearin Packaging materials and systems for managing information about and vegetable wax and that do not contain palm oil. We updated the packaging requirements that we impochemicals in products. Clas Ohlson’s chemicals However, palm oil is required for certain types of outse on our suppliers during the year. These requirements requirements define both general and prodoor use. Our target is that all palm oil used is RSPO include the choice of materials and design, where we duct-specific demands and are updated every certified (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) as from strive to avoid unnecessary packaging materials, partiyear. A risk assessment is performed for each June 2015. This target was achieved, as was the target cularly for products that we sell in high volumes. We new product and the results define the test of making all palm oil traceable by July 2016. focused on our travel range, for example, during the requirements. financial year. 22 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Human rights, children’s rights and working/labour conditions We believe that we can best contribute to bringing about lasting change by taking a clear standpoint and checking compliance with the requirements we impose on our suppliers, taking a preventive approach to training and developing strategic partnerships. A key element of being a responsible company is to We carried out 370 both announced and unannounced gathering information to gain clearer data for performonitor compliance with our requirements on human audits in 2015/16. Of these, 109 were audits of new ming risk assessments. All new suppliers are subject to rights, working/labour conditions, environmental imsuppliers and 261 were follow-up audits. Over the past assessment before we enter into a partnership so as to pact and children’s rights across our entire value chain, 24-month period, 99 per cent of our suppliers were ensure that they comply with out expectations and core particularly in our sourcing process. audited against the Code of Conduct requirements. values. We have our own audit team on site in China that Increased focus on our European suppliers carries out inspections and follows up compliance with During the financial year, we also performed a detailed the requirements of our Code of Conduct. All new analysis of our European partners, and their suppliers, suppliers have been assessed according to working/ to enhance our knowledge and assessment of conlabour conditions criteria and we carry out complete ditions at these factories. We updated processes for audits even before the first order is placed. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 23 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Well-defined targets and key indicators now planning to use QuizRR on a larger scale. QuizRR ntal activities of strategically important suppliers. The We defined targets and key indicators for our supplier is based short training films in the areas of health and next phase is to focus on further raising the level and program during the financial year. According to the safety, fire safety, labour rights and how to promote an deepening partnerships through training and exchangaudits we performed, more than 98 per cent (96) of enhanced workplace dialogue. More than 400 factory ing experiences. supplies comply with our Code of Conduct without workers and almost 150 senior executives were trained any major deviations. Accordingly, we achieved our this year. Future focus target already in the first year. This positive outcome The next step is to continue our work on including was the result of improved processes that enable clearer A partnership with the company 3M was also initiated suppliers from new purchasing markets and EU follow-ups of audit findings during the financial year that held training courses in suppliers in the existing supplier program. We are personal protection equipment for two of our suppliers. also investigating the potential of establishing closer Positive response from follow-ups A total of 400 factory workers were trained, with a popartnerships with other companies regarding supplier The most common deviations involve health and safety. sitive reception from our suppliers. We will continue to issues. Furthermore, we will continue to focus on traiTo bring about lasting positive changes in this area, develop this partnership during the forthcoming year. ning and proactive development activities together with we take a preventive approach to training activities for strategic suppliers as a supplement to the audits and the both factory workers and managers of our suppliers. Excellent results from Excellent follow-up activities that form the basis of our supplier The QuizRR training tool was introduced last year. Eight out of 12 factories have completed the first phase program. Following a trial period, QuizRR was rolled out at 20 of our Excellent program – the program for developing factories in China in the last financial year and we are management system, health and safety and environmeDeviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, % How we manage our work Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct, adopted by Forced labour the Board, defines the requirements that we Discrimination impose on our suppliers with regard to human Freedom of association rights, labour standards, health and safety Child labour and the environment. The processes are Audit access denied firmly established to monitor compliance and Compensation to follow up on deviations from the Code of Authorized minors Conduct. Before we start working with a new Laws and regulations supplier, we assess whether our requirements Environment are fulfilled, and if not, whether the supplier Working hours is willing to rectify any deviations. We do not Social insurance enter into partnerships if we discover major Health and safety deviations. Each supplier is assessed against the requirements of the Code of Conduct at 2015/16 least every two years. 24 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR We are placing more focus on this issue through our training program with practical guidance in business ethics. Tina Englyst, General Counsel Business ethics Continued training in business ethics, particularly for relevant functions, helps us to manage business ethics risks. Our Code of Conduct and our Code of Business Ethics employees who work with sourcing and high-value describe Clas Ohlson’s commitment to, and expectacontracts and for our agents in Asia. Managing ethical tions on employees and business partners for high ethirisks is particularly important as we expand into new cal standards. For us, an ethical approach means sound purchasing markets. business decisions without consideration for personal, related or third party gains. It also means that we neitWe are placing more focus on this issue through our How we manage our work her accept, offer nor pay bribes, that we comply with training program with practical guidance in business The Code of Business Ethics is part of our laws and regulations and act according to applicable ethics. More than 100 employees in relevant functions Code of Conduct, which is included in all competition law. and in all countries were trained during the financipurchase agreements and which we strive al year. The courses are held in small groups in the to include in all major contracts. The General We are clear that violation of the Code of Business relevant language. Interactive discussion examples Counsel is responsible for the Code of BusiEthics could, in addition to the termination of the provide deeper understanding of our core values and ness Ethics. partnership, lead to consequences under labour law our approach to working with, among other things, and criminal law. zero tolerance of corruption, competition law and Any suspected deviations from the Code of related-party transactions. Business Ethics can be reported by e-mail, to Regular training the nearest manager or the company’s General Our most significant risks for corruption exist in the No violations of the Code of Business Ethics were Counsel. Any such report can be made anonysourcing process and when entering into larger conreported during the year. mously. tracts. Therefore, we conduct regular training for all CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 25 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR Our role in society A core commitment for us is to continue our work to strengthen children’s rights in the countries were our products are manufactured. We also involve children in our home markets in important environmental issues. Throughout 2015/16 we continued to develop our lies. To date, Clas Ohlsson has helped 1,380 children to Save the Children and resulted in a total of SEK 2.3 long-standing collaboration with Save the Children. and workers to get support in the form of education, million in donations. Our focus in this area is to support migrant workers in meaningful after-work and after-school activities, access China and their families. to health care and help integrating into the community. Clas Ohlson also contributes to Save the Children’s disaster relief fund. This fund is the buffer that enables In China, many workers have moved from their homes Involve our customers Save the Children to be on site immediately in disasin the countryside to work at a factory that is often Fund raisers for Save the Children’s Chinese migrant ter-stricken areas. During the year, the fund’s resources located far from home. Since the right to education workers project were carried out this year as part of have largely been used for the refugee situation caused and health care is tied to where one resides, this causes Clas Ohlson’s Christmas campaign in our stores. by the war in Syria. major problems for migrant workers and their famiProceeds from certain products were donated directly 26 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR The Battery Hunt The Battery Hunt is an information campaign and competition that started in 2013. The purpose is to make children aware of the importance of recycling batteries for the sake of both the environment and our own health. The Battery Hunt originated in Norway as a collaboration with battery manufacturer VARTA and Miljöagentene, also known as the children’s environmental organisation. It was first organised in Sweden in 2014 together with Håll Sverige Rent (the Keep Sweden Tidy Foundation) and VARTA. Enthusiasm about the Battery Hunt has exceeded all expectations, and the 2016 competition was no exception. Schoolchildren in Sweden and Norway collected The Battery Hunt is a fantastic over 276 tonnes of batteries for recycling. In total, opportunity to communicate with a 130,000 Swedish and Norwegian fourth-graders have large group of pupils about importaken part in the competition that involves the pupils In addition to the actual competition, the Battery tant recycling issues. Its hands-on gathering as much used batteries for recycling as Hunt includes a kit of teaching materials that are distapproach is one of the reasons for possible. ributed to schools for free. The material is for children its success. The pupils feel important from pre-school to sixth grade. There is also an extreand involved in the change efforts. From Clas Ohlson’s perspective, we contribute to a pomely popular mobile game that combines adventure If we ask these children in 30 years, sitive change in terms of recycling and education. Our with questions about recycling batteries, which has this will remain with them as an encommitment is particularly evident in the comments been downloaded more than 100,000 times. joyable memory, and that if anything made by the participants when they completed the will contribute to real change. post-competition survey. Some 68 per cent commented Giving back to the local community has always been Lisa Adelsköld, Operations that they appreciated the “very friendly” atmosphere in important to Clas Ohlson. We preserve this tradition Manager at Håll Sverige Rent Clas Ohlson’s Swedish stores, with a score of 5.5 on a through the Battery Hunt. scale of 1 to 6. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 27 PROGRESS OVER THE PAST YEAR About this report Our sustainability agenda is becoming increasingly integrated in Clas Ohlson’s strategy and ways of working. This report presents a summary of our efforts during the 2015/16 financial year. Clas Ohlson strives to report our sustainability work in a relevant and transparent way. We therefore apply the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) framework to guide us. Clas Ohlson’s sustainability report contains standard disclosure from GRI’s latest G4 guidelines. The report describes our prioritised sustainability areas as well as the relevant targets and key indicators linked to these areas. A GRI Index is available at about.clasohlson.com. With the exception of energy consumption, all data has been collected during the May 2015 to April 2016 financial year. No significant changes to the organisation have been made since the publication of the most recent report in August 2015. As our Communication on Progress, this report explains how Clas Ohlson’s approach reflects our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact The report has been reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s Board. It has not been subject to external review. Please visit us at about.clasohlson.com or contact Åsa Portnoff Sundström, Head of Sustainability. 28 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 Sweden UK Clas Ohlson AB Clas Ohlson Ltd SE-793 85 Insjön 10-13 Market Place Tel: +46 247 444 00 Kingston upon Thames www.clasohlson.se Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +44 845 671 8215 Norway www.clasohlson.co.uk Clas Ohlson AS Torggata 2–6 Germany N-0105 Oslo Clas Ohlson GmbH Tel: +47 23 21 40 05 Jungfernstieg 38 www.clasohlson.no DE-203 54 Hamburg Tel: +49 40 2999 78111 Finland www.clasohlson.de Clas Ohlson Oy Magistratsporten 4 A Dubai FIN-00240 Helsinki Clas Ohlson Tel: +358 201 112 222 Level 1, Mirdif City Centre www.clasohlson.fi Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 285 8596 www.clasohlson.ae China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, Kirin Plaza, Changning Distict, Shanghai Tel: +86 21 3387 0055 Clas Ohlson AB, 793 85 Insjön Telefon +46 247 444 00, e-mail sustainability@clasohlson.com Registered office: Insjön Corporate Identity Number: 556035-8672 IRONMEN E NV T AL NORDIC LA B EL Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Purple Ivy and Catharina Johnson Fotografisk Form & Kommunikation. 5041-0004 Translation by The Bugli Company. Print: Henningsons Tryckeri AB. PRINTED MATTER Photo: Clas Ohlson, Ulrich Perrey, and Carl Ljungberg. CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16 29 Smart solutions from Clas Ohlson www.clasohlson.com 30 CLAS OHLSON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/16
