2016 Communication on Progress Human Rights | Labour | Environment | Anti-corruption About Noble Group Head Office GRI [G4-3] GRI [G4-4] GRI [G4-6] GRI [G4-7] GRI [G4-9] GRI [G4-12] GRI [G4-5] GRI [G4-31] Noble Group (SGX: N21) is a leading Our most valuable assets are our network Noble Group Limited supply chain manager: we buy physical of relationships with our producers, and 18th Floor, Mass Mutual Tower commodities and transform them into consumer customers, our midstream supply 38 Gloucester Road, Hong Kong customised, consumable products that meet chain assets and expertise, and our people the requirements of our customers through who provide value-added services to our For enquiries and feedbacks (1) our logistics and transportation services customers and clients. Investor Relations: ir@thisisnoble.com (2) our price risk management and hedging Our objective is to build long term value Tel: +852 2861 3511 services (3) our processing and blending for our shareholders, our partners, our capabilities and (4) our structured and trade customers and our people, with a sustainable financing solutions. global franchise and a focus on long term Headquartered in Hong Kong, our core supplier and customer relationships. strategy is to be the best company in the world at moving the physical commodity You can find more information from the global networks of producer to the about our corporate responsibility consumer and managing the market, credit, work at http://thisisnoble.com/ and operational risk associated with that. responsibility.html We seek to be partners rather than competitors with our producers, customers and with investors looking to invest in producing assets, with Noble supplying best-in-class execution at the most competitive price. 2016 Communication on Progress 10 Human Rights 12 Human Rights, Labour, Community and Growth 13 Connecting Human Rights to Project Finance 14 Product Stewardship 15 Indigenous Relations 16 Labour 18 Implementing Noble’s Labour Standards 20 A Safe and Healthy Workplace 21 Talent Acquisition and Development 22 Community Outreach 24 Environment 26 Energy and Emissions 28 Supplying the Growing Demand for Cleaner Fuels 30 Pollution Prevention and Mitigation 32 Anti-Corruption 2 CEO’s Message 34 Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption 3 Financial Highlights 35 Ongoing Training and Communication 35 Centralised Platform for Counterparty Acquisition 4 About this Report 5 Understanding our Responsibility 36 Global Reporting Initiative 6 Milestones and Progress G4 Content Index 7 Roles and Governance 8 Identifying Material Issues 42 Ernst & Young’s Assurance Report 1 2016 Communication on Progress CEO’s Message GRI [G4-1] GRI [G4-15] GRI [G4-16] Dear Stakeholders, levels. Although attention is most frequently in the sector over the next five to ten years. provision of quality education and healthcare. paid to those at the more senior levels, we also Strategically, we have positioned ourselves For example, our multi-year community plans The 10 principles enshrined in the UN Global pay particular attention to nurturing “the next to serve customers as their needs for in Jamaica, Australia and Indonesia have been Compact, of which we have been a signatory generation”. In this context, we were delighted renewable energy grow. Indeed, to meet the tailored to support development in rural areas. since 2010, covering human rights, labour that our Global Associate Programme load obligations across our North American These efforts also strengthen our relationships standards, environmental protection and achieved external recognition as a finalist in portfolio, we expect to purchase in excess with local communities. anti-corruption, have continued to be at the the Singapore HR Awards from the Singapore of 3.5 million MWh of renewable products These are just a few examples illustrating core of Noble’s approach to how we conduct Human Resources Institute. annually. Equally, in more traditional areas, how we continue to incorporate the 10 UN business. In the past year, we have continued Environmental issues are a constant and such as our energy coal business, we continue Global Compact principles into our day to to bring these commitments to life, ensuring increasingly important factor in the changing to focus our flows on top quality coal with day business activities. We aim to implement that we create value for all our stakeholders. regulatory structures in the markets in which low ash and low sulphur content, for example, responsible management practices across our The most significant component of how we operate, a dynamic which we embrace from Australia. global supply chains, while striving to align we implement the Compact is by attracting as we see change as offering new business As a listed public company and supply our entrepreneurial culture with the highest the best and most able people across our opportunities. For instance, renewable energy chain manager for numerous natural resources, standards of integrity. businesses. Our management and staff, and targets in California have created tremendous we maintain open dialogue with various We remain fully committed to their entrepreneurialism and dedication, are opportunities for us as the energy mix there stakeholders and value constructive feedback. furthering these goals, as we remain the key to success as we continue to reward a diversifies. In 2014, renewable sources Externally, we also make active contributions committed to building on these ten pillars sense of ownership and responsibility amongst contributed 13% of US power generation, to support local communities in our sourcing in the coming years. our staff, encouraging initiatives from all with continued strong growth projected regions, with an emphasis on ensuring the May 31, 2016 William James Randall Jeffrey Scott Frase Co-CEO and Co-CEO and Executive Director Executive Director 2 2016 Communication on Progress Creating value through Financial Highlights FY 2015 GRI [G4-EC1] GRI [G4-8] transformations and services USD 66.7 billion in revenue We source commodities from our producer customers USD 381 million in employee benefits expenses We provide value-added transformations and services USD 5.5 million in corporate taxes Processing and blending capabilities Logistics and transportation services Price risk management and hedging services Structured and trade financing solutions (e.g. freight, breaking bulk and (e.g. swaps and (e.g. quality and (e.g. payment terms, prepayment & ground transportation) scheduled deliveries) mix specifications) offtake/marketing arrangements) USD 244 million in adjusted net profit We deliver products to Tonnage our networks of customers across the globe 271 million tonnes 3 2016 Communication on Progress About this Report GRI [G4-18] GRI [G4-28] GRI [G4-30] This Communication on Progress (COP) We know some of our shareholders and provides an annual update on important nonbanks are aligned with the Principles for financial aspects within the Group’s global Responsible Investment and the Equator operations and majority owned subsidiaries Principles. This COP also serves as a tool for the period from July 2015 to May 2016. to facilitate the understanding of Noble’s Minority investments and associated environmental, social, and corporate companies that are not consolidated in the governance matters. Group’s financial statements are excluded from this report, as we recognise the level or External Assurance sphere of control the Group has over these GRI [G4-32] GRI [G4-33] operations are limited. Environmental data is We seek to use external assurance to provide reported for the calendar year. reliable information on our performance This COP has been prepared in to our intended readers. Internally, these accordance with the “Core Option” of reviews have assisted us to improve the the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 robustness and completeness of our Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. reporting practices. The report was submitted for the GRI Ernst & Young has provided independent Materiality Disclosures Service which verifies assurance on our sustainability data that the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 disclosure for this COP, which has been to G4-27 are correctly located in both the GRI compiled in accordance with the “Core Content Index and the text in this report. Option” of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Performance data is accompanied Guidelines G4 framework. A copy of Ernst & by a brief description of our policies and Young’s assurance statement is on page 42. management systems, as well as our activities The focus on reporting the most relevant and their impact on our day-to-day business. matters has led us to identify and prioritise In addition to enhancing our internal topics that are core to our business and efforts towards transparency and disclosure, key stakeholders. adopting GRI and aligning our reporting cycle The company’s greenhouse gas emissions prepare us well in advance for the introduction figures for year 2015 were independently of the Singapore Stock Exchange’s 2017-2018 verified by TÜV Nord according to the ISO “comply or explain” reporting mandate. 14064 standard. 4 2016 Communication on Progress Understanding our Responsibility GRI [G4-24] GRI [G4-25] GRI [G4-26] GRI [G4-27] Our approach to responsible business is meetings, or on an ad hoc basis. Queries may networks, we engage with our customers regular newsletters and employee surveys fostered by our desire to understand the be raised with the Director, Corporate Affairs on a daily basis. The formation of strategic ensure good information flows within Noble. concerns and expectations of our key via the Company’s website. There are regular marketing agreements between Noble and Our focus is on improving staff development stakeholders. Throughout our supply chain meetings with investors, fund managers joint venture partners delivers competitive and performance as well as providing a safe operations, we engage with our stakeholders and analysts, and quarterly conference calls advantages. Ensuring a smooth flow of and healthy workplace. These drive our across a spectrum of topics to improve which are entirely open to anyone who wishes products and capability to deliver a diverse aspirations to attract and retain the best. decision making and the accountability of to use the publicised toll free numbers. range of products is vital to the goal of All employees receive regular performance our partnerships. building long-term relationships across our and career development reviews. We endeavour to grow our business, and Banks benefit from our high compliance global customer and supplier bases. at the same time, drive social progress by standards and best practice risk management Local Communities are impacted by moving essential materials to where they are systems when providing us services. Banks Governments and Regulators set our operations. Dedicated personnel lead needed, whilst managing the complexity of enable Noble to secure stable and flexible the legislative frameworks and statutory relationship and engagement programmes the process. It is our responsibility to create financing directly and through syndicated requirements for our sector, covering in our key locations to serve and benefit the long-term value for shareholders, which prepayment facilities, co-financing and market access, product flows, labour and communities. To minimise our environmental cannot be achieved without balancing the project finance. Our extensive relationships environmental standards, property rights and footprint, our operations follow international myriad interests of our customers, banks, with a diverse group of banks in different taxation. Our governance structure and Board standards in environmental management. employees and the communities we impact. markets allow us to maintain adequate procedures ensure appropriate supervision and We regularly meet with our communities liquidity in challenging periods and to invest control over these processes. Where possible, via formal and informal consultation to Shareholders invest in Noble’s recognised in new opportunities as they arise. our business activities aim to build greater understand their interests and concerns, track record, best-in-class commodity market recognition and goodwill with Governments. and safeguard our corporate reputation. insight and robust governance and risk Customers and Suppliers partner with Close interaction with the communities in management systems. The Board welcomes Noble because of our understanding of their Employees share our values in recognising which we operate continues to shape our the views of shareholders on matters requirements and needs. Supported by our entrepreneurialism and the benefits of high programmes addressing the key challenges affecting the Company, either at shareholders’ customer-focused culture and global supply performance teamwork. Town hall meetings, of poverty and underdevelopment. UNDERSTANDING OUR RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMERS AND GOVERNMENTS AND SHAREHOLDERS BANKS EMPLOYEES LOCAL COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS REGULATORS 5 2016 Communication on Progress Milestones & Progress 2012 2015 Set up the CSR Complemented our Advisory Group to UNGC COP with the steer and coordinate GRI Sustainability 2007 the strategic Reporting Guidelines Began the journey development of G4 framework to be a Carbon CSR activities across and obtained Neutral Company the Group external assurance 2010 2014 Became a Formalised signatory to the the Group UN Global Compact Sustainability Policy 2010 2014 Obtained external Achieved 100 points verification on in the CDP Climate Group level carbon Disclosure Program footprints and upgraded our environmental data collection platform 6 2016 Communication on Progress Roles and Governance GRI [G4-14] GRI [G4-34] GRI [G4-56] Our Board of Directors is committed to responsible for reviewing the social and Rights and the principles of the United Corporate Governance Committee maintaining a high standard of corporate environmental issues that affect the Nations Global Compact. governance within the Group. We take Group’s business. It approves or recommends Senior management in global human David Gordon Eldon – Chairman pride in having a deep and high quality the Group’s involvement with and resources and technical operations Richard Paul Margolis – Vice Chairman Board, whose objective judgement on sponsorship, or support, of activities for implement Noble’s environmental, health Robert Tze Leung Chan corporate affairs and collective experience Board approval, as appropriate, to further and safety management programmes. This Iain Ferguson Bruce is invaluable for our decision making. With the Group’s social responsibility objectives. is complemented by locally defined and David Yeow a total of 12 directors, eight of whom are The Committee also oversees government asset specific requirements, depending Independent Non-Executive Directors, relationships, monitors and responds to on the operating activity of the respective Corporate Social Responsibility & the Board is responsible for the strategic government actions as appropriate, and business line. In keeping with our dedication Government Relations Committee direction of the Group and has oversight of builds, where possible, greater recognition to professionalism in our operations, risk, senior management. and goodwill with governments. compliance and internal audit functions are Richard Paul Margolis Chairman The Board maintains close consideration The Noble Group Code of Conduct applies mandated to oversee the implementation of William James Randall Vice Chairman of investment, financial risks, governance, to all Directors, officers and employees of our policies regarding ethical conduct. Robert Tze Leung Chan remuneration, government relations, the Group and each of its subsidiaries. The David Yeow health and safety, and environmental and Code of Conduct sets out principles to guide Jeffrey Scott Frase social matters. The directors constructively employees, Directors and officers in carrying challenge and help develop proposals out their duties and responsibilities to the on strategy, review the performance of highest standards of personal and corporate management in meeting agreed goals and integrity when dealing with the Group, objectives, and monitor the reporting of its customers, suppliers, competitors and Board of Directors performance. Good corporate governance the community. establishes and maintains a legal and ethical We are committed to a high standard of 0 30-50 3 environment, which strives to promote and ethical conduct. The Group has adopted and 3 preserve the interests of all stakeholders. implemented a policy whereby employees Specifically, the Corporate Governance may, in confidence, raise concerns regarding 1 > 50 9 Committee identifies, monitors and unlawful activity, policy or practices, 8 implements good corporate governance suspected fraud, corruption, dishonest practices and procedures for the Group. practices or other matters. Our policy is in TOTAL 12 The Corporate Social Responsibility & line with our commitment to the United Government Relations Committee is Nations Universal Declaration of Human GRI [G4-LA12] FEMALE MALE 7 2016 Communication on Progress Result of 2016 Sustainability Materiality Assessment Identifying Material Issues GRI [G4-18] GRI [G4-19] GRI [G4-20] GRI [G4-21] Knowing what is important to Noble Group and Supply chain management our stakeholders is essential, in order for us to Ethical investment practices Risk management focus resources on those areas that will have the Financial performance most significant sustainability impact. Health and safety, workplace wellbeing, environmental impact, Board leadership compliance and stakeholder relationships are Product quality Corporate governance examples of issues which impact our corporate responsibility strategy. IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS We undertook our first materiality assessment Legal compliance in the 2014/2015 reporting cycle to understand the Talent attraction Stakeholders relations Customer satisfaction pertinent issues and determine their relevance to key Human rights Brand and reputation stakeholders. The Group’s CSR Advisory Committee, comprising senior executives from key functions in Diversity and equal opportunities Employee training and development major locations, led the engagement process. We Greenhouse gas emissions and energy applied international standards (GRI Guidelines and Pollution prevention Indigenous rights UNGC) and Noble’s internal policies to set up the Occupational health and safety initial list of criteria. The review took into account the Preventing forced/child labour views of internal and external stakeholders. In year one of our materiality assessment, CHAPTERS Noble’s senior managers, the CSR Advisory Human rights Committee, key customers and investors were Labour invited to provide feedback on the importance Environment of various sustainability aspects. This year, we Anti-corruption 2015 annual report and Noble’s website supplemented surveys with additional responses and analysis of our existing engagement mechanisms with broader stakeholder groups. This work highlighted where we need to address material IMPACT ON BUSINESS SUCCESS aspects beyond our direct operations. The Board 8 2016 Communication on Progress GRI [G4-18] GRI [G4-19] GRI [G4-20] GRI [G4-21] MATERIAL ASPECTS BOUNDARY RELEVANT ASPECTS Noble Group Noble Group’s Value Chain ECONOMIC Financial performance of Directors acknowledged the alignment of ENVIRONMENTAL our priority issues with strategic objectives and Energy approved the content presented in this COP. The survey included a number of financial Emissions issues rated as particularly important, such as Effluents and waste financial performance, risk management, supply Compliance chain management, investment practices and Transport Board leadership. Financial performance is SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK communicated in Noble Group’s annual report Employment and quarterly announcements. Labour / management relations This COP covers material non-financial Occupational health and safety issues, including disclosure on overall management approach and relevant performance indicators. Training and education Corporate governance, customer satisfaction, Diversity and equal opportunity brand and reputation, legal compliance and talent SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS attraction are among the top issues identified. Investment Taking the survey results into consideration, Non-discrimination we mapped the material sustainability issues in Freedom of association and collective bargaining line with GRI G4 terminology for the purpose of Child labour this COP. Ernst and Young benchmarked the key Forced and compulsory labour issues raised in external media reports, Noble’s peers sustainability reports and Noble’s stakeholder Indigenous rights dialogues, as a part of the limited assurance SOCIAL: SOCIETY procedures. The results corroborated with our Local community disclosure on material topics and performance Anti-corruption indicators. Consolidated results from the responses Compliance are outlined in the table, reflecting the relevance SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY of these material aspects to our internal and/or Product and service labelling external stakeholders. 9 2016 Communication on Progress Human Rights Corporate responsibility has a central role in PRINCIPLE 1: Our Commitment MATERIAL ASPECTS: Noble Group’s strategy, and respecting human Businesses should support GRI [G4-56] • Human rights rights is an important aspect in both our direct Noble is committed to uphold the United and ancillary operations. This chapter covers and respect the protection Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Ethical investment practices human rights in our value chains; due diligence in of internationally proclaimed The Declaration is the universal standard which • Supply chain management project finance and asset development; product human rights; and proclaims that every individual man and woman is • Social risk management stewardship; and community relations. Employee born free and equal in dignity and rights. • Indigenous rights relations and efforts to advance the wellbeing of PRINCIPLE 2: At a minimum, Noble expects all employees Noble’s workplace are set out in detail in the next to comply with the law in every jurisdiction in Make sure that they are not chapter Labour. Training on business ethics and which we operate. We do not tolerate any human conduct, and procedures for reporting allegations complicit in human rights abuses. rights abuses within the scope of our business are covered in the Anti-corruption chapter. operations. We also ensure that we remunerate As we secure diversified and consistent employees at least to the level of their respective sources of trade flows, challenges occur in country’s minimum wage. ensuring respect for human rights in activities Our policies go further, setting out ethical beyond our direct control. Noble has taken principles to guide employees in carrying out steps to address these risks, in particularly by their duties and responsibilities. These principles working with leading asset owners and operators require the highest standards of personal and to ensure that there is no link between our corporate integrity when dealing on behalf of the business activities and adverse human rights Group with its customers, suppliers, competitors impacts through our business relationships. Our and community members. robust due diligence and continuous monitoring programmes evaluate and manage foreseeable Key Performance Indicators Performance or Progress in 2015 / 2016 risks and social impact from our supply chains. Adherence to minimum wages 100% of employees paid at least national minimum wage Community consultation and development for their country programmes are implemented to identify and Spending on community investment USD 1.2 million address community concerns; in particular we acknowledge the rights of indigenous people Percentage of countries we operate in where we are 65% to customary land. We develop rural social involved in community projects infrastructure and support access to quality Responsible sourcing 100% of minerals trade from the Democratic Republic of education, healthcare, clean water and sanitation, Congo and adjoining countries met the iTSCi responsible production requirements so as to benefit host communities. 10 2016 Communication on Progress Maternal and child health is a focus of Noble’s ongoing community engagement programme in Indonesia. 11 In Jamaica, the Noble sponsored 400m running track at the Calabar High School In Baralaba township, Australia, our funding for infrastructure upgrades has saw its first games in January 2016. enabled all pupils from the Baralaba State School to access mobile dental services. 2016 Communication on Progress Human Rights, Labour, Community and Growth Every employee at Noble is informed about part of the due diligence process. Alongside services that surrounding communities More than USD 1.2m our policies and practices, and hence their these reviews we identify and subsequently need the most. Examples of our outreach rights. Corporate policies are reviewed and support infrastructure improvements and programmes can be found in the updated on a regular basis. Training on address basic needs such as education, Labour chapter. business ethics and conduct is regularly held health and wellbeing, in order to serve our in our offices to reinforce the procedures for employees and community members. was invested in our outreach reporting any potential violations. Our values In Asia, the expansion of trade has and community initiatives of integrity and entrepreneurship underpin been a major contributor to prosperity in these efforts and are embedded in our recent decades. We wish to understand corporate governance structure. the contribution of international trade We have a dedicated internal audit to sustainable outcomes. To address this team conducting systematic audits across question we have participated in the all of Noble’s operations. Its role is defined development of the Hinrich Foundation and overseen by the Audit Committee. The Sustainable Trade Index. Launched in April review and audit of Noble’s operations is a 2016, the index aims to measure the capacity continuous process. The team engages in of Asian economies in supporting longdiscussion and consultation with various term domestic and global goals of economic operations addressing financial, operational, growth, environmental protection, and compliance and information technology risks. strengthening social capital. The team provides independent assurance In 2015/2016, we continued to make of our overall systems of control and also significant community investments in makes certain that all locations adhere to Jamaica, Indonesia, and Rwanda, amongst the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. other places. At a global level, we have See Labour and Anti-corruption chapter for invested over USD 1.2 million in our global further information. outreach and community projects, not GRI [G4-DMA LOCAL COMMUNITIES] GRI [G4-SO1] including the costs of administration. The As we expand our supply chains into new 36 programmes we support have a footprint territories and activities, the business and in 65% of the countries in which we have a financial service functions are responsible for significant presence. Our partnerships on investigating any past, current or potential the ground provide local understanding and liabilities and breaches of human rights as a networks to allow us to identify and deliver 12 2016 Communication on Progress Connecting Human Rights to Project Finance GRI [G4-DMA INVESTMENT] GRI [G4-DMA CHILD LABOR] GRI [G4-DMA FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR] Strategic investments along the supply chain of risks arising from past or potential enable considerable flexibility to meet our environmental damage, including any demands for infrastructure, logistics, storage possible negative impacts on community and transport access. In line with our assethealth, wellbeing and livelihood. Land titles project by Jamalco light strategy, we assist our origination partners In selecting our partners, we prefer to through participating in funding solutions and work with market-leading asset managers In Jamaica, where Noble owns a local residents. The Government using our financial expertise, networks and and owners, who themselves are frequently 55% interest in the Jamalco bauxite provides technical assistance, know-how to bring product to world markets. public companies. We will normally mining and alumina refinery joint particularly in the applications for When we participate in a project, we have Board representation and, where venture, we advance our shared certificates of land titles. ensure our partners are conducting their necessary, we commission external industry social objectives via a multiMinister of Water, Land, business in a socially and environmentally experts to conduct detailed assessments year community engagement Environment and Climate Change, sound way. Internally, we have a formalised on the health and safety, social and programme on education, healthcare the Hon. Robert Pickersgill, MP, process to review and approve capital environmental performance of our potential and alternative employment commended Jamalco for this start in investment, and internal experts are involved investments. Following the assessments, we opportunities. In addition to this, addressing the perennial challenges to evaluate the analyses and reservations. collaborate with our partners to implement during 2014 Jamalco established a that land owners experience in A typical transaction may include the recommended policies or processes. project team to review over 3,000 obtaining titles. To date, over 200 acquisition of a small stake in a production GRI [G4-HR1] parcels of land. It is registering titles titles have been transferred through asset, a preferred offtake or marketing During the reporting period, there was for land it acquired for mining and the efforts of the project team. An partnership, or may involve working capital no need to undertake enhanced human rights will eventually transfer this land to additional 300 land transactions are financing which sometimes results in an screening for our 2 significant investments1 local residents and the Government. expected to be reviewed by the end exclusive provider agreement for supply chain (above USD 5 million). In one case, we There are some concerns about of 2016. management and logistics services. conducted a policy review on the health, safety the bureaucracy associated with Before we acquire an interest in a and security of the operation, while the owner acquiring land titles. To address production asset or enter into a long-term continues to be the operator of the facility. this, last year Jamalco set up a new relationship, we undertake due diligence For the other transaction, we did not require initiative with the Government’s Land processes in line with industry best practice. an enhanced screen, because the operation is Administration and Management Our asset development team and technical covered by stringent EU laws and regulations Programme to expedite the issuance consultants (in-house and external) make on human rights and environment. of registered land titles and provide routine visits to target locations to evaluate endorsements where required for the inherent risk factors of the transactions. The threshold of above USD 5 million is used to define transactions 1 as significant. A committee made up of senior management These assessments include consideration executives participates in the review process for such transactions. 13 2016 Communication on Progress Product Stewardship GRI [G4-HR4] GRI [G4-DMA PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING] Noble trades a variety of physical GRI [G4-PR3 ] relevant information about our partners. commodities and provides value-enhancing The minerals industry continues to This has received a favourable response solutions to our network of customers address human rights issues, especially when from our trading team. In addition, Noble across the globe. Our scale provides certain extraction takes place in regions of conflict. representatives regularly visit suppliers, benefits and economies as well as challenges. There are particular concerns in Central freight-forwarders, warehouses and port Natural-resource use, environmental Africa that mineral sales can provide possible terminals to evaluate compliance effectiveness. concerns, and customer expectations are funding for armed groups. GRI [G4-16] among the top challenges in supply For Noble, these risks are relevant to our Noble is a member of the ITRI Tin Supply chain management. minerals trade with the Democratic Republic of Chain Initiative (iTSCi) Programme and As our teams unlock new opportunities Congo and adjoining countries. Consequently International Tungsten Industry Association. to secure long-term physical flows, we we have stepped up efforts to mitigate potential In the iTSCi chain of custody system, form strategic partnerships with marketreputational risks, as well as diligently conform programme compliance requires that all leading raw materials producers and asset to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation minerals we trade are tagged at both points developers with a strong focus on supply and Development (OECD) due diligence of extraction and processing with detailed chain integrity and sustainable sourcing. guidance to assure we source solely with information on their production profile. We These collaborations enable a high level of responsible supply chain participants. support a joint industry approach to address product traceability and transparency across In 2012 we formalised our practice into concerns over mineral traceability and our value chains. the Conflict Minerals Policy and created a promote local economic development. Our partners also have explicit policies mechanism to implement the policy. Both in place to manage the environmental and our policy and due diligence framework are sustainability risks associated with the raw reviewed annually. In the reporting year, all material production. Those policies are minerals trades have successfully embedded underpinned by a series of international a new technology solution into our know management and essential performance your counterparty procedures. It focuses standards, such as OHSAS 18001, ISO 14001, on reducing potential reputational and ISO 9001 and ISO 31000. These process compliance risks, including human rights standards help us, and our partners, meet practices of suppliers, by implementing demanding bulk commodity specifications further integrity checks to complement and standards. Details about our partners existing risk systems. and associates can be found on Noble We have established a new team to Group’s website. compile the necessary data and advice on 14 2016 Communication on Progress Indigenous Relations 3-year Community Plan for Baralaba GRI [G4-DMA INDIGENOUS RIGHTS] GRI [G4-HR8] The Baralaba Coal Mine is located the school have indigenous heritage. Following a facility upgrade approximately 3km north of the To encourage the attendance of in 2015, mobile dental clinics from Noble recognises its responsibility to foster township of Baralaba, Central indigenous students at the school, the Australian government can a respectful and enduring relationship with Queensland, Australia. With a we provide funding to the ongoing now visit the school regularly. Free traditional land owners near our activities. population of 300 people, the Breakfast Club initiative, which offers dental check-ups and examinations Our engagement programmes are designed economy of Baralaba is supported a nutritious meal including toast, are provided to all children. This to respect the significant cultural values by mining operations and farming fruit, cereal, and milk for all students. programme benefits the rural of the areas where we originate resources, industries. The remoteness limits As a result, the school staff report community with improved conforming to our Sustainability Policy. the range of basic social services a vast improvement in students’ oral health and accessibility to Regular meetings with indigenous groups in available. Therefore, when Noble concentration and performance. professional dental services. the host regions provide an open platform became a minority shareholder in to align business practices with community Cockatoo Coal, we committed in needs and expectations. We are pleased to May 2014 to a 3-year community report that in 2015/2016 we received no programme covering education, formal complaints of any violations of the health and recreational facilities. rights of indigenous people. In partnership with the local council, we completed the construction of a community playground with sports and leisure Baralaba facilities, and a park for young children in late 2014. The township is 40km from the Central Queensland town of Woorabinda, situated on the traditional lands of the Wadja Wadja / Yungulu Aboriginal people. Many children from Woorabinda attend the Baralaba State School, and about 50% of the students at 15 2016 Communication on Progress Labour Noble is committed to keeping its workforce PRINCIPLE 3: Our Commitment Forced or compulsory labour of any kind is engaged and motivated to be part of the not tolerated, nor do we exploit child labour in Businesses should uphold the GRI [G4-56] Group. We value diversity at every level of Noble’s Code of Conduct sets forth the any of our global operations. Forced and child our organisation and respect the rights of all freedom of association and the requirements for compliance as well as the labour are not an issue in our operations, as the of our employees. As of December 31, 2015, effective recognition of the right guidelines on the key labour issues. We view the majority of Noble’s staff are office based with our 1,526 employees represented more than to collective bargaining; principles advocated in the UN Global Compact as permanent contracts. For potential human rights 55 nationalities, working across 23 countries. minimum standards and seek to go beyond them. issues in product origination, we apply risk based Recruiting and staffing decisions play a critical PRINCIPLE 4: A key part of Noble’s sustainability strategy is assessment and enhanced due diligence in high role in ensuring that we put the right people in maintaining a healthy and safe work environment risk areas. The elimination of all forms of the right roles and the right places. which motivates our employees to drive our The top drivers in talent attraction and forced and compulsory labour; company forward. Our Equal Opportunities retention include a sense of ownership, training Policy applies to every employee in the Group MATERIAL ASPECTS opportunities and career advancement. Beyond PRINCIPLE 5: and commits Noble to eliminating discrimination, • Talent attraction this we have rooted the wellbeing of our people The effective abolition of child harassment and victimization in the workplace. • Employee training and development in our day to day activities to assure safe labour; and We support freedom of association and workplaces and enhance a culture of good health. collective bargaining for our employees and • Occupational health and safety We enable our staff to volunteer and diligently comply with local labour laws and • Diversity and equal opportunities PRINCIPLE 6: give back to the community through our regulations in the countries in which we • Preventing forced/child labour outreach programmes. The elimination of discrimination conduct business. in respect of employment and occupation. Key Performance Indicators Performance or Progress in 2015 Noble’s owned ships and tonnage safety incident rate Lost time injury frequency (LTIF): 0.58 Total recordable case frequency (TRCF): 1.73 Note: The frequency rates are calculated per million exposure hours No discrimination No credible complaints of discrimination in any locations Percentage of staff voluntary turnover 18% Percentage of new hires that are recruited from 81% their local region 16 2016 Communication on Progress Staff in Jakarta celebrated the end of 2015 with water games and carnival dancing. Long Service Awards were also presented on this occasion. 17 On a cold autumn day in 2015, 30 staff from the London office completed a gruelling Our Woodbridge office staff make an annual visit to the New Jersey State Veteran’s Memorial 20km assault course race to raise funds for charities. Home. Bingo is the most popular game among the residents. 2016 Communication on Progress Implementing Noble’s Labour Standards GRI [G4-DMA EMPLOYMENT] Our people work across multiple functions, locations and languages. A culture of diversity and equal opportunities is one of our greatest strengths and allows us to operate cohesively culture. In addition, employees in key roles may also receive share options, which provide a further linkage to the long term interests of our shareholders. of discrimination standards seriously. In 2015/2016 we received no credible complaints of discrimination in any location. Noble has adopted and implemented 35% female employees across borders and businesses. In 2015, We also offer benefits programmes a whistle-blowing policy through which at Noble offices we had 1,526 permanent and temporary that include medical, health and disability employees may, in confidence, raise employees, and contractors, with permanent covers, pension plans, parental leave, concerns regarding matters not only about employees comprising more than 97% of our and wellness programmes. Noble Group equal opportunity, but also any unlawful workforce. Female representation was 35% in operates a number of defined contribution activity, policy or practices, suspected fraud, our global offices (2014: 35%) and 33% of our plans (including mandatory and voluntary corruption, dishonest practices or other overall workforce. schemes) throughout the world – in 2015, similar matters. There are also arrangements employer pension contributions totalled for an independent investigation of such Compensation and Benefits USD 10.1 million. issues and for appropriate follow up actions GRI [G4-EC3] where necessary. Noble Group offers our permanent employees Equal Opportunity a competitive compensation and benefits GRI [G4-DMA DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY] package.2 Pay for performance underpins GRI [G4-DMA NON-DISCRIMINATION] GRI [G4-HR3] our compensation strategy, which we believe, We have clear policies and training enhances the culture of partnership and practices to combat discrimination. Our teamwork across the firm. managers are responsible for ensuring that Under our compensation framework, a the Equal Opportunities Policy and other significant proportion of employees’ annual labour principles are adhered to in their bonuses are deferred, subject to continued departments. In our offices, employees employment and other qualifying conditions. receive mandatory training on workplace This not only aligns the interests of our conduct and business ethics. We encourage employees with those of our shareholders, and promote procedures for reporting any but also creates a sense of ownership and unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. accountability that is central to our corporate Moreover, Noble takes any alleged breach The eligibility to participate fully in Noble Group’s benefits programme depends on local employment contracts, which can vary according to local employment laws. 2 18 2016 Communication on Progress Constructive Dialogue By Region and Gender By Management Level and Gender GRI [G4-11] GRI [G4-DMA LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS] GRI [G4-LA4] 244 DIRECTORS 15 GRI [G4-DMA FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING] APAC 687 (SENIOR MANAGER 141 OR ABOVE) GRI [G4-HR4] 443 126 The Group’s intention is to maintain MANAGER 63 164 productive relationships with our employees. EMEA 247 (EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL 600 184 436 Our employees are kept up to date on the OR ABOVE) latest news of the company via emails and 175 PROFESSIONAL 282 N.AMERICA 544 592 newsletters. We gather feedback through 369 & SUPPORT 310 town hall meetings in the major offices and provide opportunities for employees to S. AMERICA 19 41 NOT DECLARED 44 193 directly interact with the senior 22 149 management team. 4 Noble abides by local minimum notice BRAZIL 7 TOTAL 1,526 3 requirements for informing employees when there are significant changes in our operations. Noble’s Code of Conduct embraces TOTAL 1,526 our employees’ right to exercise freedom of association and to have representation of their choice. As of 2015, most of our workforce is not covered by specific collective By Employment Type and Gender bargaining agreements. 10 CONTRACTOR 31 21 PERMANENT AND 495 1,495 TEMPORARY 1,000 TOTAL 1,526 GRI [G4-9] GRI [G4-10] GRI [G4-LA12] FEMALE MALE 19 2016 Communication on Progress A Safe and New Hires by Age Group and Gender Healthy 53 Noble Americas Wellness Program <30 115 168 Workplace A successful wellness programme brings multiple benefits. Most importantly, year one, which is key for employees to maintain and monitor their health. 30-50 55 142 197 GRI [G4-DMA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY] GRI [G4-LA6] it empowers employee to make A total of 503 (96.2%) employees 7 informed health and lifestyle decisions. participated in the 2015 screenings. >50 34 27 Noble believes that creating a healthy Of those employees who reported Promoting a healthy and safe work workplace and a culture of well-being is year-over-year outcomes based 9 25 NOT DECLARED environment makes good business sense and important to our long-term success as a results, therefore not including new 16 is the responsible thing to do. Health and company and equally important to our hires who were taking their first safety is a consideration in our offices, across employees’ quality of living. baseline biometric screening, 86.9% of TOTAL 424 our owned fleet ships and at commodity We launched the Noble Americas employees achieved either 3 out of 5 suppliers. Our asset-light strategy means that Wellness Program in 2014 to encourage values in a healthy range or showed at it is primarily offices that are in our direct employees across our US locations to least a 10% improvement in 3 factors. operational control. become more engaged in their health. Employees meeting this threshold New Hires by Region and Gender Health and safety policy and guidelines Participating employees received a receive a fully paid medical premium. 62 are implemented to ensure the necessary biometric screening to provide them Noble continues to build on our APAC 207 145 focus on safety systems at work, response to with a health “snapshot” across five culture of wellness. In March 2016, incidents and medical aids. In our key offices, health risk factors: body mass index 115 employees in the US and Canada 22 (BMI), blood pressure, blood glucose, participated in the Noble Americas EMEA 75 we offer free flu vaccinations and first aid 53 training courses. For our owned fleets and triglycerides and HDL cholesterol. A Fitness Challenge. The goal of the tonnage, the lost time injury frequency and biometric screening does not diagnose challenge was to walk 10,000 steps a 38 N.AMERICA 138 total recordable case frequency were 0.58 a health problem, but it helps raise day. Any employee who hit the goal 5 100 and 1.73 in 2015. Both figures are well below awareness about an individual’s state of days out of a week was entered into a health so they can make healthier and weekly raffle. Five employees hit the 0 industry average of 1 and 2.5. S. AMERICA 2 more informed decisions. 10,000 steps a day goal every day of the 2 Across our investment portfolio, we take health and safety matters seriously, however We are now in year two of the month and a trophy was awarded to the 2 they are sometimes beyond our sphere of Program and the focus is on outcomesSan Diego office, who had the highest BRAZIL 2 0 control. To minimise the health and safety based results. This requires that an number of average steps per employee. risks, we partner with reputable production employee take action to improve or maintain his or her baseline results from TOTAL 424 facilities in developed regions, conduct site visits, and exercise board oversight where appropriate. GRI [G4-LA1] FEMALE MALE 20 2016 Communication on Progress Talent Acquisition and Development Turnover by Age Group and Gender 78 GRI [G4-DMA TRAINING AND EDUCATION] <30 197 119 150 In 2014, we launched our new Global recruited in the local regions to support our Internal Mobility 30-50 473 323 Associate Programme. Throughout 2015, further geographic diversification. Personal development plans and practical we further upgraded it to ensure that Noble GRI [G4-LA11] actions are key to help realise each 27 >50 103 continues to attract, recruit, and develop Our success is only made possible by our individual’s potential. We are building better 76 the strongest candidates with the highest people. Mutual respect based upon loyalty is the guidance around the different career paths potential. We received over 3,400 applications key underpinning our success. One important available to our employees on a global basis. TOTAL 773 for the programme and were pleased at the step to achieve this is our annual performance The internal mobility afforded to our people is extremely high quality of the associates. appraisal, which involves all employees. A a mark of our entrepreneurial spirit. We seek, The new programme provides a discussion between managers and employees reward and support a sense of ownership comprehensive grounding in the commodity takes place to review achievements, provide among our staff, which encourages initiative market, global supply chains and risk feedback against objectives, and to set the from all levels. In 2015, 39 employees took management through training, assignments framework for compensation. the opportunity to move countries and 120 and on-the-job rotations around the globe. We also have a comprehensive talent moved to different business units or job Turnover by Region and Gender A major contributor to its success comes from review and succession planning exercise functions, in order to add skills to different 161 dedicated support and input we received covering key leadership roles and top tiers offices, while also developing new skills. APAC 435 274 from Noble’s managers at key junctures in the of the senior management team across programme, including associate selection the Group to support personal and career 44 EMEA 147 and development. development. At the close of 2015, 83% of our 103 We are also proud to have received senior management had an average tenure of external recognition for our Global nearly six years. 49 N.AMERICA 185 Associate Programme. The Singapore HR The turnover rate for 2015 reflected the 136 Awards, organised by the Singapore Human difficult year Noble faced along with the 1 Resources Institute (SHRI), identifies resources industry in general. This has led to BRAZIL 6 5 leading organisations and Human Resources business restructuring and high involuntary practitioners in their drive for worthwhile turnover. Some employees with transferrable human capital strategies. In 2015, Noble skills moved to other industries, which had a TOTAL 773 was a finalist. consequential impact on voluntary turnover. As we continue to grow our customer base, we have markedly increased our presence in a number of local markets. More than 81% of our new hires in 2015 were GRI [G4-LA1] FEMALE MALE 21 2016 Communication on Progress Community Outreach Racing for charities GRI [G4-DMA LOCAL COMMUNITIES] GRI [G4-SO1] From marathons to obstacle racing, of fire and crawl through electrified Noble teams participate in multiple obstacles, all in the name of charity. events to raise funds for local charities Three Noble teams – Tough Cookies, Noble goes beyond promoting an active and review our programmes. In 2015/ 2016, and touch the communities in places Tough Pubbers and Hitchhikers – lifestyle for our employees. We reach out to we implemented programmes in 15 countries where Noble operates. raised over £10,000 for a number of the communities in which we work and live, focusing on literacy, rural infrastructure, In London, 30 employees took part well-deserving charities, including: helping numerous healthcare, education, medical and nutritional assistance, boosting in a gruelling 20km assault course in Claire House Children’s Hospice; Cancer environmental and charitable efforts to local employment opportunities and Regent’s Park on a cold autumn day in Research; Anthony Nolan, a charity that enrich our lives and the lives of others. We biodiversity protection. To enable stable 2015. The Tough Mudder obstacle race helps save lives of people with blood is a team challenge that saw the Noble cancer; and CHICKS children charity, have a vision to work for the greater good delivery of services and activities that align Mudders dive into ice cold water, wade which gives free respite breaks to outside of our daily activities it is in our with our visions, the Foundation generally through mud pits, jump through hoops disadvantaged children in the UK. culture to contribute and give back to society. makes grants to programmes that are brought Our people lead many community to our attention by staff over one to three initiatives, identifying where help is most year periods. needed. We volunteer and aim to inspire. This includes community volunteering schemes such as fundraising, providing Helping migrant mothers teaching and mentoring services, as well as The PathFinders organisation is dedicated Foundation. The objective is to identify participating in charity runs and challenges. to protecting the rights of migrant and meet appropriate partner agencies In 2015, staff raised more than USD worker women and their children in Hong in Indonesia, which can provide these 105,000 for donation to various charities. Kong. It assists both undocumented mothers with the tools they need In Noble Americas, more than 30 charities and documented women who are to care for their children in a safe benefited from our dollar-for-dollar matching pregnant or have children in Hong Kong environment, while reintegrating them gift programme, benefiting qualified to make informed decisions, understand into their home country as legally charities. We look to advance social objectives their legal rights and obligations, and registered citizens. and build lasting partnerships. Regular site access critical humanitarian services In 2015, the programme supported visits and meetings with local government and support networks. Importantly, its 43 families to prepare to return service empowers the mothers to make home. With a network of local service officials are also an important complement to decisions based on their children’s providers identified, the families our evaluation of community needs. best interests. are now able to access more readily, The Noble Foundation aims to address The Home Country Integration essential medical services and the issues of poverty and underdevelopment Programme was launched in 2014 re-integration support that is culturally through collaboration with local with a three-year grant from Noble and linguistically appropriate. organisations that act at the grassroots level. We have a formal procedure to select, monitor 22 2016 Communication on Progress Our Global Community and Outreach Initiatives United Kingdom Mongolia United States Israel China Mexico India Hong Kong Jamaica Thailand Kenya Singapore Rwanda Indonesia Australia South Africa 23 2016 Communication on Progress Environment Climate change, water and air pollution and PRINCIPLE 7: Our Commitment issues. During the reporting period, we received resource depletion are some of the greatest no significant fines and no reports of nonBusinesses should support a GRI [G4-56] GRI [G4-DMA COMPLIANCE] GRI [G4EN29] challenges faced by humanity. Noble understands We support a precautionary approach to compliance with environmental laws and the fundamental importance of managing our precautionary approach to environmental challenges and work intensively regulations across our wholly-owned operations. impact on the environment, as our core business environmental challenges; to minimise our environmental footprint across To secure our long term flow of energy inherently relies on natural resources. We seek our supply chains. We do this by deploying products and help our customers to reduce to operate responsibly to prevent pollution and PRINCIPLE 8: resource management systems and controls. their greenhouse gas emissions, we support minimise our environmental footprint across our Undertake initiatives to Regional environmental policies and plans are alternative fuel development and the diffusion of supply chains. complemented with site-specific requirements. environmentally friendly technologies. promote greater environmental Energy access enables development and Technical staff, quality managers and dedicated can bring life transforming benefits. However responsibility; and staff are present in all key locations and play a International Energy Agency scenarios highlight leading role in their implementation. MATERIAL ASPECTS: that countries face increasing pressure to secure PRINCIPLE 9: In line with legal requirements and principles, • Pollution prevention access to affordable energy while boosting lowEncourage the development and we conduct environmental impact assessments • Greenhouse gas emissions carbon energy supply. To support our customers diffusion of environmentally before purchasing new installations to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Noble the environmental risks to our investments. and energy friendly technologies. pursues opportunities to supply renewable We also work in collaboration with industry energy products to meet rising energy demand. associations to address broader environmental Key Performance Indicators Performance or Progress in 2015 / 2016 Number of fines / breaches of environmental regulations No fines / breaches of environment regulations Reduce by 10% CO2 emissions per product traded The CO2 emissions per products traded was 0.0113 in 2015 (MtCO2e / Mt) between 2013 (base year) and 2018 compared to 0.0137 in 2014 (target year) Reduce by 15% CO2 emissions due to business travel per Target achieved full-time employee between 2012 (base year) and 2015 New target to reduce CO2 emissions of business travel per (target year) full-time employee by a further 10% by 2020 from the 2015 level Number of spills overboard across the fleet operations No spills 24 2016 Communication on Progress Since 2012, we have supported scientific research, wildlife management and habitat restoration at El Carmen, a private trans-boundary nature reserve along the border between Mexico and the United States. 25 At the Indonesian palm plantations, our conservation field team is working closely with technical We are expanding our footprint into cleaner fuel trading in Asia Pacific, and are experts to advance our ongoing conservation and biodiversity assessment programme. recognised as one of the top three independent global LNG traders. 2016 Communication on Progress Energy and Emissions GRI [G4-DMA ENERGY] GRI [G4EN6] GRI [G4-DMA EMISSIONS] GRI [G4EN19] The United Nations Climate Change 2015 amounted to 3.06 million tonnes CO2 the remaining emissions, we retired verified Conference – COP 21 was concluded in equivalent. This reflects continued growth in carbon credits from renewable and low 2015 with a global scientific consensus to our trading volume, adding to our emissions. carbon energy projects that bring positive limit global warming and set national goals To manage our energy and carbon socio-economic benefits. Since inception to significantly reduce global greenhouse emissions, we set intensity reduction targets of the project, we have offset more than emissions. Businesses can play a role to across our operations and shipping business 1,240,000 tonnes of carbon. mitigate the environmental impact of their at the level of individual assets, which include In our offices, we encourage staff to physical operations, by investing in energy and key material inputs. The targets reduce greenhouse gas emissions through low-carbon fuels and power production, are aggregated at the Group level. Having making conscious daily choices. We raise and advocating for actions through met our initial target set in 2010 of a 10% CO2 awareness and promote eco-friendly habits business associations. emissions reduction due to business travel through our publications and with our Since 2007, Noble has sought to mitigate per full-time employee, in 2015, we met our regular commuting and business travel environmental issues in our value chains carbon emissions target set in 2012 to reduce survey. In some of our major offices, bike as well as work systemically on climate and another 15%. storage and shower facilities are available environmental risks across our corporate The result has shown the Group level to facilitate cycling or walking to work. offices and physical operations. We initiated travel policy is effective at reducing overall In the US, we offer a commuter benefit the Carbon Neutral Project as a step-by-step business travel and encouraging the use of programme to encourage staff to use approach to reduce the Group’s greenhouse video conferencing. This year, we endeavour public transportation. gas (GHGs) emissions. We launched a to further reduce our staff business travel centralised environment data assessment for an additional 10% reduction per full-time system in 2010. employee in 2020. For more information Throughout the year we have seen an about our energy efficiency initiatives in increase in demand for seaborne cargo, and chartering, see the section Pollution as the transportation of essential materials Prevention and Mitigation. and resources entails the use of significant Notably, in 2015 we achieved carbon amounts of energy, it is a fundamental neutrality in all Noble offices worldwide, challenge to achieve absolute emission publications and annual management reductions while growing our chartering events. We make every effort to improve tonnage. More than 71% of the Group’s resource management across our operations, emissions come from our chartering business. including energy and fuel use, paper, water Total carbon emissions (scope 1 and 2) in and waste. As the final step to neutralising 26 2016 Communication on Progress Carbon and Energy Performance in our Operations GRI [G4-EN3] GRI [G4-EN5] GRI [G4-EN15] GRI [G4-EN16] GRI [G4-EN17] GRI [G4-EN18] 2015 2014 2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (Mt CO2e)1 Total emissions2 3.066 2.943 1.87 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 3.034 2.937 1.863 Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) 0.032 0.006 0.005 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3)3 0.011 0.015 0.017 CO2 emissions per products traded (MtCO2e / Mt) 0.0113 0.0137 0.01 CO2 emissions on business travel per employee (t CO2e / office employee) 5.29 7.50 5.97 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWh) Fuel 10,736,419 10,366,161 6,648,835 Electricity 73,002 11,961 9,457 Heat 29 110 9 Steam – 112 122 Cooling 1,093 1,106 1,154 Energy intensity per products traded (MWh / Mt) 0.040 0.048 0.036 1 N  oble Group greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory is defined by adopting the operational control approach in the GHG Protocol. The GHG inventory is assured by TÜV NORD CERT GmbH according to ISO 14064 standard. The GHG inventory includes Noble Group’s beneficiary ships, chartering, assets, worldwide offices and publication. 2 Data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions of Noble Group 3 Data includes business travel, commuting, water and waste, paper use and publication in Noble Group’s offices 27 2016 Communication on Progress Supplying the Growing Demand for Cleaner Fuels GRI [G4-16] GRI [G4EC2] Noble trades a broad mix of energy products. In the United States, we have benefited We worked throughout 2015 to gear We expect these to materialise first in Our business strategy has evolved to from deregulation in the power industry. up for production our world-class corn markets with more ambitious approaches incorporate climate change considerations Being an Environmental Protection Agency ethanol facility, located in South Bend, towards building their energy stacks around to meet the challenges of an increasingly Green Power provider, Noble Americas Indiana. The new plant design will reduce renewable sources, such as the Nordics carbon-constrained business environment. Energy Solutions is supplying a suite of our wastewater stream by almost 50% as or Germany. These considerations include regional renewable energy products (including solar, compared to previous operations. We are We are a member of the Renewable Fuels regulatory developments, shifts in market wind and biomass power) to major energy also reducing non-biodegradable effluents Association, an ethanol industry coalition in demand and supply as well as anticipated users across the country. Our business produced through converting the chemicals the United States that advocates the use of changes in weather patterns. expects to purchase in excess of 3.5 million and additives to U.S. Food and Drug domestically produced ethanol as a solution Our Clean Fuels division is dedicated to MWh of renewable products annually to Administration (USFDA) approved food to clean fuels. We are also looking towards providing lower carbon fuel solutions and meet load obligations across our North grade materials. The facility is expected to new biofuels currently under evaluation, such reducing environmental impacts. Further to a American portfolio. In 2015, approximately meet the surging demand in eco-friendly as bio-butanol, algae-based biodiesel and multi-year supply agreement made to Egypt, 9% of the power we supplied across the transportation fuels and to add 102 million cellulose ethanol. in December 2015, we expanded our footprint US was renewable energy. In addition, we gallons per year to US fuel ethanol to supply liquefied natural gas (LNG) cargoes regularly work with our large industrial production capacity. to end users in Asia Pacific. We are becoming and commercial customers to increase the In Europe, policies that steer towards a major player in this segment, and are renewable component of their energy mix on the addition of renewables capacity have recognised as one of the top three independent a voluntary basis. varied over time and between countries. Most global LNG traders. LNG boasts a number of In 2015, we entered into agreements countries have significant policy challenges to advantages, including being a clean-burning to purchase the power generated at three further integrate renewable generation within fuel that produces virtually no particulate different utility scale solar photovoltaic existing grids. For example, the intermittency matter during combustion and emits less facilities that are being built to deliver of renewable generation means that there GHGs compared to other fossil fuels. renewable power to California. Once is a greater need for standby and flexible GRI [G4EN6] construction is completed in 2016, the generation from conventional sources. Many Across North America, we leverage our facilities are anticipated to deliver over 1.5 governments are considering making power ethanol and biodiesel marketing business million MWh of renewable power to that capacity payments to increase the availability through a partnership with Mansfield Oil. market over the term of the contracts. In of back up capacity. The joint entity works with a network of addition, we also manage long term supply Nevertheless, we are actively looking renewable fuels production facilities, and its agreements between wind facilities and load for viable opportunities to invest in or marketing and extensive distribution system in the Midwest and optimise the dispatch of partner with firms that are developing reaches over 200 trading locations. a battery storage facility on the east coast. power generation from renewable sources. 28 2016 Communication on Progress Factoring environment friendly and low carbon policies into our investment decisions REGIONS POLICY DRIVERS OUR INVESTMENT PLAN North America Renewable Portfolio Standards at multiple States We are working with large industrial and commercial customers to increase the in the United States renewable component of their energy mix. We have entered into agreements to purchase in excess of 3.5 million MWh of renewable products annually to meet load obligations across our regional portfolio. In 2015, approximately 9% of the power Noble supplied across the US was renewable energy. Europe National renewable support schemes We are actively looking for opportunities to invest in or partner with firms that are developing power generation from renewable sources. We expect these to materialise first in markets with more ambitious approaches towards building their energy stacks around renewable sources, such as the Nordics or Germany. Middle East and Asia National policies to increase the percentage of We are growing our LNG business in both the Middle East and Asia Pacific region. LNG in power generation and improve efficiency Noble is recognised as one of the top three independent global LNG traders. in coal-fired power generation Thermal coal with high caloric value, and with lower environmental consequences remains in strong demand in Asian countries. In our energy coal business, we have strengthened our flows of top quality coal with low ash and low sulphur content from Australia, which helps mitigate the impact of coal burning. 29 2016 Communication on Progress Pollution Prevention and Mitigation GRI [G4-DMA TRANSPORT] GRI [G4EN30] The shipping sector has been working for greenhouse gas emissions. Noble’s owned in place to respond in the event of oil spills. decades to mitigate its impact on climate change, tonnage has been, depending on various We are pleased to report that in 2015/2016 air pollutants and ballast water pollution. Noble factors, frequently sailing at the “Super Eco we had no spills overboard across our owned Chartering is recognised for providing highSpeed” and/or “Eco Speed” since 2012. Our fleet operations. quality, safe and efficient logistics solutions. A efforts to sail our fleets at an optimised speed Furthering our commitment to reduce major component of its success comes from our within the 40 nautical miles zone of the Port greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of the strategy to use modern ships responsibly. of Long Beach, has qualified us for the “Green December 2015 United Nations Conference GRI [G4EC2] Flag” award and a 25% dockage fee reduction on Climate Change, Noble Chartering publicly Noble is modernising its owned fleet throughout 2015. reaffirmed its use of the Greenhouse Gas of ships to meet the growing demands of A monitoring parameter “Energy (GHG) Emissions Rating, a tool developed by its integrated supply chain strategy. Our Efficiency Operational Indicator” is applied RightShip to rate vessel efficiency. The GHG new ships are equipped with modern fuel across our fleet to measure and improve our emissions rating, alongside RightShip’s safety efficient engines. To control and minimise overall fuel use efficiency. Five of Noble’s rating, form a part of the vessel selection the introduction of nonindigenous species owned ships are qualified for Environmental process in our chartering procedures, we also to marine environments, we have installed Awareness (EA) certification or equivalent voluntarily use this mechanism to rate our ballast water treatment systems on four ships notation. Likewise, our ships comply strictly own fleet’s environmental performance. while working to fit another four ships with with the latest IMO regulations by switching this system by next year. Related investment to low sulphur content fuels in Emission is estimated to be USD 1.7 million in 2015. Control Areas. In 2015, Noble’s owned ships We partner with qualified fleet operators emitted 21% less CO2e emissions per nautical that place safety and pollution prevention mile compared to 2010. high on their agenda, whose management GRI [G4-DMA EFFLUENTS AND WASTE] GRI [G4EN24] systems are accredited with ISO 9001, ISO Noble adopts a Vessel/Barge Chartering 14001 and OHSAS 18001. We require our and Vetting Policy to ensure that all partners to hold the International Safety vessels chartered for the transportation of Management Code compliance certification petroleum, petroleum products, chemicals in line with International Maritime and LPG meet certain specified criteria Organization (IMO) requirements. and undergo screening by external vetting GRI [G4EN6] GRI [G4EN19] experts. These assessments cover factors Running at a speed optimised for lower such as emergency preparedness, ensuring fuel consumption saves fuel, money, and that an Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan is 30 2016 Communication on Progress Conservation efforts around the world over GRI [G4-16] 2,230 seedlings planted to We pursue pragmatic partnerships supporting nature and biodiversity conservation. In our two Indonesian palm oil plantations, our conservation local fruit tree species seedlings to improve the habitat for wildlife. Engagement with local communities is a key component and the construction of three water sources to support wildlife. In Hong Kong, we are a corporate member of Worldwide Fund for improve habitat efforts ensure that we not only meet to the success of our programme. Nature (WWF). We recognise their certification standards for sustainable Staff exchange knowledge and best vision in creating solutions that palm oil production but also create practices with local communities to serve nature and people, and we 200,000 long-term structural improvements promote sustainability and also to are a long-term supporter of their to lessen our environmental impact. help preserve traditional ways of life. wide-reaching conservation initiatives We are a member of the Roundtable In 2012, we started to support and environmental education on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and scientific research, wildlife programmes in Hong Kong and the hectares spanned by both plantations are on track to management and habitat restoration South China region. El Carmen nature reserve achieve RSPO certification. at El Carmen, a private transA dedicated team of conservation boundary nature reserve along field staff conducts inventory counts the border between Mexico and regularly on flora and fauna within the United States. Spanning nearly and adjacent to the plantations. This 200,000 hectares, El Carmen is work is done with the support of considered to be one of the five automatic field cameras. Information great wilderness ecosystems of is catalogued in an extensive database the world. It is home to incredible that tracks species distribution and biodiversity. 2015 highlights include abundance, among other data points. a student led research project on In 2015, we re-marked conservation forest management, hosting 50 reserve boundaries along more than undergraduate biology students 15km of rivers, and have planted for outdoor lab studies, ongoing over 2,230 fast growing timber and protection of wildlife populations 31 2016 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Corruption and bribery have a considerable PRINCIPLE 10: Our Commitment MATERIAL ASPECTS: impact on business around the world. They pose Businesses should work against GRI [G4-56] • Legal compliance financial, legal, operational and reputational risks, Noble is committed to operating with the utmost and also undermine fair competition and impede corruption in all its forms, including integrity to fortify its position as a market leader. • Ethical investment practices long term investment. extortion and bribery. Our policies and management systems emphasise • Corporate governance Being a global player in moving physical anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust • Risk management commodities, Noble is exposed to corruption behaviour explicitly. related issues in a number of its markets and At a minimum, Noble acts in accordance with across a range of functions. The Corruption its statutory or regulatory requirements. We Perceptions Index published by Transparency hold onto our core values of being accountable International provides a useful gauge to risks in and responsible, which extend to our shared different countries, and low risks countries score commitment to prevent fraud and misconduct. high in the index. Although our major markets rank highly in the index, the lower ranks of the emerging markets that support our growth highlight the challenges we face. In addition, our core business is in natural resource supply chains. These can have potentially high risks for corruption, particularly when dealing with foreign officials, where governments control resource management in origination countries. This makes risk governance Key Performance Indicators Performance or Progress in 2015 / 2016 central to our supply chain business. Our risk Percentage of employee attending the annual 87% management structure adopts the highest compliance training possible standards to enable a fully integrated Risk assessment and internal audits Annual risk assessment completed approach to control exposure to corruption Four relevant high risk business units were audited related risks from the producer to the customer. (using 18-24 month cycle) Establish an independent screening process to assess Implemented a centralised computing system to conduct counterparties for risks due diligence on all new and existing customers A project is underway to automate World-Check screening for our payment system 32 2016 Communication on Progress 33 2016 Communication on Progress Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption GRI [G4-DMA ANTI-CORRUPTION] GRI [G4SO5] Our Group-wide policies state clearly that Specific rules on securities trading which included reviews of anti-corruption investors, companies and regulators help to all our business functions must comply when in possession of internal, confidential and sanctions-related controls. promote the importance of governance in with the legal obligations and laws in every information are circulated among employees Noble’s Risk Committee comprises senior Asian companies and counter corruption and jurisdiction in which we operate. Noble’s and set out in a separate policy. This includes managers and division heads. It meets on malpractice. Noble is a member of the Asian Code of Conduct imposes specific obligations a procedure for the good faith reporting of a weekly basis to discuss significant risks Corporate Governance Association (ACGA) in respect of anti-corruption, anti-trust, any infringement of the Code of Conduct or and progress against strategy. Among other and actively participates in their conferences anti-money laundering, combating financial other Noble Policies. Concerned employees mandates, the committee reviews Noble’s and advocacy. crimes, counter financing of terrorism, are encouraged to report without fear to the policies and internal controls to ensure sanctions and fraud. Compliance or Legal departments when any appropriate procedures are in place. Our experienced Compliance Team is suspicions arise. In the past year, we launched the dedicated to ensuring that our business Noble Group Economic Sanctions Policy to conforms to applicable laws and regulations. Risks Governance and Compliance reinforce the roles of all employees to comply Compliance Team personnel are based in GRI [G4SO3] GRI [G4-DMA COMPLIANCE] GRI [G4SO8] with applicable sanctions laws as well as our trading offices and serve as a valuable Noble’s holistic approach to risk governance the responsibility of legal and compliance resource for providing technical assistance underpins our strong risk management functions. The goal is to minimise potential and training in the regulatory sphere. During culture. A clear segregation of duties for risk legal and reputational risks of our staff the reporting period, we had no confirmed managers and business managers ensures full and business units. The policy sets out cases of corruption in our operations. accountability and ownership within our risk procedures that are intended to focus on Noble employees worldwide are given management structure. economic sanctions imposed by the United explicit guidance on ethical business Our internal audit team conducts States, European Union, United Nations and practices, such as conflicts of interest, regular assessments of compliance with Monetary Authority of Singapore. During entertainment and gifts. Every employee must the Group’s policies and procedures, and the reporting period, we had no fines or acknowledge they have read and understood engages in continuous discussions and non-monetary sanctions relating to the nonNoble’s Code of Conduct and policies, as part consultations with the various divisions compliance of laws and regulations. of the induction and ongoing process. Regular of the Group to ensure compliance with GRI [G4-16] refresher training is organised to maintain sanctions legislation and anti-bribery We pay close attention to evolving laws the effectiveness of compliance programmes measures, such as the UK Bribery Act. In and regulatory frameworks, and actively and highlight some of the perception gaps and the reporting periods, four audits were support reforms that require higher possible “grey areas”. conducted across Noble Group’s operations, standards. Often, collective actions by 34 2016 Communication on Progress Ongoing Training and Centralised Platform for Communication Counterparty Acquisition GRI [G4SO4] Noble employees are given regular updates This programme caters to the different As a listed public company with a global identification, risk management on rules and regulations relevant to their needs of different business functions. For footprint, we acknowledge that our actions are and monitoring measures. Since the particular markets and jurisdictions. example, front office members receive constantly under scrutiny. Global regulations implementation, we have processed hundreds Important notifications are communicated training on financial crimes, bribery acts, on financial crime and anti-corruption are of new counterparty relationships and also via compliance emails to employees globally. market abuse and index manipulation, which being tightened as regulators place greater reviewed our existing relationships. Not Education and refresher trainings on is less relevant in other business areas. Other emphasis on transparency and accountability. only does this initiative increase visibility compliance, financial crime, anti-bribery and training includes regulations related to illegal We continue to adapt to the changing into customer profiles and protect Noble anti-money laundering (AML) are delivered conduct and references anti-corruption laws regulatory landscape by regularly reviewing from counterparty risk exposure, it will also via e-learning programmes and classroom and published cases. our policies and procedures. Taking into enhance customer experience by avoiding sessions. New joiners undertake mandatory account these developments, industry duplicate requests for information. compliance training on the Group’s policies. guidance, customer experience and societal Centralised intelligence maintained at expectations, we implement internal controls a global level provides valuable information Over 1,330 employees (1,120 in the that safeguard our operations against for risk identification and determining inprevious reporting cycle) attended training in regulatory and reputational risk. time corrective actions. At the same time, the last 12 months. Among these, around Further to our substantial review of all it supports our effort to build a holistic 15% of attendees were management level existing counterparties, we have deactivated customer profile and position ourselves as an staff. Refresher training covers AML, accounts that were obsolete or where we important part of our customers’ businesses. sanctions, anti-bribery & corruption, and the had no active business. In late 2015, we We undertake a World-Check risk search US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. All US staff successfully implemented a centralised as a key component of our mandatory risk receive annual recertification of the counterparty management technology screening before entering into any contracts US compliance manual. solution and Know Your Counterparty with new counterparties. In the reporting period, we have further Programme across all global divisions. Our In the last year, we had a small rolled out our online compliance training team categorises each counterparty into one number of isolated instances in which a programme to cover Asian offices. Now, of three tiers, depending on its locations, counterparty did not meet our Know Your e-learning modules are the major delivery beneficiaries and the nature of its activities. Counterparty Programme standards. tool at our global locations. This will The screening procedures and ongoing Transactions were cancelled in these cases. enable greater flexibility for employees to monitoring requirements are then optimised Currently, we are further enhancing the access training materials and allows us to and streamlined. controls by integrating with more solutions maintain a centralised tracking system for This programme ensures all Noble’s and continuing to monitor and review course delivery. counterparties are subject to adequate existing relationships. 35 2016 Communication on Progress Global Reporting Initiative G4 Content Index GRI [G4-32] GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO message CEO’s message (2) ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Noble Group About Noble Group (0) G4-4 Primary brands, products and services About Noble Group (0) G4-5 Noble Group’s headquarters About Noble Group (0) G4-6 Countries of operations About Noble Group (0), 2015 Annual Report (12) G4-7 Ownership and legal form About Noble Group (0) G4-8 Market served Financial highlights FY 2015 (3), 2015 Annual Report (12) G4-9 Scale of the organisation About Noble Group (0), Labour (19), 2015 Annual Report (8, 86-92, 183) G4-10 Employee and workforce information Labour (19) G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Labour (19) Noble’s workforce being mostly officebased is not covered by specific collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Supply chain description About Noble Group (0) G4-13 Significant changes to the organisation 2015 Annual Report (4-7) G4-14 Precautionary approach Roles and Governance (7) G4-15 External charters and principles CEO’s message (2) G4-16 Memberships of associations CEO’s message (2), Human Rights (14) Environment (28,31), Anti-corruption (34) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the financial statements (42) 2015 Annual Report (183) G4-18 Report content and aspect boundaries (42) About this report (4), Identifying Material Issues (8-9) G4-19 List of material aspects (42) Identifying Material Issues (8-9) 36 2016 Communication on Progress GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organisation (42) Identifying material issues (8-9) G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organisation (42) Identifying material issues (8-9) G4-22 Effect of any restatements (42) No restatements from previous year G4-23 Significant changes to scope and aspect boundaries (42) No significant changes from previous year STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups (42) Understanding our responsibility (5) G4-25 Indentification of stakeholders (42) Understanding our responsibility (5) G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement (42) Understanding our responsibility (5) G4-27 Key concerns raised by stakeholders (42) Understanding our responsibility (5) REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period About this report (4) G4-29 Date of previous report July 18, 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this report (4) G4-31 Contact point About Noble Group (0) G4-32 The report is ‘In Accordance’ with the GRI G4 Guidelines Core option Global Reporting Initiative G4 Content Index (36-41) Reference to external assurance report G4-33 External assurance policy and practice About this report (4) Ernst & Young’s Assurance Statement (42-43) GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Roles and Governance (7), 2015 Annual Report (66-83) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms Roles and Governance (7) Human Rights (10) Labour (16), Environment (24) Anti-corruption (32) 37 2016 Communication on Progress Global Reporting Initiative G4 Content Index GRI [G4-32] G4-EN3 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS ECONOMICS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2015 Annual Report (4-7) G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2015 Annual Report (86-92) About Noble Group (0) G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Environment (28-29) organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 2015 Annual Report (199) ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (26) G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environment (27) G4-EN5 Energy intensity Environment (27) G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environment (26-30) EMISSIONS G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (26) G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Environment (27) G4-EN15 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environment (27) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Environment (27) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Environment (27) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Environment (27) G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environment (26-30) EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (30) G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment (30) 38 2016 Communication on Progress GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (24) G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Environment (24) sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations TRANSPORT G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Environment (30) G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other Environment (30) goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (18-23) G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover Labour (20-21) by age group, gender and region LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (19) G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, Labour (19) including whether these are specified in collective agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (20) G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, Labour (20) We had no fatalities recorded during and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, the reporting period. Health and safety by region and by gender policies and location specific emergency response measures are implemented across our locations to control risks and ensure workplace safety. We report the occupational health and safety data of our owned ships and tonnages. 39 2016 Communication on Progress Global Reporting Initiative G4 Content Index GRI [G4-32] G4-EN3 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (21) G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Labour (21) development reviews, by gender and by employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (18) G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Labour (19) employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (13) G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts Human Rights (13) that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (18) G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Labour (18) corrective actions taken FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Labour (19) G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Labour (19) freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (13) G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Noble’s major operations are office-based, incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the therefore child labor is not a significant risk to effective abolition of child labor us. Having said that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble’s origination partners to minimise supply chain risk on child labour. 40 2016 Communication on Progress GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE PAGE REMARKS FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (13) G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Noble’s major operations are office-based, incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to therefore forced labor is not a significant the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor risk to us. Having said that, we make routine visits and due diligence on Noble’s origination partners to minimise supply chains risk on forced or compulsory labour. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (15) G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Human Rights (15) indigenous peoples and actions taken SOCIAL: SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (12), Labour (22-23) G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Human Rights (12), Labour (22-23) engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Anti-corruption (34-35) G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks related to Anti-corruption (34) corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Anti-corruption (35) G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Anti-corruption (34) COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Anti-corruption (34-35) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Anti-corruption (34) sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights (14) G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s Human Rights (14) procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements 41 2016 Communication on Progress Ernst & Young’s Assurance Report GRI [G4-33] Independent Limited Assurance Report in relation to Noble Group Limited’s 2015/16 Communication on Progress Report To the Board of Directors of Further, Noble’s management is as set out in the “Core Option” of GRI G4 and • Reviewing expectations and needs of Noble’s Noble Group Limited responsible for establishing and maintaining AA1000APS(2008) principles of Inclusivity, major stakeholders, how Noble responds internal controls relevant to the preparation Materiality and Responsiveness have been to these expectations and needs, and the Scope and presentation of the information used as criteria against which to evaluate communication channels between the We have been engaged by the management contained within the Report that is free from the Report. stakeholders and Noble through interview of Noble Group Limited (“Noble”) to material misstatement, whether due to fraud and review of related supporting documents; perform a limited assurance engagement or error, selecting and applying appropriate Work Performed on the information in Noble’s 2015/16 criteria, maintaining adequate records and The limited assurance procedures performed • Performing analytical tests and detailed Communication on Progress Report (the making estimates that are reasonable in included, but were not limited to: testings to source for material qualitative and “Report”). Noble has defined the scope of the the circumstances. quantitative information on a sample basis; Report in the GRI Index on pages 36-41 in • Conducting a site visit to Noble’s the Report. Assurance Practitioner’s Responsibility Headquarters in Hong Kong and • Checking the accuracy of calculations Our responsibility, in accordance with Noble interviewing selected business units and performed; Management’s Responsibility management’s instructions, was to carry out group level personnel to understand the The Report has been prepared by management a ‘limited level’ assurance review of selected current overall status of sustainability • Reviewing data and statements had been of Noble (the “Management”), who are information contained within the Report. activities and the report information correctly transcribed from corporate systems responsible for the collection and presentation Our assurance engagement has been collection and compilation approach; and/or supporting evidence into the Report; of the information within the Report in planned and performed in accordance accordance with the reporting criteria as with International Standard on Assurance • Determining whether material topics and • Sample testing of reported data, performance set out in AA1000 Accountability Principles Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, performance issues identified during our statements, claims and case studies in the Standard 2008 (the “AA1000APS(2008)”) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or procedures had been adequately disclosed by Report against the relevant reporting criteria issued by AccountAbility, and the “Core Reviews of Historical Financial Information benchmarking against the key issues raised as set out in GRI G4 principles; and Option” of the G4 Sustainability Reporting and in accordance with the requirements of in external media reports, sustainability Guidelines (the “GRI G4”) issued by the a Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by reports of Noble’s peers and Noble’s • Assessing Noble’s disclosures associated Global Reporting Initiative. the AA1000AS(2008). The reporting criteria stakeholder dialogues; with the alignment to the AA1000 Principles. 42 2016 Communication on Progress Limitations of Our Scope engagement and, accordingly, we do not them. We do not therefore accept or assume There are inherent limitations in performing express a reasonable assurance opinion or any responsibility for any other purpose or to assurance. Assurance engagements are an audit opinion. While we considered the any other person or organisation. Any reliance based on selective testing of the information effectiveness of the Management’s internal any such third party may place on the Report being examined, and it is possible that controls when determining the nature is entirely at its own risk. fraud, error, or non-compliance may occur and extent of our procedures, our review and not be detected. Adherence to AA1000 was not designed to provide assurance on Independence and GRI principles is subjective and will internal controls. We are in compliance with the Ernst & Young be interpreted differently by different Global Independence Policy which was stakeholder groups. Our Conclusions designed to comply with the requirements Our assurance was limited to Noble’s Subject to the limitations of scope and based of the IFAC Codes of Ethics for Professional 2015/16 Communication on Progress Report. on the procedures specified above for this Accountants (the IFAC Code). We believe that We have only sought evidence to support key ‘limited level’ assurance engagement, there were no events or prohibited services information and data contained in the Report. we provided the following conclusions: provided which could impair We did not assess the accuracy or fairness Nothing has come to our attention that our independence. of financial information or forward-looking causes us to believe that the information statements made by the Management. subject to the assurance engagement is not Our Assurance Team fairly stated, in all material respects, based Our assurance team has been drawn from Level of Assurance on the criteria stated above. our Climate Change and Sustainability Our evidence gathering procedures have Services network, which undertakes similar been designed to obtain a limited level of Use of Report engagements to this with a number of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) to draw Our responsibility in performing our renowned and international businesses. our conclusion. The procedures conducted assurance activities is to the directors of Noble We have the required competencies Ernst & Young do not provide all the evidence that would only and in accordance with the terms of and experience to conduct this Hong Kong be required in a reasonable assurance reference for this engagement as agreed with assurance engagement. 27 June 2016 43 2016 Communication on Progress THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK 44 This publication is printed on FSC™ www.thisisnoble.com certified paper with soy ink.
