ENERGY WITH ANTÓNIO MEXIA INTELLIGENCE 07 President of the Executive Board of Directors MESSAGE FROM ANTÓNIO MEXIA Dear Shareholder, The year of 2015 was a challenging year for the Utility sector given a difficult market environment, but it was also a time in which future trends were defined. These trends validate the vision and strategy of EDP. A SECTOR FACING CHANGE AND NEW CHALLENGES The year of 2015 was a challenging year for the sector. At a macroeconomic level, geopolitical issues, the slowdown in China and in other emerging markets, particularly Brazil, resulted in a weak global growth, which registered its lowest level since 2009. The growth below the potential level of most economies led to an increase in global markets volatility, particularly in the commodities market where oil and coal prices dropped to the minimum levels of 2006, leading to energy prices depreciation. On top of this, electricity consumption in Europe remains at the same level as a decade ago, exacerbating the current existing overcapacity, namely in the Iberian Peninsula. It is also noteworthy that there are still imbalances and uncertainties in relation to fiscal and energy policies whose application to the sector in the past was discretionary. This naturally increases the risk perception around utilities. Despite the challenges, we believe that 2015 was a key year for the sector. Globally, ANNUAL REPORT 08 2015 the objectives set out in the Paris Convention (COP21), regardless the shortcomings of the existing market mechanisms, show the direction and the role that our sector will have against climate change and sustained growth, as well as the central role of renewables in the response to the desired electrification in the world. In Europe, the objectives established for 2030 came to reinforce the debate on the need to create a new market design with the European authorities launching a public consultation on Market Design, in order to establish a clear and stable framework that ensures the necessary market signals to encourage investment. In a sector where the proportion of fixed costs are getting higher and where it is expected to channel the investment towards renewable energies (which today compete with traditional technologies and have a marginal costs tending towards zero) it is crucial to find ex-ante competitive mechanisms to enable a more stable and predictable remuneration of the different technologies. The current market context, with the sharp reduction in commodity prices and the current inefficacy of the CO2 market, reinforces even more this necessity. Moreover, EDP also advocates the need to introduce capacity remuneration mechanisms as a structural element of the competitive energy markets. In terms of challenges for the sector, EDP will continue to participate actively in world and european debates in order to contribute for a solution that enables the achievement of the set objectives and guarantees the sustainability of a competitive and innovative system, which should be designed primarily to ensure safe, clean and competitive energy to the end consumer. A DISTINCTIVE PROFILE COMPLEMENTED BY ANTICIPATION AND EXECUTION CAPABILITIES Given the challenging outlook for the year, the Board of Directors presented clear priorities for 2015 in line with the strategic principles of EDP´s Business Plan 2014-17: (i) focused growth maintaining a low-risk profile, (ii) reduction of leverage, (iii) stability of results, (iv) continuation of an attractive dividend policy. Given a very challenging market context, EDP’s results prove once again the company´s ability to overcome obstacles, thanks to its competitive profile and its anticipation and execution capabilities. The EDP Group achieved an EBITDA of €3.924M, an increase of 8% compared to 2014. The increase in the Renewables and Brazil results offsets the decrease in the Iberia Peninsula (-3 %), particularly in Portugal where the results decreased by 6%. In a year of negative impacts from exchange rates and a weak renewable production with a reduction in hydro production in Portugal (26% below the historical average) and in Brazil (hydro deficit of 15%), and a reduction in the wind output, to 3% below the historical average EDP’s recurrent EBITDA was €3,483M, an increase of 2% year-on-year. In the Iberia Peninsula, despite low hydraulicity, the operating results remained at resilient levels (€1.925M) supported mainly by the diversification of the thermal/hydro portfolio and a high availability level of the electrical generation infrastructure, as a result of the operating excellence of our teams. In Portugal, it should be remarked that EDP consolidated its leadership position in the liberalized market reaching a portfolio of 3.7 million electricity customers (85% market share) and more than 500,000 gas customers (50% market share). This was the result of a continued development of innovative services proposals, a closer customer relationship and further investment in commercial processes and systems (particularly the launch of the new CRM system). EDP also pursued its commitment to Energy Efficiency, launching new services such as electrical and natural gas mobility for companies, ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 09 and Energia Solar EDP. Also to note that this year in Portugal, as always underlined by EDP, the sustainability of the sector was confirmed, with a reduction of the tariff deficit, 2016 should further accentuate this decline. In the renewables sector, EDP continued to demonstrate its execution capability by achieving for the first time an EBITDA above €1.000M, in the value of €1.142M (+ 26% compared to 2014) and net profit of €167M (+32% compared to 2014). This growth is supported by the addition of 600MW of new capacity, the favourable USD-Euro exchange rate, and by the continue excellence operation of its assets. The year of 2015 was therefore a year of consolidation and implementation of the company’s strategic plan, which exceeded its growth targets, while remaining faithful to its self-funding policy with asset rotation operations reaching around €800M by January 2016, already €100M above the 2017 targets. In Brazil, despite an adverse macroeconomic context and a still low Hydrological year, EBITDA grew 38% compared to the previous year for a value of €857M in 2015. This result was influenced, in particular, by the integration of Pecém since May, and the capital gain achieved in this transaction. EDP added more than 360 MW to its portfolio, consolidating its position in the Brazilian market as a private generator, with a current installed capacity of 2,7 GW. Also in Brazil, on commercialization area, EDP acquired an energy efficiency firm called “APS”, thus strengthening its involvement in the services offering and accelerating the establishment of this segment in Brazil in line with the Group strategy. It should be noted that during 2015, EDP’s focus on efficiency was materialized with the completion of the OPEX III program, which generated annual savings of €170M, c. 30% above initial expectations. Following the conclusion of OPEX III, EDP launched a new savings program to achieve further reductions in its cost base, thus underlining the company’s commitment to further optimize its operational structure. Note also that the Group’s 2015 operational result was also influenced by positive one-off events, such as the purchase of Pecém I in Brazil at discount, the sale of non-strategic Gas assets in Spain and the impact of the incorporation of ENEOP in EDP Renewables in Portugal. With regard to EDP’s net income, despite the already mentioned 8% increase in EBITDA, the net income was €913M, a 12% reduction year-on-year, mainly driven by the capital gain of € 118M registered in 2014 with the sale of 50% of EDP Asia, by lower financial income and by higher results in the Renewables sector and in Brazil, which contributed to an increase of the minority interests. Concerning net investment, there was a 4% reduction compared to 2014 to a total of €1.735M, with around 70% of this amount dedicated to capacity expansion, focused in wind and hydro projects and 30% used to maintain operations in the regulated grids in the Iberian Peninsula and Brazil. The net debt at the end of the year was €17,4B, reflecting the impact of the appreciation of the USD against the Euro, the acquisition of 50% of the Pecém plant and the consolidation of the ENEOP assets as already mentioned. In what regards the Group´s funding policy, it shall be noted that EDP compromise with the reduction of the level of leverage and focus in maintaining a low risk profile, made the company achieve, in 2015, the the investment grade status by Moody’s. This underlined the strengthening of the Group’s credit profile, which enabled the issuance of a 10-year bond (€750M ), and the issuance of subordinated debt hybrid instrument (also of € 750M). ANNUAL REPORT 10 2015 2015 was also a year of significant accomplishments for EDP. The completion of the construction of the new the Hydro plants of Ribeiradio Ermida, Baixo Sabor and Salamonde II, in the scope of the new Dam Plan, proves the quality of EDP teams and their execution capabilities in complex engineering projects. In Brazil, we continued with the implementation of the Cachoeira Caldeirão plant, with the expected commissioning in early 2016, 6 months ahead of what was initially estimated, thus repeating a result that had already been achieved with the early commissioning of the Santo Antônio Plant, in Jari, in 2014. In renewables, the signing of further 200MW of PPAs in the United States, the strengthening in Brazil with a PPA for 140MW and the start of construction of the first project in Mexico are further evidences of the focus and execution capabilities of our company. In innovation there was a notable consolidation in the development of the WindFloat technology, the first floating offshore wind turbines installation project which, after an initial prototype stage, is now in a pre-commercial phase with the support of the European Union and prestigious international partners. This year EDP’s strategic partnership with China Three Gorges was also reinforced, with the closing of the sale of a minority stake of wind farms in Brazil and the announcement of the largest disposal to date of the partnership the sale of a 49% stake in wind farms in Poland and Italy for an amount of € 390M. EDP continues , together with China Three Georges, to analyse co-investment opportunities in the renewable sector in order to diversify markets and mitigate the risk, always maintaining discipline and focus on value creation. A SINGLE AND SUSTAINABLE VISION EDP adopts a responsible role before all its stakeholders, reinforced in its Sustainable Development Principles and in the international commitments we have undertaken, notably the United Nations Global Compact initiative, focusing on 10 principles in the area of Human Rights, Employment, Environment and Anti-corruption. We maintain as distinctive marks, the environmental concern, technological innovation, social concern, investment in education and a focus on culture and art. Sustainability continues to be a focus for EDP, which has committed with the new UN Sustainable Development Goals, for 2030, and was actively involved in the Paris Climate Change Conference (COP21), with the announcement of ambitious goals for the next few years in direct and indirect carbon emissions reductions. Furthermore, and for the 8th consecutive year, EDP was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index World with the highest grading in the Carbon Disclosure Project, 100 A. In the social area, only in the year 2015, the EDP Group invested 27 million Euros, particularly in areas such as environment, health, education and social inclusion, supporting and developing projects that benefited more than 5 million people. In Portugal, through its Foundation (Fundação EDP) EDP has the largest private social investment programme, with initiatives such as EDP Solidária, which to date has invested more than 9 million Euros in a range of projects, and for the first time it was also launched in Spain. In the area of culture, Fundação EDP is one of the largest sponsors in Portugal. The Electricity Museum is one of the most popular in the country, with 250,000 visitors in 2015. The new Arts Centre (MAAT), which is in its construction phase, is a key investment in the Lisbon riverside area and will be one of the largest innovation and culture hubs in the city. The company continues to invest in music and sport, with our energy having already taken more than 10 million Portuguese to the best sport and music events over the past six years. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 11 2015 was also the year in which EDP inaugurated its new Headquarters bringing 800 employees together in an iconic and sustainable building in Lisbon in spaces designed in accordance with the state-of-the-art of contemporary offices. The Group’s new Headquarters, in addition to providing a hub for the renewal of the area in which it is based, offers conditions for greater productivity and efficiency and facilitates both internal and external communication and closer contact with the community. In terms of Employee development, in 2015 the Group’s Corporate University delivered more than 440,000 hours of training to employees, thus reinforcing our lifelong learning culture and commitment to qualification and the professional and personal development of all. EDP today has 12,084 people from 32 nationalities, in 14 countries in 4 continents. Our company is an example of success and was recognised in several areas, such as engineering, finance, ethics, management of human capital, environment, communication and social sustainability. This is the team that makes this company an undisputable international reference. A PATH TO SUCCESS AND LEADERSHIP In 2015, EDP’s ability to deliver results was evident, with our shareholders receiving a rate of return 10% higher than those of our European counterparts. Our objective is to be different and better than the rest and we all work every day to achieve that goal. In our approach to our shareholders, we follow a responsible dividend distribution policy, and we will present in the General Meeting a proposal for a dividend of 18.5 cents per share, in line with the 2014 dividend, putting EDP at the top in terms of shareholder return among European integrated utilities. This performance is possible as a result of the commitment and determination of all of our employees, to whom we are very grateful. We would also like to take the opportunity to thank all those who are involved with our company shareholders, customers, suppliers, government agencies, regulators, corporate bodies and, particularly, the General and Supervisory Board, for the challenge, their support and the trust they place in the whole team. In 2016 will be an even more demanding year, bringing major changes and challenges to the sector. The challenge is further strengthened by the fact that our priorities in terms of investment allocation, in renewable and regulated assets, and in markets which present these characteristics, are now also the sector priorities. Our preferences are today what all others are seeking for. We will face these challenges as we always have done with confidence and determination. Together, we will overcome the obstacles we face and we will keep EDP on the path of success and leadership. Thank you. António Mexia President of the Executive Board of Directors ANNUAL REPORT 20 2015 organisation GOVERNANCE EDP's governance structure is based on the dual model and consists of the General Meeting, Executive Board of Directors, General and Supervisory Board and the Statutory Auditor. The separation of management and supervision roles is embodied in an Executive Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management of the company's business, and a General and Supervisory Board, the highest supervisory body. Considering this structure, we can say that the dual model of corporate governance in place in EDP has allowed effective separation of the company's supervision and management in pursuit of the goals and interests of EDP and its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders, thereby contributing to achieving the degree of trust and transparency necessary for its adequate functioning and optimisation. Furthermore, this model has proved appropriate to the company's shareholder structure as it allows supervision by key shareholders on the General and Supervisory Board. The shareholders elected the members of the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors, as well as the Statutory Auditor and alternate auditor and members of the other corporate bodies, including the Board of the General Meeting, the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting and the Sustainability and Environment Board at the General Meeting of 21st April 2015, for the three-year period from 2015 to 2017. The term of office of these members of the corporate bodies therefore ends on 31 December 2017. ANNUAL REPORT 22 2015 corporate bodies BO A RD O F T H E GE NE R AL M E E T I N G António Manuel de Carvalho Ferrreira Vitorino, Chairman Rui Pedro Costa Melo Medeiros, Vice-Chairmane Maria Teresa Isabel Pereira, Company Secretary ST AT UT O RY A U D IT O R KPMG & Associados, SROC, S.A., represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, Certified Auditor, Permanent Statutory Auditor Susana de Macedo Melim de Abreu Lopes, Certified Auditor, Deputy Statutory Auditor GE NE R AL A N D S UP E R V IS PO R Y BO AR D Eduardo de Almeida Catroga (in representation of China Three Gorges Corporation), Chairman Luís Filipe Marques Amado, Vice-Chairman Ya Yang (in representation of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd.) Guojun Lu (in representation of China International Water & Electric Corp.) Dingming Zhang (in representation of China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A.) Shengliang Wu (in representation of China Three Gorges (Portugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda.) Felipe Fernández Fernández (in representation of DRAURSA, S.A.) Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado (in representation of Banco Comercial Português, S.A.) Ferhat Ounoughi (in representation of Sonatrach) Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim (in representation of Senfora BV) António Sarmento Gomes Mota Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus João Carvalho das Neves Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa María del Carmen Fernández Rozado António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino E X E C UT I VE BO A RD O F D IRE CT O R S António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia, Chairman Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves João Manuel Manso Neto António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira RELATÓRIO E CONTAS 24 2015 RECOGNITION CORPORATE EDP RECOGNISED BY THE EDP IS A CONSTITUENT OF MOODY’S UPGRADES EDP'S CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT ETHIBEL RATING FOR COMBATING CLIMATE The rating agency has upgraded CHANGE Investment Register company status the ratings of EDP and its by demonstrating superior EDP obtained the maximum score of subsidiaries EDP Finance B.V. and performance to the average of its 100 A, and is now part of the “A Hidroelectrica del Cantabrico from sector in terms of Corporate Social Listers”, which consists of 113 “Ba1” to “Baa3”. Moody’s Responsibility (CSR). EDP is companies, 5% of the group of upgraded the short-term rating of included in the Ethibel Index companies assessed. EDP, EDP Finance and HC Energía Excellence Europe. from “Not-Prime” to “Prime-3”, with all ratings assigned an outlook of stable. Moody’s has also factored in signs that the tariff deficit borne by Portugal’s EDP IS THE BEST EUROPEAN electricity system is gradually EDP AMONGST THE WORLD'S COMPANY FOR INVESTOR stabilising, and the lower BEST IN PLATTS INDEX RELATIONS likelihood that further regulatory cuts will be needed. In the “IR Magazine Awards” 2015, The Group is ranked amongst the the Group received reference world's best in the Top 250 Global awards for Investor Relations in Energy Companies, as compiled by Europe as the “best management Platts, a company specialised in the team for investor relations in the provision of information in the EDP IS PART OF THE DOW segment large cap”. It also came energy sector. EDP stands out for its JONES WORLD second in the “Regional Awards – financial performance, ranked 69th South Europe” and in the Utilities SUSTAINABILITY INDEX in the global table and 5th, sector, also coming fifth in “Best considering the electric utilities EDP is again part of the Dow Financial Reporting”. EDP segment in EMEA (“Europe, Middle Jones World Sustainability Index, Renováveis also received the award East and Africa”). produced by RobecoSAM in “best management team for investor relations in the segment cooperation with S&P Dow Jones, small and mid-caps” and Rui one of the most prestigious and Antunes as “best investor relations well-known sustainability indices. EDP IN THE 2015 ETHISPHERE officer in the segment small and EDP has been a part of this group INSTITUTE RANKING mid-caps”. and global index since 2008 without fail. For the fourth consecutive year, EDP is part of the international ranking of “The World’s Most Ethical Companies – WME” compiled by Ethisphere Institute, a global leader EDP IS A CONSTITUENT OF THE ANTÓNIO MEXIA ELECTED in the promotion of ethical FTSE4GOOD GLOBAL INDEX BEST UTILITIES CEO IN commercial practices and standards. EUROPE The companies were evaluated EDP is therefore considered a based on a set of about 350 A team of Buy Side analysts have standard setter in “Energy and indicators grouped in 14 subjects elected António Mexia the best Electric Utilities”, on a par with four divided into three pillars Utilities CEO in Europe, in an other companies on a global level. (environmental, social and annual survey conducted by the governance). magazine Institutional Investor . EDP Group's Chief Financial Officer, Nuno Alves, and Investor EDP COMPRISES STOXX Relations Officer Miguel Viana GLOBAL ESG LEADERS AND were also acknowledged. In the STOXX EUROPE global assessment of listed SUSTAINABILITY INDEX EDP IS A CONSTITUENT OF ECPI European companies in all The indices are compiled by INDICES sectors, EDP rose 71 places over the previous year, now ranked Sustainalitics and Bank Sarasin, ECPI is an analyst and financial 20th. respectively, in cooperation with service provider that monitors STOXX. companies based on public information to constitute Environmental, Social and EDP HOLDS PRIME STATUS, Governance (ESG) indicators. BY OEKOM OEKOM is an ESG financial analyst that provides sustainable information to financial services firms that manage a total of EUR 600 billion. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 25 PORTUGAL EDP LISTED ON THE EDP WINS EUROPEAN EDP RECEIVES GREEN FLEET EURONEXT VIGEO – WORLD EXCELLENCE AWARDS AWARD FROM FLEET MAGAZINE 120, EUROPE 120, EUROZONE 120 SUSTAINABILITY INDICES The 1 century of energy campaign, The award acknowledges the on the documentary of creator company with the greatest EDP is acknowledged as one of Manoel de Oliveira, swept the board commitment to reducing CO2 the world’s best companies in in the category “National and emissions when acquiring vehicles terms of sustainability. Each of Regional Campaigns – Portugal”, in for its fleet. To determine this it these indices distinguishes 120 the European Excellence Awards. measures the proportion of electric listed companies for their social, These awards acknowledge the best and hybrid vehicles in the existing environmental and corporate global performance in public fleets of several domestic governance performance. relations and communications. companies. EDP IS A THOMSON REUTERS CRI EUROPE ESG INDEX EDP RANKED TOP IN 2014 MEMBER (TRCRI EUROPE) WORKPLACE EXCELLENCE AWARD The Thomson Reuters indices measure companies’ performance The Heidrick & Struggles initiative in taking into account more than partnership with Diário Económico 225 ESG indicators. The and INDEG-IUL has given the award assessment is based on to EDP in the category Corporations information available in the with more than one 1,000 Thomson Reuters ASSET4 ESG employees , which also prevailed in database. the Industry and Energy sector. A EDP IS PART OF THE MSCI RE:DY DISTINGUISHED IN THE ESG INDEXES GREEN PROJECT AWARDS EDP is member of a set of Morgan The Re:dy service has been Stanley Capital International distinguished in the category indexes, such as the World ESG, “Information Technology”. Re:dy Europe ESG, World Low Carbon EDP COMERCIAL LEADS THE permits customers to keep track of Leaders and ACWI Low Carbon FIELD IN CUSTOMER consumption by household electric Leaders indexes. MSCI has more SATISFACTION IN THE GAS AND equipment from any location via a than 40 years of experience in ELECTRICITY SEGMENTS website and smart phone. building and maintaining indices. The quality of EDP Comercial's service was acknowledged in the ECSI Portugal study – National Customer Satisfaction Index. The EDP AMONG THE TOP 100 OF studies carried out periodically by STOREBRAND ECSI Portugal embrace the energy The 100 companies are sector, dividing it into four characterized by their efficiency in categories: natural gas, electricity, operations, financial strength and dual and bottled gas. EDP Comercial response to the challenges of the obtained the best classification in future. EDP is classified for the the category Dual. SPP Global Topp 100 investment funds. RELATÓRIO E CONTAS 26 2015 SPAIN EDP RENOVÁVEIS THE CASTEJÓN COMBINED ERIDIAN WAY WIND FARM CYCLE THERMAL POWER RECEIVES EMPLOYER STATION GIVEN AWARD BY FM EDP RENOVÁVEIS ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVE GLOBAL DISTINGUISHED AT EURONEXT CHAMPION LEVEL AWARD The international insurance LISBON AWARDS 2015 The Meridian Way wind farm was company FM Global distinguished recognised by Cloud County With the best performance in the the power station with the award financial market in 2014, EDP Community College (CCCC) and HPR (“Highly Protected Risk”). This Renováveis capital rose by 40%. Kansas Board of Regents (KBOR) for award acknowledges the best These awards acknowledge its substantial contribution to the performance in risk prevention. institutions performing excellently in programme “College's Wind Energy Portugal's capital market. Technology” (WET) and the development of wind energy students, to whom EDP provides remunerated apprenticeships. EDP RENOVÁVEIS' CORPORATE SITE IS ONE OF THE BEST IN PSI-20 According to communications company Investis, EDP Renováveis' website is one of the best corporate websites of companies traded on the Portuguese stock exchange. EDP IN SPAIN ACKNOWLEDGED FOR RESPONSIBILITY IN EMPLOYING YOUNG PEOPLE EDP RENOVÁVEIS' REPORT AND This recognition is part of the Spanish social responsibility ACCOUNTS ARE THE BEST IN strategy, which recognises all public THE NON-FINANCIAL SECTOR and private organisations signing up This acknowledgement was made at to the strategy and carrying out the Investor Relations & Governance concrete initiatives to achieve its Awards, an initiative of Deloitte in objectives. partnership with Diário Económico, which recognises the best performance in the Portuguese market. EDP RENOVÁVEIS IS ONE OF THE 10 LARGEST COMPANIES EDP RENOVÁVEIS NORTH TO WORK FOR IN SPAIN AMERICA (NA) CROWNED For the fourth consecutive year EDP CLEAN AIR CHAMPION FOR THE Renováveis has consolidated its 4TH CONSECUTIVE YEAR position as one of the best companies to work for, and is still EDPR NA received the award from the only energy company to make Houston-Galveston Area Council, the list. EDPR was ranked eighth in recognising the company's efforts to the category companies with promote the use of alternative between 250 to 500 employees employee transportation methods. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 27 BRAZIL EDP BRASIL AMONGST “THE EDP HYDROELECTRIC POWER ABRINQ ACKNOWLEDGES EDP BEST COMPANIES FOR STATION RECEIVES GOLD SEAL COMPANIES AS “CHILD SHAREHOLDERS IN 2015” FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY FRIENDLY” The magazine Capital Aberto, which EDP's distribution companies in the The Peixe Angical hydroelectric states of São Paulo and Espírito specialises in Brazil's capital market, has attributed the highest power station has received the Gold Santo have been recognised as Child governance rating amongst all Seal for sustainable energy awarded Friendly by Abrinq Foundation for companies evaluated and second the 11th consecutive year. by Instituto Acende Brasil. This place in the category companies Production company Enerpeixe has instrument evaluates the social and with a market value of between also been recognised for the fifth environmental performance of consecutive year. The maintenance R$ 5 billion and R$ 15 billion. electricity distribution, transmission of this award testifies to their and generation companies in Brazil. contribution to building a better future for young people in the areas the companies operate in. EDP BRASIL REMAINS IN THE CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (ISE) EDP BRASIL RANKED IN CLIMATE DISCLOSURE For the tenth consecutive year, EDP LEADERSHIP INDEX (CDLI) is a part of the ISE portfolio compiled by BM&F Bovespa, and is EDP is one of the leading companies one of the companies standing out in Brazil in climate management, for their commitment to sustainable comprising the 2015 version of the development, equity, transparency CDLI report prepared by the Carbon and accountability. Disclosure Project. EDP BRASIL RECOGNISED BY 2015 ETHICS AWARD EDP RECEIVES GOLD SEAL FOR The Ethics Seal has been attributed THE 6TH CONSECUTIVE TIME EDP WINS TRANSPARENCY by Brazil's Federal Controller’s TROPHY FROM ANEFAC Department (CGU), a government EDP Brasil's 2014 greenhouse gas agency overseeing integrity, ethics inventory has been given the Gold For the third time and the second and transparency. Of the 97 Seal for the sixth consecutive year. consecutive year, EDP has received companies competing, 56 passed EDP Brasil has followed the the Transparency Trophy in the the evaluation stage and 19 were Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) category Listed Companies . The recognised. Brazil methodology since 2008, the award is given by the National year this initiative was launched. Association of Finance, Business Management and Accounting Executives (ANEFAC), and recognises companies with the best accounting practices and the most objective market information. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 33 STRATEGIC 02. APPROACH 1.BUSINESS FRAMEWORK 1.1. MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT In 2015, the world economy registered the lowest level of growth since 2009. The slowdown in emerging economies, in a context of persistent structural weaknesses, the exchange rate depreciation and the sharp drop of commodity prices in international markets, along with a moderate level of growth in developed countries resulted, according to the projections of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), in a world GDP growth of 3.1%. The growth below the potential level of most economies and the drop of commodity prices, specifically the oil price, resulted in a higher deflationary pressure and increased uncertainty in financial markets, prompting some central banks to increase the degree of accommodation of its monetary policies. Among these banks, is included the European Central Bank (ECB), which in March implemented a public and private debt securities purchase programme. On the other hand, the US Federal Reserve (Fed) announced in December, a rise in the interest rates by 25 basis points – for the first time since 2006 which contributed to the strengthening of the dollar's appreciation trajectory, in particular against the euro and the currencies from emerging commodity exporting countries. The divergence between the expansionist actions of the ECB and the Bank of Japan, on one hand, and the posture by the Fed of normalizing the monetary policy, on the other hand, was reflected in the relative evolution of the stock market indices of its respective economic blocs, with both the European and Nipponese indices finishing the year with gains, as opposed to the weaker US counterparts. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY In 2016, the vulnerability of the economic and financial situation of (real GDP) the emerging countries, in particular China, the international 6 geopolitical tensions and the uncertainty about the evolution of the 4 US monetary policy, are important downside risks for the global activity and for the stability of financial markets. 2 0 2014 (e) 2016(p) 2015(p) (e) 2017(p) (e) Economias economies Developed avançadas Economiaseconomies Emerging em desenvolvimento World Mundo GLOBAL INFLATION PRESSIONED BY THE DROP OF Source: FMI WEO Update Jan 16 OIL PRICES INLFATION EVOLUTION According to the IMF estimates, in 2015, the overall 9 inflation rate decreased from 3.5% to 3.3%. However, 6 this behaviour reflects differences between the developed and the emerging economies. In the developed 3 economies, the reduction of oil prices limited the 0 evolution of aggregate prices, placing the inflation rate well below the objectives of the central banks. In the -3 emerging economies, despite the decrease of commodity Dec-05 Dec-07 Dec-09 Dec-11 Dec-13 Dec-15 prices and the slowdown of activity, the sharp Euro area Inflação inflation área do euro Inflação EUA USA inflation depreciation of its currencies has resulted in strong China inflation Inflação China Source: Bloomberg domestic inflationary pressures and consequently in a rise of inflation. In 2016, while the effects of the oil price drop dissipate, both in developed and emerging economies, the inflation rate is expected to rise slightly. ANNUAL REPORT 34 2015 IN 2015 THE FINANCIAL MARKETS MOVED I N AN ERRATIC WAY In 2015, the uncertainty regarding the progress of the global economy, as a result of the deceleration of emerging markets and of the beginning of the normalization of the US monetary policy process (after about ten years of a strong tendency towards an expansionist policy), has resulted in a global financial markets volatility increase. Within this environment, the US stock market indices recorded zero or negative valuations, as opposed to gains of about 10% from its European and Nipponese counterparts, where central banks have chosen to maintain, or even to strengthen the degree of accommodation of its monetary policies. FOREX MARKETS In the forex market, it is worth highlighting the general appreciation trajectory of the US dollar along the year, a 1,50 5,0 development which assumed a particularly intensity against the 1,40 4,5 emerging commodity exporting economies. In a global context 4,0 of uncertainty, the high risk bond securities devalued up, while 1,30 3,5 the high quality credit debt securities remained relatively stable. 1,20 3,0 A dichotomy that contrasts with the one observed in previous 1,10 2,5 years. In what concerns the securities issued by the Member 1,00 2,0 States of the euro area, unlike what had been observed between Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 2013 and 2014, the introduction of a public debt purchase EUR/USD EUR/BRL programme by the ECB had a very limited contribution towards Source: Bloomberg reducing the risk premia. Conversely, in the monetary market, the impact of the accommodative monetary policies of the ECB STOCK INDEXES AND 6M EURIBOR was very significant, with the Euribor interest rates reaching (euro area) levels below zero for periods up to six months, which happened 160 2,0 just after the reduction of the facility rates to negative values. 140 1,5 120 1,0 In 2016, the potential risks related to the economic and financial 0,5 condition of the emerging markets, the impact of the US 100 0,0 monetary policy normalization process and the persistence of 80 -0,5 Dec-11 Dec-12 Dec-13 Dec-14 Dec-15 important geopolitical tension points may condition the Euro Stoxx 50 (Index (índice Dec dez 2011=100 2011=100) performance of financial markets. 6M Euribor Euribor a 6 meses Source: Bloomberg MODERATE RECUPERATION OF THE EURO ZONE ECONOMY The euro area economy expanded 1.5% in 2015, which represents an acceleration when compared to the previous year (0.9%). The greater dynamism of all the euro area countries was attributable to several favourable circumstances, among which stand out, the decrease of prices in most of commodities, the effective depreciation of the euro, the strengthening of the accommodative level of the ECB monetary policies and the neutrality of fiscal policies (after years of strong austerity). However, the recovery process remains moderate, with the European Commission (EC) projecting a GDP growth of 1.7% in 2016, conditioned by a challenging external environment, in particular due to the slowdown of emerging economies and due to the intensification of international geopolitical tensions, to which we should add the internal risks associated with the need to continue important structural reforms with the aim of reducing high levels of debt and unemployment in several Member States. The permanence of the product below its potential value in conjunction with the sharp decrease of the oil prices and of other commodities, has resulted in very low levels of inflation in 2015. These factors should continue to condition the evolution of the inflation rate in 2016, with the EC projecting a 0.5% inflation rate for the euro area, a figure that is well below the ECB's price stability objective. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 35 The persistence of the deflationary pressure prompted the SOVEREIGN RISK ECB to strengthen the degree of accommodation of its (5 years CDS bp/year) monetary policy in 2015, namely through the introduction 300 25 of a public and private debt securities purchase 20 200 programme, which has led to the depreciation of the euro 15 against the major international currencies. 10 100 5 0 0 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 Jun-15 Dec-15 GR+PT+IT+ES+IR (geometric GR+PT+IT+SP+IR (média geométrica) average) Germany CDS Alemanha CDS Source: Bloomberg CONSOLIDATION OF THE PORTUGUESE ECONOMY RECOVERY In 2015 the Portuguese economy registered the highest level of growth from the last four years, thus continuing the recovery process started in 2014. Taking into account that the level of investment decreased from the previous year, GDP growth, which stood at 1.5%, has been supported mainly by the acceleration of private consumption and by the robustness of exports, which benefited from the continuing strong demand from the European area and the effective depreciation of the euro. Indirectly, the economic activity has also benefited from the effects of structural reforms implemented during the adjustment program. In 2016, the consolidation of the economic recovery is expected to continue supported by the domestic demand, which will continue to benefit from the decrease of energy prices, the increase in employment and in disposable household income, the low level of interest rates and the incentives for investment under the new European funding framework from which Portugal 2020 takes part. Concerning external demand, the strong growth in exports may retract if the risks of an international economic slowdown materializes. On the domestic side, the main focus of uncertainty for economic activity comes from the potential inability of domestic demand to sustain the recovery trend, considering the high levels of indebtedness of companies and also families. In 2015, the annual average inflation rate in Portugal was PORTUGAL 0.5%, the highest value from the past three years. The (real GDP, inflation and unemployment rate) increase in prices albeit modest resulted from the evolution of the non-energy component, since energy 2,0 16 14 prices registered a decrease following the sharp drop of 1,5 12 10 the oil price. The inflation upward trend shall continue 8 1,0 moderately in 2016, in line with the recovery of the 6 4 0,5 Portuguese and international economies. 2 0 0,0 -2 1Q 1T 2Q 2T 3Q 3T 4Q 4T 1Q 1T 2Q 2T 3Q 3T 4Q 4T 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 PIB real Real GDP(tvh) (YoY) SPAIN IN STRONG RECOVERY Taxa de desemprego Unemployment rate (%) Souce: Bloomberg Taxa de inflação Harmonized harmonizada inflation rate (%) In 2015, the Spanish economy stood out positively among the euro area countries presenting a 3.2% growth. Such performance is the result of a framework with a greater economic and financial stability, after several years of recession, a greater dynamism of domestic demand, in accordance with the increase of employment and of disposable income, a decrease in the commodity prices in international markets and finally and a low levels of interest rates. The GDP growth, along with more favourable financing conditions in the capital markets, contributed to the improvement of the public finances in 2015, thus continuing the fiscal consolidation process initiated after the economic and financial crisis. In 2016, the EC forecasts that the Spanish economy shall continue to register a robust growth level, driven by the dynamism of domestic demand. The main risk of this forecast is the potentially adverse impact of the political uncertainty that surrounds the government formation following the parliamentary elections held in late December. In what concerns the inflation rate, the strong reduction of the oil price contributed for a decrease in inflation to negative values in 2015. In 2016, the EC forecasts a slight increase of the price index, however, conditioned by the still moderate levels of capacity utilization. ANNUAL REPORT 36 2015 1Q PUBLIC DEFICIT SPAIN (% of the GDP) (real GDP, inflation and unemployment rate) 7,2 5 30 25 5,9 4 4,8 20 4,2 3 15 3,4 3,6 3,5 10 2,6 2 5 1 0 0 -5 1Q 1T 2Q 2T 3Q 3T 4T 4Q 1T 1Q 2Q 2T 3Q 3T 4T 4Q 2014 2015(e) (e) 2016(p) (e) 2017(p) (e) 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 PIB real (tvh) Real GDP (YoY) Taxa de desemprego Unemployment rate (%) Portugal Spain Espanha Source: Bloomberg Source: European Comission Taxa de inflação Harmonized harmonizada inflation rate (%) BRAZILIAN ECONOMY FACES A SERIOUS RECESSION The decrease of commodity prices and the slowdown of the main emerging economies, along with the dollar appreciation, aggravated the risk of unsustainability of the consumption stimulus growth model, which ruled in Brazil during the first decade of the XXI century. Consequently, it was observed in 2015 a strong contraction of the GDP, which the IMF estimated to have reached 3.8%, a worsening of the budget deficit and of the balance of current accounts, which resulted in the loss of the investment status of government bonds from the major rating agencies. In this context, the Brazilian financial assets suffered a sharp devaluation and the Brazilian real depreciated significantly. The political instability associated with the blowing of several corruption cases in some major Brazilian companies and political parties, is hindering the implementation of a set of reforms and of fiscal consolidation measures necessary to reverse the current framework recession BRAZIL (real GDP, inflation and unemployment rate) therefore, the IMF continues to predict a recession in 2016 with a similar magnitude of the one observed in 4 12 2015. 2 10 8 0 Within this context of strong currency devaluation, the 6 -2 rising price of imported goods was transferred to 4 -4 2 domestic prices. This situation, along with a rise of prices -6 0 of regulated goods contributed to an upward inflation 1Q 1T 2Q 2T 3T 3Q 4T 4Q 1T 1Q 2Q 2T 3T 3Q 4Q 4T 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 trend thus leading the central bank, despite the recession PIB real Real GDP(tvh) (YoY) faced in Brazil, to adopt a more restrictive monetary Taxa de desemprego Unemployment (%) rate (%) Source: Bloomberg Taxa de inflação (%) rate (%) policy. Harmonized inflation U S E C O N O N O M Y G R O W S F O R T H E S I X T H C O N S E C U T I V E Y E A R BU T U N C E R T A I N T Y R E G A R D I N G T H E S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y O F T H E E X P A N S I O N I S T C YC L E A G G R A V A T E S In 2015, the US economy continued with a moderate pace of expansion, which is in line with the recovery pattern that followed the economic and financial crisis at the end of the last decade. The GDP growth stood at 2.4%, and as in the previous year this growth was driven by the dynamism of private consumption and of residential investments, items that benefited from the increase in employment and disposable income together with the low level of interest rates. In contrast, the sharp decrease of the fossil fuel prices and the appreciation of the US dollar translated negatively on business investments, particularly in the extractive industries and in exports. The extent of the economic recovery cycle, which is already in place for six years, along with the improvement of the labour market conditions allowed the Fed to initiate a standardization process of the monetary policy by means of increasing its policy rate by 25 basis points, something which had not occurred since 2006. In 2016, the robustness of the labor market and the low level of energy costs shall contribute positively to the expansion of private consumption, offsetting the impact on investment and exports which may result from the intention of the Fed to raise the interest rates once more. The sustainability of expansionary economic cycle underway may be revised in case of material deterioration of the emerging markets situation or of significant corrections in the financial markets. The prospect of normalizing the interest rates together with, the appreciation of the dollar, the fragility of the emerging markets and the effect of the growth trend in corporate profits, limited the risk tendency of investors, ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 37 which in turn resulted in a poor performance of the riskier assets classes such as corporate shares and debt from lower quality credit companies. The most outstanding path from the evolution of the public debt market was the lack of direction defined in the yields, perhaps justified by the high degree of uncertainty associated with the Fed course of monetary policy and with the sustainability of global economic recovery. Despite the internal domestic inflationary pressures USA caused by the increase in unit labor costs and in rents, the (real GDP, inflation and unemployment rate) inflation rate remained the whole 2015 around zero, 4 8 reflecting the impact of the preponderance of the oil prices 3 6 decrease and of the dollar appreciation. For 2016 it is 4 expected a deceleration in the decrease of commodity 2 2 prices, which shall lead to a gradual rise in inflation. 1 0 0 -2 1T 1Q 2T 2Q 3T 3Q 4T 4Q 1T 1Q 2T 2Q 3Q 3T 4Q 4T 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 Real PIB real GDP(tvh) (YoY) Taxa de desemprego Unemployment rate (%) Source: Bloomberg Taxa de inflação Harmonized (%) rate (%) inflation ANNUAL REPORT 38 2015 1.2. GLOBAL ENERGY MACRO-TRENDS The energy sector in The energy sector is witnessing a deep transformation due to shifting supply and demand patterns. The energy map is redesigned, with demand moving rapidly changing, facing to South/East in emerging countries and supply growing in the West, unprecedented particularly in the Americas. Despite this transformation requiring structural changes at the global energy mix, with relevant impact on the traditional challenges to endure a business models, it also encompasses relevant growth opportunities. sustainable future. Additionally, growing environmental concerns lead to new challenges to ensure sustainability in coming years and 2015 has been a reference year in this matter, with the global climate change agreement settled in Paris by the end of the year. In parallel, the sharp imbalance in the global oil market – characterised by excess supply, along with weak demand and a slowing global economy – led to a harsh drop in prices and the year closed with the Brent barrel quoted at 36 USD. Overcoming these challenges will require a new energy paradigm with high levels of investment supported by a strong technological development and innovation, as well as regulatory framework and energy policy fitted to support these changes. Source: AIE, World Energy Outlook 2015, New Policies Scenario ENERGY DEMAND Global demand for energy has been consistently increasing, being expected this trend to continue in the medium/long term as a result of economic and population growth. The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that world’s primary energy demand will grow by 32%, between 2013 and 2040, despite an expected reduction in energy intensity. Regarding final energy, electricity is the energy form that should register the highest growth, about 70% between 2013 and 2040, as a result of increasing urbanisation and electricity penetration in new sectors, such as transports. The strong growth in global energy consumption should be entirely driven by the emerging economies, while the OECD countries are expected to drop by 3% until 2040. The increase in energy consumption should be concentrated in Asia (India and China are expected to account for almost half of the consumption increase), Africa, Middle East and Latin America. This high demand growth brings strong environmental concerns and enormous challenges for the energy sector. Despite the efforts to decarbonize the energy sector and the various measures announced by several governments in the context of the United Nations summit in Paris at the end of 2015 (COP21), forecasts point to an overall increase in emissions consistent with a rise in temperature that could reach 2.7ºC. This runs counter to the goal of limiting the temperature rise to 2°C, compared to the pre-industrial era figures. The agreement reached at COP 21 establishes, for the first time that the effort must be more ambitious, aiming to limit the increase in temperature to 1.5 ° C. ENERGY SUPPLY Although the supply of all energy forms is expected to grow in the medium / long term, the geographical differences are significant and only renewables and natural gas are projected to grow all over the world. Until 2040, the oil consumption should shrink in the OECD countries. Likewise, the coal consumption is also expected to fall in developed countries and also in China. In absolute values, renewables and natural gas will be the forms of energy presenting higher growths up to 2040 (80% and 46% vs 2013, respectively). The weight of fossil fuels in the global energy mix should progressively reduce and it is expected that in 2040 each of the three fossil fuels ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 39 (oil, coal and natural gas), represent 1/4 of the consumption. Renewables and nuclear make up the remainder, contributing with 19% and 7% respectively. Regarding renewables, growth should be divided between traditional bioenergy, hydro, as well as wind and solar, amongst other. Despite strong bioenergy growth, as a result of increasing population in developing countries, its share in the renewables mix is expected to decline from 74% to 56%, up to 2040. Hydro growth should occur also focused on the developing countries, where there is still significant hydro potential to be exploited. In this sense, up to 2040, the other renewables (such as wind and solar) are the ones expected to increase their weight in the renewables energy mix, surpassing even the hydro, due to the recent technological evolution with a strong impact on the cost reduction of these technologies. The United States, China and Europe are predicted to lead renewables growth, up to 2040. The electric sector will be the driver of renewable growth and the weight of these sources in the electricity generation mix will increase from the current 22% to 34% in 2040. Natural gas consumption increase is the result of strong global energy market dynamics, explained by the recent shale gas technological developments and growing international trade of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). LNG contributes significantly to increase the flexibility of supply, thus offering greater protection against disruptions on gas supply. These technological and transport infrastructure evolutions, along with the intensification of measures to reduce emissions, should contribute to an increase in natural gas competitiveness, leading to replacement of coal and oil for natural gas in industry, transports and electricity generation. ELECTRIC SECTOR Electricity is expected to be the final energy form that will have the highest growth and increase in all sectors and world regions. Currently, electricity represents only 18% of energy final consumption, a figure that should reach 24% in 2040. The strong electricity consumption growth should be sustained by organic growth in the demand along with two additional factors: access to electricity and replacement of traditional fuels for electricity. Currently, still about 1.2 billion people don’t have access to electricity (17% of world’s population). About 87% of the increase in electricity consumption in the world will occur in non-OECD countries, driven by the economic development in these regions and associated with the growth of electrification rate. The same economic growth, increasing urbanisation and industrialisation of these societies will sustain the organic growth of electricity consumption. In addition, the replacement of traditional fuels for electricity, mainly supported by technological developments and environmental sustainability, contributes to the increase in consumption, compensating a relatively higher decrease in other fuels. Other forms of energy traditionally used to meet the needs of heating and cooling and transport will be gradually replaced by more efficient and cleaner technologies, in particular heat pumps and mobility solutions based on electrical technologies. The installed capacity should increase from 6 TW in 2014 to 10.6 TW in 2040, which implies an addition of 6.7 TW during this period, of which about 2.3 TW will be necessary to replace power plants that will reach their end of useful life. This need for renewing the fleet is more acute in developed countries, particularly in Europe. Overall, the IEA estimates that in the period 2015-2040 is necessary to invest 20 trillion USD in the electric sector, of which 57% will be directed to generation and the rest of it is going to transmission and distribution networks. The electricity generation mix should undergo a major transformation, with the decline of the share of fossil fuels (especially coal and oil) and the strong increase of the renewables’ weight, which will grow from 6% weight in 2013's mix for 20% in 2040 (excluding hydro). Both hydro and nuclear technologies should keep their weight in the mix, representing approximately 17% and 13% in 2040. Technological development and the associated drop in renewables’ costs is the growth engine of these technologies (mainly wind and solar photovoltaic), also driven by a set of policies supported on environmental concerns and reduced external dependence (particularly in Europe). The high penetration of renewables in the mix has far-reaching implications. The intermittent feature of most of these technologies poses additional challenges in the management of electrical systems and the need for backup capacity to ensure security of supply. Additionally, the traditional model of centralised production will be faced with the distributed generation model, where each consumer is also a producer, and networks work as batteries for backup and management of energy flows. Also regarding the networks, the combination of information technology and energy is outlining a new world of smart grids, disruptive against the traditional, where information flows in all directions. By 2040, 75% of the total investment in networks will be applied to distribution networks. On commercial topics such as demand response, energy management, real-time prices and customer relationship management will enable better energy system’s management. ANNUAL REPORT 40 2015 1.3. EDP MARKETS’ ENERGETIC AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK E U RO P E A N FR A M E W O R K E LE CT R I C IT Y DE M A ND A N D S UP PL Y Europe has been witnessing a strong destruction of consumption since it peaked in 2008, and has not yet recovered to pre-crisis values. In response to the challenges faced by the European industry in terms of competitiveness, it has been specialising in low-energy-intensive sectors. On the other hand, as a response to the Energy Efficiency Directive, the implementation of energy saving measures as been reinforced. Therefore, the gains in energy intensity and energy efficiency should dictate a slow recovery in consumption. On the supply side, renewables have been increasing their penetration in the mix, despite some regulatory uncertainties. From the combination of falling demand with the increase of renewables, consumption fuelled by conventional thermal production has been decreasing, with strong impacts on the operating systems of thermal power plants and, consequently, on the economic viability of some of those plants. Additionally and despite the slight recovery in CO2 price in 2014 and 2015, it is still considerably low. The CO2 low price, combined with coal and natural gas prices, allow coal-powered production to remain more competitive than the combined cycle and natural gas plants (CCGT) in most European markets, thereby obstructing the path of decarbonisation advocated by the European Union (EU). E U RO P E A N E NE R G E T I C PO L IC IE S In October 2015, the European Environment Agency (EEA) published the Trends and projections in Europe report, assessing the progress towards meeting the European energy and environmental policies’ targets. It is to recall that the 20-20-20 package sets the following targets for 2020: 20% cut in Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, from 1990 levels; 20% of renewable energy in total energy consumption mix (with binding targets at the Member States’ level) 20% improvement in energy efficiency, reducing primary energy consumption )compared to the baseline scenario). According to this report, the EU is on track to meet and surpass the 20% reduction in emissions by 2020. The report states that GHG emissions decreased by 23% in Europe (from 1990 to 2014) and it is expected to achieve a 24% reduction by 2020. As for renewable energy sources, the EU should also meet the global 2020 target. Regarding energy efficiency, despite the progresses attained, the collective efforts should not suffice to meet the 20% primary energy savings’ target, raising the need to adopt supplementary measures. Following 2020 targets, in late 2014, the EU adopted the following targets for 2030: a 40% cut in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels; at least a 27% share of renewable energy consumption; an indicative target of at least 27% energy savings; an indicative target of 10%/15% for interconnections to be reached by 2020/2030. At the end of 2014, the European Commission (EC) announced the implementation of the European Energy Union, a political initiative aimed at creating a consolidated energy strategy for Europe, based on five pillars: Ensuring security of supply; Building a single internal energy market; Raising energy efficiency; Decarbonising national economies; Promoting research and innovation. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 41 In order to stimulate the investment in the real economy, the EC announced an investment plan for Europe of 315 billion euros (Juncker investment plan) and the creation of the European Fund for strategic Investments (EFSI), approved by the European Parliament on 24th June, 2015. On the 7th July 2015, the European Parliament approved the implementation of the Emission Trading System (ETS) reform by establishing a CO2 market stability reserve, to be in force since 2019. With this mechanism, the allowances available in the market will be automatically adjusted in order to progressively eliminate the surplus of existent allowances in the ETS. On the 15th July 2015, the EC presented a set of documents known as the “Summer Package”, which includes a new framework for energy consumers, energy labelling, revised directive on ETS allowances and a new European electricity market configuration. The latter communication launched a public consultation on electricity market design as to adapt it to the sector’s new reality, namely the need to attract investments in renewables. The developments toward a low carbon economy leads to a sector increasingly based in fixed costs. Not only investment in low-carbon technologies are capital intensive (such as renewable and nuclear) but also the management of renewable intermittency is achieved through storage, interconnections and under-utilisation of thermal power backup, that is, a structure of mostly fixed costs. Moreover, the current energy-only market models, are not able to produce the price signals necessary to attract these investments, since it is structurally not possible to recover all overhead costs in marginal markets. As the penetration of renewables increases, the number of hours with null marginal price increases, downwarding pressing pool prices. Additionally, several markets have explicit price ceilings (e.g. MIBEL), which prevents energy price spikes that are critical to the recovery of fixed costs. In this context, the current market models require capacity remuneration mechanisms. In a world where fixed costs are increasingly relevant, the key competitive factor is the cost of capital, which can be reduced through risk mitigation mechanisms. However, in the present scenario, the investor carries a high number of risks (regulatory, political, economic cycle, etc.) far beyond the ones manageable (construction, operation, financing), which requires very high risk premiums, thereby penalising the cost of capital, with direct impact on electricity prices for end consumers. In this context, the stability and predictability of revenues is crucial, and the market design should evolve to include stable long-term contracts. F UE L E CO 2 2015 was clearly impacted by a stiff drop in oil prices, closing at 36 USD/bbl, a 70% decrease in 18 months. The decrease in oil prices is connected to the slowdown of the consumption and the oversupply. Penalising the demand growth is the deceleration of the economic growth in China and other emerging markets. The overproduction results from unconventional oil exploitation made by the US and the reluctance of OPEC countries (namely Saudi Arabia) to decrease production. ANNUAL REPORT 42 2015 Contrary to what happens with oil price, natural gas price continues to be dictated by regional markets. Thus, while both Europe and the US have seen a drop in natural gas prices, the European price (NBP, European index) remain almost twice as high as the US prices (Henry Hub, American index). On the other hand, the natural gas price in the Asian markets has fallen, having virtually eliminated the UE-Asia spread, thereby reducing the opportunities for shifting volumes from Europe to Asia. Coal price in Europe fell ¼ in 2015 compared to 2014, ending with an average value of 57 USD/ton. By the end of 2015, the European price index API#2 had values bellow 50 USD/ton. The decrease in coal prices is largely explained by the slow in economic growth in China and India and the replacement of coal consumption for natural gas consumption in the US. The CO2 price in the European market had a significant percentual increase compared to 2014. However, the annual average price of 7.7 EUR/ton is still low and not enough to cause the reversal of order of merit between coal and gas in most European electricity markets. Despite the backloading process (removal of 900Mton from the volume to be auctioned in 2014-2016) and the approval of the stability reserve mechanism, the oversupply and the uncertainty atmosphere are still limiting the price increase. 1.3.1.IBERIAN ELECTRICITY AND GAS MARKET E LE CT R I C IT Y 2015 seems to mark the beginning of the economic recovery, as the electricity consumption remained stable in Portugal and rose in Spain, during the year: +0.3%: slight increase in consumption in Portugal +1.8%: increase in consumption in Spain Correcting for temperature and working days effects, the consumption in the Iberian Peninsula in comparison with 2014 rose slightly less (0.1% in Portugal and 1.6% in Spain). Unlike 2014, which was a wet year (HPI hydro production index of 1.27 in Portugal and 1.20 in Spain), 2015 was dry (0.74 of HPI in Portugal and 0.70 in Spain). The wind production index (WPI) has also fallen (from 1.11 in 2014 to 1.02 in 2015 in Portugal). The combination of increased consumption and renewable production reduction (namely hydro and wind) led the Residual Thermal Demand in Iberia to be considerably above 2014, raising from about 80 TWh to 100 TWh. The thermal plants’ operating regime (both coal and natural gas) increased, remaining coal more competitive than CCGT. This dynamic reflects the combination of fuel prices and low CO2 prices, defeating the purpose of decarbonisation of the sector. The higher residual thermal demand led to the increase in the wholesale price of electricity in Iberia for about 50 EUR / MWh, closer to the values observed in Italy and the United Kingdom. Still, the daily additional markets are an increasingly important source in the generation results. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 43 Regarding the supply, there has been a growing liberalisation in the sector. By the end of 2015, the liberalised market represented 90% of the total electricity supplied in Portugal and 87% in Spain. The final selling prices for domestic clients remain above EU average, both in Portugal and in Spain, being this true after the VAT increase in October of 2011 from 6% to 23% in Portugal. For industrial customers, prices in Portugal have remained below the EU average. N AT U R AL G AS Consumption of natural gas is typically divided into two main uses: conventional consumption (domestic and industrial consumption, which includes cogeneration units) and the electricity sector consumption. In 2015, the consumption in the Iberian Peninsula increased 5%, driven by the consumption in the electricity sector (+18% in Spain and +242% in Portugal). Overall, the increase of natural gas demand in Iberia was: +15.5%: higher consumption in Portugal +4.5%: higher consumption in Spain ANNUAL REPORT 44 2015 Although the consumption has increased, the contracted quantities continue to exceed demand, leading to the need for large natural gas volumes to be deviated to international markets. Nevertheless, the downfall in European gas prices added to the intense decline in Asian gas price (with the traditional Europe-Asia spread almost eliminated) makes CCGT’s electricity generation the most profitable destination, increasing the pressure to comply with the take-or-pay clauses associated with gas supply contracts. RE G UL AT IO N PO RT U G A L Under the financial adjustment programme, the Portuguese Government has launched a series of regulatory packages affecting the energy sector since 2012, with an estimated impact in the energetic sector of approximately €3/€3.5 billion, during the period of the financial adjustment programme. In 2015, the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) was applied for the second time and may be in force until 2018. CESE is translated in a 0.85% tax on the electricity, oil and natural gas sectors’ fixed tangible and intangible assets, representing a revenue of about €150 million, which is assigned to the Fund for Systemic Sustainability of the Energy Sector (FSSSE). Two-thirds of the FSSSE until the limit of €100 million, will be used to finance the social and environmental policies from energy sector, related with energy efficiency measures. The remaining will be used for the reduction of the tariff deficit of the National Electricity System. In July 2015 was publish the ordinance nº. 225/2015, amending the implementing rules of Decree-Law nº. 74/2013, which establishes a regulatory mechanism in order to ensure the balance of competition in wholesale electricity market, primarily as a result of different fiscal schemes between Portugal and Spain. The impact of the designated “extra-market events” started to be determined by the government member in charge of the Energy issues. For power plants participating in the market (excluding CCGT with generation bellow 2.000 equivalent hours), the defined parameters set the amount of 6.5EUR/MWh to be paid, deducted from a variable term which depending on the CESE and the Social Tariff contribution. In November 2015, the new Portuguese government has been sworn in. In the energy sector, the Government program includes several relevant objectives, such as retake the investment in renewables, boost energy efficiency, expand electrical mobility and develop a technological cluster for energy. Concrete measures and the details of its implementation are yet to be defined. SP A I N During 2014 and 2015, following the reform started in July 2013 by RDL 9/2013 and with the new Law 24/2013 of the Electricity Sector, the Spanish government carried on with a set of regulatory changes. The most positive result of the actions undertaken in recent years was that 2014 was the first year since 2004 in which it was documented a revenue surplus from the electric system (EUR 550 million), it is also expected that 2015 has generated revenue surplus. The regulatory reform is not exclusive for the electricity sector, also covering the natural gas sector. On May 2015, the law 8/2015 was approved, amending the law 34/1998 on the hydrocarbons sector. The main consequence is the adoption of the decree-law 984/2015 in October 2015, which regulates the organised gas market and third party access to the natural gas network. This decree brings major changes to the gas system’s contracting capacity and launches a new wholesale gas market. In June 2015 the system operating procedures were approved, which allow the beginning of billing with real hourly load curve for household electrical consumers benefiting from the regulated tariff (Voluntary Price for the Small Consumer), which began in October. In October 2015, the royal decree 900/2015 was approved. For the first time, self-consumption is faced as a state standard. This law establishes the fees to pay for energy generated for self-consumption, depending on the power and type of installation. The rationale is to offset system costs not directly related with energy consumed (e.g. solidarity with extra-peninsula systems, the tariff system debt generated in the past and incentives to renewables). However, those who produce and consume their own energy without any physical connection to the grid do not pay these costs. In addition, payment exemptions are applied to the variable terms of the tariff for self-generation plants with installed capacity up to 10 kW. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 45 Also in October, the lower chamber of the Spanish Parliament approved the “2015-202 Electricity Transmission Grid Planning”. This planning document indicates that there will not be electricity demand coverage problems in the medium term, as it is expected an increase in the installed capacity in this time frame, mainly wind and solar PV. According to this document, the additions to renewable installed capacity will have to stand between 4.5 and 6.5 GW, in order to fulfil the targets set by the EU to 2020. Nevertheless, at the end of the period, the government reveals the possibility of reserve margins below the desirable, which may imply the need for new firm capacity. The document does not mention the possible hibernation of 6 GW of CCGT, which was foreseen in the document’s draft versions. The operating system procedures that equate renewables and cogeneration to conventional generation for participation in the ancillary services market were approved in December 2015, following the new regulations on renewable energy in accordance with the new law for the electricity sector and the royal decree 413/2014. Under the energy reform, there are some aspects still pending of approval, namely aspects concerning capacity mechanisms and rules for plants hibernation. 1.3.2. EDP RENOVÁVEIS’ MARKETS 2015 was a record year for the wind industry as annual installations Wind economics, energy crossed the 60 GW mark for the first time, bringing total capacity to 432 policies and GW. environmental issues In Europe, 12.8 GW of wind were installed during 2015, an increase of 6.5% compared to 2014 installations. Germany, that added 6 GW, was continue to drive wind again the largest market, both in terms of cumulative capacity and new energy globally. installations. Poland came second with 1.3 GW added, more than twice the annual installations in 2014. France was third with 1.1 GW, followed by UK which managed to connect 1 GW. Although 2015 was a relatively quiet year for European onshore wind, it was an outstanding year for offshore. EWEA (European Wind Energy Association) reported that 3,019 MW of offshore wind capacity were installed in European waters, a 108% increase over 2014. These results make cumulative installed capacity amounting to 11,027 MW, consolidating European leadership in terms of offshore wind. Overall, in Europe, wind power was the energy technology with the highest installation rate, reaching 44% of all new installations. Solar PV came second with 8.5 GW (29% of 2015 installations) and coal third with 4.7 GW (16%). Globally, renewables accounted for 77% of new installations. 2015 was also a very good year for North American wind, primarily driven by US installations: 8.598 MW (a 77% increase over 2014). The US ended 2015 with 74,472 MW, consolidating its second position (after China) in terms of total installed capacity. Mexico installed 714 MW, amid the implementation of its comprehensive electricity market reform, while Canada 1,508 MW, slightly less than in 2014. In Latin America, Brazil lead the way, installing a record 2,754 MW, with cumulative capacity reaching 8.7 GW. It also worth noting that Uruguay added 316 MW, 60% increase versus its 2014 capacity. Other emerging economies also achieved important additions as for example India (2,623 MW, surpassing Spain and becoming the fourth largest market), South Africa (483 MW), Panama (235 MW) or Ethiopia (153 MW), among others. In 2015, the main drivers for wind energy growth were its increasingly competitiveness, the need to fight climate change and reduce pollution (particularly choking smog that is dangerously threatening people’s health in many countries). Energy security, increasing power demand in emerging countries, insulation from volatile fuel markets, job creation and local industrial development were also decidedly key, but price and environmental concerns stood out as main drivers in 2015. RE G UL AT IO N In France, the “Energy Transition bill”, whose aim is to build a long-term and comprehensive energy strategy, was finally passed in July 2015. In 66 articles, the text has the following targets: Cut France's GHG emissions by 40% between 1990 and 2030 (and divide them by four by 2050), Halve the country's energy usage by 2050, Reduce the share of fossil fuels in energy production, Cap the total output from nuclear power at 63.2 GW, Bring the share of renewables up to 32% of the energy mix. ANNUAL REPORT 46 2015 Following the provisions of the “Energy Transition Law”, the French government disclosed a draft decree with the details of a new remuneration scheme for renewables. According to this text, renewables will be remunerated by contract-for-difference scheme. However, the implementation for wind energy will probably be delayed to 2018 and up until then, new wind farms will be remunerated according to the current feed-in tariff scheme. In Poland, a new Renewables’ Act was approved in February 2015, introducing a different support system for new renewables plants. According to the law, the current Green Certificate (GC) system will be replaced by a tender scheme. However, the current GC scheme will be maintained (with some adjustments) for operating plants. These plants will have the choice to remain under the GC scheme or shift to the new scheme through specific tenders for operating assets. In Italy a new draft decree envisaging new wind tenders for at least the two next years. According to the draft, 800 MW of onshore wind could be tendered, with a reference tariff of 110€/MWh. The publication of the final decree is expected for the first quarter of 2016. In the United Kingdom , on February 26, DECC (Department of Energy and Climate Change) and National Grid, published the results of the first “Contract for Difference” (CfD) auction. Over 2,1 GW of capacity across 27 projects was awarded a CfD contract. Successful projects include 15 onshore wind projects, 2 offshore wind and 5 solar PV, among others. UK energy secretary Amber Rudd announced a “new direction for UK energy policy” in a speech on 18 November. According to it, the strategy is likely to be focused on gas, nuclear, and provided it cuts its costs, offshore wind. With regards to offshore, she announced that the government would fund three auctions before the end of the decade, with the first probably to be held by end 2016. However, this funding will depend on offshore wind capacity to lower its costs. Regarding Romania, the EC disclosed in May 2015, its clearance to the Romanian Renewables support scheme amendments notified in 2013 and 2014. Therefore, the amendments have been declared compatible with European regulation. On December 2015 the Government set the value of the GC quota for 2016 at 12.15%. In the USA, the President signed in December 2015 the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, which includes the extension of energy-related tax incentives for wind power in the country. As a result of this Act, wind energy projects that begin construction before January 1st 2020 will qualify for 10 years of Production Tax Credits (“PTC”) on the electricity output. Previous to this extension, PTCs were available for wind energy projects that had begun construction before January 1st 2015. The 5-year extension also includes a phase down according to which the PTC value shall be reduced by 20% in the case facility construction begins after December 31st, 2016, and before January 1st, 2018; by 40% if construction begins after December 31 st , 2017, and before January 1st, 2019; and by 60% if construction begins after December 31st, 2018, and before January 1st, 2020. Wind projects also have the option to choose, in lieu of the PTC, an Investment Tax Credit (“ITC”) on the project cost during the same period and with the same phase down percentages. 1.3.3. ELECTRICITY MARKET IN BRAZIL In Brazil, 2015 was a year full of uncertainties. The political and economic instability that lasted all year was deeply reflected into the Brazilian families’ consumption, investment decisions and the industrial production. The economic slowdown impacted several sectors, including the energy one. The crisis felt in Brazil influenced negatively the market results and the National Interconnected System (SIN) charges in 2015, which registered a decrease comparing to 2014, a clear setback to the trends observed in recent years. As it regards regulation, in 2014, the distribution companies experienced a scenario of high tariff deficits, as a result of the tariff reductions carried out by the government in early 2013. To recover the distribution companies’ revenues and normalize the sector’s economic and financial balance, in February 2015, the regulator adjusted the tariffs through an extraordinary review, which resulted in an increase of over 50% in energy prices. In January 2015, the “tariff flag” system was adopted. Through a coloured flag included in the monthly bills, this system aims to maintain consumers informed of the changes on electricity generation costs, allowing the distribution companies to pass on to end-users the price variations associated with thermoelectric generation. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 47 There are three flags—green, yellow and red. If the flag is green, The tariff does not have special increases; yellow, the tariff increase R$ 0.025 for each kWh consumed; red, the tariff has an additional value of R$0.045/kWh, excluding taxes. With this information, customers can take actions to minimize energy consumption and reduce the amount to be paid. The hydroelectric system performance also impacts the electric sector sustainability, since 71% of the country’s electricity is generated by hydro sources, according to data released by the National Electric System Operator (ONS). In hydrological terms, 2015 was one of the worst periods in history, resulting in a sharp drop in storage levels in Southeast and Midwest regions during the first semester. The Southeast and Midwest reservoirs accounted for about 70% of the country’s storage capacity and, although low, remained stable during the second semester. As a consequence of low discharges in the first semester, the energy price reached almost its maximum (R$ 388/MWh). In the second half of the year, reflecting the good rains, energy prices had a significant drop, averaging around R $ 200 / MWh in the Southeast / Midwest. The hydrological scenario impacted hydro generation and resulted in the necessity to activate thermal technologies, which have high costs. The Generating Scaling Factor (GSF), which measures the amount of energy produced by hydro plants in relation to their physical guarantees, was about 85% in 2015, causing the producers to buy energy in the spot market, at high prices, to meet their contractual commitments. Hydro output below their physical guarantees resulted in a financial impact for the producers and culminated in legal injunctions against the payment of this hydrological deficit. To minimize new hydrological risks, the Federal Government issued a provisional measure (MP688), subsequently converted into Law 13.203/15, aiming to establish a mechanism that works like an insurance. Energy producers have the possibility to pay a monthly premium to limit and pass the hydrological risk. The alternative restricts the risks to which the hydro plants are exposed in case of unfavorable hydrological scenarios. In December 2015, ANEEL issued Normative Resolution nº. 684/15, enabling agents to renegotiating the hydrological risk at different levels of protection, according to their individual risk analysis. ANNUAL REPORT 48 2015 2.STRATEGIC AGENDA The strategic architecture adopted by EDP in 2006 is based on three pillars controlled risk, superior efficiency and focused growth and has been adequate given the changing business environment, especially with regard to the European Utilities sector. In 2012, EDP presented strategic priorities well defined for the quadrennium 20122015 ending now: Maintenance of a low risk profile through proactive management of legal / regulatory agenda; Competitive refinancing and accelerated deleveraging, ensuring the increase of cash flow generation; Focus on opex and capex efficiency, creating long-term sustainable growth options; Growth-oriented to value creation, ensuring stable and attractive return to shareholders; Successful implementation of the strategic partnership with China Three Gorges (CTG). In May 2014, EDP presented a new Business Plan (BP) until 2017, tailing the strategic objectives defined for the previous quadrennium and reinforcing the commitments of: Growth balanced with financial deleveraging; and Focus on creating value and attractive return for shareholders. The growth commitment is embodied in an expected increase in Gross Operating Profit (EBITDA) and Net Income of about 5% per year by 2017 (based on 2014 closing expected at the time of PN 2014-17), driven by the execution of the Portuguese Hydro Programme and creation of growth opportunities centred either in EDP Renováveis, wind or solar platform, or in selective international expansion opportunities. The BP 2014-17 projected a capacity of about 26.7 GW by 2017, (including the capacity consolidated by the equity method), of which at least 75% from renewable sources. This growth includes the commissioning 2.8GW of hydro (of which 1.5GW in Portugal and 1.3GW in Brazil) and the full consolidation of 534MW of wind resulting from the asset split of the ENEOP consortium. The financial deleveraging effort remained a priority with the aim of achieving in 2017 a ratio of Adjusted Net Debt / EBITDA at 3.0x by carefully controlling the investment level, as well as executing the partnership targets with CTG and the asset rotation policy followed by EDPR. The diversification in terms of markets and regulatory environment, always looking for PPA contracts, will allow EDP to maintain its low risk profile and to be one of the most integrated and regulated European utilities, with the weight on EBITDA from regulated activities exceeding 70% of total EBITDA by 2017. To this risk profile, will also contribute the maintenance of a leadership position and global recognition of its sustainability practices, an objective assumed in the strategic agenda of EDP that integrates the several targets around the three pillars of sustainable development environmental dimension, economic dimension and social dimension. Regarding the return to shareholders, EDP took a commitment to maintain the minimum dividend of € 18.5c per share, intending to achieve a payout ratio that is in a range between 55% and 65% of recurrent net income. Finally, in order to maintain a leading position in terms of efficiency, the commitment of the business plan is based on an extension of the Opex III savings to 180 million per year in 2017. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 49 ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The legal and regulatory agenda has remained as one of the main priorities for EDP, as the Group continues to take a proactive stance in providing solutions that lead to the consolidation of sustainable energy systems where it operates. Note that the tariff deficit, being one of the major concerns of Portuguese Regulator, registered in 2015 a reversal of its trajectory for the first time since its inception. In Spain, the Regulator continued with the implementation of measures in this regard, resulting in a zero deficit creation in 2015. In Brazil, following the continuation of unfavourable hydrological regime in recent years, EDP contributed in the search for regulatory solutions that made possible the establishment of a compensation model that allow the normal development of the activity in a context of very high energy purchase prices by the distributors, thus minimizing the risk. Adverse regulation in Iberia, the volatility of energy purchase prices resulting from Brazil's poor hydrology (despite the positive trend seen in the second half of 2015) and the devaluation of the Brazilian Real in the last three years, are within the most important factors penalizing the accumulation of results and the fulfilment of the targets set in May 2012. Still, EDP has kept a low and clearly distinctive risk profile, which has allowed it to mitigate those negative impacts, expressed either by the weight of regulated activities in 2015 (91% above target) or by the weight of renewable installed capacity (70% in line with the target for 2015). With respect to the competitive refinancing and deleveraging targets, decisive steps were taken, although the aim of an Adjusted Net Debt / EBITDA at 3.0x has been extended to 2017 mainly due to the regulatory and fiscal impacts already mentioned, as well as the adverse impact from the appreciation of the USD on the USD denominated debt. The investment stood at 1.7 billion euros in 2015, roughly in line with expectations. In January 2016, a new asset rotation deal was completed in the amount of 0.3 billion euros, anticipating in two years the target of € 0.7 billion for this type of operations. Regarding the implementation of the strategic partnership with CTG, from the 2 billion euros initially agreed, 1.4 billion euros were already closed, including the agreement signed in December 2015 for sales 49% of wind farms in Italy and Poland, scheduled to be concluded during the first semester 2016. Additionally, EDP completed in 2015 sales of 0.2 billion euros of the gas distribution assets in Murcia and other regions of Spain, which were far away from the current activities of the Group. ANNUAL REPORT 50 2015 In 2015, EDP completed monetizations of tariff deficit in Portugal amounting to more than the 0.8 billion planned for 2015, reinforcing the efforts already evidenced in 2014 with the sale of 1.4 billion euros, about 0.6 billion higher than expected. The deleveraging effort was further enhanced in 2015 by the issuance of a 0.75 billion euros of subordinated bonds, with some capital features that allow rating agencies to treat as equity 50% of its nominal value. This deleveraging effort has been recognized by rating agencies with the reflection in their projections of a reduction in the financial risk profile of EDP, which in fact justified the exit from speculative territory of EDP by Moody's, joining Fitch in assigning EDP an investment grade rating. In a period of great uncertainty, focus on efficiency in terms of Opex and Capex has been constant, marked by a successful anticipation of the results of OPEX III efficiency program, which enabled EDP to exceed by more than 25% the 130 million euros savings planned for 2015. In terms of investment efficiency, there was also a significant effort to reduce the amount invested in relation to EBITDA, particularly with a ratio of about 56% in the last three years and in convergence with the target of 50% for the average between 2012 and 2015. The centralized procurement of EDP Group with savings of EUR 170 million in 2015 had a decisive contribution to the capex savings effort. In terms of growth with value creation, and regarding the execution of the hydro plan in Portugal, after the entry into service (CoD) in 2011/12 of the repowering of Alqueva, Picote and Bemposta plants, in 2015 started operating the dams of Ribeiradio / Ermida (82MW) and ended the construction of Salamonde II (207MW with entry into operation in January 2016) and of Baixo Sabor (172MWof which 142MW entry into operation in the first quarter 2016). Still in 2015, EDP continued the construction works of Venda Nova III repowering and the Foz Tua dam – together representing 1.019MW and with completion expected by the end of 2016 and during the first semester 2017, respectively. With regards to EDP Renováveis, during 2015, 602MW of wind capacity were installed, occurring most of this growth in the US (398MW). Also in North America, EDPR's entered into Mexico in 2014 with a 200MW wind farm to be completed in 2016. Finally, in 2015 EDP Renováveis started consolidating 613MW of wind on the split of the ENEOP consortium. In Brazil, it is worth to highlight the CoD anticipation of Jarí hydro plant (373MW, 50% EDP, in operation since 2014) and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro plant (219MW, 50% EDP, with CoD scheduled for the first half of 2016). Still in Brazil, the construction works of São Manoel (700MW, 33% EDP, with operation scheduled for 2018) continue in line with plan; and the acquisition of 50% of the thermal power plant of Porto do Pecém allowed the consolidation of the 100% now owned by EDP Brazil (720MW). Also during 2015, in pursuing the objective of creating growth opportunities, EDP entered into long-term contracts for the sale of energy corresponding to 200MW in wind projects in the US. With respect to the shareholders return, EDP kept its dividend distribution policy with a dividend distributed 18,5c € per share. The price of EDP shares increased by 3% in 2015, which when adjusted by the dividend paid in the year, allowed a shareholders a total return of 9%, 10 p.p. above the Euro Stoxx Utilities Index and less 6 p.p. bellow the PSI 20. The following chapter summarizes the status of EDP commitments, and specifies the objectives and goals associated to the achievement of the strategic agenda and aligned with the Principles of Sustainable Development of the Group, demonstrating this way the company’s effort to meet its challenges. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 51 3.GOALS AND TARGETS ANNUAL REPORT 52 2015 4.RISK MANAGEMENT 2.4.1. SUMMARY OF KEY RISKS, RESPONSIBLES AND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES EDP group’s taxonomy of risks combines, in an integrated approach and common language, the various risk maps that exist at the Business Unit level. It is structured around four major families: business, financial, operational and strategy. EDP Group’s taxonomy of risks In this section we briefly describe the main types of risks covered by the taxonomy and in the following section we characterize the relative materiality of these risks, as well as potential future developments. BUSINESS RISKS aggregate all risk factors intrinsically linked to the remuneration of the EDP Group’s core activities, both in terms of energy markets and regulatory risks. In terms of energy market risks, there are significant uncertainties associated with fluctuations in pool and other commodities’ prices, volatility of renewable energy production volumes (particularly at hydro level), volatility in energy consumption and narrowing of sales margins. As most plants are covered by medium and long term energy sale contracts, risk is largely mitigated at the pool and fuel price level, in the case of thermal power plants (for example Sines in Portugal), and at the pool price in the case of wind and hydro plants (as well as the risk of renewable’s hydro volume in the case of Portugal)1. In Iberia, the risks associated with plants subject to market risk (pool and commodities price) are monitored and managed by the EDP’s Business Unit for Energy Management (UNGE), who are responsible for negotiating contracts for coal, gas and CO2 allowances and for hedging the fuel price risk (in cooperation with the Corporate Financial Management Department). Fluctuations in energy 1 For power plants under CMEC (Costs of Maintenance of Contractual Balance), the respective mechanism of revisibilty will expire, depending on power plant, until 2017 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 53 consumption (in addition to impacts of the pool price, cited above) are reflected as a small impact on the permitted revenues of the distribution business (to the extent that this variable is one component – amongst other – of the variable remuneration indices). The Group manages its exposure to the various energy market risks through an active strategy of diversification across multiple technologies, geographies and business lines. In terms of regulatory risks, EDP Group is subject to legislative and regulatory changes (for example, sectorial packages, regulatory models, environmental rules, taxes and fees). The EDP Group manages this risk through continuous monitoring and preparation of several dossiers, which are discussed in a constructive and cooperative atmosphere, allowing the anticipation and minimisation of unfavourable and/or inadequate outcomes that can materialise in the various market environments where the Group operates. FINANCIAL RISKS aggregate the market risk factors that complement the (nonoperational) energy business risks in the various geographies and markets where the EDP Group operates in terms of i) financial market variables, ii) credit and counterparty (financial, energy and customers), iii) liquidity/solvency (treasury, difficulties in access, cost of capital and rating) and iv) other responsibilities (including the Defined Benefit Pension Fund). In terms of financial market variables, the EDP Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates (impacting on debt subject to floating rates and on costs derived from refinancing at a fixed rate), exchange rates, inflation and valuation of financial assets held by the Group. All these risks are managed and mitigated by the Corporate Financial Management Department, together with UNGE, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, who ensure the compliance with the Group's risk policies and periodically report on the evolution of the main variables and sources of risk. In terms of credit and counterparty, the EDP Group recognizes risks associated with its financial and energy counterparties, as well as with credit defaults of its clients in the various geographies where it operates. The financial counterparties risk management is ensured by the Financial Management Departments through i) a careful selection of counterparties, ii) adequate diversification, iii) exposure only to financial instruments of reduced complexity, high liquidity with no speculative nature, and iv) regular monitoring of the respective positions. UNGE manages the energy counterparties’ risk by applying exposure limits previously established and approved in accordance with the individual rating of each counterparty. Finally, the commercial risk is managed by the commercial areas of the Group (in Portugal, Spain and Brazil), who carry out adequate provisioning against default expectations. In terms of liquidity/solvency risks, the risk of possible cash shortfalls is mitigated through i) centralisation (cash-pooling) of all of the Group's liquidity (except in Brazil), ii) maintenance of adequate liquidity levels (cash and credit lines with firm commitment) based on a detailed forecast of cash needs (enough for about two years), iii) an appropriate strategy to diversify funding sources, and iv) the diversification of debt profiles in terms of type and maturity. As the rating risk leads to potential adverse impacts on funding access and costs, the Group seeks to maintain stable contractual standards, which ensure no dependence of its liquidity position to mechanisms such as financial covenants or rating triggers. In terms of other responsibilities, the EDP Group recognizes and closely monitors risks associated with the capitalisation of the Group’s Defined Benefit Pension Fund in Portugal (associated with the market value of the respective assets), with additional costs associated with early retirement, as well as with medical expenses. Employee benefits liabilities are calculated annually by an Independent Actuary, using assumptions set out in IFRS-IAS (taking into account aspects such as, among others, interest rates, demographic factors, economic variables and applicable requirements). The Pension Plan and Fund Committee regularly monitors the Defined Benefit Pension Fund in terms of the value of the assets that comprise the Fund as well as changes to the liabilities. OPERATIONAL RISKS aggregate risk factors that are additional to the energy business and financial risks in the various geographies and markets where the EDP Group operates. They contain risks associated with the planning, construction and operation of physical assets, execution of processes, personnel, information systems and legal. ANNUAL REPORT 54 2015 In terms of incidents on physical assets, these risks can be derived from external (for instance, seismic or atmospheric phenomena) or internal causes (for instance, damage caused by defects of origin and/or installation), and can result in (amongst others) threats to the physical integrity of the Group's employees or third parties, costs on the repair or replacement of equipment, the unavailability of assets and subsequent loss of profit or in compensations to third parties. These risks are, firstly, managed and mitigated by the various operational areas of the Group's Business Units, who propose and implement best practices in terms of operational policies, regular inspections and preventive maintenance, as well as in plans for catastrophic events’ crisis management and business continuity. Secondly, a significant part of the remaining risks are mitigated through a comprehensive range of insurance policies (in particular property damage and civil and environmental responsibility), managed by a dedicated area the Insurable Risks’ Unit at EDP Valor. In terms of information systems, (both in terms of availability, data integrity and security) we highlight the establishment, in close coordination with the various Group Business Units (end users), of maximum unavailability periods that are acceptable for each of the main families of applications (which served as the basis for the sizing and implementation of redundant systems for disaster recovery, particularly for critical systems such as execution of financial transactions, grid operation and energy trading). In terms of legal issues, there are recognisable risks associated with losses resulting from the failure to comply with current legislation (tax, labour, administrative, civil or other), with impact at the economic level (penalties, compensations and agreements) as well as damage to reputation. The EDP Group analyses, monitors and reports material developments to all relevant bodies, whether at the level of the Executive Board of Directors or at the General and Supervisory Board (through global and geographyspecific exposure levels). Provisions are recognised, in accordance with current legislation, whenever a process is characterized as probable and for 100% of the contingency value at risk. STRATEGIC RISKS typically incorporate risks with medium-long term prospects, usually with reduced likelihood, although if they occur they may have a material impact. In terms of surrounding risks (external), EDP Group recognizes and monitors closely the developments in terms of possible exogenous events with a potential material impact for the Group. For example, regarding the risk of technological disruptions, EDP Group has sought to position itself at the forefront of technological development in the sector, looking at this issue not as a threat but as a central vehicle for promoting growth in the future both through investment and research into new technologies (in particular, but not limited, to activities performed by EDP Inovação). In terms of strategy risks (internal), EDP Group identifies and actively follows the main issues associated with major corporate decisions (for example associated with investment decisions, relation with partners, internal governance and corporate planning in its various forms). For example, a rigorous process is established for investment decisions, consistent with the Group strategy and with preestablished criteria (in particular regarding the definition of minimum return levels, up to date and geography-/ business-specific discounting rates, as well as the resilience to multiple adverse scenarios of delays, cost overruns, fluctuations in key business variables, etc.). This process is led by the Business Analysis Department and discussed in formal forums (Investment Committees) for the analysis, decision making and monitoring of projects. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 55 2.4.2. PERSPECTIVE ON THE RISKS RELATIVE MATERIALITY AND POTENTIAL EVOLUTION The Group regularly quantifies its main risks at corporate level, in close coordination with the various Business Units. This quantification contemplates a perspective of average loss and maximum loss (95% confidence interval), taking into account estimated probabilities of materialisation and impacts according to multiple scenarios and prospects (short, medium and medium-long term), and performing an aggregation by category of risk that takes into account potential correlations between the various risk natures. In terms of key messages, we highlight the following: Business risks, in the short term, tend to have a reduced level of maximum loss. This results from the significant percentage of the generation portfolio covered by long term contracts (with remuneration not subject to fluctuations in electricity market prices and hydro volumes) and the regulated distribution portfolio in the various geographies. On the other hand, it should be noted that there is currently a high (cyclical) risk associated with the (reduced) hydro production in Brazil, due to the extreme drought context of recent years (2014 drought considered the worst in over 80 years), which forces power producers to meet their short positions through purchases at high market spot prices. It is relevant to note that EDP Brasil has joined the hydro risk renegotiation deal (with retroactive effects to January 2015) proposed by the Brazilian regulator, which materially limits the level of risk associated to the volatility in hydro generation in this geography. In the medium term it is expected that business risks in Iberia will assume greater prevalence, due to i) the expiry date of the CMEC’s mechanism in Portugal (a mechanism that will be lastly revised in 2017), ii) the increase in installed capacity of merchant power plants and iii) the potential negative impact of periodic changes to the regulatory models of the distribution business (also impacting at the financial risk level). On the other hand, it is expected that business risks in Brazil will decrease due to i) the abovementioned risk renegotiation deal, ii) the expected normalization of Brazilian hydrology and iii) the generation investment plans that will increase system capacity. The EDP Group will continue to act proactively in order to manage and mitigate these risks, either through the maintenance of its strategy of diversification (technological, geographical and by line of business) or through the adoption of hedging mechanisms. The current environment negatively impacts the volume of financial risks (in terms of maximum loss), mainly due to the cyclical risk related to the downgrade of the rating of the Iberian financial counterparts in the recent past. The Group believes that the European Central Bank’s Quantitative Easing Programme and the approval and execution of measures, at a national and European level, to strengthen the European financial system set up conditions for the progressive improvement of counterparty ratings, namely in the Iberian market – expectations in part already materialized with the upgrade of the Portuguese Republic’s rating in 2015 (Standard & Poor’s). On the other hand, the EDP Group has established, as a strategic priority, the reduction of its leverage and has acted proactively in this regard. For these reasons the EDP Group expects that this category of risks will be reduced to levels of materiality lower than the ones in the business category, in a medium-term horizon. As for the remaining risks, we highlight the mitigation of risk of exchange rates (in particular EURBRL, in what concerns net asset value in foreign currency, as well as income generated in foreign currency in specific subsidiaries), inflation (since part of the remuneration of regulated activities and PPA contracts is inflation-linked, but also due to the focus on stable markets) and appreciation of financial assets (as a result of a conservative risk policy, with a reduced weight of strategic financial assets and treasury based in short-term bank deposits). On the other hand, it is worth noting that the risk of customer default has structurally weakened in Spain (compared to Portugal), due to the higher weight of the B2B segment, and that in Brazil the risk is mitigated either by existing financial collateral that mitigates the loss or by partial recovery through the regulated tariff. The operational risks have a relevant value of expected loss but lower volatility than the previous risks. The main risks that contribute to this result are related to i) the projects under development ANNUAL REPORT 56 2015 and construction (investment plans at EDP Brasil and EDP Renováveis, Hydro Plan in Portugal), ii) the operation of physical assets (in terms of incidents as well as operational losses) and iii) matters of a legal/litigation nature. In addition to the aforementioned management and mitigation measures, it should also be noted that many of these risks, particularly the most frequent and/or of less uncertainty, are in many cases already included in the budgets of the various Business Units, either through specific budget items, budgetary margins or appropriate provisioning. This means that the magnitude of the operational risks should not be interpreted as a proxy for the size of the execution risk associated with the Strategic Plans exercises (multi-year) and/or Budgets (yearly). In the future the level of operational risk is expected to decrease, due to the expected completion of the Hydro Plan in Portugal (impacting the risk associated with development and construction projects) as well as a normalisation of the extreme drought context in Brazil (which would lead to a reduction in the implicit cost of operating losses in distribution). The risks of strategic nature have a relatively small order of magnitude (given a 95% confidence interval), but can, in extreme cases and in the medium-long term, result in a significant impact to EDP Group if materialised, so the Group will remain attentive to any future developments. Finally, in terms of reputational risk, the Group is in line with the best positioned international peers. In terms of its definition, EDP Group considers the reputational risk not as a risk in itself, but as one of the dimensions of impact of each of the taxonomy risk factors (be it business, financial, operational or strategic). Given the diverse nature and multiplicity of causes that can generate reputational impacts, each one of EDP Group’s employees has the responsibility to manage and mitigate this same risk. It is also worth noting that the EDP Group is positioned in line with the best peers (and above the sector average) at the level of RRI (Reputational Risk Index) of RepRisk. This organisation, specialised in mapping reputational risks associated with environmental, social and governance issues, systematically assesses all major incidents, criticism and controversies expressed in a broad range of media. The RRI published weighs the number of identified issues (as well as their respective recurrence), severity, credibility and scope of the respective sources. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 61 PERFORMANCE 03. MATERIAL THEMES OF THE YEAR The materiality analysis assesses and orders according to priority the shared materiality of a matter between EDP and its stakeholders, supporting the decision-making process and development of organization's strategies. The Material Issues are obtained from this process, i.e. those that affect the creation of value of the company in the short, medium or long-term, and simultaneously positively or negatively impact the different segments of the company's stakeholders. These themes are reviewed and adjusted periodically at the Group's different companies, in accordance with a common methodology (page 413), which can be seen, in detail, at www.edp.pt, Sustainability Management Approach. In 2015, in accordance with the analysis conducted, we identified 19 material themes for the Group, which evolved regarding last year, according to the matrix below: ANNUAL REPORT 62 2015 Standing out in 2015: Energy Efficiency transversal to all segments of stakeholders and business units, maintaining a strong relevance both for the Group and for society; Climate Change, Promotion of Renewable Energy and Environmental / Biodiversity Management maintain a high relevance for society and increased its importance for business. International trends, namely the realization of COP21 (page 90) increment the perception of these issues for business; Customer Management, which includes satisfaction, reliability and quality of supply, has gained importance both for society and for business. This continuing increase in importance for the business reflects the paradigm shift introduced by market liberalization; Citizenship, Transparency and Social Tariff gain importance for society. For each identified issue, strategic guidelines and action plans are set. On page 51 we present the Goals and Targets organized by the Sustainable Development Principles of EDP Group, and also the Material Themes 2015 Organized by these Principles, page 414. The table below highlights the set of Material themes for each of different EDP locations and EDP Renováveis: PORTUGAL SPAIN BRAZIL EDP RENOVÁVEIS Energy efficiency Corporate Ethics Transparency Customer Management (subFinancial Sustainability (subtheme Regulation, Taxes and Promotion of Renewable themes Satisfaction, Energies Financial Sustainability Grievance Management and Subsidies) (sub-theme Financial Reliability and Quality of Climate Change Performance) Environmental Management Supply) (sub-themes Resources, Financial Sustainability (subNew Business Working Conditions (subBiodiversity and Water theme Regulation, Taxes and Opportunities theme Job Security) Management) Subsidies) Energy Efficiency Environmental Management Custumer Management (subRisk management (sub-theme (sub-theme Air Pollution themes tariffs and Reliability Environmental and Social Risks Enironmental and Quality of Supply) Management Emissions) in Corporate Management) Financial Sustainability (subHealth and safety Innovation Climate Change theme Regulation, Taxes and Subsidies) The Materiality identification of the different supply chain’s sustainability issues was made through a specific study (Page 112). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 63 2.FINANCIAL SUSTAINABILITY In 2015, the energy sector continued to be affected by several macroeconomic and regulatory factors, further reinforcing the idea that this is no longer a defensive sector but a cyclical sector. In this challenging environment, the defined strategic agenda was adequate to change, allowing a balanced approach, flexible, pragmatic and a strong ability to anticipate. In this difficult context, EDP was able to achieve consistent results, with net profit attributable to shareholders of EUR 913 million, supported on its low risk profile which allowed an increase in EBITDA and a strong focus on efficiency and cost control. These results supported the strong performance of the share, allowing a positive total shareholder return of 9%, higher than the European utilities index (-1%), although lower than the PSI20 index (15%). EDP continues to show a resilient business model with a strong performance based on the delivery of our commitments, high quality asset mix, stable returns, adequate risk management and diversification of markets. ANNUAL REPORT 64 2015 BUSINESS FINANCIAL ANALYSIS EDP GROUP'S BUSINESS EVOLUTION EDP GROUP In 2015, EDP Group’s net profit attributable to EDP’s Shareholders reached EUR 913 million, compared with EUR 1,040 million in 2014. Net profit decreased 12%, impacted by lower financial results, partially offset by a higher EBITDA occurred mostly at EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil’s level, thus increasing non-controlling interests at EDP Group’s level. INCOME STATEMENT – EDP GROUP EUR Million 2015 2014 ∆% ∆ Abs. Gross Profit 5,455 5,367 2% 88 Net Operating costs 1,531 1,725 -11% -194 EBITDA 3,924 3,642 8% 282 EBIT 2,443 2,193 11% 250 Net Profit for the period 1,247 1,264 -1% -17 Net Profit attributable to EDP shareholders 913 1,040 -12% -127 Non-controlling interests 334 223 50% 111 Consolidated EBITDA amounted to EUR 3,924 million in 2015, 8% higher year-on-year. Note that EBITDA includes: (i) in 2014, +EUR 131 million on the sale of a 50% equity stake in Jari/Cachoeira-Caldeirão to CTG, +EUR 81 million net impact from restructuring issues (impact from the new Collective Labour Agreement in Portugal, ‘CLA’, net of costs with pre-retirement anticipation program); (ii) In 2015, +EUR 295 million following the bargain purchase of Eneva’s 50% stake in Pecém (in the second quarter), +EUR 89 million derived from the sale of gas assets in Spain (in the first semester) and +EUR 57 million net impact at EDP Renováveis due to the fair value registered in the revaluation of the assets formerly held by ENEOP (+EUR 125 milion), offset by the write-offs in the period of assets ongoing and under construction (EUR 68 million). Excluding these impacts, adjusted EBITDA totalled EUR 3,483 million in 2015 (+2% year-on-year), capped by an unfavourable ForEx impact (-EUR 49 million, mostly due to BRL depreciation versus Euro, partly offset by the appreciation of the USD against the Euro) and adverse conditions for the hydro and wind production in EDP’s main markets, namely hydro (in Portugal, hydro resources in 2015 fell 26% short of long-term average, compared to a 27% premium in 2014; in Brazil, the drought resulted in a hydro deficit of 15% in 2015) and wind (the average load factor fell 3% short of average scenario). In Iberia, the 9% fall in EBITDA, to EUR 1,926 million in 2015, mainly reflects 2015’s poor hydro resources, weak results with energy management (versus last year’s outstanding conditions). EDP Renováveis’ 26% rise in EBITDA, to EUR 1,142 million, was prompted by higher average capacity on stream (+10% year-on-year), higher prices in Spain; but also by a positive ForEx impact (+EUR 76 million), driven by the 20% appreciation of US dollar versus Euro and by the abovementioned gain (+EUR 57 million). EDP Brasil’s 38% rise in EBITDA, to EUR 857 million, was supported by the bottoming out of drought situation, in spite of the hydro deficit having prompted a EUR 95 million hit in 2015 EBITDA, to which adds up an adverse impact of ForEx (-EUR 125 million). EBITDA EUR Million 2015 2014 ∆% ∆ Abs. Long Term Contracted Generation in Iberia 583 671 -13% -88 Liberalised Activities Iberia 364 416 -13% -53 Regulated Networks Iberia 1,031 1,042 -1% -11 Wind Power 1,142 903 26% 239 Brazil 857 619 38% 238 Other -52 -9 -480% -43 Consolidated 3,924 3,642 8% 282 On a year-on-year basis, excluding the EUR 81 million gain booked in 2014 (new CLA in Portugal net of of costs with pre-retirement program), operating costs increased 3% year-on-year to EUR 1,574 million in 2015, reflecting: (i) rose 1% year-on-year in Iberia, backed by headcount reduction; (ii) rose 8% year-on-year at EDP Renováveis (excluding ForEx) on portfolio expansion; and (iii) rose 9% in Brazil (in local currency), reflecting the full consolidation of Pecém I and higher inflation. Other net operating costs/(revenues) totalled –EUR 43 million ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 65 in 2015 (versus EUR 272 million cost in 2014), reflecting: (i) the aforementioned impacts (2015: gain in Pecém I, sale of assets in Spain and impact at EDP Renováveis’ level; in 2014, gain on the sale of 50% in Jari/Cachoeira Caldeirão); and (ii) higher cost with generation taxes in Spain and clawback in Portugal (“extra market events”). Amortisation and impairment (net of compensation from depreciation and amortisation of subsidised assets) rose 5% year-on-year to EUR 1,465 million in 2015, reflecting: (i) in 2015, higher depreciation charges at EDPR (+EUR 84 million year-on-year), derived from the new capacity installed over the last 12 months, including the initiation of the full consolidation of ENEOPs subsidiaries, and the USD appreciation against the EUR; (ii) depreciation charges of Pecém following the full consolidation (+EUR 31 million); (iii) an impairment of EUR 27 million at the Group level on Escelsa, due to the BRL devaluation; and (v) in 2014, a EUR 27 million impairment at our hydro plant of Alvito. These effects were partially offset by the sale of gas assets and by the devaluation of the Brazilian real. Net financial results rose 46% year-on-year to EUR 833 million in 2015. Net interest expenses rose 1% yearon-year due to the USD appreciation vs. Euro and its impact on interest paid on USD-denominated debt. Capitalised financial costs fell EUR 85 million year-on-year, to EUR 84 million in 2015, due to the start of operation of some of the hydro plants and by the equity-method consolidation of Jari and Cachoeira-Caldeirão (as from June 2014); Other financials (EUR 42 million in 2015, -EUR 92 million year-on-year) includes a EUR 56 million gain with the tariff securitization (versus EUR 78 million in 2014) and a EUR 22 million impairment due to a devaluation of our financial investment in BCP; and in 2014 and a EUR 118 million gain with the sale of a 50% stake at EDP Asia to China Three Gorges. Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates amounted to -EUR 24 million in 2015 (-EUR 39 million year-on-year), with the following main contributors: EDPR’s equity stake in ENEOP, which started being fully consolidated since Sep-15 (EUR 6 million in 2015, -EUR 7 million year-on-year); for EDP Brasil’s 50% share in Jari/Cachoeira-Caldeirão (-EUR 20 million in 2015 vs. 2014); our share in EDP Asia (CEM) (-EUR 10M year-onyear in 2015); and in spite of our 50% equity stake of EDP Brasil in Pecém I (-EUR 22 million in 2015 until May 15 2015 vs. -EUR 38 million in 2014), which following the acquisition of the remaining 50% started being fully consolidated. Income taxes amounted to EUR 278 million in 2015, representing an effective tax rate of 18% (vs. 19% in 2014) reflecting the fall in the corporate tax rate in Iberia: in Portugal, from 31.5% in 2014 to 29.5% in 2015 and, in Spain, from 30% in 2014 to 28% in 2015; as well as the effect of non-taxation on the taxable profit obtained with the sale of some gas assets; and on part of the taxable profit obtained with the acquisition of Pecém I and ENEOP; as well as to the upwards review of the recoverability expectation of deferred tax assets on provisions for medical acts. Additionally, 2015 results reflect the full-year impact from EDP’s share on the extraordinary contribution (0.85% on net assets) applied to the energy sector in Portugal (EUR 62 million in 2015 vs. EUR 61 million in 2014). Non-controlling interests reached EUR 334 million in 2015 (+EUR 111 million year-on-year), reflecting the gain booked on the acquisition of Pecém at EDP Brasil’s level concerning non-controlling interests, the capital gain booked on the sale of gas assets at Naturgas level (5% minority stake), the increase in net profit at EDP Brasil and EDPR’s level, as well as higher non-controlling interests at EDPR level, mostly due to the sale of minority stakes in some wind parks. Net profit attributable to EDP shareholders was 12% lower year-on-year, at EUR 913 million in 2015, impacted by financial results and non-controlling interests. NET INVESTMENTS EUR Million 2015 2014 ∆% ∆ Abs. Long-Term Contracted Generation Iberia 28 36 -21% -8 Liberalised Activities Iberia 388 559 -31% -171 Regulated Networks Iberia 376 388 -3% -12 Wind & Solar Power 677 516 31% 161 Brazil 281 178 58% 103 Other -16 118 -134 EDP Group 1,735 1,794 -3% -59 ANNUAL REPORT 66 2015 Net investments amounted to EUR 1.7 billion in 2015 (versus EUR 1.8 billion in 2014). It includes EUR 1,788 million of capex, EUR 286 million of financial investments and EUR 339 million of proceeds from asset rotation deals at EDP Renováveis level. Consolidated capex amounted to EUR 1,788 million in 2015, the bulk of which (66%) devoted to the new expansion projects in hydro & wind capacity. Maintenance capex was 3% lower year-on-year (-EUR 19 million), at EUR 604 million in 2015, mostly concentrated in regulated networks in Iberia and Brazil. Net investments amounted to EUR 1,735 million in 2015 (vs. EUR 1,794 million in 2014). Capex in hydro capacity under construction in Portugal totalled EUR 302 million, including the capital spending on the construction of Baixo Sabor downstream dam (30MW), which came online in the first quarter of 2015 and Ribeiradio/Ermida hydro plants (82MW) which came on stream in the first half of 2015. As of Dec-15, EDP had 4 hydro projects under construction: (i) Salamonde II (207MW), which came online in January 2016; (ii) Baixo Sabor (upstream plant of 142MW), whose start is dependant on hydrological conditions; (iii) Venda Nova III (756 MW); and (iv) Foz-Tua (252 MW). Capex in new wind capacity (EDPR) amounted to EUR 901 million in 2015 (of which EUR 106 million derived from USD appreciation vs. Euro), mostly allocated to capacity additions in 2015 (+519MW, excluding the 613MW relating to ENEOP), 144MW of capacity under construction (83% in Brazil and 17% in Europe) and enhancements in capacity already in operation. In Brazil, capex totalled EUR 114 million in 2015 and was mostly devoted to our distribution business. Net financial divestments totalled EUR 408 million in 2015. Financial divestments amounted to EUR 694 million in 2015, including i) EUR 241 million from the sale to Redexis of gas distribution assets in Spain in the first half of 2015; ii) EUR 79 million from the conclusion of EDPR’s sale of minority stakes in wind farms in Brazil to CWEI Brasil, a CTG subsidiary; iii) EUR 339 million from EDPR disposal of a minority stake in a US wind farm of 1,101MW to Fiera Axium and of a minority stake in a 30MW-solar PV park; and iv) EUR 30 million from the sale of a 19.83% indirect stake in Setgás in the fourth quarter of 2015, subject to price adjustment. Financial investments in 2015 amounted to EUR 286m, particularly influenced by i) the acquisition of Eneva’s 50% stake in Pecém I coal facility in Brazil (EUR 91m); ii) EDPB’s equity contributions to Cachoeira-Caldeirão and São Manoel hydro projects (EUR 70m); and iii) within the scope of EDPR, the settlement of ENEOP’s asset split (EUR 50m) and the acquisition of minority stakes in already controlled SPVs in Spain. NET DEBT EDP Group’s consolidated net debt as at December 2015 amounted to EUR 17,380 million, resulting from a gross nominal debt of EUR 18,767 million deducted mainly by an amount of (i) cash and equivalents of EUR 1,245 million, which was held, mainly, at EDP S.A., EDP Finance BV and EDP Servicios Financieros (EUR 599 million), EDP Renewables (EUR 299 million), and the Group’s Brazilian subsidiaries (EUR 267 million); and (ii) EUR 381 million regarding 50% of the of the amount related with the emission of subordinated debt instrument (hybrid) fully booked as a liability. Net debt increased from EUR 17.0 billion in December 2014 to EUR 17.4 billion in December 2015, excluding 50% of the amount related with the abovementioned emission of subordinated debt instrument (hybrid), due to the impact of the USD appreciation versus the Euro, from the acquisition and full control of Pecém I as well as the impact of the full consolidation of some assets from ENEOP, partly mitigated by the disposal of gas assets to Redexis. In terms of maturity, EDP Group’s consolidated nominal debt breaks down into 18% of short-term and 82% of medium and long-term, with an average maturity of 4,8 years. In 2015, EDP maintains its policy of centralizing funding at EDP, S.A. and EDP Finance BV, which represented 86% of the Group’s consolidated debt. The remainder consists essentially of debt contracted by the Brazilian holdings (8%) and project finance debt from subsidiaries of the EDP Renováveis Group (6%) as well as EDP Produção Group (1%). In April 2015, EDP issued a ten-year EUR 750 million Eurobond, with a 2% coupon. In September EDP issued 5.5-year non-call subordinated notes (hybrid) in the total amount of EUR 750 million, with final maturity date of September 2075 and a coupon of 5.375%. The instrument is unsecured, senior only to EDP’s ordinary shares and junior to its senior debt obligations. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 67 Regarding the loan markets, in February EDP replaced the EUR 1,600 million Revolving Credit Facility, dated 31st January 2013 with maturity date 31st January 2018, with a new five-year Facility, in the amount of EUR 2,000 million and including a EUR 500 million revolving tranche (RCF) and a EUR 1,500 million term-loan. The new facility was placed with a syndicate of 16 banks and was drawn in the amount of EUR 1,500 million at year end. The above funding transactions allowed EDP Group to reach different markets and investors, obtaining the necessary funding for current and next year’s redemptions as well as to strengthen its liquidity position, ahead of refinancing needs for the following years. In particular, EDP prepaid approximately EUR 1,270 million of bilateral loans that matured in the next couple of years replacing them with lower yield debt. During 2015, EDP monetized approximately EUR 844 million of Portuguese tariff deficit: i) in March, EDP securitized, by means of a true sale, without recourse, to Tagus – Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A., a portion of EUR 465 million of the 2014 Tariff Deficit, and respective interest; ii) in May, sold a portion of EUR 186 million of the 2014 tariff deficit related with special regime generation, iii) in December, EDP sold a portion of EUR 93 million of the 2014 tariff deficit related with special regime generation; and iv) also in December, EDP sold a portion of EUR 100 million of the 2015 tariff deficit related with special regime generation. In January 2016 EDP has already sold a portion of EUR 94 million of the 2014 tariff deficit related with special regime generation. Maintaining a prudent financial management policy, by end 2015 EDP had access to around EUR 4,107 million of available and fully underwritten credit lines and commercial paper. Additionally EDP has a EUR 1,000 million Euro Commercial Paper programme (ECP) which is not committed and is being used for the Group short term treasury management. As at 31 December 2015, the total amount issued of ECP amounted to EUR 219.5 million. In 2015, EDP Group’s average cost of debt was 4.7% per year and approximately 55% of its debt and borrowings had a fixed rate. In terms of currencies, Euro continues to be the main funding currency (67%). The USD financing contracted to fund the capex of the EDPR‘s United States subsidiaries justifies the exposure to USD of 24%. EDP Group funding in Real increased from 5% in 2014 to 8% as in 2015, following the full consolidation of Porto de Pecém subsidiary in Brazil. In January 2015, Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) affirmed its “BB+” long-term and “B” short-term corporate credit ratings on EDP and revised the outlook from stable to positive. In October 2015, S&P reaffirmed EDP’s credit ratings as well as the positive outlook. In February 2015, Moody's Investors Service Limited (“Moody’s”) upgraded EDP’s long term credit rating to “Baa3”. Concurrently, Moody's upgraded the short-term ratings of EDP to “Prime-3” from “Not-Prime”. The assigned outlook on all ratings is stable. In February 2016, Moody's maintained EDP’s long term rating and its outlook as stable. In November 2015, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) maintained EDP’s long-term rating at “BBB-” and its outlook as Stable. LONG-TERM CONTRACTED GENERATION IN IBERIA EBITDA from long-term contracted generation fell by 13% (-EUR 88 million year-on-year), to EUR 583 million in 2015, impacted by natural depreciation of PPA/CMEC asset base under a low-inflation environment and by lower production at our mini-hydro special regime plants (-45% year-on-year). Gross profit from PPA/CMEC was 8% lower year-on-year, at EUR 666 million in 2015, reflecting the natural depreciation of the asset base in a context of very low inflation and adverse results with fuel procurement, following the decline in fuel market prices between the moment of procurement and the moment of consumption. Note that, as a result of EDP’s strategy to hedge these changes through derivative financial instruments, this impact is ultimately compensated at the level of financial results. The annual deviation between market gross profit under CMECs assumptions and gross profit under actual market conditions totalled EUR 160 million in 2015, including a EUR 4 million adjustment relative to 2014. Annual deviation relative to 2015 reached EUR 156 million, the bulk of which relative to hydro plants, reflecting hydro resources in Portugal 26% short of long-term average. This annual deviation amount is due to be received in up to 24 months through access tariffs. ANNUAL REPORT 68 2015 Gross profit from special regime was EUR 15 million lower year-on-year, at EUR 51 million in 2015, driven by a 45% fall in mini-hydro generation, on the back of hydro resources below long term’s average and much weaker than in 2014. In 2015, Ermida mini-hydro plant, a 7MW-plant adjacent to Ribeiradio hydro plant came on stream in Portugal, raising EDP’s total mini-hydro installed capacity in Portugal to 163MW. LIBERALISED ACTIVITIES IN IBERIA EBITDA from liberalised activities was EUR 53 million lower year-on-year, at EUR 363 million in 2015, driven by less attractive margins in gas wholesale/retail market, higher generation taxes in Iberia resulting from higher own production and prices; and a more expensive generation mix largely due to scarcer hydro resources (hydro accounted for 25% of total generation compared to 41% in 2014), combined with an adverse impact from lower price volatility. Additionally, scarce hydro reserves in 2015 dictated delays in the start-up of operations at new hydro plants, leading to a limited contribution to EBITDA. Gross profit in the electricity business rose 1% in 2015, to EUR 803 million, following higher volumes sold (+7% year-on-year) at a lower average unit margin, and higher revenues (mainly mark-to-market of CO2 licenses, higher capacity payments, and higher revenues from energy services). Output from our generation plants (net of pumping) rose by 22% in 2015, mainly due to a higher contribution from thermal capacity, in the wake of below-the-average hydro resources. In 2015, the decrease in hydro output in (-1.7TWh) was more than offset by higher production at our coal and CCGTs plants (+2.5TWh each). Average production cost was 25% higher year-on-year, at €33/MWh in 2015, reflecting a more intense pumping activity and the replacement of the cheaper-technology hydro (25% of total output in 2015 versus 41% in 2014) by CCGT production – a more expensive technology. Gross profit at our supply activities in Spain fell by 27% year-on-year (-EUR 50 million), to EUR 135 million in 2015, mainly impacted by lower margins in the gas wholesale/retail market. Gross profit at our supply activities in Portugal rose by 47% (+EUR 46 million year-on-year), to EUR 143 million in 2015, driven by higher volume of electricity supplied and higher penetration of energy services. REGULATED NETWORKS IN IBERIA Regulated networks in Iberia include our activities of distribution of electricity and gas, in Portugal and Spain, as well as the role of last resort supplier in Portugal. EBITDA from regulated networks decreased by 1% year-on-year (-EUR 11 million), to EUR 1,031 million in 2015, impacted by (i) in 2014, an EUR 87 million one-off gain derived from the establishment of the new Collective Labour Agreement, a –EUR 30 million impact from an anticipated pre-retirement program and an EUR 8 million positive impact booked from the recovery of past costs related to underground occupancy in gas distribution in Portugal; (ii) in 2015, an EUR 89 million one-off gain booked on the sale of gas assets in Spain to Redexis in the first half and a EUR 4 million recovery of previous years’ regulated revenues in electricity distribution in Spain. Excluding these impacts, EBITDA from regulated networks declined by 4% year-on-year (-EUR 39 million), driven by a decrease in regulated revenues which was partially offset by lower operational costs. Gross profit declined by 4% year-on-year (-EUR 67 million versus 2014), reflecting: (i) in Portugal, a lower return on RAB in electricity distribution derived from the lower sovereign risk and clients’ switching to liberalised market; (ii) in Spain, lower gas regulated revenues impacted by the disposal of distribution assets. EDP RENOVÁVEIS EDP Renováveis owns, operates and develops EDP Group’s wind and solar capacity. As of December 2015, EDP Renováveis operated 9,637MW, of which 356MW equity-method accounted. EDPR’s EBITDA derives mainly from PPA-contracted and regulated tariff schemes (92% of output) and is geographically widespread: 40% in North America, 24% from Portugal, 21% from Spain, and the rest derived in France, Poland, Romania, Belgium, Italy and Brazil. As from September 1st, 2015, EDP Renováveis fully consolidates further 613MW in Portugal, following the acquisition of control over some ENEOP assets (versus previous equity consolidation of 533MW). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 69 EDP Renováveis’ EBITDA went up by 26% year-on-year (+EUR 239 million) to EUR 1,142 million in 2015, including the net positive impact from the EUR 125 million gain booked subsequent to the control acquisition over some assets of ENEOP and from EUR 68 million cost derived from write-offs of assets ongoing and under construction. Excluding these impacts, EBITDA advanced by 20%, driven by a positive ForEx impact (+EUR 76 million from 20% appreciation of US dollar versus Euro), higher production (including ENEOP’s assets) at a higher average final price and higher operating costs resulting from portfolio expansion. Electricity output advanced 8% year-on-year, 21TWh in 2015, supported by a 10% increase in average capacity on stream and weaker wind resources, particularly in US and Iberia. Average load factor fell 1pp short versus 2014, at 29% in 2015,. Average selling price advanced by 9% year-on-year to EUR 64/MWh, driven by stronger US dollar versus Euro, higher relative production towards PPA/Hedged; and higher realised pool prices in Spain. EDP BRASIL EDP Brasil’s contribution to EDP Group’s EBITDA rose by 38% year-on-year (+EUR 238 million), to EUR 857 million in 2015, although negatively impacted by a depreciation of the Brazilian real versus the Euro. In local currency, EDP Brasil EBITDA increased 59% year-on-year (+BRL 1,133 million) to BRL 3,066 million in 2015, impacted by the capital gain booked with the acquisition of Pecém I’s 50%, which is now fully consolidated by EDP Brasil. The capital gains of Pecém (+BRL 885 million) and the capital gain booked with the disposal of 50% of Jari and Cachoeira Caldeirão in 2014 (BRL 408 million) were booked at ‘other income’ level. Additionally, in 2014, distribution EBITDA was impacted by the recognition of regulatory receivables from 2013 (+BRL 199 million). Adjusted essentially by these effects, EBITDA would have increased 59% year-on-year to BRL 2,112 million, impacted by the consolidation of Pecém I since May 2015 (+BRL 457 million). EBITDA in distribution went up by BRL 15 million to BRL 937 million in 2015, impacted by an inflation update for on the fixed assets’ terminal value (+BRL 155 million versus 2014), and the abovementioned positive effect of +BRL 199 million in 2014 related with the recognition of regulatory receivables from 2013. Adjusted by these effects, EBITDA in distribution would be up 8% year-on-year (+BRL 59 million), driven by higher regulated revenues, essentially reflecting the annual tariff readjustments at our DisCos. Generation and Supply EBITDA went up 74% year-on-year (+BRL 548 million) reaching BRL 1,290 million, reflecting i) the full consolidation of Pecém since May 15th (+BRL 457 million); ii) better performance at our hydro plants (+BRL 137 million year-on-year) due partly to an efficient strategy for seasonal allocation of volumes sold and an improvement on the average plants’ availability, but mostly to a less severe impact of the hydro deficit (in spite of a Generation Scaling Factor of 85% in 2015 versus 91% in 2014), due to lower market prices, and iii) for the supply business, worse EBITDA results, due to lower volumes supplied to clients and an exceptionally strong 2014, which benefitted from higher spot prices and higher price volatility, allowing for better performance in the segment. VALUE CREATION TO SHAREHOLDERS The creation of shareholder value is sustained in the ability of the company to increase its net income, dividends and share prices, ie, it is supported by the sum of strategic decisions affecting the sustainability of the Group's business activities assuming strategic importance the low risk profile assumed by EDP. The year 2015 was marked by the slowdown of the European utilities sector decreasing -5.4%, being one of the sectors with the worst performances. The sector was penalized by a fearful macroeconomic and commodity prices outlook. In this context, EDP stock priced closed the year with an increase of 3.0%. Based on the payment of dividends to shareholders held on May 14th, 2015 (€ 0.185 per share), which implied a dividend yield of 5.6% (considering December 31th closing price), EDP generated a total shareholder return for 2015 of 8.7%. EDP has followed a sustained policy of dividend distribution that seeks to reconcile strict compliance with the relevant provisions of the law and Articles of Association and division among all its shareholders of a significant portion of the value created by the Group, in keeping with the specific conditions of the company and market. ANNUAL REPORT 70 2015 This policy is designed to enable shareholders to obtain an adequate return on their investment without compromising the company's value. Pursuant to these rules, the table below shows the dividends distributed by EDP in the last three terms of office of the corporate bodies: Year Approval Date Payment Date Gross Dividend 2006 12/04/2007 04/05/2007 0,110 2007 10/04/2008 08/05/2008 0,125 2008 15/04/2009 14/05/2009 0,140 2009 16/04/2010 13/05/2010 0,155 2010 14/04/2011 13/05/2011 0,170 2011 17/04/2012 16/05/2012 0,185 2012 06/05/2013 23/05/2013 0,185 2013 12/05/2014 29/05/2014 0,185 2014 21/04/2015 14/05/2015 0,185 For the 2015 financial year, the Executive Board of Directors of EDP submitted to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders of 21 April 2015 a proposal for the appropriation of the net profit of 676.5 million euros to be distributed to shareholders in the form of dividends. The proposal was approved by a majority of votes (99.9999%) at the General Meeting and a gross dividend of € 0.185 per share was paid on 14 May 2015 EDP believes that a transparent relationship with investors and the market involves the definition of clear criteria and reasonable objectives for the dividend distribution policy, as the growing demands of the investor community, faced with the instability of the capital markets in recent years, have made clear. On the latest Investor Day held on 14 May 2014 with Portuguese and foreign investors and analysts, the goal of proposing to the General Meeting of Shareholders an annual payout of 55%-65% of the recurring net profit was reinforced, with a minimum payment of a dividend per share of € 0.185. FACTORS INFLUENCING CHANGE IN EDP SHARE PRICE 2015 was characterized by a slowdown of the financial markets in the most representative global economies. In the US the S&P 500 dropped 0.7% in 2015, it was the worst performance since the financial crisis in 2008. The S&P was negatively impacted by significant tumbles in the oil and materials sectors, while Nasdaq rose nearly 6.0% supported by the fast-growing technology companies that might have kept the US equity bull market from reversing during 2015. In late 2015, the US Federal Reserve raised interest rates by 0.25 p.p. (its first increase since 2006). Such policy swerves imposed some pressure on yields in the US market, leading to higher borrowing costs. European Stocks climbed during the first half, driven by ECB stimulus, but later slipped on commodity and growth concerns. Yet European markets were among world’s top performers (Stoxxx 600 was up by 7%). ECB bond program purchase also supported more competitiveness in the Eurozone, lowering debt yields, making the equity market look more attractive, and raising exportations through a weakened euro. China (world’s second-largest economy) showed up evidences of an economic slowdown (GDP grew by 6.9%, the worst annual growth pace in 25 years). However, the Shanghai Composite was 9.4% higher after a year of tumultuous swings. Japan’s Nikkei accumulated 9.1% of gains. Portugal’s macroeconomic environment in 2015 was impacted essentially for the continuity of the corrective measures adopted after the implosion of sovereign debt crisis in 2011. A general election on the 24th of November led to a change in the government, but financial markets were not severely impacted until the end of 2015. Portugal’s 10-Year bond yield stabilized nearly the 2.5% mark, while PSI20, the main Portuguese equity index, recovered from a bearish 2014, increasing 10.7% year-on-year. EDP’s stock price also had a positive ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 71 year, trading up by 3.0% relative to 2014. Although EDP stock underperformed the PSI20 it managed to surpass the negative outcome from the Euro Stoxx Utilities Index (-5.4%). The utilities sector was negatively affected by the decreased of commodity prices, which has a positive correlation with overall energy prices. Oil prices closed the year at 36.5$/bbl (c.-36% year-on-year, a 10 yearminimum). Additionally, the COP21 set a renewed compromise among countries to reduce greenhouse emissions, for which the energy sector has a major contribution. The outcome of COP21 also reinforced the investors’ appetite for companies with high exposure to renewable energy, as is the case of EDP Group. In terms of shareholder structure changes, it is worth noting that José de Mello sold its EDP complete 2.0% shareholdings during the first half of 2015, while Capital Group and Blackrock increased its shareholdings, and Guoxin International acquired a 3% share capital. ANNUAL REPORT 72 2015 2.ACTIVITIES 2.1. ELECTRICITY GENERATION T H E G E N E R AT IO N A CT I VI T Y Power Generation is the first activity of the Electricity value chain. Electricity is generated through different technologies and primary energy sources that can be renewable or non-renewable. Energy produced from traditional sources comes mainly from coal, natural gas, nuclear and cogeneration. Water, wind and sun are the more common renewable generation sources. As a result of climate changes and global protocols signed to fight them, energy produced from renewable sources has increased in the last decades. Electricity generation can also be classified as ordinary Hydro plant Vilarinho Furnas or special regime. Ordinary regime generation comes from thermal sources or big hydro plants whilst special regime generation is based essentially in mini-hydro, other renewable sources and cogeneration. Once it is produced, electricity is sold in the market or through power purchase agreements. For some technologies and in certain countries this activity’s remuneration is established by the regulator through the definition of tariffs or other remuneration mechanisms (for example green certificates, tax incentives and premiums). EDP is the largest electricity producer in Portugal, the fourth in Spain and the fifth larget private group in Brasil. In the wind energy market, EDP Renováveis is one of the leading global players. EDP is present in the generation activity in 12 countries. At the end of 2015, EDP had 24GW of installed capacity, of which 52% in Iberia (excluding EDP Renováveis’ installed capacity), 38% in EDP Renováveis and 10% in Brasil. The generation of electricity was made mainly through renewable energy sources (58%). EDP Renováveis operates in Europe, North America and Brazil. In Europe, it has wind farms in Portugal (where it is the main operator with over 1.2GWh of installed capacity), Spain (2.2GW), France, Poland, Romania, Belgium and Italy and some projects in the UK. In North America, EDPR is present in three countries: USA, Canada and Mexico. Solar power (82MW), is present in three countries – Portugal, Romania and USA. strategic The strategy defined by EDP for the generation activity goes through the implementation of the hydro priorities investment plan currently in progress in Portugal and to seek for growth opportunities either in EDP 26.7GW of installed capacity until 2016, of Renováveis or in other international expansion which 75% of renewable energy opportunities. As so, additions in installed capacity In Portugal, conclusion of the hydro invesment over the next years will be primarily focused on plan renewable sources. By 2017, EDP Renováveis estimates that 60% of their growth will be carried out Lower Risk Profile in the USA market where, due to existing of tax High Operational Performance incentives and long-term contracts, the associated risk is reduced. In addition, EDP Renováveis plans to invest in emerging markets (20%), with long-term contracts associated, and the European market (20%) in projects with reduced risk. Following Portugal’s hydro investment plan, in 2015, Baixo Sabor’s downstream dam (30MW) came online and Ribeiradio/Ermida plant (82MW) started up operations. Construction works and hydro reserves building-up at Salamonde II (207MW) and Baixo Sabor (141MW) were almost completed by Dec-15: Salamonde II started ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 73 operations in Jan-16 and Baixo Sabor is expected to start-up operations in the first quarter of 2016. The remaining 2 plants under construction are Venda Nova III and Foz-Tua. They are expected to start up operations in 2016 and late 2016/early 2017, respectively. highlights EDP Renováveis added in 2015 602MW to its installed capacity, of which 398MW in the USA. The remaining 204MW were installed in Europe, mainly in Baixo Sabor’s downstream dam (30MW) came Poland (77MW), France (24MW) and Italy (10MW). online and Ribeiradio plant (75MW) started In addition, Portugal also contributed with an up operations additional of 80MW due to ENEOP’s asset slipt. Since September 2015 ENEOP consolidates at 100% in EDP After 48 years working, Soto 2 ceased Renováveis. At the end of 2015, EDP Renováveis had operations in Spain 344MW under construction all related to projects to More than 600MW of instaleed capacity in be deliverd in 2016, including 200MW in Mexico EDPR (Coahuila) and 120MW in Brasil (Low Bean). Note that all have long term secured remuneration. Incorporation of 100% of ENEOP Acquisition of 50% of Pecém in Brasil In Brazil, in 2015, EDP continue to invest in Cachoeira-Caldeirão (219MW, 50% EDP), partnership with CTG, and São Manoel (700MW, 33% EDP), partnership with Furnas and CTG. They are expected to start up operations in 2016 and 2017, respectively. During 2015, EDP also acquired 50% of Pecém thermal power plant, which is now 100% owned by EDP Brasil. With this operation, the thermal installed capacity in Brasil reached 29% of the total installed capacity, which will have an environmental impact in a variety of indicators. It was also signed an agreement to Pantanal’s sale, throught two mini-hydros – Mimosa (29MW) and Paraiso I (22MW). The transation was completed in January 2016. In Portugal, EDP decommissioned four termal production facilities: Carregado, Setúbal, Tunes and Energin, respecting the plan approved by the Portuguese Environmental Agency. In 2015, EDP decommissioned Carregado and Setubal power plants, performing cleaning in fuel infrastructures (tanks and pipes) and removal of transformers and other materials. Additionally, residual cleaning activities are still going to be performed. In Spain, at 31 December, Soto 2 thermal power plant ceased operations. Functioning since 1978, Soto 2 worked more than 269 thousand hours and produced 56 TWh. In 2015 EDP continued the environmental investments (denitrification) that are being carried out since 2014 in the thermal power plants of Aboño 2 and Soto 3. The expected date of entry in operation is 2016 to Aboño 2 and 2017 to Soto 3. ANNUAL REPORT 74 2015 M A I N E LE CT R I CI T Y G E NE R A T I O N I N DI C AT O RS UN 2015 2014 2013 2012 IN S T A LLE D C A P A C IT Y MW 2 4 ,3 6 4 2 2 ,4 6 9 2 2 ,2 6 9 2 3 ,3 8 0 INSTA LLED CA PACITY (M W) C o nt ra c t e d G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n M a rk e t MW 4 ,6 8 3 4 ,7 4 5 5 ,5 9 3 6 ,6 8 7 P P A / C M EC MW 4 ,4 7 0 4 ,4 7 0 5 ,2 7 4 6 ,2 2 1 Hydro MW 3,290 3,290 4,094 4,094 24,364 Co al MW 1,180 1,180 1,180 1,180 23,380 Fuel MW 946 22,269 22,469 2,058 2,601 S pe c ia l R e gime MW 2 13 274 3 18 466 1,881 1,881 Po rtugal Hydro MW 164 157 157 157 3,637 4,233 3,506 3,835 Po rtugal Thermal MW 24 24 68 167 951 1,523 1,353 1,413 Spain Thermal MW 25 93 93 142 6,193 Libe ra lis e d Ele c t ric it y G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n 5,962 MW 7 ,8 8 2 7 ,7 7 7 7 ,12 3 7 ,12 2 6,030 6,030 M a rk e t P o rt uga l MW 4 ,14 0 4 ,0 3 5 3 ,3 8 0 3 ,3 8 2 Hydro MW 2,101 1,996 1,176 1,178 10,542 10,045 CCGT MW 2,039 2,039 2,039 2,039 9,499 9,310 Fuel MW 165 165 Spa in MW 3 ,7 4 3 3 ,7 4 3 3 ,7 4 3 3 ,7 4 0 Hydro MW 426 426 426 426 2012 2013 2014 2015 CCGT MW 1,698 1,698 1,698 1,698 Portugal Spain Rest of Europe Co al MW 1,463 1,463 1,463 1,460 Nuclear MW 156 156 156 156 North America Brazil E D P R e no v á v e is MW 9 ,2 8 1 8 ,14 9 7 ,7 5 6 7 ,5 9 7 Po rtugal MW 1,247 624 619 615 Spain MW 2,194 2,194 2,194 2,310 INSTA LLED CA PACITY EQUITY2 Rest o f Euro pe MW 1,523 1,413 1,353 951 (M W) No rth America MW 4,233 3,835 3,506 3,637 Brazil MW 84 84 84 84 E D P B ra s il MW 2 ,5 17 1,7 9 7 1,7 9 7 1,9 7 4 Hydro MW 1,797 1,797 1,797 1,794 Co al MW 720 180 1,484 C a pa c it y unde r C o ns t ruc t io n MW 1,5 0 5 3 ,0 9 6 2 ,8 6 6 3 ,3 5 7 1,219 Po rtugal 1 MW 1,161 2,654 2,642 2,642 547 EDP Reno váveis MW 344 443 224 158 360 Brazil 1 MW 558 179 Ins t a lle d C a pa c it y Equit y 2 MW 589 1,4 8 4 1,2 19 n.a . 179 589 193 Po rtugal 1 MW 32 32 32 n.a. 193 187 Spain 1 MW 15 19 19 n.a. 179 EDP Reno váveis MW 356 886 808 n.a. 487 565 Brazil 1 MW 187 547 360 n.a. n.a. 191 32 C a pa c it y unde r C o ns t ruc t io n E quit y 2 MW 341 343 592 n.a . 2012 2013 2014 2015 Brazil MW 341 343 592 n.a. N ET E LEC T R IC IT Y G EN E R A T IO N G Wh 6 3 ,7 0 6 6 0 ,18 6 5 8 ,7 6 5 5 4 ,65 8 Portugal Spain North America Brazil C o nt ra c t e d G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n M a rk e t G Wh 15 ,2 9 4 18 ,15 8 19 ,0 9 3 14 ,8 13 P P A / C M EC G Wh 14 ,6 3 1 17 ,16 0 17 ,4 5 4 12 ,5 6 7 Hydro GWh 4,975 9,031 9,512 3,919 Co al GWh 9,657 8,129 7,942 8,647 NET ELECTRICITY GENERATION Fuel GWh 1 (GWh) S pe c ia l R e gime G Wh 663 997 1,6 3 9 2 ,2 4 6 63,706 Po rtugal Hydro GWh 349 631 583 253 58,765 60,186 Po rtugal Thermal GWh 183 214 486 1,177 54,658 8,849 Spain Thermal GWh 131 153 570 817 7,392 7,438 Libe ra lis e d Ele c t ric it y G e ne ra t io n in Ibe ria n 8,448 11,103 G Wh 18 ,3 9 7 15 ,0 6 3 13 ,3 2 3 13 ,18 4 9,769 10,204 M a rk e t 9,937 2,495 3,225 Po rtugal GWh 6 ,3 5 0 5 ,8 4 1 4 ,0 0 6 3 ,0 2 0 2,132 Hydro GWh 3,766 5,335 3,227 1,513 1,727 15,349 14,551 17,024 CCGT GWh 2,584 507 780 1,507 16,086 Fuel GWh Spain GWh 12 ,0 4 7 9 ,2 2 2 9 ,3 16 10 ,16 4 Hydro GWh 793 947 1,098 621 24,123 25,498 23,505 CCGT GWh 1,082 656 654 1,598 18,460 Co al GWh 8,946 6,414 6,407 6,714 Nuclear GWh 1,227 1,204 1,157 1,230 E D P R e no v á v e is G Wh 2 1,3 8 8 19 ,7 6 3 19 ,18 7 18 ,4 4 5 2012 2013 2014 2015 Po rtugal GWh 1,991 1,652 1,593 1,444 Spain GWh 4,847 5,176 5,463 5,106 Rest o f Euro pe GWh 3,225 2,495 2,132 1,727 Portugal Spain Rest o da Europa No rth America GWh 11,103 10,204 9,769 9,937 3 North America Brazil Brazil GWh 222 236 230 231 E D P B ra s il 3 G Wh 8 ,6 2 7 7 ,2 0 2 7 ,16 2 8 ,2 17 Hydro GWh 5,599 7,202 7,162 8,190 Co al GWh 3,028 26 Steam GWh 871 938 1,588 2,254 1 Excludes EDP Reno váveis | 2 Acco unted by the Equity M etho d | 3 2014 figures was revised in the light o f Câmara de Co mercialização de Energia Eléctrica settlements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 75 ANNUAL REPORT 76 2015 2.2. ELECTRICITY AND GAS DISTRIBUTION T H E D IST R I B UT IO N AC T I V IT Y The energy generated is delivered to transmission grid, and then is transported to the distribution network. This grid provides energy to the supply points. This stage of the value chain is called distribution activity. Electricity distribution networks are composed by high, medium and low voltage lines and cables. Also part of this networks are substations, transformation stations, public lighting, as well as the necessary connections to consuming facilities and power plants. Gas distribution activity operates from local distribution networks or through high pressure pipelines which provide the energy required to the supply points. Gas regulating and meter stations are also part of these grids. Distribution activity is under specific rules established by national regulatory authorities. Quality of service and efficiency are key drivers of this activity and distribution network operators, under the specific rules they are subject, have to ensure higher quality standards and service continuity defined by the regulator entity. This indicators are monitored through metrics such as Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruption Time and can be achieved through an appropriate level of investment and maintenance in the grid. The management of grid losses is also essential for the efficiency of this activity. EDP is present in the electricity distribution activity in three geographies: Portugal, Spain and Brazil, representing in 2015 79TWh, distributed by 336 thousands km of grid. In Portugal, EDP’s presence in the electricity distribution market spreads across the mainland. In Spain, EDP operates in some autonomous communities, especially in Asturias region. In Brazil, EDP is present in the State of Espírito Santo and in the State of São Paulo, through EDP Escelsa and EDP Bandeirante, respectively. Gas distribution activity develops in the Iberian Peninsula, where EDP distributed 34TWh in 2015, through 13 thousands km of grid. Gas activity is developed in the northern coast region in Portugal and in Spain in Asturias, Pais Basco and Cantábria autonomous regions. strategic The electricity distribution business strategy of the EDP Group is also focused on the implementation of priorities smart grids and related services, in order to meet the challenges of the future and become a benchmark in implementation of smart grids electricity distribution. Therefore, maintains focus in efficiency and quality of service, keeping appropriate Higher quality of service and efficience investment levels and registering historically high levels of quality of service. Over the past few years, expansion and improvement of grid in all three geographies – Portugal, Spain and Brazil -, as well as the expansion of telemeters in all transformation stations, have been a key factor in the way of EDP. At the end of 2015, the company had more than 550 thousands smart meteres installed in the three geographies, particularly Portugal where we have a coverage by telemetry of 62% of distributed energy. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 77 Highlights In 2015 levels of electricity distribution registered an increase in Iberian Peninsula, which was not the case since 2009. Despite penalized by milder weather conditions than usual, electricity distributed increased Sale of gas distribution assets in Murcia 1%, resulting in a total of 53TWh. and other regions The Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruption Time Quality of service in Portugal reached (ICEIT) scored, in Portugal, the best mark ever, with historical amounts and efficiency improved 54 minutes. In Spain EDP continues to be a leader in compared to last year quality of service of the Spanish electricity sector, EDP continues to be a leader in quality of with an ICEIT of 34 minutes. System Average service of the Spanish electricity sector Interruption Frequency Index (SAIFI) in Portugal also improved it performance compared to 2014, and Brazil presented a general improvement of registered 1.54 interruptions for domestic customers quality indicators, above the regulatory targets and small business and 1.76 interruptions for business customers. Noteworthy for ICEIT in Portugal electricity grid losses in Portugal, to have broke the barrier of 10%, which is not reached best mark recorded since 2012, reaching 9.8%. ever, achieving 54 Distribution business in Brazil has been marking increasing electricity distribution min. volumes in last years, accumulating since 2009 an increase of over four TWh, reaching 26TWh in 2015. In Brazil, quality of technical service is based in two indicators: Average Interruption Duration per Consumer Unit (DEC) and Frequency Interruption Duration per Consumer Unit (FEC). In 2015, EDP Bandeirante achieved a DEC of 7.3 hours and a FEC of 5.1 hours, which implies a reduction of 4% and 5%, respectively when compared to 2014. EDP Escelsa presented in 2015 a DEC of 9.1 hours, which correspond to a reduction of 12% and a FEC of 5.1 hours, corresponding to a 21% decrease compared to 2014. Quality indicators were above regulatory target. In the beginning of 2015, EDP has reached an agreement with Redexis Gas, S.A. for the sale of assets in Murcia and in other regions owned by EDP Group in Spain. With this operation, EDP reduced his distribution gas activity in Iberian Peninsula, leading to a reduction in volumes distributed of approximately 37%. In gas distribution, despite an adverse economic context, has kept the increase in supply points in Portugal of 4%. In Spain, as a result of the sale of gas distribution assets in Murcia and other regions of Spain, the supply points decreased 11%. ANNUAL REPORT 78 2015 M A I N D I ST R I B UT I O N A CT I VIT Y I ND I C AT O RS UN 2015 2014 2013 2012 E LE C T R IC IT Y E LE C T R IC IT Y D IS T R IB UT E D G Wh 7 9,159 7 9,4 28 7 8 ,8 8 6 78 ,58 1 ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTED PER EMPLOYEE P o rtugal GWh 44,277 43,808 43,858 44,655 (M Wh/#) Spain GWh 9,168 9,177 9,147 9,003 B razil GWh 25,713 26,443 25,880 24,923 31,214 30,869 28,902 30,189 E LE C T R IC IT Y S UP P LY P O IN T S '0 0 0 10 ,0 24 9,8 94 9 ,7 8 0 9 ,68 8 P o rtugal '000 6,107 6,083 6,076 6,095 Spain '000 660 659 659 659 12,505 12,650 13,144 13,353 B razil '000 3,257 3,152 3,045 2,934 G R ID E X T E N S IO N Km 3 3 5,8 04 33 3 ,3 13 33 4 ,16 9 33 4 ,06 4 11,646 11,764 12,124 11,635 P o rt uga l Km 2 2 4,8 49 2 2 3,5 23 22 2 ,4 7 6 22 3 ,73 4 Overhead lines Km 176,622 175,615 174,813 174,293 2012 2013 2014 2015 Undergro und lines Km 48,227 47,909 47,663 49,442 S pain 1 Km 20 ,3 96 2 0,2 68 2 3 ,2 9 3 2 2 ,98 6 Portugal Spain Brazil Overhead lines Km 15,640 15,545 18,469 18,397 Undergro und lines Km 4,756 4,723 4,824 4,589 B ra zil Km 90 ,5 58 8 9,5 22 8 8 ,4 0 0 8 7 ,34 4 Overhead lines Km 90,328 89,332 88,242 87,344 Undergro und lines Km 231 189 158 n.d. ELECTRICITY SUPPLY POINTS PER S UB S T A T IO N S # 6 19 6 17 618 619 EMPLOYEE (#) P o rtugal # 419 416 411 414 2,243 Spain # 57 57 57 58 2,223 2,174 B razil # 143 144 150 147 2,114 G R ID LO S S E S 1,825 1,842 1,753 P o rtugal % 9.8 10.3 11.2 9.1 1,707 Spain % 4.1 4.1 4.2 3.7 B razil % 11.0 11.3 11.6 11.7 S E R V IC E Q UA LIT Y 1,445 1,474 P o rt uga l 1,371 1,384 Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruptio n Time2 M in 54 60 84 58 2012 2013 2014 2015 S pain Installed Capacity Equivalent Interruptio n Time2 M in 34 29 38 28 Portugal Spain Brazil B ra zil A verage Interruptio n Duratio n per Consumer B andeirante Ho urs 7.3 7.6 8.1 9.4 Escelsa Ho urs 9.1 10.4 9.8 9.9 Frequency o f Interruptions per Co nsumer B andeirante # 5.1 5.3 5.5 6.0 A CCIDENTS A T W ORK Escelsa # 5.1 6.5 5.8 6.4 T e lem et ry '0 00 6 20 4 15 308 20 6 P o rtugal '000 150 58 57 34 184 164 Spain '000 402 306 227 153 135 138 B razil '000 68 50 24 18 E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN D IC A T O R S 3.06 Certified Installed Capacity % 35 32 30 27 2.39 2.06 2.07 Waste sent for final dispo sal t 13,964 15,013 20,296 21,052 Dangero us waste t 2,530 2,912 3,571 418 2012 2013 2014 2015 Waste valo rizatio n % 89 89 93 99 E M P LO Y E E S A N D S E C UR IT Y EDP Severity rate (Tg) Employees # 5,823 5,808 5,970 6,023 EDP Frequen cy rat e (Tf) On-duty accidents 3 # 31 21 21 23 On-duty accidents o f contracted wo rkers 3 # 33 57 60 62 Fatal on-duty accidents # 1 0 2 0 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 3 4 4 9 1 2014 figures was revised during the inventory o f assets under the new distributio n mo del definition. | 2 ICEIT in M V grid, excluding extrao rdinary effects. | 3 Includes accidents with o ne o r mo re days o f absence and fatal accidents. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 79 UN 2015 2014 2013 2012 GA S GA S SUPPLY POINTS PER EMPLOYEE (#) GA S D IS T R IB UT E D GWh 3 4 ,0 0 1 5 3 ,8 4 6 5 8 ,4 7 3 6 3 ,10 9 5,563 5,087 5,081 P o rtugal GWh 6,907 6,876 6,938 7,323 Spain GWh 27,093 46,970 51,535 55,786 4,711 5,137 5,073 GA S S UP P LIE D '000 1,2 4 8 1,3 4 5 1,3 2 4 1,2 9 8 4,938 4,598 P o rtugal '000 330 319 306 290 Spain '000 918 1,026 1,017 1,008 GR ID E X T E N S IO N Km 12 ,5 7 0 14 ,7 9 7 14 ,4 8 0 14 ,6 4 1 2012 2013 2014 2015 Portugal Spain P o rtugal Km 4,856 4,653 4,484 4,321 Spain 1 Km 7,715 10,143 9,996 10,321 GA S DISTRIBUTED PER EMPLOYEE (M Wh/#) E N V IR O N M E N T A L IN D IC A T OR S Installed po wer certified % 100 100 100 100 260,683 257,677 Waste sent fo r final dispo sal t 19 24 34 51 232,525 Dangero us waste t 1 1 2 2 164,203 Waste valo rizatio n % 100 99 98 97 E M P LO Y E E S A N D S E C UR IT Y Emplo yees # 227 260 258 273 116,231 111,902 110,904 106,264 On-duty accidents # 2 1 5 2 On-duty accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 4 2 4 16 Fatal o n-duty accidents # 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fatal accidents o f co ntracted wo rkers # 0 0 0 0 Portugal Spain 1 The number o f km in 2012 includes the gas transpo rt in Spain. ANNUAL REPORT 80 2015 2.3. ELECTRICITY AND GAS SUPPLY T H E S UP PL Y AC T I V IT Y Once the energy gets to the supply point, it is sold by the supplier. In all the electricity and gas value chain, the supply is the activity closer to the customer, being responsible for the relationship with the final consumers. In most European countries, the electricity and gas markets’ liberalisation processes were carried out in stages, starting by higher consumption and voltage level customers. In regulated markets, energy supply is attributed to the distributors. With the market liberalisation, these activities are separated, allowing new market agents to enter. In the Iberian Peninsula, electricity and gas supply is liberalised and consumers have the right to freely choose their supplier. Although the energy market is fully liberalised in both countries, there are last resort suppliers. Currently, in Portugal, these suppliers provide customers whom have not moved to the liberalised suppliers and in the future the aim will be to ensure energy supply to consumers, mainly vulnerable ones. In Brazil, the electricity supply is divided in regulated and liberalised markets. The customers with consumption from 3,000 kW onwards are considered liberalised and the remaining customers are covered by the regulated market. EDP is present in the electricity supply activity in Portugal, Spain and Brasil, having more than 9.7 million customers in those geographies. In the gas sector, this presence is only Iberian, where EDP has 1.4 million customers. strategic The customer relationship management is crucial for EDP, which has given strong relevance to the focus on priorities clients and to improve the quality of services provided. EDP has been building up a position of Focus on the customer brand awareness in the energy market, aiming to be an engaging company with which customers relate to. Maintenance of high levels of clients’ satisfaction The energy service segment, focused on energy Broad range of services in the three efficiency and microgeneration (photovoltaic panels), geographies has also been contributing to built strong customer relations. In Iberia, EDP continues to construct its Dual offer in Iberia position based on a wide range of products and New line of sustainable mobility in Spain integrated electricity and gas services for both B2B and B2C customers. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 81 In Brazil, the intention of strengthed EDP’s position in highlights the energy services segment, led to the acquisition of APS – Soluções de Energia, in December 2015. Currently, the supply of energy services in Brazil is largely targeted to B2B customers, where there is a EDP Comercial reached 3.7 million of consideral upside to be reached. electricity customers and 500 thousand of gas customers in the liberalised market The number of EDP’s liberalised electricity customers Purchase of APS Soluções de Energia in in Iberia reached 4.4 million, growing 18% year on Brasil year. In Portugal, a new milestone was surpassed, reaching 3.7 million customers (+ 21% vs 2014). This resulted from the strong level of customer acquisition following the swiching of customers from the regulated market. The electricity sold by EDP in the liberalised market increased by 10%, which was not enough to offset the decrease in sales in the regulated market. In Spain, the volume of electricity sold felt by 11% in 2015, following the focus given to more attractive segments. In Brazil, the decrease in the number of contracts with liberalized customers was more than offset by the increase in customers in the regulated market. Despite the increase in the number of customers, the amount of electricity sales did not follow this trend as a consequence of lower comsumption (particularly in the residential segment), which is a reflexion of the economic downturn and consumer reaction to higher prices. In the gas segment, the number of EDP’s gas customers in Iberia reached 1.4 million. In Portugal, EDP has seen its liberalised costumers’ portfolio grow 29% as a result of the successful of dual offering (electricity + gas). This growth reinforces EDP’s leadership in the B2C liberalized gas sector in Portugal. Gas sales in this segment followed the increase in the number of customers, reaching 27% when compared with 2014. In Spain, the amount of gas sold decreased by 14%, reflecting lower opportunities in the wholesale market. Further information can be seen in chapter 6.2.Customers ANNUAL REPORT 82 2015 M A I N S U PP LY A CT I V IT Y I N DI C AT O R S ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 83 3.ETHICS ANNUAL REPORT OF THE ETHICS OMBUDSMAN The management of an organization’s ethical performance is not limited The different initiatives, the to the existence of a code of ethics, nor to the management of the results and commitments in process of registering and processing complaints. It requires careful the sphere of the monitoring and evaluation of the results achieved and, above all, the management of the ethical continued reinforcement of the ethical perspective of the organizational performance of EDP, are culture, through sharing principles and values, promoting consistency in described in detail in the actions and the reduction of attendant risks, especially in matters of Ombudsman’s annual report, reputation and conduct. available on www.edp.pt> about edp> corporate These were the main guidelines of the initiatives developed in the EDP governance> ethics> ethics Group, with respect to ethics, in the year 2015. ombudsman. 3.1.MANAGEMENT OF ETHICS COMPLAINTS During the year, 317 complaints were registered in the various channels available for this purpose in the EDP Group, 54 of which gave rise to complaints proceedings presented to the Ethics Committee, and the rest were dealt with swiftly in the business units involved. The complaints received are classified by origin and in accordance with the different topics of the code of ethics according to the table: CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE CLASSIFICATION OF COMPLAINTS AND THE POINTS OF THE CODE OF ETHICS 2.2. Financial matters Fraud, corruption and bribery 2.2. Bribery and corruption Environment and responsibility towards 2.5. Corporate social responsibility society 3. Commitments to stakeholders 2.2. Use of information Use of the information and assets 3. Commitments to stakeholders 2.4. Transparency Transparency 3. Commitments to stakeholders 2.2. Conflict of interests Fairness of solutions 3. Commitments to stakeholders 2.1. Legislation Neglect and disrespect 2.3. Respect for human and labour rights 3. Commitments to stakeholders Comparing to previous year, there is a 14% decrease in the total number of new complaints presented to the Ethics Committee, with expression in all the thematic areas considered, with the exception of the topic use of information and assets , where a material increase of 50% is recorded. CLAIMS PRESENTED TO THE ETHICS COMMITTEE, BY SUBJECT (#) 33 26 21 14 4 5 2 3 5 0 2 2 Fairness of solutions Neglect or Transparency Use of information Environment and Fraud, corruption disrespect or assets responsability and bribery towards society 2014 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 84 2015 Concerning the distribution according to the origin, there are changes, of a similar size, but in the opposite direction, in the Employees and Client segments, which may be justified by the actions of internal training and awareness conducted. From the the claims presented to the Ethics Committee, 47 were closed in the year 2015. Of these, 43% were consideres to be founded, and about twenty of follow-up actions were determined. CLAIMS BEFORE THE ETHICS COMMITTEE, BY SOURCE (#) ACTIONS DETERMINED BY THE ETHICS COMMITTEE (%) 23 22 20 53% 18 Review of or 18% 15 improvement in 13 procedures Compensation of 3% damages 5 6% Disciplinary action 1 0 0 Training Costumer Citizen Employee Supplier Anonymous 20% Other 2014 2015 As in 2014, these actions were mostly directed towards revision and improvement in procedures, thus promoting the improvement of the management and control systems, in the sense of preventing the recurrence of bad ethical malpractices. The actions classified as others include, in particular: monitoring of performance of processes, evaluation of effectiveness of initiatives and participation of occurrences before criminal investigation authorities. COMPLAINANTS' SATISFACTION The satisfaction of the authors of the complaints presented to the Ethics Committee is assessed annually within the scope of the control of the ethics complaint management process. This assessment is made with respect to aspects such as the courtesy of the treatment and the response time to contacts. The results of the assessment are still significantly positive, registering, however, a decrease in the response rate to the survey, which now stands at 39%. COMPLAINANTS' SATISFACTION (%) «Once again I regret what happened, but thanks to the impartiality, promptness and 86 readiness demonstrated in the 72 resolution of this case, I consider myself satisfied with respect to the outcome of the 0 0 0 14 14 0 0 14 complaint presented.”» Very dissatisfied Dissatisfied Not dissatisfied, Satisfied Very satisfied (Comment of a complainant) not satisfied Treatment courtesy Response time to the first contact with Ombudsman 3.2.REINFORCEMENT OF THE ETHICS CULTURE In 2015, a new assessment and skills development model Amplify was adopted where Openness and Transparency are considered skills tranversal to all functions and hierarchical levels (page 100). Aspects such as promoting an environment of respect, trust and openness, are now part of the evaluation of managers and employees, which represents an important advance in the statement of ethics in the organization's day-to-day activities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 85 AWARENESS RAISING AND TRAINING IN ETHICS Tone at the Top was the signature of an initiative involving all of EDP's executive and to management in Portugal and Spain, with the objectives of strengthening the alignment of this segment of employees with respect to the thematic aspects of organizational ethics, reflecting on the circumstances potentiating ethical malpractices in EDP and identifying concrete measures to make the Organization less propitious to its occurrence. This initiative took place within the context of the project for ethical risk analysis in EDP and was materialised in a set of six workshops with a participation rate of more than 92% and a very positive evaluation by the participants. Similarly to what happened in Portugal in the previous year, éticaedo e-learning programme was held in Spain in 2015 with a rate of adhesion of 83%, covering more than 1,400 employees. Most of the participants evaluated the course positively, considering the theme addressed as very useful in day to day activities, both personally and professionally. This year there was, also, the adaptation of this training program to the specificities of EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, with a view to its deployment in 2016. In 2015, the face-to-face module on ethics continued to be part of the onboarding training for new employees complementary to éticaedp e-learning course. This specific training covered 84% of the employees admitted in Portugal this year and its extension to the remaining business units is forecast for 2016. 3.3.ANTI-CORRUPTION With the objectives of strengthening the effectiveness of the control and reporting systems and to reduce the risks of non-compliance, in particular the occurrence of bribery and corruption practices, were held in Portugal, several training programmes under the system of internal control and financial reporting (SCIRF, page 196). SCIRF covers all of the EDP group companies in all the geographies and includes specific control procedures on prevention of corruption and bribery practices. EDP Brasil has completed the training of the employees most exposed to this risk, as are those who have direct or indirect contact or personal relationships with public authorities, deal with confidential information, are responsible for conducting any type of cash handling or interacting with third-party contracting or negotiation of contracts of any kind. In EDP Renováveis, a specific training on the topic involving employees in the United States and Europe platforms, following the implementation of its Anti-corruption policy (www.edpr.com> investors> corporate governance> anti-corruption policy), approved at the end of 2014. Although some legal systems in force in countries where the EDP Group operates permit, none of the companies in the Group held monetary or in-kind contributions to political parties. The absence of such contributions, by the companies of EDP Group, is in line with the internal values enshrined in our code of ethics pursuant to which employees undertake not to carry out, on behalf of the company, monetary or other contributions to political parties , and EDP undertakes to permit, where it is admitted by law, the provision of mechanisms, properly regulated, for the participation of employees in political processes, which may include monetary contributions on a voluntary and personal basis. Particularly with regard to its supply chain, agents, intermediaries and distributors, EDP includes, in their contracts, explicit provisions regarding the respect of standards of ethical conduct, as well as specific provisions relating to compliance with the laws applicable to matters of corruption and bribery. In 2015, the new Procurement Manual strengthened ethics procedures, in particular those relating to bribery and corruption practices. 3.4.HUMAN RIGHTS According to the code of ethics, EDP undertakes to respect and to promote, in particular in its supply chain, human rights and fair labour practices. The Principles of Sustainable Development of EDP Group affirm the commitments to integrate the social aspects in planning and decision-making, to respect and promote respect for human rights in their sphere of influence, to reject abusive and discriminatory practices, as well as to ensure equal opportunities. Additionally, EDP assumes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the conventions, treaties or international initiatives, such as the conventions of the International Labour Organization, the United Nations Global Compact and the guiding principles for business and human rights endorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Council – Ruggie Framework. In this context and following the project for the identification and evaluation of ethical risks, EDP has initiated a Human Rights Monitoring Programme to assess internal practices, identify needs of due diligencies and prepare action plans. In 2015, the Human Rights Monitoring Programme included an internal self-diagnosis on the part of the business units in Portugal, Spain, Brazil and United States, including companies, facilities, new projects, mergers and No significant risks of adverse impacts on human rights were identified. The Programme sets out the supervision of ANNUAL REPORT 86 2015 the monitoring in the context of the Compliance function, also aiming its deepening and expansion, as well as its extension throughout our supply chain, particularly in the entities acting on our behalf. EDP has made available on its website, a set of relevant rules and procedures of the Monitoring Programme: summary of commitments published by EDP Group with regard to respect for human rights; List of UN guiding principles for businesses; Monitoring Guide; Self-diagnostic form (www.edp.pt> sustainability> approach to sustainability> ruggie framework). It should be noted that compliance with the prohibition on the use of undocumented workers and child labour is explicit requirement of qualification of suppliers, it’s contractually established and is auditable and subject to inspections at the operational level, being also under the Monitoring Programme and object of the self-diagnosis. The channel for complaining to and questioning the Ethics Ombudsman of the EDP Group is the preferred means of contact related to the matters of human rights and labour, including in the context in the supply chain. 3.5.ASSESSMENT OF ETHICAL PERFORMANCE ETHICIS – CORPORATIVE ETHICAL PERFORMANCE INDEX EDP monitors its ethical performance through an internal index called Ethicis. This index is structured in four main areas – stakeholders' perception, raters assessment, management and ethical culture – in turn divided into twelve main axes. In 2015, the Ethicis index presented a consolidated value of 78.2, which represents an increase of 5 points in relation to the value of the previous year. EXTERNAL ASSESSMENTS For the fourth consecutive year, EDP was included in the list of the “World's Most Ethical Companies” (WMEC 2015) prepared by the Ethisphere Institute (USA), after improving the overall value of its “Corporate Ethics Quotient” by 2.1 points and extending to 5.5 points the distance to the average of the values obtained by the companies enlisted, this year. It should be noted that this result is reached within a context of the greatest level of exigency and detail of the information requested in each one of the five dimensions of analysis. EDP Brasil was recognised with the 2015 Selo Pró-Ética, given by the Controladoria Geral da União. Pro-Ética is an initiative that promotes the public recognition of companies committed to preventing and fighting against corruption and which strives to promote a more upstanding, ethical and transparent corporate environment. This recognition has been obtained by EDP Brasil for the second consecutive time and the company has been one of the first four Brazilian companies to receive this recognition (page 27). Other external assessments of EDP’s ethical performance, such as SRI Indexes, can be read at the annual report of the Ethics Ombudsman. 4.INNOVATION 4.1.APPROACH TO INNOVATION In 2015, the governance model implemented in the previous year was consolidated for Innovation, based on foue strategic areas for the EDP Group: Cleaner Energy; Smarter Grids; Customer-Focused Solutions; Data Leap Innovative Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) and Data Management. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 87 This model of Governance dictated that, in 2015, the mechanisms of articulation between EDP Inovação and the other Business Units of the Group continued to consolidate. Open innovation, involving the participation of entrepreneurs, large companies, finance companies, universities, technological centres and the scientific community in general, presents significant advantages from the point of view of effectiveness in the quest for solutions and efficiency in the use of the means allocated for innovation, and for a long time it has been an integral part of the strategy for innovation pursued by EDP with considerable success. EDP Inovação got the recognition of credibility for practising Research and Development (R&D) activities by the National Agency for Innovation. This recognition covers the technical and scientific domains of efficient and flexible renewable energy technologies; energy efficiency and energy management and smart systems engineering and applications. It should also be mentioned that EDP Distribuição has certified its System for Management of R&D and Innovation (SGIDI) in accordance with NP4457, becoming the first certified utility in accordance with this standard and proving that Innovation is a constant renewed wager in the company. The SGIDI is profiled as a catalyst for generating ideas (around 274 captured ideas), which promotes the development of IDI projects and their dynamization in the company, leveraging and increasing internal knowledge. In 2015, the investment made in R&D and Innovation in the Iberian Peninsula was EUR 30.52 million. In Brazil, R&D initiatives are promoted in conformity with the guidelines of the regulatory authority, with a focus on improving the processes for generation and distribution of electricity. The strategic plan for investment in R&D is multiyear with validity for five years, and was thought to achieve objectives such as operational efficiency, risk reduction and revenue improvement. In 2015, R$18,06 million was invested. In addition to the initiatives taken by the business units in the four strategic areas, which are hereby presented, we emphasize the consolidation of N.E.W. R&D centres in Portugal (https://rd-new.com/) and SCNET in Shanghai, the latter created in July 2015, whose activities will cover the following areas: management and storage of power, smart grids, and flexibility in hydro, thermal and offshore wind generation. 4.2.INNOVATION INITIATIVES CLEANER ENERGY This area aims to identify and promote the development of new energy sources, in the field of clean energy, enabling EDP to have a diversified and efficient portfolio of power technologies and to identify solutions that permit operating the existing generation assets efficiently, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The following projects are emphasized: PROJECT DESCRIPTION COUNTRY Advanced maintenance of wind turbines, by installing optical fibre-based sensors to Predictive maintenance predict the state of the wind turbine blades, allowing action to be taken in advance to Portugal of wind turbine blades prevent significant damage and outage. Test platform for the performance of photovoltaic modules (6 different technologies), in different climatic conditions (4 locations) and different positions, in order to Sunlab determine the relationship between power production and these variables and to Portugal develop decision support tools, adapting the best technologies to each location and position. Generation of renewable natural gas (biomethane) from waste, to be used as a fuel in Smart Green Gas industry, the automotive and residential sector, through its injection into the gas Spain distribution network. Methodology for Socioeconomic and Development of a tool that aims to improve the efficiency in the operations and Environmental anticipate deliveries, streamlining the planning processes for expansion, environmental Analysis of the Brazil licensing, implementation and operation of hydroelectric dams in the State of Espírito implementation of Santo. hydroelectric power stations ANNUAL REPORT 88 2015 SMARTER GRIDS In this pillar, EDP aims to lead the development of infrastructures and applications of smart grids focusing on the costumer and on the operations. It is intended to ensure that distribution networks have the ability, in a context of increased renewable distributed generation and electrification of society (e.g. electric vehicles), to ensure the optimization and the flexibility of its operating activities, facilitating the creation of new client services. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COUNTRY A pioneer project in Portugal, consisting of an electric power storage system, with the Storage of MV functions of a backup for the University of Évora and network management support, Portugal Power in Évora notably through its features of grid voltage control and loss reduction, contributing to improve its energy efficiency. A project supported by the 7th Framework Programme for R&D of EC, the main purpose of which is to create new planning rules and operational principles for optimal PlanGridEV Portugal integration of electric vehicles for different network typologies and different levels of penetration of distributed generation, such as solar, wind and micro-cogeneration. Development and testing, in a fully controllable smart grid environment, of innovative UPGRID solutions that allow flexible integration of the active demand for power and distributed Portugal generation. (N.E.W.) A project supported by the 7th Framework Programme of R&D of the EC, which aims at developing methodologies and tools to support the new role of Distribution System evolvDSO Portugal Operators, in the context of integration in networks of decentralized production from renewable sources. Development of a high-capacity storage system for industrial and commercial use, Redox 2015 Spain applicable to medium and low voltage electricity networks. Assessment of the impact in the planning of the low tension network of the massive PLARAD2016 deployment of TESLA commercial batteries associated with photovoltaic panels on Spain domestic customers. A system for providing daily environmental, meteorological and occurrences data in ClimaGrid the electrical system for EDP's distribution companies, enabling them to reduce the Brazil average time of interruption. Smart Grids Laboratory, installed in the Polytechnic School of the University of São Smart Grid Paulo (USP), intended to emulate networks and to test equipment. The laboratory will Brazil Laboratory feature smart devices, measuring equipment and ICT systems. DATA LEAP INNOVATIVE INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES (ICT) This is a cross-sectoral area of leverage for the development of ICT to support innovation in all business areas. The initiatives in this pillar focused in particular on new technologies and market trends, such as: Big Data: increases agility in the market, operational optimization and creation of new products and services; Advanced Analytics: promotes the extraction of actionable information from business data, leading to the creation of competitive advantages; Cloud Computing: enables you to flexibilize IT infrastructure management, streamline the allocation of technical resources and decrease investments. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COUNTRY Advanced Analytics Development of predictive models of propensity to churn and for debt for the different Portugal in the trading area customer’s segments (domestic and business costumers). Big Data Global Data Store Implementation of a big data repository, which ensures the processing of large Portugal (Corporate Data volumes of data in real time. Lake) Machine Learning Application of machine learning algorithms for preventive maintenance in EDP Portugal Pilot Distribuição's circuit breakers, by predictive analysis of historical operation data. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 89 CLIENT-CENTRED SOLUTIONS In the commercial area, EDP aims at differentiating from its competitors, thereby focusing the innovation activity on the expansion of energy supply with new products and services and increasing overall customer satisfaction. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COUNTRY Electric vehicle Design of a technical solution that allows charging electric vehicles in common areas of charging in Portugal condominiums, using charging points whose use is paid for directly by the users. condominiums The re:dy challenge was launched in 8 universities, whose teams developed concepts Re:dy challenge for re-engineering and/or extension of the re:dy product. The winners, Minho Univ. Portugal and Politécnico de Bragança, developed new sensors and device interfaces. A demonstration project aimed at the integration in power networks and buildings of electro-chemical, electro-thermal and mechanical storage technologies, as well as SENSIBLE Portugal micro generation (cogeneration, heat pumps) and renewable energy sources (photovoltaics) (N.E.W.) A demonstration project of home energy management technologies with potential for Showroom integration into EDP's Commercial product range. The aim is to test equipment and Portugal identify trends and a cloud-based platform that facilitates interoperability. A pilot project, of Iberian scope, in the line of the previous project Elenna2015 , AHORRAENERGÍA Spain which aims to help residential customers to save and consume energy more efficiently. Development of a decision support system to control the power flow in buildings, Enrima meeting the demand as efficiently and economically as possible, minimizing emissions Spain of CO2 and maintaining comfort. Development of a compact, low-cost system, focused on the monitoring, in consumer MEMGAS points, of the Gross Calorific Value of natural gas, with an impact on energy efficiency, Spain emissions and safety. OTHER INNOVATION INITIATIVES EDP also develops projects aimed at improving the operation of its assets. It holds a venture capital fund for investment in cleantech (EDP Ventures) and promotes internal and external initiatives to stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship. EDP Ventures: by the end of 2015, has already invested around EUR 21 million in business and innovative funds in the cleantech area and has also assumed an additional future investment commitment of EUR 0.5 million. The following investments stand out: Arquiled LED lighting solutions; Feedzai real time big data solutions; Zypho heat recovery siphon solution for baths and showers; Principle Power floating platform for offshore wind power; Vertequip system for lifting and moving people in conventional power plants and wind towers; International Cleantech funds (USA and United Kingdom); Support for pilot projects between Portuguese startups (Egg Electronics, Eggy, Pknoa) and business units of the EDP Group (EDP Comercial, EDP Renováveis). EDP also promotes initiatives aimed at entrepreneurship and a greater link between the business and the academic communities, where the following are prominent: EDP Innovation Award: This award bestowed in Portugal and in Brazil, aims at the development of new business projects focused on technological innovation or on innovation of business models, in the area of clean technologies in the power sector. In 2015, the 7th Edition was held in Portugal, which resulted in a monetary prize of EUR 50,000 assigned to the bLACK.bLOCK project, a smart controller integrated in the Internet-of-Things network to maximize the use of solar energy for water heating. The bLACK.bLOCK project is a method for automating the operation of a hybrid solar system for dehydration and heating, with agricultural and agro-industrial applications in plant drying and storage, but also with a domestic application if applied to households (www.premioedpinovacao.edp.pt). ANNUAL REPORT 90 2015 In Brazil, in the 5th Edition of the Award, there were 154 projects in the area of business development for Smart Cities. The finalist projects were a water cleaning system without using electric power, a power management system for buildings and a communication system for smart grids. The winner received R$50,000. (www.edp.com.br> student researchers> premio edp 2020); EDP Starter: In 2015, EDP supported the development of 15 startups that generated new jobs, contributed to the growth of the Portuguese corporate sector and to the projection of national technology on international markets (www.edpstarter.com); Click-Idea Plataform: through this platform, an internal management system of ideas, all employees, in all geographies, are invited to develop and share ideas that will contribute to innovation in the Group and in the energy sector. As a collaborative platform, Click-Idea also stimulates employees to contribute to the evaluation and improvement of existing ideas; Innovation Pipeline: in 2015, EDP created the Innovation Pipeline, a tool that aims to identify and support innovation and sustainability projects in EDP Brasil; Innovability Mentors (iMentors): capacity building of a select group of employees for creating business opportunities based on the principles of sustainable development and on EDP's pillars of innovation. In 2015, 26 iMentors were trained. The program has existed since 2013 and there are already 60 active iMentors. 5.ENVIRONMENT 5.1.CLIMATE CHANGE The agreement reached at the Paris Climate Change Conference (COP 21) in December 2015 binds, for the first time, all countries in the world to limit average global temperature rises to less than 2ºC above pre-industrial levels. To achieve this, neutrality must be achieved between Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and their removal from the atmosphere between 2050 and 2100. The Agreement simultaneously establishes carbon pricing as essential for making investments attractive in clean technologies. EDP embraces these goals and assumes the electric sector's key role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. The company's vision is clear, is aligned with its commitments and values and is reflected in the options of its strategic agenda: to supply competitive, low-carbon energy that can assure sustainable economic growth. EDP's climate change strategy, outlined in the next page, embodies this vision and positions the company for the answer to the profound change in the electricity sector, aiming at its decarbonisation over time. edp promotes renewables at cop21 Under the collaborative initiative Low Carbon Technology Partnership Initiative (LCTPi), led by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), EDP, along with 15 worldwide relevant companies, signed an action plan, whose implementation enables the installation of 1,5 TW renewable energy capacity worldwide, over the next 10 years, in order to limit the increase in global warming. This partnership brings together over 140 companies and demonstrates the potential of already existant business solutions is sufficient to achieve 65% of the total needs to achieve the 2ºC objective. EDP presented its contribution to this objective in a wide range of events associated with the Climate Conference, among which the Energy Day, organized by the Lima Paris Action Agenda, where António Mexia participated in the discussion of financing ways necessary for accelerated massification of renewables. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 91 climate change strategy In 2015, EDP committed to a set of quantified objectives for each of its main operational areas: To contribute to the increase of electricity generation from renewable energy sources, exceeding 75% of the overall installed capacity by 2020; To reduce CO2 specific emissions by 75% before 2030 (compared to 2005 levels); To expand the installation of smart meters to more than 90% of EDP’s low-voltage power network delivery points in Iberia by 2030, utilizing new smart grid technology. To provide customers with ongoing access to energy efficiency products and services ro reduce overall consumption by more than 1 TWh in accumulated energy savings by 2020 (compared with 2014); To foster partnerships in the research and development of clean energy technologies, energy efficiency and smart grids research, by investing EUR 200 million in innovatice projects by 2020; EDP has also undertaken a set of commitments promoted by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the We Mean Business coalition, as a means of encouraging the adoption of concrete goals for corporate actions and to establish best practices for the respective implementation. In this respect, EDP committed to: Set an internal carbon price that helps integrating the climate variable into management decisions and support public policies that assign a price to carbon, in line with the Business Leadership Criteria on Carbon Pricing, established by the United Nations Global Compact; Establish an emissions reduction target consistent with the level of decarbonisation necessary to limit temperature rise to 2ºC (Science Based Target); Disclosure information on climate change as a fiduciary duty, publishing content in its reporting package according to the Climate Change Reporting Framework requirements. The governance model implemented for Research, Development and Innovation, supports the strategic orientation of the Group in the transition to a low carbon economy by promoting cleaner technology design as well as business solutions that promote the provision of energy efficiency products/services (page 86). EDP has been promoting the development of energy services and customer solutions, enhancing the replacement of conventional primary energy sources (fuel switching), promoting the improvement of energy efficiency and load optimization. In 2015, EDP developed solutions in decentralised renewable generation, energy efficiency at the level of networks and solutions to customers, totaling around EUR 258 million, which represents an increase of 19% compared to 2014. This amount corresponds to 23% of total Group’s energy services. ANNUAL REPORT 92 2015 EDP reports annually to the CDP programs Climate Change and Water, providing detailed information about the risks and opportunities of climate change to the business and respective management thereof. EDP's report is publicly available (www.cdp.net and www.edp.pt) and, in 2015, it was given the maximum rating (100 for reporting and A for performance), with EDP having been included in the CDP's A List. Climate change related disclosure is in accordance with the Climate Change Reporting Framwork (CCFR) requirements and is presente both in this report and in documents referenced therein: Strategic agenda (page 48); risks, opportunities and governance (CDP); Management (pág. 48); Goals and Targets (pág. 53); Enegy global megatrends (pág. 38) GHG emissions (pág. 93), entirelly alined with boundaries for the financial statement; Under this framework, EDP uses the following standarts: CDP, GHG Protocol, EU-ETS and GRI-G4. BUSINESS DECARBONISATION In 2015, the Group's installed capacity in renewables rose by around 1.24 GW, over the previous year, to 17.1 GW, i.e. 70.5% of EDP Group's total capacity. Despite this increase, production from these sources dropped considerably compared with 2014 (-15%; -6,7 TWh), primarily due to the sharp decrease in the hydrologic index in Portugal: 0.74 in 2015 against 1.27 in 2014. This fact led to a significant decrease in hydropower production, which accounts for a substantial part of our generation, making it necessary to use thermal power production to meet the consumption requirement. Globally, renewables as a proportion of EDP Group's total production dropped from 73% to 58%. The use of renewable sources instead of fossil fuels in electricity generation led to total avoided emissions of 28.7 Mt of CO2 (15% less than in 2014). This indicator represents the amount of CO2 that would have been emitted if the renewable energy were produced by conventional thermal power stations. As in previous years, due to market circumstances (coal being more competitive than natural gas and low price of CO2 emission licences traded under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, most thermal power production, in the Iberian Peninsula, privileged coal plants. Nevertheless, an increase was witnessed in the contribution from gas combined cycle power plants (CCGT), due to the downturn in hydropower. Furthermore, the acquisition of the entire capital of Pecém I (Brazil) and its entry into the Group’s consolidation perimeter in May 2015 (page 73), led to a significant increase in coal consumption (+53% over 2014). In these circumstances, the total primary energy consumption rose around 90,000 TJ, i.e. 56% more than in 2014 (page 122). The more favourable operating regime of the thermal power plants, especially the CCGT, led to a slight increase in the average weighted thermal efficiency of these plants compared with 2014, from 37,9% to 38,1% (page 75). In terms of greenhouse gas emissions, as a result of the aforesaid market and operating conditions, compared with the previous year, 2015 witnessed: 50% increase in direct emissions (scope 1), strongly driven by stationary combustion at thermal power plants, which account for 99.9% of this indicator; 19% increase in indirect emissions associated with electricity consumption (scope 2), which was due to the widespread increase in emission factors in different geographies, despite the reduction in distribution losses, which account for 80% of this indicator. EDP follows the GHG Protocol recommendation calculation of scope 2 emissions according to two methodologies: location-based and market-based. The calculation did not generate significant differences, as its impact affects mainly electricity consumption in administrative buildings, which contributes just 0.5% of this indicator, and self-consumption of a few wind farms supplied with green electricity. 35% increase in indirect emissions induced upstream and downstream from the value chain (scope 3), primarily due to the increase in fuel and energy related activities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 93 CO2 equivalent EMISSIONS (kt) Un. 2015 2014 SCOPE 1 24 815 16 551 Stationary combustion kt 24 783 16 522 SF6 Emissions kt 8 7 Company fleet kt 18 18 Natural gas consumption kt 0 0 Natural gas losses kt 6 4 1 SCOPE 2 (Location-based ) 2 641 2 214 Electricity consumption in office buildings kt 13 10 Electricity losses kt 2 035 1 808 Renewable plants self-consumption kt 593 397 2 SCOPE 2 (Market-based ) 2 635 2 214 Electricity consumption in office buildings kt 12 10 Electricity losses kt 2 035 1 808 Renewable plants self-consumption kt 588 397 SCOPE 3 20 299 15 065 Purchased goods and services (C01) kt 53 37 Capital Goods (C02) kt 255 232 Fuel and energy related activities (C03) kt 11 216 6 728 Upstream transportation and distribution (C04) kt 2 478 955 Business Travels (C06) kt 9 8 Use of sold products (C11) kt 6 288 7 104 1 Based on global emissions factors of each geography. 2 Based on suppliers emissions factors. CO2 specific emissions were equally affected by unusual low hydrologic index and the entry of the Pecém power station into the group's consolidated perimeter, resulting in an increase of 42% over 2014 (page 112). This discontinuity in this indicator’s downward trend is merely circumstantial and will not jeopardise the achievement of the long-term objectives committed decrease of 75% in 2030 compared with 2005 -, which assumes the decomissioning of the coal-fired plants in the Iberian Peninsula between 2020 and 2030 and the maintenance of renewables investment at an average 500 MW/year from 2017. SPECIFIC OVERALL CO2 EMISSIONS (tCO2/MWh) 0.63 0.48 0.46 0.39 0.36 0.32 0.39 0.24 0.29 0.28 0.28 0.16 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Goal 2030 CLIENT’S SOLUTIONS In line with the climate strategy, EDP intends to lead the development of infrastructure and applications of smart grids focused on customers and operations, preparing its presence to a future in which the production and consumption of electricity will be increasingly decentralized. The installation of smart meters in particular, allows to better monitor consumer’s habits and enhances the implementation of energy efficiency services (Distribution, pages 76 and 78). Anticipating this new paradigm, EDP provides a range of energy solutions intended to respond to the specific needs of different customer segments, through a diversified offering of competitive and sustainable products and services that avoid emissions in final energy consumption, as detailed on page 110. ANNUAL REPORT 94 2015 5.2.MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS MANAGEMENT POLICIES AND SYSTEMS EDP is committed to the ongoing improvement in its environmental performance through its Environmental Policy, in particular by preventing pollution and minimising its impacts, meeting the requirements of environmental laws applicable to the company’s different activities, and other voluntary commitments (www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> environmental policy). A Corporate Environmental Management System (SIGAC) has been implemented and certified since 2008, in accordance with ISO 14001. This system covers “the corporate management of environmental policies, the strategic plans for the environment, environmental information and the environmental performance of the organisations of the EDP Group”. The EDP Group has strengthened its recognition concerning a demanding environmental management broadening its facilities and activities, which are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Currently 90% of the net installed power production and 35% of the installed power in distribution substations are certified. Additionally the EDP Group has records of the Community Eco-management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) 85% and 29% of the net power installed in Portugal and Spain respectively. For 2015, environmental investments were approximately EUR 54 million and environmental expenditure was EUR 51 million. More than 58% of the investment was due to expenditure attributed to protection of the air and environment, investments minimizing atmospheric emissions. The detail is described in Note 51 to the financial statements (page 382). WATER RESOURCES Water is a key resource for EDP's activity, especially for the thermal and hydroelectric power stations which depend on their quantity and quality. The EDP Group has established its commitment to encourage sustainability in the management of this resource in its water management policy (www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> water> water management policy). Within the framework of this policy, EDP monitors the potential shortage, controls the quality of the water and sediments, as well as the impact of water management on biodiversity, which provides a set of minimization activities such as the release of environmental flows and environmental, transposition and transport of fish, and support scientific research linked to these themes. Pecém power plant is located in the basin of the Northeast, in Fortaleza. According to AQUEDUCT Water Risk Atlas, the installation is in an area of high risk of water management. In this context, EDP has sought to implement a number of circuit optimization initiatives to reduce the capture of this resource. Aware of this situation, the Pecém facility has been significantly improving the water management, having managed to reduce the consumption of raw water by 37%, compared to 2014 (page 122). The use of water in thermoelectric generation is predominantly intended for use in cooling circuits (99,6%, page ##). Cooling water is subsequently returned to the water source with an increase in temperature, controlled periodically. During 2015, in the facilities where this situation occurs, the temperature of the discharged water remained within the limits in specified on the environmental licenses. It is stressed that, in 2015 the volumes of growndwater increased compared to 2014 (166%), given the recent consolidation with the equity interest in the Pécem thermoelectric power station (page 73). The industrial and domestic effluents of this power station are treated and sent to the company of the local authority services. Effluents are treated and discharged. The quality of effluents is monitored periodically, in accordance with the respective environmental licences and legislation in force. Detailed information can be found at www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> performance. The Water Disclosure Project, CDP, has annually published since 2008 where the ongoing in progress are described in more detail. This report is available at www.cdp.net and can be consulted at www.edp.pt> sustainability> publications> 2015. olhos d’água project Energest voluntarily supports the Olhos d'Água Project promoted by the Non-Governmental Organization, Instituto Terra. The aim of this partnership is to proceed with the recovery and protection of 13 springs located in small rural properties close to the Guandu River through the reforestation of the surrounding areas. The project involves the farmers, through awareness-raising and training for more sustainable production patterns. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 95 BIODIVERSITY EDP has a Biodiversity Policy, which has the ultimate aim of seeking to achieve an overall positive balance as a result of the impact resulting from its business activity. There are four main biodiversity focus areas: Promoting the production of knowledge; Ecosystem approach and adaptative management of impacts’ mitigation; Long-term vision; and Reporting transparency. The publication of the 2013-2014 biodiversity report highlights the differentiating initiatives. It can be found at www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> biodiversity. In its operations EDP uses a long-term management approach to mitigate, offset and monitor a project throughout its entire life cycle. In production, this approach is particularly relevant to hydroelectric centres located in conservation areas due to their degree of endemic and endangered species. As an exemple of some areas affected by EDP’s facilities is the Natura 2000 network in Europe, and the Amazon, Atlantic Forest and Cerrado biomes in Brazil. In situation where the impact can be significant, EDP promotes a set of measures to minimize and offset these impacts. When operating such power stations, this approach is integrated into the certified environmental management systems. The following important initiatives were implemented in 2015 for managing and offsetting the impacts on biodiversity and production: PORTUGAL FACILITIES STAND-OUT INITIATIVES IN 2015 BAIXO SABOR A programme of offsetting measures to mitigate the main impacts nearing completion, The two dams occupy Natura 2000 with a residual percentage remaining that required replanning, mainly due to poor network area: The Sabor Maçãs weather (www.a-nossa-energia.edp.pt/noticias/artigo.php?id=149). Special Protection Zone and the Rios The Baixo Sabor Natural Heritage Awareness Programme is being implemented, which Sabor e Maçãs and Morais Sites of aims to raise the awareness of various stakeholders to value the region's natural Community Importance (SIC). heritage. Implementation is expected to commence in 2016. The total area embraced by the dams Furthermore, EDP Produção contributes 3% of the generation's annual average net contains 557 ha of priority habitats, value to the Baixo Sabor's Financial Fund. located in the Rios Sabor e Maçãs. EDP Produção is working with the national authority to prepare the final version of the Programme of Offsetting Measures and to prepare a management model1 based on involving local partners. The set of offsetting measures already approved include: the creation of shelters for arboreal bats, involving the installation of 100 bat boxes; FOZ TUA the translocation of bivalves from the reservoir zone to the upstream habitats and; The reservoir will flood a total area of the use study of the canal-lock of navigation on Crestuma-Lever dam by migrating 457 ha of protected habitats. species to increase fluvial connectivity. EDP Produção contributes 3% of the generation's annual average net value to Fundo Biodiversidade (1,5%) and to the management of Parque Natural Regional do Tua (another 1,5%) EDP Produção continued to implement the “Integrated Control Plan of Acacia spp. and Restoration of Habitats”. SALAMONDE II Under the measure to mitigate and control erosion in the inter-level section of the Salamonde and Caniçada reservoirs, subject to daily changes in water level. There As these projects are repowerings the were: environmental impact is less identified the organisms with potential for revegetation; significant. selected the pilot sites with higher susceptibility to erosion for Revegetation; The EIA process envisages measures for the mitigation and compensation/ defined the growth acceleration strategy of the selected organisms under controlled offsetting and monitoring of various conditions; environmental factors. planned actions in the R&D pilor project implemented to perform this Environmental Impact Measurement measure. This is a project imspired on the psysiology and ecology of biological soil crusts. 1 Management model developed under the scope of implementation of offsetting measures on the Baixo Sabor hydro-power use of (See 2013-2014 Biodiversity Report at www.edp.pt> sustainability> environment> biodiversity). ANNUAL REPORT 96 2015 BRASIL1 FACILITIES STAND-OUT INITIATIVES IN 2015 The implementation of impact mitigation and monitoring actions continued, for example: SANTO ANTÓNIO DO JARI The bird monitoring campaign this year found the presence of three species not identified in previous surveys. These were the Magpie Tanager (Cyssopis Occupies 4,799 ha of the Amazon region leverianus), Dusky Purpletuft (Iodopleura fusca) and Fasciated Tiger Heron considered to possess high biodiversity (Tigrisoma fasciatum), with the latter listed as an endangered species by IBAMA value, in Amapá state. (2014); The Plano de Recuperação de Áreas Degradadas (Degraded Area and Recovery Plan) was completed, resulting in the recovery of nearly 64 ha. CACHOEIRA CALDEIRÃO The implementation of the impact mitigation and monitoring actions continued. Occupies 3,170 ha of the Amazon region where highligts the rescuing of fauna and icthyofauna during removal of vegetation considered to possess high biodiversity and filling of the reservoir. value, in Amapá state, and 3,020 ha in the State Forest of Amapá. SÃO MANOEL This first year of the venture's installation focused on carrying out environmental Located on the Teles Pires river programs, according to the established schedules. (bordering the municipalities of Jacareacanga, in Pará state, and The integrated health, safety and environment policy was also created and Paranaíta, in Mato Grosso state), it will disclosed, where the environmental and social responsibility commitments were occupy an area of 6,600 ha, with a undertaken. perimeter of 392 km, whose reservoir will require deforestation of 4,800 ha. 1 The described power stations are accounted under equity method. In Spain: In partnership with Fundación Patrimonio Natural de Castilla y León, EDP Renováveis and Fundación EDP implemented a conservation programme of the Red Kite (Milvus milvus) in Castilla y León. This initiative will last two years and cover the entire territory of this Community. The region holds 56% of breeding population and 50% of wintering spicies of all Spain, according to the 2014 census. Thourgh Fundación EDP, EDP in Spain in collaboration with Fundación Oso de Asturias, is working in initiatives to improve the bear's habitat: planting trees and fish fry releasing into local rivers (see Memoria de la Fundación EDP, www.fundacionedp.es> institucional> publicaciones). In distribution activity, in Portugal, protecting birds was the main focus, when adapting electricity lines considered critical, through: Programa Específico Nacional para Aves Selvagens – PENAS (Specific National Programme for Wild Birds), for 20 km of lines; Iniciativa Life Imperial (Life Imperial Initiative), in about 6 km of lines. The Life Rupis Project was approved under the European Commission's Life initiative and will commence in 2016. The planned actions aim to reducing mortality and promoting the reproductive success od the population of Bonelli’s Eagle (Hieraaetus fasciatus) and Egyptian Vulture (Neophron percnopterus), in the region of the border between Portugal and Spain on the Douro International Natural Park and Park Arribes Nautral del Duero, repectively. EDP Distribuição, as a project partner, will correct around 20 km of electric lines considered dangerous. Under the VI Avifauna Protocol Report, in 2015, a report was approved which addresses the electrocution risk charter of the following critically endangered target species: Spanish Imperial Eagle, Cinereous Vulture, Bonelli's Eagle, Golden Eagle and the Great Bustard. This charter makes decision-taking more efficient when choosing the lines to be corrected. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 97 osprey reintroduction The Alqueva reservoir provided the stage for the reintroduction of the osprey, a species which hadn't been seen nesting in Portugal for nearly two decades. The project started in 2011, and the two first successful nesting cases were recorded in 2015, one on the south-west coast and the other at the Alqueva reservoir, where a third nesting attempt might have been made at the latter. The project was conducted by the Centro de Investigação em Biodiversidade – CIBIO – from Universidade do Porto (Biodiversity Research Centre of Porto University), with the support of EDP. ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS Atmospheric emissions are one of the most significant environmental aspects of the EDP Group’s activities. Given the characteristics of the combustion process, in addition to CO2, the main emissions resulting from the burning are NOx, SO2 and particulate matter. These pollutants are periodically monitored, in order to check compliance with the emission limit values established by the laws in force. The increase in the portfolio of production from renewable sources and the use of gas treatment systems has contributed significantly to the reduction in the specific emissions of these gases. EDP continues to invest in improving the gas treatment systems, in order to ensure compliance with the best European standards for the level of atmospheric emissions, highlighting: Construction of a denitrification system in the Aboño (Group 2) and Soto (Group 3) facilities, in Spain, scheduled to enter into operation in 2016 and 2017 respectively; Refurbishments of the catalytic denitrification facilities (SCR) of the Sines powerplant, Portugal, in the period from 2015 to 2017, which includes replacement of the catalytic converters that have reached the end of their useful life, and which will be carried out during the major overhauling of the electricity generating groups. These improvements involve an overall investment exceeding EUR 175 million. In 2015, there was a significant increase in total emissions of NOx, SO2 and particles (page 122) due to EDP's equity interest in the Pécem thermoelectric power plant where the main source of power is coal (page 73). To minimize these impacts, the facility provides treatment through the addition of lime and sleeve filters to reduce SO2 and particulate matter, respectively. TOTAL EMISSIONS NOX (kt) TOTAL EMISSIONS SO2 (kt) TOTAL PARTICLES EMISSIONS (kt) 0.5 4.0 5.8 14.6 11.8 13.6 11.5 11.8 12.2 0.6 0.9 9.7 10.5 0.6 0.6 4.5 4.9 4.6 5.9 4.9 3.8 4.0 3.9 0.2 0,0 0,0 0,0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Portugal Spain Brazil Portugal Spain Brazil Portugal Spain Brazil WASTE AND BY-PRODUCTS EDP's waste management follows the procedures of the Environmental Management Systems where there is a continuous effort to reduce production and its harmfulness at source, as well as to increase the percentage of waste destined for recovery. Under this management, EDP raises employees’ and contractors’ awareness, strengthening the knowledge of relevant national legislation and internal procedures. Electricity generation activities are the main activities responsible for the total production of EDP's waste. The emphasis is on the coal-fired power stations which produce large quantities of fly ash and slag, resulting from the burning, and the gypsum resulting from the desulphurisation process. ANNUAL REPORT 98 2015 The search for new markets to sell off the by-products gypsum (Portugal and Spain) and coal fly ash (Portugal) have resulted in a 15% increase in the quantity sold. In 2015 EDP in Spain began the procedures for obtaining the state of a by-product for the fly ash and coal slag, through LABELEC OBTAINED 3R6 which, after completion of this process a material increase in this indicator CERTIFICATION IN WASTE is expected. MANAGEMENT The total quantity of waste sent for sale was 642 thousand tons In Portugal, EDP Labelec representing a 77% increase compared to 2014, which is due essentially obtained 3R6 certification in to the equity interest in the Pécem thermoelectric power station waste management from (page 73). Ponto Verde Serviços. The providing of electricity and gas distribution services and the new This recognition clearly shows generation projects generate the waste. These, as they are the the company's efforts to adopt responsibility of the service provider, are recorded equally in the environmentally responsible accounting by EDP. practices that meet and In Portugal, distribution services produced around 11.5 thusand tons of maximize the amount sent for waste, of which 92% was sent for recovery processes. In the works for recycling and recovery of construction of new hydroelectric dams mpre than 111 thousand tons, urban waste, packaging and a were sent for final disposal where 98% was for recovery. wide range of other waste products. The type of waste that deserves special attention is equipment contaminated with PCB, at concentrations of less than 500 ppm. Under current legislation, the equipment with PCB, can remain in operation until the end of their useful life. However, EDP is to bring forward its removal by giving priority to this type of equipment under its replacement plans. In 2015 a total of 113 tons of waste containing PCBs were sent for final disposal (page 122). PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TO EMERGENCY EDP's facilities have emergency plans where the risks that may occur are listed, as well as how to act and the resources available on site. Emplyees and contractors are made aware of these practices. Scenarios are regularly testes through drills (page 126). Several small spills were registered, mostly in the distribution activity, which resulted mainly from vandalism. When detected the sites were duly isolated and procedures for containing the spill were carried out until the team responsible for cleaning up the site arrived at the scene and no situation of environmental damage was verified. Preventively and within the framework of the environmental management system certificates, EDP also has procedures for the identifying and treating near-accidents in order to prevent and minimise possible negative impacts. In 2015, 79 environmental near-accidents misses were recorded. It should be stressed that in November 2015, in EDP Brasil, two iron ore tailing dams upstream of the Mascarenhas hydroelectric power station of Brazil located on Rio Doce burst. As a result of this accident, 55 million m3 of mud with iron ore tailings were released, leading to the activation of the emergency plan. In addition to the implementation of the plan, EDP Brasil collaborated with authorities and local businesses to create a plan for monitoring the effects of this accident on the river. 6.STAKEHOLDERS The stakeholder engagement is a strategic priority for maintaining an open and transparent dialogue with all those with whom the Group establishes relations. Building and strengthening relationships of trust, sharing knowledge and relevant information, anticipating challenges and identifying new opportunities for cooperation with stakeholders are thus the main purposes of the Relationship with Stakeholders Policy of EDP Group. Streamlined and regular consultation processes targeted at the stakeholders are conducted annually, which permits hearing those with whom the companies are related, both in terms of the projects of the business units and at the institutional level. 2015 was marked by the strengthening of the relationship policy with stakeholders of the EDP Group in various countries, particularly in EDP Espanha, EDP Brasil, and EDP Renováveis, in order to manage the risk associated with operations in multiple locations and to identify global opportunities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 99 It was also in 2015 that EDP published for the first time a external version of its Stakeholder Report (www.edp.pt> sustainability> publications> other reports), which includes EDP’s Internal Vision of the relationship with its stakeholders, through the mapping of relevant themes and channels of dialogue with each stakeholder segment, as well as the Company's responses to its stakeholders' expectations. The document also publishes some results of the External Vision, consisting of directly and proactively listening to strategic stakeholders. At the end of 2014 EDP heard 1,081 stakeholders from eight segments, through 111 face-to-face meetings with local authorities, higher education institutions, MPs, MEPs, opinion leaders, and institutions of social solidarity and industry through on line inquiries to 970 suppliers and business associations. For the first time EDP announced the results of the consultation process to a set of external stakeholders. This consultation process seeks to deepen the stakeholders' perception of their institutional relationship with the EDP Group and its subsidiaries in Portugal, particularly in terms of trust and transparency. Overall, the results of this consultation revealed a frankly positive evolution, validating the work of permanent dialogue developed with the stakeholders, and the search for effective responses to their expectations. In 2015, EDP developed a guide for its own stakeholder management methodology, establishing the methodological steps and tools to systematize the EDP Group's relationship with its Stakeholders in all its activities and projects, whatever the geographical scope. The challenges of managing stakeholders in the EDP Group for 2016 has undergone continuous alignment of the methodology adopted in different geographies of the Group, considering the specificities and dynamics of each region, as well as by integrating the expectations of stakeholders in the management of the Company, through the implementation of specific responses and approaches that effectively contribute to creating value. In the following pages, we present the results concerning some of the stakeholders’ segments of the Group, in particular the ones that assume a central role to business. Some operational initiatives to strengthen the relationship with some of the different stakeholder segments of the EDP Group are highlighted. For additional information see: www.edp.pt> sustainability> stakeholders. 6.1.EMPLOYEES EDP Group’s Human Resources strategy will focus on encouraging the development and value of its employees and ensure alignment with corporate values and the creation of value that is sustained by the business. It will be implemented through the culture, the heads of the departments, responsible professionals and employees, and will be supported by three essential pillars: Attract and recruit, Develop and Manage based on recognition and compensation. ANNUAL REPORT 100 2015 The Human Resource’s strategic government model is founded on a common platform and covers the main Human Resources Policies and processes at the different companies. Every year EDP publishes its Social Report, which details the management model and the different operational initiatives, and can be accessed at www.edp.pt> about edp> human resources> social reports. In 2015, the number of employees, globally, with the EDP Group was 12,084, which reflected growth of 2% compared to 2014 (11,798). This growth reflects the hiring of 281 employees from the acquisition of Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. by EDP Brasil (page 73), growth in the activities of EDP Renováveis with the technical services for the parks undertaken in-house, which added a further 99 employees, particularly in the USA (67). Portugal maintains its decreasing trend, albeit less pronounced, from 6,733 to 6,683 employees. In Spain, the sale of Gás Energía Distribuición Murcia released 32 employers. Of the Group’s total 12,084 employees, 11,925 are permanent workers and 54 are from executive social bodies (page 125). In 2015, EDP’s workforce comprised employees with 32 different nationalities, an average age of 45.3 years, and geographical distribution as follows: EMPLOYEES DISTRIBUTION BY PROFESSIONAL BY EMPLOYEES DISTRIBUTION BY PROFESSIONAL GEOGRAPHY (#12,084) BY AGE GROUP (#) 3% 2% 55% 25% 1.463 945 Portugal 3.960 4.226 Spain 383 Brazil 1.107 North America < 30 [30-49] > 50 15% Rest of Europe Male Female Despite the positive change in the number of employees, 2015 continued to mark the move towards retirement/anticipated retirement. 285 employees retired (89 took early retirement), which represents a decrease of 36% compared to 2014 (449), partly explained by changes in portuguese legislation, particularly with respect to situations of pre-retirement and early retirement. EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE FOR RETIREMENT (#) RETIREMENT PLANNING PROGRAM The objective is to help EDP employees prepare for the transition to retirement and define personal and 3.200 professional projects for this new stage of life. The program is structured in three stages: seminar, group sessions and 187 235 1.964 4 follow-up. More than 40 699 103 155 0 employees participated in the 375 first edition of the seminar, Technicians Specialists Supervisors Senior Executive Management Board of which was held in Portugal. Directors 5 years 10 years EDP maintains a constructive and collaborative attitude with official entities and employee representatives – Workers Commissions and Trade Unions. There are local teams at all of the geographical locations, which ensure that contact is made with the different entities. Within EDP, 47% of the employees are union member (page 126). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 101 ATTRACT AND RECRUIT In 2015, the EDP Group focused on strengthening and consolidating the company's image and activating its brand name, to ensure that it was attractive as an employer, and seen as a reference. Presented below are some initiatives to encourage involvement that represent a source of sustained competitive advantages: PARTNERSHIPS AND PROMOTION COMPETITION DEVELOPMENT NETWORKING Disclosure of initiatives and Encourage the technical and Attract candidates to the Spreading and sharing employment market through opportunities that exist professional university experience and knowledge internships; within the EDP Group; population to develop projects with the academic community; related to the energy sector; 944 internships assigned; Attendance at 18 jobshops 54 University partnerships with and 50% of permanent 1,054 students involved in Continuation of the 2nd edition the EDP Group contracts from LindeIn. university competitions. of EDP Trainee Program. DEVELOP EDP views employee development to be an integrated cycle, which begins on their first day with the company and develops over time, driven by a transparent and constructive evaluation model. Within this context, the significant initiatives in 2015 included training and knowledge management initiatives, implementation of a new global skills model and the Group’s internal mobility project. E D UC A T I O N A N D T R AI N I N G EDP considers the pursuit of a culture of continual learning, both individual and collective, which targets the skills and personal and professional development of employees, as a mechanism for implementing the HR strategy. For such, through its corporate university (Universidade EDP – UEDP), which consists of 7 schools, the company aims to develop its employees’ skills, facilitate training, share the knowledge created within the Group and ensure the development of skills that guarantee the sustainability of its business. SCHOOLS INITIATIVES The Global Leadership Program , is aimed at developing middle management in EDP Group, and was EXECUTIVE developed in partnership with an internationally recognized business school. The participants had the DEVELOPMENT opportunity to extend their knowledge and skills related business, finance, strategy, leadership and SCHOOL people management. Specialization Plan in Operation & Maintenance of Plants for technicians, consisting of five structured courses: “Introduction to Electricity Production (IPE)” and “Regulation, Markets and Operating of GENERATION Plants in the Market” which have a more global approach, whilst the remaining three, Electrical and SCHOOL Mechanics Systems (I / II)”, Structures, Safety, Environment and Chemistry and Maintenance and Operations Policies and Strategies (I/II)” are more specialized; Pilot training in overall sustainability, regulation and Markets for more senior technical professionals. Offers training structured for the ‘technical’ segments, consisting of three programs; DISTRIBUTION Introduction to Technical Distribution Knowledge Program (Junior) and Network Operation Program SCHOOL and Sustainability and Safety in Distribution Program (Seniors); The first course focused totally on case method (InovGrid). RENEWABLES Introduction to Offshore Projects; SCHOOL Workshops on aspects related to renewable energies, for example Workshop on Climatic Changes . Innovative course in Natural Gas and a course on Environment and Safety in the Management of GAS SCHOOL the Gas Business . EDP Talks , new format for ensuring good practices for client relations, based on a model for seminars similar to the TED talks, which have acted as a reference in passing short but intense messages; Business Intelligence Course, with its Target public being users of management information SUPPLY SHCOOL systems for sales platforms, and intends to meet the Advanced Analytics requirements of EDP’s; Training courses in marketing for top management, consisting of “Introduction to Marketing”, “Digital Marketing Seminar” and “Marketing Simulator”; Extension of Global Training for Clients 365 for EDP in Spain. In a Sustainability Talk format, John Elkington, one of the leading experts of today, was the main speaker at a training addressed to Senior Management and Senior Staff in the area of sustainability EDP SCHOOL of the whole EDP Group, under the theme Preparing EDP is the Breakthrough Challenge: a new economic paradigm is emerging, world. What are the risks and opportunities for EDP? ANNUAL REPORT 102 2015 In 2015, EDP, through UEDP, was awarded certification from the General Management for Employment and Labour Relations (DGERT) in 16 areas of education and training. This external recognition is evidence of its ability to develop and execute training, in terms of resources and technical and organizational skills, and is the target of regular audits and official recognition. In 2015, total training hours provided by the EDP Group was approximately 443,000 (page 126), involving a total of 72,000 participants in more than 4,000 training events. These figures are below those reported for training in 2014, which was an exceptional year, given the concentration of global training programs in elearning, which were higher than the figures reported in 2013 (+ ~ 8%). KN O W L E D GE M A N A GE M E NT In 2015, EDP invested in initiatives that aimed to value and recognize knowledge and the experience of its more seasoned employees, motivating the transmission of critical knowledge. Within this context, the company implemented the Valuing Experience Program, in Portugal and in Brazil, aimed at identifying and disseminating knowledge and know-how of employees who have been with the company for more than 30 years. In 2015, more than 100 participants participated in this program, in Portugal. In Brazil, this program has involved 88 employees since 2012. At the same time, EDP continues to invest in improving the core tools for knowledge management and its internal communications. Within this context, we highlight the Online Library, which, in 2015, contained 100,000 references and enables employees to have access to a wide range of contents from data bases worldwide. AM PL I FY : T H E E D P GRO U P’ S NE W S K IL LS M O DE L In 2015, EDP implemented Amplify – a new skills model that intends to align employee development with the Group’s strategic challenges, in order to contribute towards creating a global culture and provide the company with the skills that will enable it to obtain results within a very competitive global environment. More than 10,750 employees were involved in this model, from the different EDP companies and its geographical locations. Recognizing that the leaders have a fundamental role in this cycle, a significant part of the change management resources were allocated to this segment, including a seminar presented to Top Management, in which the international speaker, Rob Goffee participated and training was provided to all of the leaders in this new model. Sessions to clarify doubts were also offered to employees. A total of 5,105 employees participated in these initiatives, amounting to 15,100 training hours. Both Skills Model, as the new Individual Development Plan, were supported by a new Human Resources management platform, global and cross-geography about.me. SW IT CH – M O B IL I T Y AS P ART O F DE VE LO P M E NT P RO C E SS Mobility is one of the main instruments to develop on-the-job skills and offer professional development for EDP employees at the different locations, companies and functions. SWITCH is an Internal Corporate Exchange Program from the EDP Group which includes short term and long term exchanges. These two types can vary in terms of environment, and can be intra-company or intercompany, national or international. The purpose of this program is to encourage synergy and exchange experiences between the different areas, in response to the different levels of maturity of each business, and provide employees with new opportunities for professional development. In 2015, long term exchanges occurred 1,103 (25% female and 75% male), which represents a change of function/activity for 9% of employees. These mobilities were broken down by: 289 inter-company exchanges (162 in Portugal; 53 in EDP in Spain; 44 in EDP Brasil and 30 at EDP Renováveis); 814 intra-company exchanges (539 in Portugal; 43 in EDP in Spain; 205 at EDP Brasil at 27 at EDP Renováveis). In addition, there were 19 short-term exchanges – between 3 and 6 months (15 in Portugal; 2 at EDP in Spain; and 2 at EDP Brasil). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 103 MANAGE TO RECOGNIZE AND REWARD The Group’s rewards and benefits policy reflects EDP’s values and cultures and seeks to improve compensation systems on a continual basis, guaranteeing the principles of internal equality and external competitiveness and respecting the agreements established for all parameters of the relationship with employees and/or the entities that represent them. The principles and concepts of the EDP Group compensation philosophy and policy are presented in detail in the document EDP Group Management Approach, which is available in www.edp.pt> sustainability> publications> 2015. SALARY RATIO F/M BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY MINIMUM SALARY RATIO EDP/NATIONAL 1.13 1.10 1.11 0.97 1.00 1.00 1.03 2.24 0.89 0.96 0.96 0.93 0.93 0.90 0.86 0.80 0.82 0.80 0.81 0.78 2.03 1.98 0.70 1.87 1.95 1.60 1.95 1.55 1.54 1.58 1.40 1.42 1.42 1.42 1.31 1.31 2012 2013 2014 2015 Portugal Spain Brazil USA Rest of Europe Portugal Spain Brazil USA Technicians Specialists Supervisors Senior Management The assessment of potential and performance implemented at the company aims to align employees with the strategy defined for creating value. This process is divided between analising the employee’s skills (through Amplify) and determining compliance with the objectives defined in the previous year. In 2015, all of the permanent employees participated in the performance assessment program, which represents 99% of the total number of employees. ENCOURAGE DIVERSITY The year 2015 marked the creation of the Diversity and Inclusion area within the Corporate Human Resources team. The object is to guarantee the promotion and incorporation of a culture of diversity and inclusion based on EMPLOYEES DISTRIBUTION respect for individuals, which is evident in the BY PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY (#) EDP Group’s identity and its people management and acts as a reference for the organization’s internal and external activities. 1.166 Furthermore, the 2015-2017 plan was approved and incorporates 15 Diversity and Inclusion initiatives, focused on four areas of intervention 1.285 – Gender, Disabilities, Generations and 5.532 Nationalities. Globally, in 2015, the percentage of female 2.611 195 145 0 employees (23%) was significantly less than the 8 587 555 percentage of male employees (77%) page 125. The presence of women in management Technicians Specialists Supervisors Senior Executive Management Board of positions increased from 21% to 23% over the Directors previous year. Male Female This year, a commitment was reached with the Portuguese government to ensure that by 2018, 30% of the employees in the company’s social bodies are women (6% in 2015). ANNUAL REPORT 104 2015 CONCILIAR Conciliar is a multi-geographical program (Portugal, Spain and Brazil) within the Diversity and Inclusion strategy, and aims to contribute to the well being of EDP’s employees. Its specific objectives include: create a better balance between work-personal life, ensure equality of opportunities and encourage involvement with the organization. These objectives are achieved through various measures that range from support to families to actions focused on professional development. In 2015 the Conciliar program: Implemented initiatives for more than 400 descendants of employees in Portugal (children and grandchildren), putting them in contact with the business and the organization’s activities; Expanded the gymnastics offered at the 12 largest buildings in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra (Portugal), which had a positive impact for more than 3,000 employees; Supported more than 150 new mothers and fathers with births and adoptions in Portugal; Provided four hours per month for volunteer in Portugal, Espanha and Brazil; Provided football fields for sports activities at all of the EDP companies in Brazil; Helped encourage sports activities, with more than 400 participants in the “EDP Runners” club in Portugal and extended the “runners club” to all regions of EDP Brasil; Created a EFR communication channel: “Commitment to people”, in Spain, aimed at receiving suggestions from employees related reconciliation measures. In Portugal and Spain this program is one of the reasons, along with other evidence and measures that the company presented, for which EDP has been certified since 2013, as a family responsible company, through Fundación Másfamilia. In 2015, EDP has ensured the rise in results achieved certification to the next level of excellence, which is a recognition of the effort to incorporate the different suggestions and improvements of reconciliation measures. ORGANIZATIONAL CLIMATE Working conditions are a material issue. The consultation process of the employees to gauge expectations SATISFACTION STUDY RESULT (%) associated with the organizational climate of the company is a key instrument for supporting the decision. In 2015, the model adopted diversified the range of 75 75 75 73 organizational dimensions measured and improved its alignment with best practices available in the market. 71 To assess the global metrics of organizational climate 71 and satisfaction, EDP started to measure the level of 70 employee involvement in the company (engagement) and their perception of organizational support (enablement). In 2015, the study had a participation of 67 91% of EDP’s employees and showed that 75% feel engaged in the company and 70% have a high perception of organizational support. Compared to the standard from a market refference, the results obtained for EDP Group for the two dimensions are aligned Engagement Enablement (enablement) or above (engagement) the results for high Female Male Global Reference level performance companies. The results reflect the efficiency of the measures for organizational climate management developed and implemented at the various businesses during 2014 and 2015. PRESENTATIONS ON THE PROJECT CULTURA IN BRAZIL TOWN HALL PROJECT IN PORTUGAL BUSINESS IN SPAIN Informal meetings aimed to facilitate Project based in 12 principles focused Presentations were made to all communication and encourage more on the working environment, management employees at EDP Spain transparent communications between top employees motivation, value of the of the business results and the management and employees from the sales human capital and create value for strategic priorities. A total of 27 area, developing debates and the exchange of clients and other stakeholders. 90% presentations were made, in which ideas about the sales business and its of the employees participated in the 858 employees participated. challenges. Two meetings were held, in which initiatives to promote the project. 49 employees participated. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 105 WELL BEING, HEALTH AND SAFETY EDP makes annual assessments of performance as part of its strategic objective: “Zero accidents, no personal injury”. To ensure this commitment is complied with, EDP has developed a culture of prevention and safety, encouraging safety practices reflected in the Employment Health and Safety Policy applicable to employees and contracted service workers. EDP has an Occupational Health and Safety Management System (SGSC), based on OHSAS 18001 standard, which complies with the guidelines from the International Employment Organization and which are stated in internal regulations. EDP also has certificates for production activities (88% of net potential installed), for electricity distribution activities (29% of installed potential) and for the gas sector (100% of activities), which corresponds to 27% of employees covered. Details of the more relevant activities undertaken and commitments assumed by the company, are available at www.edp.pt> sustainability> health and safety. DE C RE A SE I N A C C ID E NT S Implementation of the annual health and safety program in the company's workplace was based on actions aimed at preventing the occurrence of accidents at work, which is reflected in a decrease in the frequency and severity of accidents (page 126). This program includes training EDP employees and service workers, permanent assessment and control of labour risks and execution of a program of inspections and internal audits at the EDP facilities and sites. Despite all efforts, there were 348 work related accidents, of which 187 work-related accidents with one or more days of absence for EDP and Contractors employees. It is regrettable still the occurrence of four fatalities accidents involving Contractors employees of which, two high level falls (in Portugal), one road accident (in Brazil) and 1 entrapment by a falling tree. ACCIDENTS BY TYPE (EDP EMPLOYEES + CONTRACTORS) ACT TO PREVENT 8% Following the commitment made by the EDP Group 10% Electrics towards continual improvements, actions are 10% High level falls taken to reflect on accidents 15% Low level falls and near accidents at the Entrapment premises and 15% recommendations. 9% Object interaction In 2015, EDP Produção Road accidents published a summary that 7% Incorrect consists of good practices for 26% movements/overstress accident prevention, available Others to all employees. There were 49 accidents at work with employees with one or more days of absence, of which a mortal (Brazil, by electrocution). 2015 Unit Group Portugal Spain Brazil North America Rest of Europe 1 Workplace accidents 49 38 4 7 0 0 Male # 42 31 4 7 0 0 Female # 7 7 0 0 0 0 Lost days 2 292 1 604 112 576 0 0 Male # 2 015 1 327 112 576 0 0 Female # 277 277 0 0 0 0 Fatal accidents 1 0 0 1 0 0 Male # 1 0 0 1 0 0 Female # 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 Accidents leading to an absence of one more calender day. ANNUAL REPORT 106 2015 Pro-active security management at EDP includes an analysis of near accidents aimed to anticipate the possibility of serious accidents occurring In 2015, 254 near accidents were registered, the causes of these were analysed and preventative and corrective actions were determined to control such. Outside the scope of the company's activity, there were also 16 fatal electrical accidents, originating from EDP’s facilities or equipment, involving individuals who were not involved in the Group's activity. These accidents resulted from contact with equipment with power line conductors with voltage (12) and from access to areas that are restricted to authorized workers only (4) with live electrical equipment. T R A IN I N G A ND A W A RE NE SS EDP promotes regular training and awareness actions for employees and service workers, to ensure that tasks are performed under safe SAFETY WALK conditions. EDP Brasil launched a EDP employees and workers from contracted and sub-contracted program to encourage companies receive adequate training to perform their tasks under safe experiences to be exchanged conditions. between management from In 2015, a total of 5,552 training sessions were provided, equivalent to corporate areas and 126,407 hours and involving 23,790 employees and service entities. operational workers. The company, aware of the importance of road safety whilst its Safety Walk consists of employees are on their way to work or commuting , continues to invest observing safety practices at in initiatives to promote road safety. The program includes training in activities performed in the defensive driving and off-road driving, and internal communication field. material is also provided. PRE P AR AT IO N FO R A T T E ND I N G E M E RG E NC IE S For emergency management training, 373 simulations exercises were performed (57 in Portugal, 80 in Spain, 55 in Brazil, 103 in the USA and 78 in the Rest of Europe) at various industrial facilities, administrative locations and work in progress, aimed to test the effectiveness of the emergency plans at these locations. These exercises included the involvement of external parties, such as civil protection, fire fighters, police authorities and public safety. 6.2.CUSTOMERS The supply of energy and associated services requires increasingly greater customer orientation, with special focus on the continuous improvement of the customer experience, ensuring their maximum satisfaction. The EDP Group ended 2015 with 9.7 million electricity customers and 1.4 million natural gas customers (page 84). CUSTOMER SATISFACTION EDP conducts surveys in order to listen to the customer on the quality of the services provided and their experience during the service, in partnership with certified external entities and based on a set of macro indicators: Satisfaction with the Energy Supply (electricity and/or gas), Satisfaction with the Service and Overall Satisfaction. NATURAL GAS RESIDENTIAL COSTUMERS REGULATED MARKET PORTUGAL 8.4 8.5 8.1 8.0 8.0 7.8 7.8 7.9 7.9 Supply Service Global 2013 2014 2015 scale 0:10 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 107 ELECTRICITY BUSINESS CUSTOMERS ELECTRICITY RESIDENTIAL COSTUMERS LIBERALISED MARKET PORTUGAL PORTUGAL 8.0 7.9 7.7 7.3 7.57.6 7.6 7.57.4 7.4 7.67.5 7.3 7.37.2 7.17.27.2 7.0 6.8 6.7 6.4 6.5 6.4 6.0 5.7 5.6 Supply Service Global Regulated Liberalised Regulated Liberalised Regulated Liberalised Market market Market market Market market scale 0:10 Supply Service Global 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ELECTRICITY AND GAS BUSINESS CUSTOMERS ELECTRICITY AND GAS RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS SPAIN SPAIN 7.8 7.7 7.9 7.8 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.6 7.7 7.4 7.5 7.4 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.3 7.2 6.9 7.0 6.9 7.0 7.0 6.7 6.6 Electricity supply Gas supply Service Global Electricity supply Gas supply Service Global satisfaction satisfaction 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 scale 0:10 ELECTRICITY RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS ELECTRICITY RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS BRAZIL EDP BANDEIRANTE BRAZIL EDP ESCELSA 8.9 8.8 8.8 8.8 8.7 8.4 8.5 8.3 8.2 8.2 8.1 7.9 7.8 7.7 7.7 7.7 7.4 7.0 Supply Service Global Supply Service Global 2013 2014 2015 scale 0:10 2013 2014 2015 EDP measures the overall satisfaction of electricity customers (Portugal, Spain and Brazil) and natural gas customers (Portugal and Spain), in the residential and business segments. In 2015, the overall satisfaction was 76.5%, exceeding the established KPI for this year of 73.2%. C UST O M E R RE L AT I O N SH IP The diversity of customer segments and market offers implies the existence of a range of communication channels, optimised and focused so that the company can respond with quality and efficiency to customers' requests. During 2015, the EDP 365 Customer Programme has bolstered EDP’s position in the commercial area in Portugal. This internal programme promoted the development of initiatives along the following axes: development of a broad portfolio of competitive and ground-breaking products, ongoing improvement of the customer experience, bolstered of the integrated communication channels and partnership strategy to enhance service quality, focus on an excellent organisational performance and promotion of greater efficiency and risk control. In Portugal, EDP provides a platform – edpOnline (https://edponline.edp.pt) that gives access to features, which include viewing the current account, the most recent bills and the consumption history, and communicating meter readings. Customers who have more than one installation can access all the aggregated information of the different consumption sites, through one simple registration. All these features are accessible via smartphone or tablet with the “EDPMobile”. In September 2015, EDP launched the campaign “Ligue-se à EDP onde e quando quiser” (Connect to EDP whenever and wherever you want), to promote this application and strength its digital presence. ANNUAL REPORT 108 2015 In order to keep up with the growing trend of mobile Internet use and the challenge of making energia.edp.pt one of the best sites in the sector, the new responsive version has been launched, where all content can be viewed on any screen, facilitating online access, to ensure an enhanced digital customer experience. The new version of the reserved area edpOnline was launched in Spain in 2015 with a new Look&Feel, and with improvements in terms of platform design and browsing. The ability to pay bills by credit/debit card, as well as the access to an online chat were other features also added. In 2015, on a Group level, the number of customers with electronic bill and telemetering reached 1,814 thousand and 620 thousand customers, respectively. For both indicators, there was an increase in the number of covered customers: 13% in electronic bills and 50% in telemetering. A campaign was run in Portugal to get residential customers, condominiums and B2C small businesses to sign up to electronic billing. During 2015, the EDP Group incurred in fines for breaching regulations concerning customer relationship of EUR 4.4 million. The highest amount paid was EUR 4.2 million, related to the provision and use of products and services. It was mainly due to non-compliances, by EDP Brasil, on the deadlines established by the regulatory body to the supply reestablishment and verification of the customer’s measuring equipment. In Spain, EDP paid 12 fines related to violations of privacy and loss of customer data amounted to EUR 210 thousand. In Portugal, EDP Comercial was targeted by ERSE, under the Sanctions Regime of the Energy Sector, in an administrative proceeding about the alleged breach of legal obligations applicable to economically vulnerable customers, particularly in the context of social tariffs and ASECE (Special Social Energy Benefits to Power Consumers) of electricity and natural gas. In the context of the procedure, the company had the opportunity to comment and fully refute ERSE’s case. Nevertheless, last December, ERSE issued a fine in the amount of EUR 7.5 million. Considering there is no basis for ERSE’s penalty charge, EDP Comercial has filed a counterclaim in the Competition, Regulatory and Supervision Court. CL IE NT O M B U DS M A N There is an entity in Portugal operating independently of the EDP Group called Ombudsman, which handles ANSWER ORIENTATION OF OMBUDSMAN cases submitted by customers, when the answers to the complaints did not fulfilled their expectations. The Ombudsman has the authority to address matters 43% related to the provision of energy and services by EDP companies, namely: the compliance of supply Concordant contracts, consumption estimates, bills and 36% compensation claims for damages directly resulting Discordant from the service provided. In 2015, the Ombudsman received 2,513 complaints, Partial concordant 64% of which were related to electricity and 26% to dual contracts. Most of these complaints (70%) 5% Resolved issues concerned issues related to energy contraction, 16% Reading/Billing/Payment. In terms of the Ombudsman process and the website (www.provedordocliente.edp.pt), there was a decrease in the response time to customers by 2 working days, an improvement of more than 13% when compared to 2014. INNOVATING IN CUSTOMER SERVICE The energy solutions provided by EDP intend to meet the specific needs of the different customer segments, through a diversified offer of products and services. In 2015, more than EUR 78 million of revenues were generated, leading to a 16% increase when compared to 2014 (page 129). Some of the solutions made available to customers are exemplified below. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 109 PRO D UCT S A ND SE R VI CE S In addition to electricity and natural gas supplied in the regulated market in Portugal and Spain, EDP offers a wide range of solutions in the free market, such as the dual supply of electricity and natural gas, and energy services that give greater value to the available products, in particular insurance and assistance, maintenance contracts, energy audits and certification (www.energia.edp.pt and www.edpenergia.es). For residential customers in Portugal, the recently launched products and services are highlighted, and/or those that contribute to a more sustainable use of resources: RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS IN PORTUGAL ENERGY BUNDLE + HEAT PUMPS SOLAR ENERGY ELECTRICAL MOBILITY FUNCIONA Solar energy solutions for A solution that embodies in More efficient water heating self-consumption. Launch of A solution that includes a the energy service an solution, which includes the Portable Solar Home, as special energy rate for installation revision and economisers for reducing an initiative outside large electrical vehicle users and a equipment maintenance water consumption. towns and cities to promote wall box. components. and sell EDP Solar Energy. For the residential and business segments, EDP provides electricity and natural gas services DISTRIBUTION OF GAS CUSTOMERS BY TYPE regarding installation revisions and equipment maintenance, which increase customers’ safety and provide technical assistance whenever required – 1% 1% Funciona and Funciona Plus. 98% Also, EDP Comercial provides the Comunidade edp (EDP Community) platform, which aims to strengthen the relationship of the company with its customers in the free market. It is a community of customers for customers, which embraces a Residential network of partners throughout the country, Industrial allowing customers to enjoy exclusive benefits that are simple and free of charge Commercial (https://comunidade.edp.pt). Agriculture The Comunidade edp also allows small businesses to have an exclusive web page and free advertising Others in exchange for discounts on their services to other members of the Community. Moreover, it was launched the Condominium offer which, in addition to offering discounts in power and/or energy, provides access to exclusive partners with discounts for multiple-risk insurance, lift maintenance, building conservation and security. DISTRIBUTION OF ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS BY TYPE For small and medium-size enterprises (SME), EDP provides an integrated energy and energy efficiency 6% 3% solutions, including energy management and 2% discounts on maintenance services. Other services 3% 86% are also provided, taking into consideration the specific needs of each business sector: Agriculture, Accommodation and Restaurant, Commerce and Services, Industry and Social Welfare institutions. Residential Common to all customer segments there is also the offer of green electricity from 100% renewable Industrial sources. Commercial In Spain, all the electricity supplied to residential and small businesses has a certificate of origin for Agriculture energy from 100% renewable sources. Corporate customers only receive a certificate of origin when Others they apply for it. ANNUAL REPORT 110 2015 Like in Portugal, in addition to the electricity and natural gas offers, EDP España make also the following products and services available: RESIDENTIAL COSTUMERS IN SPAIN FUNCIONA PLUS, FUNCIONA RE:DY SOLAR HEATING PLAN CAR-E MOBILITY LUZ AND FUNCIONA CLIMA Revision and maintenance of Launched in 2015, allows electricity and gas facilities, aircostumers to monitor, control Installation of the thermal Charging point solution for conditioning equipment and and manage household solar system to water heating electric vehicles appliances consumption in real-time For the corporate and large customers segment, EDP provides a service that gives access to up-to-date information about their contracts– ACTIR Platform, which was complemented in 2015 with “Óptima +”. This service facilitates the energy management of the companies, which have available a system to monitor and supervise the consumption in real-time, and to receive immediate consumption warnings for both active and reactive energy. In Brazil, in addition to the supply of electricity in the regulated market, EDP has also sought to expand and diversify its services offer (www.edp.com.br). Through EDP Grid, in 2015 EDP acquired the company APS Soluções em Energia, assuming its commitment of expanding its presence in energy efficiency and distributed generation services. Three energy efficiency projects were implemented in 2015 (modernisation of lighting, air conditioning and driving systems), embracing customers located in EDP Bandeirante's concession area. These projects enabled energy savings of around 7GWh/year, equivalent to the consumption of approximately 3 thousand households. EDP Grid has also implemented energy infrastructure projects for customers (such as substations and distribution and transmission grids) and asset management (maintenance of facilities and adaptation of measurement systems), as well as photovoltaic generation projects. PRO M O T IN G E N E R G Y E F F IC IE N C Y Besides the products and services that constitute the business portfolio, EDP also supports energy-saving measures, programmes and projects. In Portugal, the participation in the plan to promote electricity consumption efficiency (PPEC), managed by the Portuguese regulatory FUEL SWITCHING: authority (ERSE), encourages the implementation of measures for the PARTNERING WITH THE adoption of more efficient habits and equipment by the different customer AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY segments residential, commercial and services, industry and agriculture. EDP España signed a A new tendering procedure was launched in 2013 (PPEC 2013-2014), in collaboration agreement with which EDP had 16 measures approved, representing 40% of all the SEAT and VW-Audi Spain, that measures approved and 65% of the available funding. It is estimated that consists of developing the implementation of these measures, to be developed in the 2014-2016 commercial packages, period, will result in savings of 1,073GWh and 397,042 tons of CO2 embracing vehicles running on avoided, taking into account the lifetime of the installed equipment. The “A Compressed Natural Gas Casa mais Eficiente de Portugal” (The most efficient home in Portugal) and (CNG) and the infrastructure the “Troca de Lâmpadas” (Lighting switching) programmes are examples associated. of two measures implemented under PPEC 2013/14. Several initiatives will be The “A Casa mais Eficiente de Portugal” was launched in August 2015 in launched to acquire partnership with the National Geographic Channel. EDP is challenging its customers, through residential customers to show why their home should be the most efficient commercial offers to the in Portugal, thereby encouraging the adoption of energy efficiency rental market, in order to behaviours. The announcing of the initiative on FOX TV channels reached renew corporate fleets of out 695,843 people in 2015, leading to 1,723 participations and 864 vehicles running on CNG. applications. The campaign ends in April 2016. The “Troca de Lâmpadas” initiative aims to promote the use of more efficient lighting equipment by residential customers, by replacing halogen bulbs with LED bulbs. The campaign was launched on November 17 and aims to replace up to 200,000 light bulbs. By December 31, 51% of this target had been reached. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 111 In particular for the business sector in the Iberian Peninsula, EDP supports the implementation of energy efficiency projects through the Save to Compete programme, which identifies measures to reduce energy consumption, promoting their implementation and funding through the savings induced. Since the launch of the programme in Portugal (2012) and in Spain (2013), 331 applications have been registered. By the end 2015, the programme has already provided savings of around 77 GWh, leading to a bill reduction of approximately EUR 8.7 million and avoiding 39,000 tons of CO2. These results are disclosed online and can be viewed on the Save to Compete website (www.savetocompete.com). In Spain, the Cuota Ahorro and ENRIMA projects are highlighted. The first, to the business segment, allows the identification and implementation of energy saving opportunities at the participating companies. The second one aims to develop an integrated management system to assist the decisions of energy-efficient buildings and public space managers, allowing optimisation of the building operations , minimising costs and meeting energy efficiency and emission requirements. The project's results will be applied to EDP's head office in Bilbao. In Brazil, EDP uses its energy efficiency program to encourage people in the vicinity of its operations to use electricity conscientiously and efficiently. In 2015, R$ 28 million was invested in the initiative, 10% more than in 2014, which led to energy savings of more than 35 GWh and a reduction of 13MW in peak demand. The program is funded in accordance with the legislation of Brazil's electric sector, which states that distribution companies should invest 0.5% of annual net operating revenue in energy efficiency programs. The initiatives carried out aim to show to society the importance and the cost-effectiveness of actions to fight energy waste and improve energy efficiency of equipment, processes and final energy use: ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PUBLIC GOOD ENERGY IN SCHOOLS THE GOOD ENERGY TRUCK BUILDINGS Training sessions to teachers on fighting Vehicle equipped with games and an Initiatives to improve lighting and cooling energy waste, and raise the awareness interactive model that simulate a systems of public buildings, through the of the school community for the efficient household energy consumption. A 3D substitution of low energy efficiency and safe use of energy, through on-site movie is also available, with equipment, and encouraging the and interactive actions, visiting the information regarding electricity, and participation of consumers. Good Energy Truck. its path towards consumption sites. V UL N E R A BL E C U ST O M E R S One of EDP's concerns is to guarantee a quality service for all customers, especially for more vulnerable segments. In line with the EDP Group Sustainable Development Principles, and complying with the existing legislation, EDP in Portugal has promoted the inclusion of eligible customers in the social tariff and ASECE (Extraordinary Social Support for Energy Consumers) through several communication campaigns and initiatives with private institutions of social solidarity, which have led to a substantial increase in the number of customers benefiting from social assistance (around 14,000 customers at the end of 2014 to around 90,000 at the end of 2015). In Spain, in addition to the special tariff created in 2009, Fundación EDP launched the “Energía Solidaria” initiative to increase the safety, well-being and energy efficiency of underprivileged families. This project analyses e and identifies activities that make it possible to reduce energy bills and to change consumption habits by implementing energy efficiency measures, in partnership with Cáritas and the Red Cross, responsible for identifying the families and residences that can qualify for this initiative. In 2015, 13 residences in Asturias and 15 in the Basque country were audited, with more than 75 measures proposed amounting to EUR 122,000. The Social Tariff for electricity in Brazil gives discounts that vary according to the conventional tariff established for each company. Since 2010, EDP's two distribution companies have established partnerships with local government institutions to encourage the community to legalize connections under the social tariff. In 2015, 29% of customers that qualify for the social tariff are using this benefit. In order to raise awareness of low-income customers to the safe and efficient use of electricity, EDP has developing the “Boa Energia Solar” project (Good Solar Energy), since 2008. The replacing bulbs, the implementation of solar heating systems (collectors and tanks) and the installation of smart showers are some of the measures implemented that benefited 1,194 customers in the concession area of EDP Bandeirante, with respective energy savings of 590MWh/year, and an investment amounting to R$ 5.5 million. ANNUAL REPORT 112 2015 6.3.SUPPLIERS Deepening the management of EDP's supply chain was the main improvement in 2015. The Group restructured its global purchasing model, SYSTEM AND PROCESS reorganizing internal teams, consolidating procedures and extending the EXCELLENCE AWARD risk assessment (including sustainability risks) to all its supply chain. Noting the commitment to Under this framework it can be highlighted: excellence in the management of its supply chain, EDP The new Global Purchasing Model; recieved the System and Corporate Purchasing Manual; Process Excellence award from EIPM Peter Kraljic Awards in Procurement based on end-to-end philosophy; recognition of their leadership Plan of Sustainability Development in the supply chain; and performance in the development of innovative Benchmark of the best international practices on Sustainability of practices and respect for the the Supply chain; environment and society. Economic, Social and environmental characterization of EDP’s supply chain; Elaboration of the Supplier Code of Conduct; Elaboration of a Supply Chain Sustainability Policy. These issues are managed for creating value and for the company's success in the open and global markets where it operates, both in terms of operational efficiency and cost savings, and in the context of risk management, corporate reputation and corporate responsibility (www.edp.pt> sustainability> publications> EDP’s Sustainability Management Approach) IMPACTS OF EDP’S SUPPLY CHAIN During 2015 it was developed an extensive characterization study of EDP’s purchases, aiming a deeper knowledge about the economic, social and environmental impacts of EDP’s supply chain. EDP expects from now on to use these results for better definition of the priorities concerning sustainability management. The tables below show the impact of EDP purchases under some dimensions. It is, however, a synthetic information that does not show the depth of the information available. The study, developed by PWC and based on ESCHER methodology, details data by: country (not only where EDP operates), relevant purchases categories and suppliers. SOCIAL DIMENSION RISKS RELATED TO DIRECT AND INDIRECT PURCHASES Tier 1 Tier 2n Voice and Accountability % 0.0 12.5 Political Stability and Absence of Violence/Terrorism % 7.1 17.9 Regulatory Quality % 0.0 11.0 Government Effectiveness % 7.3 15.7 Rule of Law % 7.1 16.3 Control of Corruption % 10.3 19.8 Child Labor % 0.0 0.5 Forced Labor % 0.0 0.4 Occupational Health & Safety Risk % 0.0 7.9 High Working Hours % 0.0 1.4 Low Wages % 0.3 13.4 Gender equity % 18.3 25.7 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 113 ECONOMIC IMPACTS Un. GVA Gross value added related to purchases 000.000 EUR 4 588 Gross value added related to purchases in countries of operation % 70.0 Gross value added Capital intensive purchases % 55.5 EMPLOYMENT Employment related to purchases # 177 323 Employment related to direct purchases % 44.0 Skilled Employment related to purchases % 29.0 Employment related to purchases in countries of operation % 59.0 Employment related to raw materials purchases % 31.0 Employment resulting from raw materials direct purchases % 11.0 Working hours related to purchases 000.000 horas 326 Working hours related to direct purchases % 44.0 SALARIES Salaries related to purchases 000.000 EUR 1 965 Salaries related to purchases in countries of operation % 79.0 Salaries resulting from raw materials 000.000 EUR 482 Salaries resulting from raw materials direct purchases % 24.0 TAXES Taxes related to purchases 000.000 EUR 90 Taxes related to purchases in countries of operation % 31.0 Taxes resulting from raw materials purchases 000.000 EUR 55 Taxes resulting from raw materials direct purchases % 30.0 PROFITS Profits related to purchases 000.000 EUR 1 894 Profits related to purchases in countries of operation % 62.0 Profits resulting from raw materials purchases 000.000 EUR 920 Profits resulting from raw materials direct purchases % 40.7 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS LAND USE RELATED TO PURCHASES Land Use related to total purchases ha 199 193 Land Use related to direct purchases % 0.8 Land Use related to raw materials % 20.0 Land Use related to purchases in countries of operation % 62.0 (1) GHG EMISSIONS RELATED TO PURCHASES GHG emissions related to total purchases 000 t CO2eq 3 931 GHG emissions related to direct purchases % 23 GHG emissions related to raw materials % 56 GHG emissions related to purchases in countries of operation % 78 WATER CONSUMPTION RELATED TO PURCHASES Water consumption related to total purchases 000.000 m3 41 825 Water consumption related to direct purchases % 13 Water consumption related to raw materials % 29 Water consumption related to purchases in countries of operation % 51 1 Scope 3 calculation method includes all value chain impacts, therefore the calculation of supply chain impacts differs from Scope 3. It can be highlighted the most relevant economic impacts: the employment volume induced by EDP in its supply chain which reached 177 thousand jobs and 326 million hours worked with direct suppliers representing 44% of the total workforce; the importance of the capital intensive purchasing represents 55% (raw materials, equipments), compared with 45% related to labour-intensive (provision of services); the value created by EDP purchases is mostly retained in the countries where EDP operates: retention of 70% of value of purchases, 59% of jobs and 79% of wages. EDP, through its direct suppliers, is exposed to a relatively low social risk. Risks such as child labour, forced labour or occupational health & safety came out as very low risk control priorities should be given to low wages (0,27% of direct purchasing). The main risk from the social perspective came out as being the gender equity, representing 18,34% of direct purchasing. ANNUAL REPORT 114 2015 Under the category “Country”, 7% of direct purchasing is exposed to political instability, rule of law ineffectiveness and government effectiveness fragility, but the most relevant risk is corruption, covering around 10,3% of direct purchasing (page 85). However, when the scope is indirect purchasing, results are significantly different. The table reveals a dramatic high increase of risk exposure, namely child labour (0,54%), forced or compulsory labour (0,39%), occupational health and safety (7,9%), excessive working hours (1,4%) and low wage (13,4%). Gender equity is still the most relevant risk, increasing to 25,7%. The increase of risks is also expressively present in the dimensions related to rule of law, government effectiveness and corruption. Following this study, managing sustainability in EDP’s supply chain will need new processes in place to give EDP guaranties that direct suppliers endorses commitments in the improvement of labour and social conditions of its own supply chain. EDP impacts on environment are also relevant. These are clearly linked to the environmental costs from extraction and transport of raw material, where gas and coal are dominant. EDP will continue this work, promoting energy efficiency initiatives on its suppliers, as well as the reduction of waste towards an improvement of the circular economy. SUPPLIERS AND GLOBAL PURCHASING In 2015, the procurement activity did not register any structural changes when compared with previous years. Fuel procurement, construction of energetic facilities, the purchase and maintenance of equipment and the hiring of services related to distribution and commercial activities of energy are the significant purchase categories that define the fundamental profile of the Group's supply chain. Excluding purchases of fuel, EDP Group in 2015 contracted EUR 2.8 billion to 18,647 suppliers, from which 2,010 held sales above EUR 75 thousand. Still under this scope, 1,205 were screened against sustainability practices. The international platform RePro, developed by Achilles, is the main instrument used by EDP to characterize the environmental, labour, human rights and society impacts. EDPR EDPR SUPPLIERS AND GLOBAL PURCHASING 1 Unit Group Portugal 2 Spain 2 Brazil NA EU+BR 3 Suppliers Suppliers # 18 647 5 275 2 641 4 263 3 456 3 545 Suppliers > 75,000 EUR # 2 010 687 368 497 193 304 Turnover Turnover millions € 2 832 989 243 683 637 280 Local % 92 90 86 88 100 99 1 Fuel purchases not included. 2 EDPR not included. 3 In the total number of Group EDP suppliers, the companies which have business in more than one geography are counted only once. Excluding energy procurement, 92% of EDP’s purchases are made from local suppliers. This reality does not result from SUPPLIERS > EUR 75,000 CERTIFIED (%) any national or regional discrimination of EDP’s suppliers or products but instead is a consequence of the EDP’s business structure and supply chain. EDP does not 72 72 promote any positive discrimination linked to the socialeconomic characteristics of its 57 56 54 suppliers. 48 44 42 In 2015, the number of suppliers with 32 33 certifications continued to grow. From all 30 31 31 27 the goods and services suppliers scrutinized for their sustainability practices 17 14 7 0 and with sales above EUR 75.000, 54% (48% in 2014) of them have quality Portugal (1) Spain (1) Brazil (1) EDPR NA EDPR EU + Total BR system certified. 31% (29% in 2014) and ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 9001 27% (25% in 2014) of companies are certified with regard to environmental and 1 Does not include EDP Renováveis safety systems, respectively. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 115 SUPPLIERS AND FUEL PURCHASES In 2015 EDP bought EUR 219 million in natural gas for the Portuguese market operations and EUR 637 million for the Spanish market. LPG purchases amounted to EUR 10 million exclusively for the Portuguese market. The purchase of coal for Portugal amounted to EUR 195 million and for Spain it totalled EUR 139 million. In Brazil, the purchase of coal amounted to EUR 126 million. The services associated to these purchases (ex: terminal services) totaled EUR 12 million, EUR 33 million and EUR 3.4 million respectively. SUPPLIERS AND FUEL PURCHASES 1 Unit Group Portugal Spain Brazil 2 Suppliers Suppliers # 63 29 37 5 Suppliers > 75,000 EUR # 42 14 36 1 Turnover Turnover millions € 1 365 427 808 129 Local % 38 55 36 0 1 Include fuel purchases and services associated. 2 In the total number of Group EDP suppliers, the companies which have business in more than one geography are counted only once. The purchase of fuels and services associated with their acquisition was directed at 63 suppliers. Most coal and gas comes from foreign suppliers. In 2015, EDP purchased coal from four different countries. Colombian COAL ORIGIN (%) coal represented 96% of the total purchases and local Spanish coal, 1%. 2%1% 1% In its supply chain, EDP has identified the extraction and 96% transport of coal as the activity with the highest exposure to the risk of social, employment, human and environmental impact. However, the main coal suppliers actively developed sustainability policies and impact Colombia management, and established certified management USA processes. EDP is associated with the international Bettercoal Russia initiative. This is an association of energy companies that Spain ensures more effective monitoring and mitigation of the risks, through an annual plan of audits of the coal mines and the promotion of a code of conduct of good practices among suppliers (www.edp.pt> sustainability> sustainability approach> bettercoal). ANNUAL REPORT 116 2015 6.4.COMMUNITY EDP voluntarily promotes and supports social, cultural and environmental initiatives with the purpose of contributing to the sustainable development of the communities and upholding its strategic vision. EDP specifies the results it intends to achieve, and evaluates projects it is involved in using the LBG (London Benchmarking Group) methodology. Through this model EDP is fostering the structured reporting of its decisions, which permits society to reflect on the results and benefits for communities. All of the Group's foundations and business units use the same methodology. SOCIAL INNOVATION The EDP Group’s voluntary total investment amounted to EUR 27,4 million (see table below) roughly the same value of contributions as the previous year. Around 85% of the entire investment was in the form of direct monetary contribution, 10% resulted from donations in kind and people contributing their time, which includes volunteering activities performed during working hours under EDP’s programme. The costs of development and management of the projects was 5% of the total investment, confirming our systemic concern to reduce this figure. EDP's overall investment contributed to the performance of 728 projects, 212 more than the previous year, which denotes an increase in the dispersal of contributions which diminished from an average of EUR 46,392 to EUR 35,549 per project. While this increase in the number of projects represents an intensification of relations with communities, as shown by number of beneficiaries rising to 5,197,128 individuals and 1,957 organisations, this dispersal should, however, be considered in light of the results and impacts generated. An overall assessment is planned for 2016 of the current methodology for deciding sponsorship for projects in order to give greater emphasis to those with the potential to generate greater social impacts. However, we emphasise that results were measured for 582 of the 728 projects sponsored, i.e. 80% (45% in 2014). This project assessment coverage resulted from a huge additional effort and performance of the management teams. The distribution of the investment by nature remained relatively unchanged on previous years, with most of the contributions going into social programs, namely EUR 11.8 million in healthcare, education, social welfare, economic development and emergency situations. Art and Culture, which includes science and technology dissemination and promotion projects, received EUR 7.2 million. The environment received EUR 2.3 million. An increase was also witnessed in projects not classified in the previous categories, enhancing the previous trend of seeking alignment with social causes related to musical, sporting and popular events. The distribution of the investment by business area remained unchanged on 2014, i.e. Portugal 78%, Spain 10%, Brazil 8% and EDP Renováveis 4%. In addition to the direct contributions, the EDP initiative helped direct resources from other entities and individuals to the sponsored projects. EUR 392 thousand was raised in 2015, part of it contributed by EDP employees. INVESTMENTS IN THE COMMUNITY (€) 2015 1 2014 2 2013 2012 CATEGORY 25 879 425 23 938 444 23 349 361 14 831 512 Nonstrategic investment 209 398 450 758 1 424 720 2 641 330 Strategic investment 23 556 186 22 474 228 19 485 248 10 626 216 Commercial initiative 2 113 841 1 013 458 2 439 393 1 563 966 NATURE 25 879 425 22 577 548 23 349 361 14 831 512 Education 4 316 280 4 039 760 3 956 229 3 099 908 Health 1 814 003 1 689 097 1 836 327 1 118 569 Economic development 1 692 293 1 438 385 5 070 549 1 116 830 Environment 2 296 117 2 003 958 1 163 368 728 911 Art and culture 7 234 190 8 486 509 5 459 532 4 527 648 Social welfare 3 839 037 2 997 119 3 989 792 2 870 075 Emergency response 183 150 7 640 32 673 32 344 Others 4 504 356 3 275 977 1 840 891 1 337 228 TYPE 25 879 425 23 938 444 23 349 361 14 831 512 Cash contributions 23 288 861 21 443 096 22 807 123 14 535 732 Kind contributions 71 334 813 399 238 101 23 559 Working time contributions 2 519 230 1 681 949 304 137 272 220 MANAGEMENT COSTS 1 532 303 2 315 382 3 625 300 2 652 758 TOTAL VALUE OF CONTRIBUTIONS (INCLUDING 27 411 728 26 253 826 26 974 661 17 484 270 MANAGEMENT COSTS) 1 Determined according to the LBG methodology. Not yet validated by Corporate Citizenship. 2 The 2014 figures were rectified after LBG audit. Some projects were valued and some management costs reduced. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 117 The main initiatives of the investment in the community in 2015 are highlighted in the following table: PROJECT RESULTS COUNTRY The Solidarity in Schools programme of the Fundação EDP encourages primary and high school students to actively contribute to the resolution of social issues affecting Solidarity in Schools their community. In 2014/15, the programme involved 314 schools in Portugal and Portugal 19,143 students and teachers. Since 2010, 700 projects have been carried out by schools under this program to the benefit of the community. In 2015, the EDP Portugal Solidarity Program sponsored 25 projects in Social EDP Solidarity Inclusion, 12 in healthcare and 2 organisations in education, contributing EUR 2.1 Portugal Program million. Between 2004 and 2014, the EDP Solidarity Program sponsored more than 260 projects. This year EDP Produção launched the 1st edition of the Local and Regional Traditions Program, under its Social Investment Policy. This program aims to recover ancestral practices that are dying out, and to stimulate the self-esteem of benefited populations Local and Regional by valuing the local identity. Identified as a theme of importance for stakeholders in Portugal Traditions Program the communities where EDP Produção has a presence, the 1st edition resulted in 122 applications in 50 municipalities, where awards were given to 14 projects in the central, northern and Alentejo regions. Solidarity Run organised by ACAMBI (Bilbao Breast Cancer Association) in order to raise funds for investment in breast cancer was supported by EDP. The solidarity run Solidarity Run took place on October 25, starting and ending at the Guggenheim Museum, with more Spain than 10,000 participants. EUR 50 thousand was raised and donated entirely to research. In 2015, Fundación EDP launched the first edition of the EDP Solidarity in Spain, receiving 37 submissions and selecting 11 projects for a total investment of EUR 344 EDP Solidarity thousand. This program, as in Portugal, promotes the improvement of the quality of Spain Program life of socially disadvantaged people, the integration of communities at risk of social exclusion and social entrepreneurship. Directly related to managing risks in the electric grid, the Flying Kites project aims to raise awareness amongst school goers and teachers about the risks of flying kites and the importance of playing safely when in the proximity of the electricity grid. 6.5 Flying Kites Brazil thousand school goers at 14 schools were embraced by the joint initiatives of the Flying Kites, projects, with an 8% reduction witnessed in the number of incidents involving the electricity grid and kites. Present in 22 schools benefiting more than 3 thousand students, this program improves the quality of student life at the elementary level of public schools, with EDP Program in support of partners and volunteer employees from EDP Group in Brazil. With activities Brazil schools that offer tools for student learning, they promote the integration of art and energy, encourage community participation in schools, foster student health and mobilize partnerships for educational causes. The Houston Area Women's Centre provides support services to survivors of domestic and sexual violence. It provides shelter, counselling and support services to help each survivor rebuild their life free from the effects of violence. They pursue social change The Houston Area to end domestic and sexual violence by raising awareness and educating the USA Women’s Centre community. 15 volunteers from EDP Renováveis gave their time to this organisation. More than 13 thousand women who were victims of domestic violence received support in 2015. VO L U NT E E R W O RK The EDP Volunteer Program underpins the Group's relations with communities in addition to attracting and motivating EDP employees. The EDP programme assigns all employees four hours of monthly work to participate in volunteer initiatives, and aims to develop volunteer work based on personal skills supplemented by mobilisation and awareness raising initiatives. EDP CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING Un. 2015 2014 EDP Volunteers # 2.404 2.248 EDP time used in volunteering (h) h 17.426 17.946 Beneficiary entities # 332 242 The Parte de Nós (Part of Us) programme entails collective volunteering initiatives in special campaigns and periods. These programs take place at Christmas and involve the environment in several of the Group's locations, bringing together employees and their families, suppliers and stakeholders in joint initiatives embracing isolated individuals or environmental conservation initiatives. In contrast, the skills volunteering programme offers the community the professional and personal skills of each employee, and is therefore a specialised, ongoing and structured volunteering programme. ANNUAL REPORT 118 2015 PROJECT INTIATIVES COUNTRY 111 EDP volunteers gave 1,119 working hours to 2,009 students from 65 escolas. Based on its professional experience and using the programs of “JAP – Associação Aprender a Aprender a Empreender”, EDP volunteers are training students in management, economics and Portugal Empreender entrepreneurialism, developing skills in teamwork, problem-solving, project creation, leadership and how to be successful. 29 volunteer electricians fixes damage, carry out safety checks and enhance systems in Electrician Pole Portugal social economy organisations. Energy Efficiency The Energy Efficiency Verifier Pole consists of EDP electricians that help social Portugal Verifier Pole institutions to use energy more efficiently, thereby lowering their energy bills. Through LEAN volunteering, EDP employees provide LEAN training and monitoring (a methodology used to identify means of increasing the efficiency of processes by cutting consumption and waste). Initiated by the Ribatejo Plant by grouping schools in Abrigada, the programme generated more than 1,200 LEAN ideas and saved EUR 6 LEAN Portugal thousand in its first year alone. The methodology migrated to school goer homes and neighbouring institutions such as the Santa Casa da Misericórdia and Alenquer Town Hall (which has saved more than EUR 40 thousand). This complements 9 initiatives being implemented. The Desafio do Bem programme enjoyed further success in Brazil, and is now in its 5th edition. With 549 initiatives and 742 volunteers, this program fosters the initiative of volunteers organised into teams. Each team has a leader who receives a budget of R$ Desafio do Bem Brazil 1.7 thousand (one thousand seven hundred Brazilian Reais) from EDP Institute to plan and carry out initiatives at the organisation or school. The Total Energy Team and Rescue Team are examples of the creativity with which this program is implemented. The Cidadãos Pró-Mundo programme is based on volunteering skills, by which 16 volunteers give English classes in the Coliseu shantytown located near EDP's facilities Cidadãos Pró-Mundo Brazil and the digital inclusion cycle, by which 16 volunteers give IT classes in the shantytown, on two afternoons a week. LOCAL COMMUNITIES EDP’s activities have an impact on the local communities where it operates. The company seeks to manage this impact by encouraging the active and transparent involvement with its local stakeholders aimed at establishing partnerships and to strengthen continual and long term relationships. The main objective of this involvement between the Company and the Local Communities is to promote transparency, trust and proximity, and thus avoid and prevent impasses and conflicts arising from lack of knowledge of EDPs projects. Within the ambit of construction and operation of production and distribution projects, during 2015 various programs were developed to involve the community, aimed at minimizing the environmental and socio-economic impacts. These programs are not limited to compulsory obligations, but extend to voluntary investments, with priority given to actions that favour local development. In Portugal, in the production business, several initiatives were developed supported by a Social Investment Policy (http://www.a-nossa-energia.edp.pt/responsabilidade_social_ambiente/responsabilidade_social.php), developed in order to consolidate and align the company’s presence in the Community, introducing new procedures to the decision making process and making viable the support to be granted, with priority given to partners that help achieve these objectives. In 2015 various programs were implemented together with the community, some related to the geographical areas in which EDP has operational assets, and others as part of the compensatory measures related to new enterprises. Within the initiatives developed in EDP projects in operation, it is highlighted the EDP Shares Energy program. edp shares energy This is an educational program that values students’ self knowledge and knowledge of their region, to enable them to share the potentials of their regions with others. The students have to develop programs for their peers, and for such they have to identify potentials, resources, prepare budgets and identify partners to implement the project. The first program resulted in 230 people benefiting directly and 270 indirectly, including students, teachers and the community in general. The areas selected, Constância, Sines, Tomar and Vila Nova de Santo André, are located where EDP has recognized production centres, which increases the proximity between the company and the community. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 119 Within the ambit of the projects to construct hydroelectric centres, in 2015 the following initiatives to involve the local communities are worth noting: PORTUGAL PROJECTS INITIATIVES According to the DIA (Environmental Impact Declaration), EDP has made annual contributions to the Baixo Sabor Fund, of EUR 375,000 (page 95). In addition, the Centre for Environmental Interpretation and Animal Recovery (CIARA) is to be developed Baixo Sabor as part of the compensations. The activities plan for this project will be undertaken by Universidade de Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro, Bragança Polytechnic Institute and Municipalies Association of Baixo Sabor. To maintain this area, EDP will make annual contributions of EUR 100 thousand. In 2015, EDP made a contribution of EUR 471 thousand to the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Fund, with 50% of this amount allocated to the Regional Vale do Tua Nature Park (approx. 25,000 ha) to continue with the proposal to create this Park, as a nature conservation area and valuing the natural and cultural heritage of the land and encouraging the sustainable social and economic development of the local Foz Tua communities. In addition, the architecture and execution Project was developed for the Vale do Tua Interpretative Centre, which aims to establish a link between the valley area and the mouth of the Tua, with the population, fauna and flora, the railway path and the dam that defined it. In Brazil it is worth noting the measures taken to manage the impacts that involve not only the initiatives for local development, but also the indemnities and reallocation of families and communities affected by these projects. BRAZIL PROJECTS INITIATIVES Within the ambit of the construction of the Jari Hydroelectric plant, and continuity of the reconstruction and improvement of Vila de Iratapuru, which was partially affected by the enterprise, in 2015 there were new requests from the community related to the on-going social-environmental measures. The company Jari 1 has an open and permanent communication channel, such that it replies to doubts and analyses suggestions from local stakeholders. In the third quarter of 2015, the 7th Social Forum was held, aimed at providing the population with updated information on the position of the social environmental programs to be implemented. The construction of the Cachoeira Caldeirão Hydroelectric plant caused the flooding of approximately 2,600 ha, which included approximately 10 ha of urban area in the municipality of Porto Grande. The Cachoeira construction of the reservoir at this hydroelectric plant involves the resettlement of 753 families. In order Caldeirão 1 to control the impacts, 57 social-environmental programs will be developed, which involve creating bilateral communication channels with the population, and also programs focusing on education, housing, agricultural development, social assistance and valuing property. The São Manoel Hydroelectric plant is being constructed on the river Teles, between the states of Mato Grosso and Pará, which is surrounded by the indigenous communities Munduruky, Layabi and Apiaká from Pontal. During the stage of the project that involved the construction of the dam, several locations were assessed, and to avoid part of the Kayabi land being flooded, it was decided to build the centre above the mouth of the river Apiacás. 1 São Manoel In order to manage, compensate and minimize the impacts caused to these communities, a Basic Environmental Plan with Indigenous Components has been developed for each of the three communities, consisting of various specific programs. The programs developed cover a variety of areas, including communication, education, support for productive activities and valuing indigenous culture. It is also worth noting that one of the objectives is to guarantee a bilateral communication channel with the indigenous communities, through an attendance, consultation and complaints system (radio, internet and telephone). The construction of the Mogi-Suzano Air Distribution Line, forecast to begin in 2016, will affect private areas (mainly rural properties), and will have an impact on the activities of the local agricultural owners. Mogi-Suzano To minimize these impacts, EDP has developed a communication plan with the local population. The compensation to be paid was also negotiated. The construction of distribution lines in rural properties located within the state of Espírito Santo has an impact on local property owners. In order to minimize this, assessments were made of the areas affected, taking into consideration the characteristics of the property, the use of the land and the types of culture, and the respective compensations were made: Line Jaquaré São Matheus 138 KV: This line extends along a stretch of 35 km and is 30 m wide. 70 properties were affected, and a total of 56 families and 3 companies were compensated. The remaining properties were located in areas for public use; Within the state Branch line Jurong: the works began in 2014 and finished in 2015, and 3 industries received of Espírito Santo compensation in 2014; Furnas Linhares Substation and EDP Linhares Substation: the area affected extended over 4 km, with a width of 50 metres, and a total of 4 families received compensation (four property owners). At the same time, a claim was filed by the Tupinikim and Guarani indigenous people from the Aracruz village located around the lines under construction. In response to these demands from the communities, EDP investigated the needs and expectations of this population, and prepared the appropriate replies. 1 The described power stations are accounted under equity method. ANNUAL REPORT 120 2015 There has been an increase in the recognition of the impacts of EDP´s Renewables business on the local communities, particularly those surrounding the wind and solar power parks. In addition, international financial institutions have followed the trend to include in their requirements plans that involve the local communities, which have to be attached to the projects to be financed. EDP Renováveis has experienced this, in the construction of parks where the continual involvement of neighbouring communities is required and these activities are periodically reported. Examples of such include the Margonin and Golancz wind power parks in Poland; the Cernavoda and Pestera wind power parks in Romania; and the Cujmir, Vanju Mare, Dabuleni, Grojdibodu, Bailesti and Burila Mica solar power parks, also in Romania. Stakeholder Engagement Plans were developed for these parks, in accordance with the funding requirements, and the 2015 review included disclosing the current position for the initiatives undertaken, and a report on the complaints (made through the permanent line created as part of the funding requirements) and the replies given by EDP. One example of the involvement initiatives developed by EDP Renováveis, in 2015, is the crowdfunding project developed in France, as part of the construction of the Escardes Wind Power Park. crowdfunding project escardes wind power, france As a result of the growing interest in greater financial participation by the authorities and local community, a crowdfunding initiative was launched for this wind park of 12 MW, which is under construction and forecast to be concluded during the first semester of 2016. The objective was that part of the debt be assumed by members of the local community. This type of investment by the local community is seen as a way to increase public support, minimize litigation, reduce the attitude of Not In My Backyard, and align interests to develop renewable energy projects. 180 individuals supported this initiative with an investment of more than EUR 85,000. SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY EDP’s relationship with the Scientific Community is based on the Group’s key activities and is evident in a variety of collaborations that impacted the business, ranging from attracting talent to investigation, development and innovation. These institutions are sources of knowledge with which EDP has a close relationship, and with which it collaborates in order to identify innovative solutions, whether technical or scientific to the challenges of its business. In addition, these institutions located in different regions of the world where EDP invests, combined with the high profile of their representatives in society, reinforces the strategic importance of this segment. In 2015, EDP continued to coordinate and structure the different relations with this segment through an internal working group, focusing on increased sharing of relevant information. For this work, the process of consulting 15 higher education institutions in Portugal, at the end of 2014 was also important, enabling it to continue to recognize and seek to meet the expectations of this segment. To enable the knowledge from this segment to become available in all regions in which EDP operates, EDP Espanha and EDP Renováveis introduced consultation processes with its partners in the scientific community. This consultation process will identify the most relevant topics for this segment of stakeholders in their relationship with EDP. From the viewpoint of the partnerships the expectation of these institutions is that the collaborations are lasting and diverse, and that dialogue is strategic. It is worth noting that energy efficiency continues to be a growing concern of higher education institutions, in addition to environmental issues, seeking economic sustainability through more efficient consumption management. The results of the consultation have developed evidence that ensuring a closer institutional relations through regular meetings and joint initiatives, creates bridges of understanding and opens new themes and partnerships. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 121 Presented below are some of the main strategies undertaken in 2015 with the Scientific Community: PROJECTS STAKEHOLDERS INITIATIVES EDP Labelec has an ongoing joint project with INESC Oporto to develop a solution based on unmanned aircraft systems, commonly known as drones, for the inspection INESC Oporto of assets of EDP Distribution (Substations and airlines) and EDP Renováveis (wind Drone UAV (Technology & Science turbines). Associate Laboratory) EDP Labelec relies on the involvement of the various Group companies, sharing developments and receiving contributions. This consists of a competition between teams from different universities to develop efficient energy services, based on technology developed by EDP, the Re:dy. The main objective is to foster the creation of new applications for Re:dy, and also identify Re:dy Portuguese elements that are highly potential for the EDP Group, bringing EDP into contact with Challenge universities Universities and investigations in the area of energy efficiency, whilst at the same time positioning the EDP brand as effective in encouraging innovative ideas, and giving visibility to the brand Re:dy. A week of activities and visits to facilities related to the energy area, including renewable energy, organized by ISEL – Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa Instituto Superior de and aimed at students from middle schools, students from higher education in the Energy Week Engenharia de Lisboa engineering area, teachers and company employees. EDP supported this week, promoting visits to the Electricity Museum, the Sines Thermoelectric Centre, the Alqueva Dam, the InovCity project in Évora, and a wind park. LOCAL AUTHORITIES The local authorities have special relevance in EDP Group’s stakeholders strategy, given the diversity of the relationships with the Group companies. On the one hand, they have a dual role as both client and concession agent, on the other hand, they are legitimate representatives of the communities in which EDP operates. The contact that EDP has with this group demonstrates that closeness and trust is key to an effective relationship with this segment of stakeholders. In order to meet the expectations of the municipals, in 2015, the EDP Group's business units directed its efforts to establish partnerships with this segment of stakeholders in key areas, such as promoting energy efficiency and creating initiatives that contribute to regional development. At the same time, Corporate Management for Relationships with Stakeholders developed a consultative process in approximately 50 municipalities on relationship with the EDP Group. Presented below are some of the main initiatives undertaken in 2015 with local authorities. PORTUGAL COMPANY INITIATIVES Protocols were established with Vieira do Minho and Montalegre, for the financial contributions by EDP Production in projects aimed at regional development; Generation Protocol with the National Association of Portuguese Municipals, in which EDP Production, in 2015, contributed with EUR 5 millions, which could result in a total of 151 projects benefiting 1.4 million people; EDP Renováveis, in partnership with the local authorities, offers study grants to citizens. Expand the project for implementing Inovcity smart grids, examples of which are in the municipalities of Alcochete and Freguesia do Parque das Nações, in Lisbon; Distribution Protocols to encourage energy efficiency, involving initiatives such as introducing LED lighting fixtures in street lighting; Install new technology and make available new ways for managing consumption. Seminar presented to the government, with the central theme being energy management as a competitive Supply tool” presenting the advantages of EDP energy services and best practices in their hiring. BRAZIL COMPANY INITIATIVES Support to improve local infrastructure for Health, Safety, Education and Transport in Brazilian municipals; Generation Partnerships for training and contracting local labour. Expand the project for Inovcity smart networks; Distribution Install LED lighting fixtures in street lighting; Install new technology and make available new ways for managing consumption. ANNUAL REPORT 122 2015 7.COMPLEMENTARY INDICATORS 7.1.ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS North Rest of 2015 UN GROUP Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe ENVIRONMENT AL CERT IFICAT ION (ISO 14001) Production facilities certified # 302 97 103 8 29 65 Net maximum installed capacity certified MW 21899 9 236 5 806 1738 3 706 1413 Net maximum installed capacity certified % 90 92 97 67 88 93 Substations certified # 200 137 58 5 n/a n/a Installed capacity of substation certified MVA 10 676 5 157 5 235 284 n/a n/a Installed capacity of substation certified % 35 29 100 4 n/a n/a Gas distribution certified % 100 100 100 n.a n/a n/a Revenues from certified installations % 53 72 40 5 93 100 PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPT ION TJ 252 345 113 194 103 934 35 196 16 4 Coal TJ 209 191 92743 81435 35 012 n/a n/a Fuel oil TJ 272 147 125 n/a n/a n/a Natural gas TJ 28 810 20160 8 646 n/a 3 0 Blast furnace gas TJ 11 347 n/a 11347 n/a n/a n/a Coke gas TJ 949 n/a 949 n/a n/a n/a Diesel oil TJ 183 0 77 105 n/a n/a Iron and steel industry gas TJ 1337 n/a 1337 n/a n/a n/a Fuel for vehicle fleet TJ 256 143 17 79 12 4 ENERGY INT ENSIT Y 1 MJ/EUR 16.3 14.6 24.8 12.8 0.0 0.0 ELECT RICIT Y CONSUMPT ION Generation internal consumption MWh 3 540 374 2 400 486 775 379 320 694 30 843 12 972 Administrative service MWh 35 662 24 140 4 396 5 660 1 260 207 Grid losses % 9.4 8.9 3.9 12.7 n/a n/a GHG EMISSION Direct emissions (scope 1) ktCO 2 e q 24 815 9 833 11 266 3 714 1 0 Stationary combustion ktCO2eq 24 783 9817 11258 3708 n/a n/a SF6 Emissions ktCO2eq 8 5 1 2 0 0 Company fleet ktCO2eq 18 11 1 5 1 0 Natural gas consumption ktCO2eq 0 0 0 0 0 0 Natural gas losses ktCO2eq 6 0 6 n/a n/a n/a Indirect emissions (scope 2) 2 ktCO 2 e q 2 641 2 014 134 467 18 8 Electricity consumption in office buildings ktCO2eq 13 9 1 1 2 0 Electricity losses ktCO2eq 2 035 1460 111 464 n/a n/a Renewable plants self-consumption ktCO2eq 593 546 22 2 16 7 Other indirect emissions (scope 3) ktCO 2 e q 20 299 9 774 7 593 2 770 120 42 Purchased goods and services (C01 ) ktCO2eq 53 18 18 18 0 0 Capital Goods (C02) ktCO2eq 255 34 60 2 116 42 Fuel and energy related activities (C03) ktCO2eq 11216 7837 929 2450 0 0 Upstream transportation and distribution (C04) ktCO2eq 2 478 1011 1168 299 0 0 Business Travels (C06) ktCO2eq 9 3 1 1 4 0 Use of sold products (C11) ktCO2eq 6 288 870 5 418 0 0 0 3 GHG EMISSIONS INT ENSIT Y kgCO 2 /EUR 1.8 1.5 2.7 1.5 0.0 0.0 CO 2 AVOID EMISSIONS ktCO 2 28 690 8 390 5 098 2 487 9 064 3 652 T OT AL EMISSIONS CO2 4 kt 24 783 9817 11258 3708 n/a n/a NOx kt 24.4 5.9 14.6 4.0 n/a n/a SO2 kt 24.2 4.9 13.6 5.8 n/a n/a Particulate matter kt 1.4 0.0 0.9 0.5 n/a n/a Mercury kg 147 64 38 46 n/a n/a SF6 kg 328 194 61 63 5 5 SPECIFIC OVERALL EMISSIONS CO2 4 g/kWh 391 412 689 419 n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 0.4 0.2 0.9 0.4 n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.4 0.2 0.8 0.6 n/a n/a Particulate matter g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 n/a n/a SPECIFIC T HERMAL EMISSIONS CO2 4 g/kWh 936 770 1051 1225 n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 0.9 0.5 1.4 1.3 n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.9 0.4 1.3 1.9 n/a n/a Particulate matter g/kWh 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 n/a n/a W AT ER COLLECT BY SOURCE Surface 103x m3 1 693 580 1234 467 459 113 0 0 0 Groundwater 103x m3 56 626 10 564 37 587 8 468 6 1 USE OF W AT ER Cooling water 103x m3 1 743 808 1241974 494 323 7 510 n/a n/a Row water 103x m3 6 157 2 937 2 345 875 n/a n/a Potable water 103x m3 195 118 13 56 6 1 W AST EW AT ER Wastewater from generation with treatment 103x m3 3 843 556 1959 1329 n/a n/a Discharge into sea 103x m3 1694 911 1234 894 460 017 1329 n/a n/a Discharge into inland and estuary water 103x m3 11 622 3 014 8 608 n/a n/a n/a ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 123 North Rest of 2015 UN GROUP Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe W AST E SENT T O FINAL DISPOSAL Total waste t 642 362 116 842 377 060 147 517 846 97 Total hazard waste t 7 089 3 734 2 421 634 235 66 Recovered Waste % 46 59 56 10 79 87 MAIN W AST E CAT EGORIES Fly ash t 416 101 759 292 686 122 656 n/a n/a Used oils t 428 167 129 50 62 21 PCB t 113 58 55 0 0 0 Metals t 2 632 383 566 1 341 341 1 Gypsum t 64 447 41506 22 940 n/a n/a n/a BY-PRODUCT S Gypsum t 228 050 168 869 0 59 181 n/a n/a Ash and Slag t 244 071 242 355 n/a 1 716 n/a n/a DIST RIBUT ION IN PROT ECT ED AREAS High voltage distribution grid in protected areas km 1194 937 106 151 n/a n/a Overhead km 1180 923 106 151 n/a n/a Underground km 14 14 0 0 n/a n/a Medium voltage distribution grid in protected areas km 13 582 9 071 786 3 725 n/a n/a Overhead km 12 601 8 140 741 3 720 n/a n/a Underground km 981 931 45 5 n/a n/a Subestations in protected areas # 43 19 18 6 n/a n/a FLOODED AREAS BY RESERVOIRS ha 6 025 5 690 330 4 n/a n/a ENVIRONMENT AL COMPLAINT S # 227 58 4 71 25 69 1 Primary energy consumption by turnover. 2 Calculation according with GHG Protocol based location methodology . 3 Scope 1and Scope 2 emissions by turnover. 4 Excludes fleet and consumption and loss of natural gas. This information is included in GHG emissions. North Rest of 2014 UN GROUP Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe ENVIRONMENT AL CERT IFICAT ION (ISO 14001) Production facilities certified # 294 96 104 6 27 61 Net maximum installed capacity certified MW 21353 9 210 5 804 1506 3 476 1 357 Net maximum installed capacity certified % 96 99 99 80 91 96 Substations certified # 175 114 56 5 n/a n/a Installed capacity of substation certified MVA 9 726 4 207 5 235 284 n/a n/a Installed capacity of substation certified % 32 24 99 4 n/a n/a Gas distribution certified % 100 100 100 n.a n/a n/a Revenues from certified installations % 54 57 68 13 97 98 PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPT ION TJ 161 512 85 517 75 903 76 13 3 Coal TJ 134 676 78589 56 086 n/a n/a n/a Fuel oil TJ 391 207 183 n/a n/a n/a Natural gas TJ 12 886 6503 6 380 n/a 3 0 Blast furnace gas TJ 11247 n/a 11247 n/a n/a n/a Coke gas TJ 691 n/a 691 n/a n/a n/a Diesel oil TJ 175 66 109 n/a n/a n/a Iron and steel industry gas TJ 1 187 n/a 1187 n/a n/a n/a Fuel for vehicle fleet TJ 259 151 19 76 10 3 ENERGY INT ENSIT Y 1 MJ/EUR 10.5 11.1 17.6 0.1 0.3 0.2 ELECT RICIT Y CONSUMPT ION Generation internal consumption MWh 2 568 611 1 916 679 593 079 19 372 27 478 12 002 Administrative service MWh 34 117 21 704 4 781 6 188 1 260 184 Grid losses % 9.4 10.3 3.9 11.3 n/a n/a GHG EMISSION Direct emissions (scope 1) ktCO 2 e q 16 551 7 779 8 764 7 1 0 Stationary combustion ktCO2eq 16 522 7763 8 759 n/a n/a n/a SF6 Emissions ktCO2eq 7 4 1 2 0 0 Company fleet ktCO2eq 18 11 1 5 1 0 Natural gas consumption ktCO2eq 0 0 0 n/a 0 0 Natural gas losses ktCO2eq 4 1 3 n/a n/a n/a Indirect emissions (scope 2) 2 ktCO 2 e q 2 214 1 541 122 527 18 6 Electricity consumption in office buildings ktCO2eq 10 6 1 1 1 0 Electricity losses ktCO2eq 1808 1191 93 524 n/a n/a Renewable plants self-consumption ktCO2eq 397 343 28 3 16 6 Other indirect emissions (scope 3) ktCO 2 e q 15 065 4 630 7 231 3 055 109 40 Purchased goods and services (C01) ktCO2eq 37 37 n/a n/a n/a n/a Capital Goods (C02) ktCO2eq 232 18 62 2 109 40 Fuel and energy related activities (C03) ktCO2eq 6 728 2795 936 2997 n/a n/a Upstream transportation and distribution (C04) ktCO2eq 955 900 0 55 n/a n/a Business Travels (C06) 3 ktCO2eq 8 3 5 0 Use of sold products (C11) ktCO2eq 7 104 877 6 227 n/a n/a n/a 4 GHG EMISSIONS INT ENSIT Y kgCO 2 /EUR 1.2 1.1 2.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 CO 2 AVOID EMISSIONS ktCO 2 33 818 14 281 5 610 3 194 8 604 2 129 ANNUAL REPORT 124 2015 North Rest of 2014 UN GROUP Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe T OT AL EMISSIONS CO2 5 kt 16 522 7763 8 759 n/a n/a n/a NOx kt 16.4 4.6 11.8 n/a n/a n/a SO2 kt 14.4 3.9 10.5 n/a n/a n/a Particulate matter kt 0.6 0.0 0.6 n/a n/a n/a Mercury kg 111 57 54 n/a n/a n/a SF6 kg 310 188 38 80 3 1 SPECIFIC OVERALL EMISSIONS CO2 5 g/kWh 276 321 1001 n/a n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 0.3 0.2 1.3 n/a n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.2 0.2 1.2 n/a n/a n/a Particulate matter g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a SPECIFIC T HERMAL EMISSIONS CO2 5 g/kWh 971 843 1123 n/a n/a n/a NOx g/kWh 1.0 0.5 1.5 n/a n/a n/a SO2 g/kWh 0.8 0.4 1.3 n/a n/a n/a Particulate matter g/kWh 0.0 0.0 0.1 n/a n/a n/a W AT ER COLLECT BY SOURCE Surface 103x m3 1612 252 1175 298 436 954 n/a n/a n/a Groundwater 103x m3 21322 6 757 14 448 109 6 1 USE OF W AT ER Cooling water 103x m3 1628 154 1179 259 448 895 n/a n/a n/a Row water 103x m3 5 120 2 665 2 455 n/a n/a n/a Potable water 103x m3 266 128 21 110 6 1 W AST EW AT ER Wastewater from generation with treatment 103x m3 2 736 691 2 045 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into sea 103x m3 1613 846 1175 837 438 009 n/a n/a n/a Discharge into inland and estuary water 103x m3 7 350 1769 5 582 n/a n/a n/a W AST E SENT T O FINAL DISPOSAL Total waste t 362 031 68 743 279 963 12 533 703 89 Total hazard waste t 8 841 6 201 1414 934 227 65 Recovered Waste % 57 12 66 99 78 86 MAIN W AST E CAT EGORIES Fly ash t 239 865 15 616 224 249 n/a n/a n/a Used oils t 509 244 122 21 92 31 PCB t 118 57 61 0 0 0 Metals t 2 433 581 133 1 512 207 0 Gypsum t 11 366 4 434 6 932 n/a n/a n/a BY-PRODUCT S Gypsum t 233 737 181671 52 066 n/a n/a n/a Ash and Slag t 198 075 198 075 0 n/a n/a n/a DIST RIBUT ION IN PROT ECT ED AREAS High voltage distribution grid in protected areas km 1154 902 102 150 n/a n/a Overhead km 1140 888 101 150 n/a n/a Underground km 14 14 1 0 n/a n/a Medium voltage distribution grid in protected areas km 13 432 8 824 749 3 860 n/a n/a Overhead km 12 472 7 912 704 3 856 n/a n/a Underground km 960 912 45 4 n/a n/a Subestations in protected areas # 36 20 8 8 n/a n/a FLOODED AREAS BY RESERVOIRS ha 3 334 3 074 260 0 n/a n/a ENVIRONMENT AL COMPLAINT S # 194 58 6 71 13 46 1 Primary energy consumption by turnover. 2 Calculation according with GHG Protocol based location methodology . 3 North America and Rest of Europe figures are included in Spain. 4 Scope 1and Scope 2 emissions by turnover. 5 Excludes fleet and consumption and loss of natural gas. This information is included in GHG emissions. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 125 7.2. SOCIAL INDICATORS North Rest of 2015 UN Group Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe E MPLOYMENT Employees # 12 084 6 683 1 863 2 972 383 183 Executive Board of Directors # 8 8 0 0 0 0 Senior Management # 700 390 159 72 57 23 Supervisors # 782 354 238 121 48 21 Specialists # 3 896 1 922 713 921 209 131 Technicians # 6 698 4 009 754 1 858 69 8 Male employees % 77 78 73 78 67 66 Female employees % 23 22 27 22 33 34 Females in management position % 22.9 22.0 26.2 17.6 22.9 31.8 Senior management hired from the local community % 98.3 100.0 98.7 97.2 94.7 78.3 Employees by types of contract # 12 084 6 683 1 863 2 972 383 183 Executive bodies # 54 33 1 20 0 0 Male # 51 31 1 19 0 0 Female # 3 2 0 1 0 0 Permanent workforce # 11 925 6 560 1 858 2 950 383 174 Male # 9 177 5 143 1 358 2 303 258 115 Female # 2 748 1 417 500 647 125 59 Fixed-term contracts # 105 90 4 2 0 9 Male # 65 55 4 1 0 5 Female # 40 35 0 1 0 4 Employees by occupational contract # 12 084 6 683 1 863 2 972 383 183 Full-Time # 12 055 6 681 1 837 2 972 383 182 Male # 9 288 5 228 1 360 2 323 258 119 Female # 2 767 1 453 477 649 125 63 Part-time # 29 2 26 0 0 1 Male # 5 1 3 0 0 1 Female # 24 1 23 0 0 0 Employees with special needs # 199 113 25 56 0 5 Male # 126 75 18 30 0 3 Female # 73 38 7 26 0 2 Foreign employees # 176 29 56 18 40 33 New employees # 774 283 80 275 110 26 Direct admissions to permanent workforce # 636 187 70 249 110 20 Admissions with fixed-term contracts # 89 78 3 2 0 6 Other admissions # 49 18 7 24 0 0 Male # 553 201 42 218 78 14 Female # 221 82 38 57 32 12 <30 years # 414 189 39 131 43 12 [30-50 years[ # 333 89 41 138 52 13 >=50 years # 27 5 0 6 15 1 Rácio F/M de novas entradas x 0.40 0.41 0.90 0.26 0.41 0.86 Employees leaving 1 # 736 332 82 255 46 21 Male # 575 279 66 183 36 11 Female # 161 53 16 72 10 10 <30 years # 99 10 6 69 9 5 [30-50 years[ # 225 35 21 126 28 15 >=50 years # 412 287 55 60 9 1 Turnover % 6.32 4.58 4.29 9.39 22.32 13.06 Male % 6.13 4.55 3.87 9.18 24.15 10.59 Female % 6.96 4.69 5.49 10.10 18.50 17.74 <30 years % 17.87 16.64 38.46 15.07 36.36 19.32 [30-50 years[ % 5.28 2.93 2.76 7.76 18.60 10.98 >=50 years % 4.20 3.66 3.90 7.21 19.05 11.76 Average age of workforce years 45 49 46 38 39 35 Average age of new admissions years 31 29 31 31 34 32 Average age of leaving years 48 58 52 38 38 34 Average seniority of employees years 19 24 17 11 4 4 Seniority of leaving years 21 32 26 10 4 3 Absenteeism rate 2 % 3.45 3.47 3.42 3.80 2.06 n/a Employees entitled to parental leave # 409 135 100 128 29 17 Male # 272 91 48 99 25 9 Female # 137 44 52 29 4 8 Employees that took parental leave # 309 134 100 29 29 17 Male # 172 90 48 n.d. 25 9 Female # 137 44 52 29 4 8 Retention rate of employees who took parental leave % 100 100 100 98 100 100 Male % 100 100 100 n.d. 100 100 Female % 99 100 100 93 100 100 Annualized average base salary € 3 042 3 126 4 284 1 491 7 101 4 022 Male € 3 026 3 085 4 471 1 480 7 465 4 331 Female € 3 098 3 271 3 773 1 529 6 351 3 433 Pay ratio by gender (F/M) x 1.02 1.06 0.84 0.85 0.79 1.03 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the average annual total compensation for all employees x n/a 6.50 5.54 13.66 3.91 n/a (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the average percentage increase % n/a 3.47 0.00 0.00 0.00 n/a in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding highest-paid individual) ANNUAL REPORT 126 2015 North Rest of 2015 Un. Group Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe T RAINNING Total hours of training hours 443 105 210 368 65 012 148 169 12 335 7 221 Environment hours 4 617 2 181 580 992 632 232 Sustainable development hours 2 559 1 787 555 12 0 205 Ethics hours 3 556 1 577 1 928 38 0 14 Quality hours 2 172 1 911 213 48 0 0 Languages hours 24 661 11 354 12 377 254 21 655 Information systems hours 51 874 38 008 5 916 7 071 649 231 Other hours 353 666 153 550 43 443 139 754 11 033 5 885 Average training per employee (h/p) h/p 37 31 35 50 32 39 Executive Board of Directors h/p 15 15 n/a n/a n/a n/a Senior Management h/p 38 48 40 8 16 22 Supervisors h/p 51 62 40 43 50 39 Specialists h/p 44 51 43 36 29 43 Technicians h/p 30 18 25 59 43 33 Employees with training % 96 95 100 98 96 100 LABOUR RELAT IONS Collective employment agreements % 92 99 83 99 0 34 Trade union membership % 47 57 17 50 0 0 Union Structures # 30 21 3 6 0 0 Hours lost due to strikes hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 Staff engaged in further study # 43 35 n.d. 8 n.d. n.d. Professional Internships # 381 240 0 141 0 0 Academic internships # 518 170 321 0 15 12 HEALT H AND SAFET Y (H&S) Installed capacity certified by OHSAS 18.001 MW 21518 9 491 5 898 583 4 099 1 447 Installed capacity certified by OHSAS 18.001 % 88 94 99 22 97 95 3 EDP Workplace accidents # 49 38 4 7 0 0 EDP Fatal accidents # 1 0 0 1 0 0 EDP Frequency rate Tf 2.27 3.45 1.26 1.09 0.00 0.00 EDP Severity rate Tg 106 146 35 89 0 0 EDP total lost days due to accidents # 2 292 1604 112 576 0 0 EDP occupational diseases # 4 4 0 0 0 0 EDP occupational diseases rate 0.18 0.18 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Contractors fatal accidents # 4 2 0 2 0 0 Contractors working days # 4 675 629 2 144 820 586 089 1 619 707 226 244 98 769 Contractors Frequency rate Tf 4.00 5.52 4.04 2.19 1.74 5.33 Contractors Severity rate Tg 237 392 164 71 33 498 EDP + Contractors frequency rate Tf_total 3.34 4.69 2.88 1.81 1.25 3.81 EDP + Contractors severity rate Tg_total 188 293 111 77 24 356 Fatal electrical accidents envolving third parties 4 # 16 3 0 13 0 0 Representatives elected in OH&S Comissions # 155 63 15 70 4 3 EDP employees represented % 70 73 84 54 100 10 Number of meetings # 520 54 51 124 288 3 H&S T RAINNING EDP awareness actions # 971 210 359 104 247 51 EDP employees # 9 021 2 125 2 818 1 935 1 967 176 EDP training hours hours 60 315 13 606 8 718 31 769 4 891 1 331 Contractors awareness actions # 4 588 2 628 81 832 897 150 Contractors employees # 14 820 10 796 401 1 822 1 173 628 Contractors training hours hours 66 493 8 225 563 46 585 10 709 411 1 In Spain , they are not considered 32 employees from the sale of the company Gás Energía Distribución Murcia. 2 EDP Brasil doesn't have data available for this indicator. EDP reports the last available value (2013). 3 Accidents leading to an absence of one more calender day. 4 Accidents ocurred in the permises of the company plants or equipment. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 127 North Rest of 2014 UN Group Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe E MPLOYMENT Employees # 11 798 6 733 1 898 2 674 316 177 Executive Board of Directors # 7 7 0 0 0 0 Senior Management # 706 398 158 74 54 22 Supervisors # 714 344 227 86 42 15 Specialists # 3 711 1 831 710 855 184 131 Technicians # 6 660 4 153 803 1 659 36 9 Male employees % 77 79 75 77 68 66 Female employees % 23 21 25 23 32 34 Females in management position % 21.4 20.5 24.2 17.5 20.8 29.7 Senior management hired from the local community % 98.2 100.0 98.7 94.6 92.6 86.4 Employees by types of contract # 11 798 6 733 1 898 2 674 316 177 Executive bodies # 52 32 1 19 0 0 Male # 51 31 1 19 0 0 Female # 1 1 0 0 0 0 Permanent workforce # 11 524 6 493 1 891 2 654 316 170 Male # 8 855 5 095 1 408 2 026 214 112 Female # 2 669 1 398 483 628 102 58 Fixed-term contracts # 222 208 6 1 0 7 Male # 196 185 6 1 0 0 Female # 26 23 0 0 0 0 Employees by occupational contract # 11 798 6 733 1 898 2 674 316 177 Full-Time # 11 765 6 731 1 870 2 674 315 175 Male # 9 097 5 311 1 412 2 046 213 115 Female # 2 668 1 420 458 628 102 60 Part-time # 33 2 28 0 1 2 Male # 5 3 1 1 Female # 28 2 25 1 Employees with special needs # 189 107 24 58 0 0 Male # 122 74 18 30 0 0 Female # 67 33 6 28 0 0 Foreign employees # 162 27 49 17 38 31 New employees 1 # 615 248 31 244 66 26 Direct admissions to permanent workforce # 451 107 24 19 235 66 Admissions with fixed-term contracts # 140 128 4 7 1 0 Other admissions # 24 13 3 0 8 0 Male # 455 198 18 174 47 18 Female # 160 50 13 70 19 8 <30 years # 359 185 13 121 26 14 [30-50 years[ # 227 55 18 108 35 11 >=50 years # 29 8 0 15 5 1 Rácio F/M de novas entradas x 0.35 0.25 0.69 0.40 0.40 0.44 Employees leaving 1 # 853 489 56 240 50 18 Male # 667 405 47 166 33 16 Female # 186 84 9 74 17 2 <30 years # 80 14 6 51 8 1 [30-50 years[ # 222 32 12 128 34 16 >=50 years # 551 443 38 61 8 1 Turnover % 6.12 5.37 2.26 8.85 18.83 12.87 Male % 6.06 5.57 2.27 8.13 19.32 15.04 Female % 6.34 4.65 2.23 11.18 17.82 8.62 <30 years % 15.63 18.11 13.62 12.55 30.09 17.24 [30-50 years[ % 4.32 2.06 1.28 7.32 17.65 11.30 >=50 years % 5.38 5.37 2.75 8.67 11.61 12.50 Average age of workforce years 46 49 46 38 39 35 Average age of new admissions years 30 28 32 31 34 31 Average age of leaving years 50 56 52 40 38 38 Average seniority of employees years 19 24 17 11 4 4 Seniority of leaving years 24 33 25 10 4 3 Absenteeism rate 2 % 3.46 3.53 3.25 3.80 1.71 n.d. Employees entitled to parental leave # 330 143 82 69 18 18 Male # 228 104 51 49 13 11 Female # 102 39 31 20 5 7 Employees that took parental leave # 279 141 82 20 18 18 Male # 177 102 51 n.d. 13 11 Female # 102 39 31 20 5 7 Retention rate of employees who took parental leave % 98 100 99 96 78 100 Male % 99 100 98 n.d. 85 100 Female % 95 100 100 85 60 100 Annualized average base salary € 3 083 3 105 4 309 1 742 6 111 3 929 Male € 3 088 3 076 4 465 1 735 6 505 4 353 Female € 3 068 3 216 3 850 1 764 5 285 3 123 Pay ratio by gender (F/M) x 0.99 1.05 0.86 1.02 0.81 0.72 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the average annual total compensation for all employees x n/a 6.39 5.51 13.85 3.80 n/a (excluding the highest-paid individual) Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the average percentage increase % n/a 0.00 0.00 1.10 0.00 n/a in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding highest-paid individual) ANNUAL REPORT 128 2015 North Rest of 2014 Un. Group Portugal Spain Brazil America Europe T RAINNING Total hours of training hours 516 659 255 865 74 936 169 233 6 635 9 991 Environment hours 5 009 2 341 661 1 024 570 413 Sustainable development hours 912 166 226 520 0 0 Ethics hours 7 310 7 277 0 0 33 0 Quality hours 2 245 1 597 147 425 76 0 Languages hours 32 124 8 699 18 888 661 0 3 876 Information systems hours 67 323 54 847 5 110 6 905 46 416 Other hours 401 737 180 939 49 905 159 698 5 910 5 286 Average training per employee (h/p) h/p 44 38 39 63 21 56 Executive Board of Directors h/p 2 2 n/a n/a n/a n/a Senior Management h/p 37 41 45 9 14 48 Supervisors h/p 65 65 70 75 28 51 Specialists h/p 42 51 40 27 20 57 Technicians h/p 43 30 29 84 27 74 Employees with training % 94.6 100.0 94.1 81.0 77.5 85.3 LABOUR RELAT IONS Collective employment agreements % 92 97 84 99 0 33 Trade union membership % 48 59 18 50 0 0 Union Structures # 29 21 3 4 0 1 Hours lost due to strikes hours 21 20.9 0 0 0 0 Staff engaged in further study # 30 30 n.d. n.d. n.d. n.d. Professional Internships # 329 184 0 145 0 0 Academic internships # 494 155 310 0 14 15 HEALT H AND SAFET Y (H&S) Installed capacity certified by OHSAS 18.001 MW 21 553 9 217 5 848 1 534 3 655 1 298 Installed capacity certified by OHSAS 18.001 % 97 99 100 82 95 92 3 EDP Workplace accidents # 33 24 2 6 1 0 EDP Fatal accidents # 0 0 0 0 0 0 EDP Frequency rate Tf 1.57 2.11 0.61 1.07 1.99 0.00 EDP Severity rate Tg 119 188 32 44 2 0 EDP total lost days due to accidents # 2 496 2 139 106 250 1 0 EDP occupational diseases # 1 1 0 0 0 0 EDP occupational diseases rate 0.09 0.09 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Contractors fatal accidents # 8 7 0 1 0 0 Contractors working days # 4 841 880 2 586 434 574 910 1 363 874 228 471 88 191 Contractors Frequency rate Tf 4.88 7.10 3.70 1.65 1.64 5.67 Contractors Severity rate Tg 315 523 99 44 28 544 EDP + Contractors frequency rate Tf_total 3.71 5.33 2.41 1.45 1.72 4.06 EDP + Contractors severity rate Tg_total 246 404 71 44 22 390 Fatal electrical accidents envolving third parties 4 # 9 2 0 7 0 0 Representatives elected in OH&S Comissions # 243 67 19 149 3 5 EDP employees represented % 83 77 80 99 100 47 Number of meetings # 513 57 60 191 192 13 H&S T RAINNING EDP awareness actions # 823 191 351 100 140 41 EDP employees # 14 253 7 562 3 151 1 910 1 508 122 EDP training hours hours 69 642 22 004 15 182 29 311 2 284 861 Contractors awareness actions # 18 034 15 720 195 1 015 913 191 Contractors employees # 60 816 53 243 1 071 5 054 500 948 Contractors training hours hours 165 683 50 522 800 101 271 12 552 538 1 In Spain , they are not considered 32 employees from the sale of the company Gás Energía Distribucíon Murcia. 2 EDP Brasil doesn't have data available for this indicator. EDP reports the last available value (2013). 3 Accidents leading to an absence of one more calender day. 4 Accidents ocurred in the permises of the company plants or equipment. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 129 7.3. ECONOMICAL INDICATORS EDP GROUP UN 2015 2014 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERAT ED ' 000€ 17 277 905 17 672 099 Economic value distributed '000€ 15 162 973 15 373 207 Economic value accumulated '000€ 2 114 932 2 298 892 R&D ' 000€ 35 401 31 641 1 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND SUPLEMENT ARY ENERGY SERVICES REVENUES ' 000€ 1 008 456 962 281 Energy efficiency services revenues 2 '000€ 79 877 68 080 Suplementary energy services revenues 3 '000€ 928 578 894 202 SUPPORT FROM PUBLIC AUT HORIT IES 4 ' 000€ 82 157 72 116 FINES AND PENALT IES ' 000€ 6 005 5 235 5 ENVIRONMENT AL MAT T ERS ' 000€ 104 620 83 670 Investments '000€ 53 901 39 025 Expenses '000€ 50 719 44 645 SOCIAL MAT T ERS Personnal costs '000€ 575 665 581512 Employee benefits '000€ 77 314 54 512 Direct training investment '000€ 5 861 6 489 Direct training investment per employee €/p 485 550 HC ROI per employee % 0.18 0.27 1 Energy Efficiency and Suplementary Energy Services: services provided under energy supply, instalation of more efficient and/or building retrofit, and sustainable mobility, which generate revenues for the company. 2 Efficiency Energy Services: Indicator formely known as Energy Services Invoicing. The 2014 figure is restated to reflect the methodological changes introduced to calculate the indicator, such as a greater range of energy efficiency revenues. 3 Suplementary energy services revenues include the following categories: Energy Management, Maintenance and Operation, Property/Facility Management, Energy and/or Equipment Supply, Provision of Service (example: steam) and other. 4 Support from public authorities both recognised and not recognised in the income statement. 5 More information available on the Notes to the Consolidated and Cmpany Financial Statements (Nota 51). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 135 04. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PART I – INFORMATION ON OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE, ORGANISATION AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A. OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE I. CAPITAL STRUCTURE 1. CAPITAL STRUCTURE According to in Article 4 (2) of EDP's Articles of Association, updated as defined by the General Shareholder’s Meeting of April 21, 2015, EDP's share capital to the amount of EUR 3,656,537,715.00 is represented by 3,656,537,715 shares which are ordinary and have a face value of 1 euro each. The geographical and investor type breakdown of the EDP shareholder structure on 31 December 2015 was as follows: Source: Interbolsa 2. RESTRICTIONS ON SHARE TRANSFERABILITY In statutory terms the shares are not subject to any limitations in terms of transferability, given that, according to the Portuguese Securities Code, shares traded in the market are fully transferable. 3. TREASURY STOCK As at 31 December 2015, EDP owned 21,424,972 treasury stock shares, corresponding to 0.59% of the share capital and 0.59% of the voting rights. 4. CHANGE OF COMPANY CONTROL EDP is not a party to any significant agreements that come into effect, are amended or cease in the event of a change of company control following a takeover bid (except normal market practice in terms of debt issue). ANNUAL REPORT 136 2015 5. DEFENSIVE MEASURES EDP has not taken any measures to prevent takeover bids that would put the interests of the company and its shareholders at risk. The supplementary rules on this matter remain thus in force. On this subject, it is important to note that, pursuant to Article 14 (3) of EDP's current Articles of Association, votes cast by a shareholder on his own behalf or representing another will not be considered if they exceed 25% (twenty-five percent) of all the votes corresponding to the share capital. Although EDP's Articles of Association impose this limitation on the exercise of voting rights, this limitation is not a measure to prevent successful takeover bids. In fact, the inability of the limitation on voting rights to prevent the success of a takeover bid is the result of EDP's current capital structure and of the compliance of the deliberative quorum of two-thirds of the votes cast, which is set out in EDP's Articles of Association for an amendment to the company agreement on this matter with Article 182 (2) of the Securities Code. No defensive measures have been taken aimed at or resulting in serious erosion of EDP's assets in the event of transfer of control of the company or a change in the composition of the Executive Board of Directors, thereby prejudicing the free transferability of the shares and free appraisal by the shareholders of the performance of the members of the Executive Board of Directors. 6. SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENTS Pursuant to Article 7 of EDP's Articles of Association, shareholder agreements regarding the company must be communicated in full to the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board by the shareholders that have signed them in the 30 (thirty) days following their conclusion. According to information provided to the company by the shareholders, the Executive Board of Directors is aware of the existence of a single shareholder agreement, which was entered into on 11 April 2007 by Parpública Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. ( (Parpública ), Caixa Geral de Depósitos, S.A. ( CGD ) and Société Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures ( Sonatrach ). Under the terms of this shareholder agreement, which were announced publically, Parpública and CGD made the following commitments: To support the continued membership of Sonatrach (or of a person indicated by it) in EDP’s General and Supervisory Board, provided that Sonatrach maintains a shareholding of at least 2% (two percent) of EDP's share capital and the strategic partnership remains in effect; and To refrain from promoting, supporting and/or voting in favour of any change in EDP's Articles of Association that prevents the continued membership of Sonatrach (or of a person indicated by it) in EDP's General and Supervisory Board. Although Parpública has sold its shareholdings in EDP's share capital and CGD does not own a qualifying shareholding in EDP's share capital, according to information at EDP's disposal this does not represent automatic cessation of the effects of the shareholder agreement. EDP has not been informed of any agreement to revoke or amend the said shareholder agreement. II. SHAREHOLDINGS AND BONDS OWNED 7. QUALIFYING HOLDINGS Pursuant to Article 8 (1) (b) of CMVM Regulation 5/2008, we are providing the following information on qualifying holdings owned by EDP shareholders as at 31 December 2015 and attributable voting rights in accordance with Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 137 % Capital with Shareholder Nº of Shares voting rights CHINA THREE GORGES Stakes held by entities in a control or group relationship China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. 780,633,782 21.35% Total 780,633,782 21.35% China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. is fully owned by China Three Gorges (Hong Kong) Co. Ltd , which is fully owned by CWE Investment Co. Ltd. China Three Gorges Corporation directly holds 100% equity of CWE Investment Co. Ltd. China Three Gorges Corporation is in turn fully owned by People Republic of China. GUOXIN INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT CO. LTD. Stakes held by entities in a control or group relationship Orise, S.a.r.l. 110,435,491 3.02% Total 110,435,491 3.02% Orise, S.a.r.l. is fully owned by Kindbright Holdings Corp. Limited, which in turn is fully owned by Guoxin International Investment Co., Ltd., which in turn is fully owned by People's Republic of China. According to paragraph 1(b) of article 20 of the Portuguese Sec urities Code a total of 24.37% of voting rights are attributable to People Republic of China, resulting from the above-mentioned shares aggregation. CAPITAL GROUP COMPANIES, INC. Stakes under management by entities in a control relationship Capital Research and Management Company 611,714,942 16.73% Capital Income Builder 230,413,901 6.30% Income Fund of America 123,278,683 3.37% Capital World Growth and Income Fund 161,418,052 4.41% Capital Guardian Trust Company 5,713,562 0.16% Capital International Limited 2,519,968 0.07% Capital International Sárl 589,310 0.02% Capital International, Inc. 45,998 0.00% Total 620,583,780 16.97% Capital Research and Management Company ( CRMC ) is fully owned by Capital Group Companies, Inc. CRMC is an investment consultancy vehicle which manages mutual funds registered in the United States. CRMC manages capital assets for several investment companies through three divisions, Capital Research Global Investors, Capital International Investors and World Investors. CRMC fully owns Capital Group International, Inc. ( CGII ), which in turn controls investment management companies ( fund management companies CGII ): Capital Guardian Trust Company, Capital International, Inc., Capital International Limited, Capital International Sàrl and Capital International K.K. The fund management companies CGII operate primarily as investment managers for institutional clients. The reported shareholdings are held by mutual investment funds under discretionary investment management. OPPIDUM CAPITAL, S.L. Stakes held directly Oppidum Capital, S.L. 263,046,616 7.19% Total 263,046,616 7.19% Oppidum is owned 55.9% by Masaveu International, S.L. and 44.1% by Liberbank, S.A. BLACKROCK, INC. Stakes under management by entities in a control relationship BlackRock (Luxembourg) S.A. 49,282,565 1.35% BlackRock (Netherlands) B.V. 776,486 0.02% BlackRock Advisors (UK) Limited 1,046,389 0.03% BlackRock Advisors, LLC 3,836,968 0.10% BlackRock Asset Management Canada Limited 1,059,783 0.03% BlackRock Asset Management Deutschland AG 9,606,564 0.26% BlackRock Asset Management Ireland Limited 18,662,688 0.51% BlackRock Asset Management North Asia Limited 9,693 0.00% BlackRock Asset Management Schweiz AG 11,076 0.00% BlackRock Financial Management 45,287 0.00% BlackRock Fund Advisors 32,320,429 0.88% BlackRock Fund Managers Limited 16,462,044 0.45% BlackRock Institutional Trust Company, National Association 32,735,889 0.90% BlackRock International Limited 428,495 0.01% BlackRock Investment Management (Australia) Limited 773,921 0.02% BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited 1,132,323 0.03% BlackRock Investment Management, LLC 3,388,710 0.09% BlackRock Japan Co Ltd 3,244,637 0.09% BlackRock Life Limited 6,412,059 0.18% iShares (DE) I Investmentaktiengesellschaft mit Teilvermogen 1,497,174 0.04% Total 182,733,180 5.00% ANNUAL REPORT 138 2015 % Capital with Shareholder Nº of Shares voting rights INTERNATIONAL PETROLEUM INVESTMENT COMPANY (IPIC) Stakes held by entities in a control or group relationship Senfora BV 148,431,999 4.06% Total 148,431,999 4.06% The company Senfora BV is a Netherlands c ompany that is wholly and directly owned by IPIC, which is a company wholly owned by the government of Abu Dhabi. MILLENNIUM BCP Fundação Millennium BCP 350,000 0.01% Stakes under management by associated entities Fundo de Pensões do Grupo Millennium BCP 88,789,594 2.43% Total 89,139,594 2.44% The management company of the pension fund of Group Millennium BCP exercises independently their voting rights. SONATRACH Stakes held directly Sonatrach 87,007,433 2.38% Total 87,007,433 2.38% QATAR INVESTMENT AUTHORITY Stakes held by entities in a control or group relationship Qatar Holding LLC 82,868,933 2.27% Total 82,868,933 2.27% The company Qatar Holding LLC is wholly owned by Qatar Investment Authority. EDP (TREASURY STOCKS) 21,424,972 0.59% REMAINING SHAREHOLDERS 1,270,231,935 34.74% TOTAL 3,656,537,715 100.00% Note 1: In accordanc e with the made use once in nº 3 of the 14º of the Partnership contract of the EDP will not be considered the votes cast by a shareholder, in proper name or as representative of another one, that exceed 25% of the totality of the corresponding votes to the share capital. On 22 January 2015, Senfora S.A.R.L., a company organised under the laws of Luxembourg, noticed EDP that it had transmitted, on 21 January 2015, over-the-counter, to Senfora B.V., a company organised under the laws of the Netherlands, 148,431,999 ordinary shares, representing 4.06% of the share capital and voting rights of EDP. In April 2015, CWE Investment Corporation changed its corporate name to China Three Gorges International Corporation. In August 2015, the company CTG (Europe) S.A. changed its corporate name to China Three Gorges (Europe) S.A. 8. F I N A N C I A L I N S T R U M E N T S O W N E D B Y M E M B E R S O F T H E M AN A G E M E N T A N D SUPERVISORY BODIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OWNED BY MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The table below shows the financial instruments held by members of Executive Board of Directors and the movements during 2015, as required by Article 447 (5) of the Companies Code. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 139 Financial instruments owned by members of the Executive Board of Directors in office until 21 April 2015 were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. Nº Shares Nº Shares N.º Bonds N.º Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Executive Board of Directors 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 41.000 41.000 4.200 4.200 1 1 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 125.000 125.000 5.000 5.000 1 1 João Manuel Manso Neto 1.268 1.268 0 0 0 0 (1 ) António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 34.549 1.810 41 (2 ) António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 34.299 13.299 1.480 1.480 0 0 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 3.878 3.878 200.000 1.200 1.200 0 0 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 126.576 126.576 2.510 2.510 0 0 Notes: 1) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal inc ludes 475 shares held by his spouse, Gilda Maria Pitta de Abreu; The shares of EDP Renováveis also inc lude 370 shares held by his spouse. Ceased functions on 21 April 2015 2) The shares of EDP Renováveis includes 150 held by his spouse, Anna Malgorzata Starzenska Martins da Costa. In 31 December 2015, the financial instruments owned by members of the Executive Board of Directors appointed at the Annual General Meeting held on 21 April 2015 were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. Nº Shares Nº Shares N.º Bonds N.º Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Shares Executive Board of Directors 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 41.000 41.000 4.200 4.200 1 1 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 125.000 125.000 5.000 5.000 1 1 João Manuel Manso Neto 1.268 1.268 0 0 0 0 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa (1) 34.299 34.299 1.480 1.480 0 0 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 3.878 3.878 200.000 1.200 1.200 0 0 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 126.576 126.576 2.510 2.510 0 0 Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 7.382 1.690 0 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 5.843 12.370 0 Notes: 1) The shares of EDP Renováveis includes 150 held by his spouse, Anna Malgorzata Starzenska Martins da Costa. The operations performed with EDP financial instruments by the members of the Executive Board of Directors in 2015 are set out in Annex VI. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OWNED BY MEMBERS OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The table below shows the financial instruments owned or imputable to the members of the General and Supervisory Board and the operations performed in 2015, as required by Article 447 (5) of the Companies Code. ANNUAL REPORT 140 2015 Financial instruments owned and or imputable to members of the General and Supervisory Board in office until 21 April 2015 were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. ( 1) Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Bonds Nº Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 (2 ) Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Three Gorges Corporation 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 Dingming Zhang (em representação da China Three Gorges Corporation) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China International Water & Electric Corp. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Guojun Lu (em representação da China International Water & Electric Corp.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ya Yang (em representação da China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Three Gorges (Europe) S.A. 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 Shengliang Wu (em representação da China Three Gorges (Europe) S.A.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Cajastur Inversiones, S.A. (4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Felipe Fernández Fernández 0 0 0 0 0 0 (4 ) José de Mello Energia, S.A. 73,285,710 0 0 0 0 Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira (em representação da José de Mello Energia) (4) 4,233 0 1,200 (4 ) Senfora SARL 148,431,999 0 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim (em representação da Senfora SARL) 0 0 0 0 0 Sonatrach 87,007,433 87,007,443 0 0 0 (4 ) Harkat Abderezak (em representação da Sonatrach) 0 (4 ) Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 6,917 5 3,080 3,080 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 0 0 0 0 0 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 0 0 0 0 0 (3 ) Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 264,709,056 264,709,056 0 0 0 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 0 0 0 0 0 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 0 0 0 0 0 (4 ) Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 0 60 0 0 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 0 0 0 0 0 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 0 0 0 0 0 (4 ) Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto 0 0 0 0 (4 ) Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena 4,541 35 1,500 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 3,203 3,203 0 60 60 (4 ) Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves 0 0 0 Notes: 1) The members of the General and Supervisory Board do not hold any shares of Energias do Brasil, S.A. 2) The 1,375 shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. referred to in previous reports were sold on August 9, 2006, in a transac tion with a value less than 5,000 euros. 3) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, SA include 263,046,616 shares held by Oppidum, which is directly owned by Liberbank 44.1% and 55.9% by Masaveu Internac ional, S.L. which, in turn, is wholly owned by Masaveu Corporación, S.A., Fernando Masaveu has managerial responsibilities and 2.020 shares held by his wife Carolina Compostizo Fernández. Fernando Masaveu is a person discharging managerial responsibilities in Flicka Forestal SL, which holds 1,660,420 shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 4) Ceased functions on 21 April 2015. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 141 In 31 December 2015, the financial instruments owned and or imputable by members of the General and Supervisory Board appointed at the Annual General Meeting held on 21 April 2015 were as follows: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. EDP Renováveis, S.A. Nº Shares Nº Shares Nº Bonds Nº Bonds Nº Shares Nº Shares GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD ( 1) 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 31-12-2015 31-12-2014 China Three Gorges Corporation 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 (2 ) Eduardo Catroga (em representação da China Three Gorges Corporation) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Luís Filipe Marques Amado 0 0 0 China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ya Yang (em representação da China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China International Water & Electric Corp. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Guojun Lu (em representação da China International Water & Electric Corp.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Three Gorges (Europe) S.A. 780,633,782 780,633,782 0 0 0 0 Dingming Zhang (em representação da China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 China Three Gorges (Potugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Shengliang Wu (em representação da China Three Gorges (Portugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Draursa, S.A. 0 0 0 Felipe Fernández Fernández (em representação da Draursa, S.A.) 0 0 0 0 0 0 (3 ) Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 264,709,056 264,709,056 0 0 0 0 Banco Comerc ial Português, S.A. 89,139,594 0 0 0 0 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado (em representaçãpo do Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 0 0 0 0 0 0 Sonatrach 87,007,433 87,007,433 0 0 0 0 Ferhat Ounoughi (em representação da Sonatrach) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Senfora BV 148,431,999 0 0 0 0 0 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim (em representação da Senfora BV) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 0 0 0 António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino 0 0 0 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 0 0 0 0 0 0 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 0 0 0 0 0 0 João Carvalho das Neves 7,429 5 0 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 0 0 0 0 0 0 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 0 0 0 0 0 0 María del Carmen Ana Fernández Rozado 0 0 0 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 3,203 3,203 0 0 60 60 Notes: 1) The members of the General and Supervisory Board do not hold any shares of Energias do Brasil, S.A. 2) The 1,375 shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. referred to in previous reports were sold on August 9, 2006, in a transaction with a value less than 5,000 euros. 3) The shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, SA include 263,046,616 shares held by Oppidum, whic h is direc tly owned by Liberbank 44.1% and 55.9% by Masaveu Internacional, S.L. which, in turn, is wholly owned by Masaveu Corporación, S.A., Fernando Masaveu has managerial responsibilities and 2.020 shares held by his wife Carolina Compostizo Fernández. Fernando Masaveu is a person disc harging managerial responsibilities in Flicka Forestal SL, which holds 1,660,420 shares of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. The operations performed with EDP financial instruments by the members of the General and Supervisory Board in 2015 are set out in Annex VI. 9. SPECIAL POWERS OF THE MANAGING BODY WITH REGARD TO DECISIONS TO INCREASE SHARE CAPITAL The Executive Board of Directors has the powers enshrined in the law and Articles of Association to perform its duties, which are indicated in detail in point 21. Regarding approval of decisions on share capital increases, the Executive Board of Directors has the power to approve one or more share capital increases up to an aggregate limit of 10% of the current share capital in the amount of EUR 3,656,537,715.00, via the issue of shares to be subscribed by new entries in cash, in accordance with the issue terms and conditions that it defines. The draft decision must be submitted to the General and Supervisory Board subject to a majority of two-thirds of votes of the respective members (Article 4 (3) of EDP's Articles of Association). The General Meeting of Shareholders held on 17 April 2012 decided to approve the renewal for five years of the Executive Board of Directors' authorisation pursuant to Article 4 (3) of the Articles of Association. The Executive Board of Directors has not yet used this renewed power to increase EDP's share capital. The Executive Board of Directors also has the power to submit proposals to the General Meeting for approval of increases in share capital after receiving a favourable opinion from the General and Supervisory Board. In these case, the General Meeting is responsible for approving the decision to increase the share capital (Article 17 (2) (g) and 11 (2) (c) of EDP's Articles of Association). 10. S I G N I F I C A N T B U S I N E S S R E L A T I O N S H I P S B E T W E E N O W N ER S O F Q U A L I F Y I N G HOLDINGS AND THE COMPANY In the course of its activity and irrespective of their relevance, EDP concludes deals and performs operations under normal market conditions for similar operations with different entities, particularly with financial institutions, including owners of qualifying holdings in EDP's share capital and companies related to them. It should be noted that, as in 2014, during 2015 several transactions were agreed between EDP and China Three Gorges Corporation (“CTG ), as detailed in item 3.5.2 of the report of the General and Supervisory Board. In the majority of cases, a memorandum of understanding had been signed prior to the operations being carried out. It is worth noting that the transactions agreed were considered for the purposes of compliance with the Strategic ANNUAL REPORT 142 2015 Partnership Agreement between EDP and CTG in December 2011, effective as of May 2012, in relation to the total investment of € 2 billion to be made by CTG. As part of the developments referred to above, the transactions concluded during 2015 between the EDP Group and China Three Gorges Corporation (“CTG ) are described in this item: On May 19, 2015, CWEI (Brasil) Participações, Ltda., a subsidiary of CTG, concluded the purchase of a minority interest in wind farms in Brazil. According to the terms of the purchase, CWEI (Brasil) Participações, Ltda. will invest a total of R$ 385.7 million, including investments already made and an estimated R$ 86.8 million in future investments for projects currently being built/developed. On December 28, 2015, an agreement was reached with ACE Poland S.A.R.L. and ACE Italy S.A.R.L., both wholly owned subsidiaries of ACE Investment Fund LP an entity in which China Three Gorges Hong Kong Ltd. holds an investment, with the latter being a wholly owned subsidiary of CTG for the sale of a shareholding representing 49% of the social capital and the supplies for a portfolio of wind assets with capacity of 598 MW in Poland and Italy, for the total amount of € 392 million. The transaction covers 392 MW of wind farm operations in Poland and 100 MW in Italy, with an average life of 4 years, and also 107 MW under construction in Poland and in Italy. This transaction was subject to obtaining prior regulatory approvals and other prior terms, with completion scheduled for the first semester of 2016. During 2015, the Banco Comercial Português (BCP) bank provided the EDP Group with financial intermediary services, having integrated the syndicate of banks which acted as Joint Lead Managers and Bookrunners for the issue of subordinated debt, in September 2015. Also in 2015, approximately € 100 million was transferred to BCP, through an assignment without recourse, which referred to part of the extra-cost deficit of SRP 2015. In 2015, Sonatrach provided natural gas to the EDP group and the Soto 4 combined cycle power station under long-term supply contracts, for the amount of € 153,540,000. On July 29, 2010, the General and Supervisory Board approved the first draft of the Regulations on conflicts of interests , which was revised during 2015, and a new version was approved on October 29, 2015 (Regulation) available on the EDP's website (www.edp.pt). These rules for identifying, preventing and resolving potential relevant corporate conflicts of interest have a higher level of exigency than those in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code. Following a decision made by the General and Supervisory Board, on 17 May 2010 the Executive Board of Directors approved the rules on identification, in-house reporting and procedure in the event of conflicts of interest applicable to all EDP Group employees who play a decisive role in transactions with related parties. These rules are available on EDP's website (www.edp.pt). The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for supervising enforcement of the aforementioned rules and reports on its work to the General and Supervisory Board. The General and Supervisory Board noted in relation to 2015, in view of the cases analysed and the information provided by the Executive Board of Directors, that no evidence was found that the potential conflicts of interest underlying the transactions made by EDP may have been settled contrary to the interests of the Company. For more information on the matter, see Point 3.5.1. of the Annual Report of the General and Supervisory Board. B. CORPORATE BODIES AND COMMITTEES I. GENERAL MEETING A ) CO M PO S IT IO N O F T H E G E N E R A L M E E T I N G 11. N A M E A N D P O S I T I O N O F O F F I C E R S O F T H E G E N E R A L M EE T I N G A N D T H E I R TERM OF OFFICE Pursuant to Article 12 of EDP’s Articles of Association, the officers of the General Meeting are a Chairman, a ViceChairman and the Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Executive Board of Directors. At the Annual General Meeting of 21 de Abril 2015 the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the General Meeting were elected for the 2015-2017 mandate. The Company Secretary was appointed on 23 April 2015 (likewise for the 2015-2017 mandate). The names of the members of the Board of the General Meeting who were in office up until 21 April 2015 are listed below: ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 143 Board of the General Meeting Chairman Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena Vice-Chairman Rui Pedro Costa Melo Medeiros Company Secretary Maria Teresa Isabel Pereira The following members were elected to the Board of the General Meeting at the General Meeting of Shareholders that was held on 21 April 2015 for the three-year period between 2015 and 2017: Board of the General Meeting Chairman António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino Vice-Chairman Rui Pedro Costa Melo Medeiros Company Secretary Maria Teresa Isabel Pereira The Chairman of the General Meeting is automatically a member of the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 21 (2) of EDP’s Articles of Association. The Chairman of the General Meeting has the in-house human and logistic resources appropriate to his/her needs, including the support of the General Secretariat and Legal Department, the Investor Relations Office and the Brand and Communication Department, plus external support from a specialised entity hired by EDP to collect, process and count the votes. The logistic and administrative resources for the General Meeting are provided by the Company and the organisation is supervised by the Chairman of the General Meeting. B) E X E R C ISE O F VO T I N G R I GH T S 12. RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS Pursuant to Article 14 (2) of EDP's Articles of Association, each share corresponds to one vote. The holders of rights representing shares under ADR (American Depositary Receipt) programmes are subject to the same provisions of the law and Articles of Association pursuant to 9 do Article 14 (9) of the Articles of Association. EDP's shareholders can only participate and vote at the General Meeting, personally or through a representative, if on the date of registration, 00:00 hours (GMT) of the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting, they own at least one share (Article 14 (10) of the Articles of Association). Proof of ownership of the shares is provided by sending the Chairman of the General Meeting, by the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting, a statement issued, certified and sent by the financial intermediary responsible for registering the shares, indicating the number of shares registered and the date of registration. It may be sent by email (Article 14 (13) of EDP's Articles of Association). Participation in the General Meeting also requires the shareholder to express this intention to the Chairman of the General Meeting and the financial intermediary at which the individual registration account has been opened, by the end of the sixth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting. The communication may be sent by email (Article 14 (11) of EDP's Articles of Association). Shareholders who have expressed their intention to participate in a General Meeting pursuant to the Articles of Association and have transferred ownership of the shares between the fifth day of trading prior to that of the General Meeting and the end thereof, must inform the Chairman of the General Meeting and the CMVM immediately (Article 14 (11) of EDP's Articles of Association). EDP's shareholders can submit a postal vote on each of the items on the agenda in a letter addressed to the Chairman of the General Meeting, as set out in Article 14 (6) of the Articles of Association. Pursuant to Article 14 (7) of EDP's Articles of Association, voting rights may also be exercised electronically, in accordance with the requirements necessary to ensure their authenticity, which must be defined by the Chairman of the General Meeting in the invitation to the meeting. Shareholders can find the necessary forms for postal or electronic votes on EDP's website (www.edp.pt). EDP has taken measures to encourage shareholders to exercise their voting rights, such as elimination of financial obstacles that may affect their exercise. These measures include: General circulation of the notice of meeting of the General Meeting with an express indication of the channels available for the exercise of voting rights and in publications on the CMVM website (on www.cmvm.pt) and EDP website (on www.edp.pt), on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon newsletter and in mailings to shareholders; ANNUAL REPORT 144 2015 Payment of the costs of issuing declarations of ownership of shares for all shareholders who participate in the General Meeting (directly or by post); Payment of the costs involved in remote voting, including postal voting. As per EDP’s By-Laws, votes cast by a shareholder in his own name or as a representative of another exceeding 25% (twenty-five percent) of all the votes representing the share capital are not considered. This limitation applies to all decisions of the General Meeting, including those for which the law or EDP's Articles of Association provide for a qualified majority of the company's share capital. Pursuant to Article 14 (4) of EDP’s Articles of Association, votes for which, under Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code or any legal rule that amends or replaces it, he is responsible will be considered cast by the same shareholder. EDP's shareholders are obliged to provide the Executive Board of Directors, in writing and in a complete, objective, clear, truthful form, and in a manner acceptable to the board, all information that it requests from them on facts concerning them and related to Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code. Noncompliance with this obligation shall result in prevention of the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the shares owned by the shareholder in question (Article 15 (2) and (3) of the Articles of Association). If the limitation on the counting of votes affects a number of shareholders, it will operate in proportion to the ordinary shares owned by each one (Article 14 (5) of the Articles of Association). Furthermore, pursuant to Article 20 (1) of the Securities Code, or any legal rule that amends or replaces it, shareholders who become owners of a shareholding of 5% (five percent) or more of the voting rights or share capital, must inform the Executive Board of Directors thereof within five business days of the date on which ownership occurred. They cannot exercise their voting rights until they have made this communication (Article 15 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association). 13. MAXIMUM PERCENTAGE OF VOTING RIGHTS THAT CAN BE EXERCISED BY A SINGLE SHAREHOLDER OR SHAREHOLDERS THAT ARE RELATED IN SOME OF THE RELATIONS OF ARTICLE 20 (1) See Point 12 14. DECISIONS OF SHAREHOLDERS WHO, UNDER THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION, CAN ONLY BE MADE BY A QUALIFIED MAJORITY OTHER THAN THOSE PROVIDED FOR BY LAW Decisions by the General Meeting are taken by a majority of votes cast, unless the law or the Articles of Association require a qualified majority (Article 11 (3) of the Articles of Association). Article 10 (1) of the Articles of Association defines the performance of functions in any corporate body is incompatible with: the status of a legal person that is a competitor of EDP or a company in a control or group relation with EDP; the status of a legal person or an individual related to a legal person that is a competitor of EDP; the exercise of functions, of any nature or for any reason whatsoever, notably by appointment to a corporate office, by employment contract or by services provision agreement, at a legal person that is a competitor of EDP or at a legal person related to a legal person that is a competitor of EDP. Nevertheless. Article 10 (4) defines that the incompatibilities set forth in the foregoing paragraphs may also not apply to the performance of functions as a member of the general and supervisory board, to the extent permitted by law, subject to authorization given by prior resolution, with the favor of two thirds of the votes cast at the elective general shareholders’ meeting. The competition relation must be expressly referred to and precisely identified in the appointment proposal, and the authorization resolution may be subject to conditions, notably to a holding of no more than 10% of EDP’s share capital. In all other cases, the deliberative quorum set out in Article 383 (2) of the Company Code applies. II. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION A ) CO M PO S IT IO N 15. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MODEL EDP's governance structure is based on the dual model and consists of the General Meeting, Executive Board of Directors, General and Supervisory Board and the Statutory Auditor. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 145 According to Article 11 (2) (b) of the Articles of association, it is the responsibility of the General Meeting of EDP to elect and dismiss the members of the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, as well as their Chairmen and Vice-Chairmen, if any, and the Statutory Auditors, based on a proposal by the General and Supervisory Board (or by delegation to the Financial Matters Committee / Audit Committee). The General Meeting also appoints the members of the Environment and Sustainability Board, on proposal of the Executive Board of Directors, and Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting, which is responsible for setting the remuneration of the members of the corporate bodies (except the Executive Board of Directors, whose remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board). The separation of management and supervision roles is embodied in an Executive Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management of the company’s business, and a General and Supervisory Board, the highest supervisory body. Considering this structure, we can say that the dual model of corporate governance in place in EDP has allowed effective separation of the company’s supervision and management in pursuit of the goals and interests of EDP and its shareholders, employees and other stakeholders, thereby contributing to achieving the degree of trust and transparency necessary for its adequate functioning and optimisation. Furthermore, this model has proved appropriate to the company's shareholder structure as it allows supervision by key shareholders on the General and Supervisory Board. For a better understanding of EDP's corporate governance, EDP's website (http://www.edp.pt/pt/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx) allows shareholders and the general public to view the up-to-date Articles of Association in Portuguese and English, the Internal Regulations of the Executive Board of Directors, General and Supervisory Board and its committees. Considering the need to adequate the Corporate Governance Manual in order for it to reflect the Corporate Governance Code published by Securities Market Comission in 2013, the restructuring of the specialized commissions of the General and Supervisory Board approved in June 2015 by this body, the legislative work recently published, namely Law no. 140/2015, dated 7th September, which approves the new Statute of the Statutory Auditores, and Law no. 148/2015, dated 9th September, which approves the Legal Regime of Supervision and Auditing, the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors approved in 21 and 25 January 2016, respectively, the new version of the Manual, following its previous approval by the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee in 16 December 2015. The Manual for the Corporate Governance of EDP is available to shareholders and general public at its website (www.edp.pt). The primary objective of this manual is to record and share an understanding of the two corporate bodies in terms of the recommendations of good corporate governance practices applying to EDP and appropriate guidelines to comply with them. EDP sought to go beyond the legal requirements and regulations for this area, particularly concerning information reporting, given EDP's meticulousness and goals as regards the quality of its corporate governance practices. The Corporate Governance Manual therefore sought to serve the following purposes in order to achieve this basic goal: To reflect critically on recommendations on best practices set out in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code in order to contribute actively in optimising EDP's practices; To select the recommendations deemed most appropriate to EDP’s governance model, focusing on measures taken and indicating potential measures for full adoption of good practices; To identify recommendations that are not appropriate to EDP’s interests and give reasons for this position and indicate other ways of achieving the goals set out in the CMVM Corporate Governance Code; To help targets of the recommendations to reflect on the best governance practices to be followed at EDP; To draft a formal document that will help compliance with reporting obligations on corporate governance practices, such as the annual report required by law; Describe EDP’s governance practices that are not set out in the Corporate Governance Code but achieve the goal shared by the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors to develop and increase the quality of EDP’s governance processes. 16. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION RULES ON PROCEDURAL AND MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE E X E C U T I V E B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S A N D G E N E R A L A N D S U P E R VI S O R Y B O A R D It is the role of the General Meeting to elect and remove members of the Executive Board of Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, including their chairmen. ANNUAL REPORT 146 2015 In the event of permanent or temporary absence of any of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board arranges for his/her replacement and the appointment must be ratified by the next General Meeting. In the event of permanent absence of any of the members of the General and Supervisory Board, the substitutes on the list submitted to the General Meeting must be summoned by the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board to replace him/her, following the order on the list. Pursuant to Article 21 (5) of EDP's Articles of Association, the substitutes on the list must all be independent. If there are no substitutes, they will be elected by the General Meeting. 17. C O M P O S I T I O N O F T H E B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S , E X E C U T I VE B O A R D O F DIRECTORS AND GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The shareholders elected the members of the General and Supervisory Board and the Executive Board of Directors at the General Meeting of 21 April 2015, for the three-year period from 2015 to 2017. The term of office of these members of the corporate bodies therefore ends on 31 December 2017, though they may remain in office until a new appointment. GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD In the exercise of its duties – see Article 441 of the Company Code and Article 22 of EDP’s Articles of Association the main mission of the General and Supervisory Board is to constantly advise, monitor and supervise the management activities of EDP, cooperating with the Executive Board of Directors and the various other corporate bodies in pursuit of the company’s interests, pursuant to the Company Code and the company’s Articles of Association. It is elected by the shareholders at the General Meeting. Pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board consists of no fewer than nine effective members, but always more than the number of members of the Executive Board of Directors. The majority of the elected members of the General and Supervisory Board must be independent, pursuant to Article 21 (4) of the Articles of Association. The names of the members of the General and Supervisory Board in office until 21 April 2015 are given below: General and Supervisory Board Independent First appointment date Members Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga Independent 30/03/2006 Vice-Chairman China Three Gorges Corporation represented by Dingming Zhang 20/02/2012 China International Water & Electric Corp. represented by Guojun Lu 20/02/2012 China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd. represented by Ya Yang 20/02/2012 China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. represented by Shengliang Wu 20/02/2012 Cajastur Inversiones, S.A. represented by Felipe Fernández Fernández 02/06/2008 José de Mello Energia, S.A. represented by Luis Filipe da Conceição Pereira 14/04/2011 Senfora S.a.r.l. represented by Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 16/04/2010 Sonatrach represented by Harkat Abderezak 12/04/2007 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro Independent 30/03/2006 António Sarmento Gomes Mota Independent 15/04/2009 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona Independent 20/02/2012 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 20/02/2012 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Independent 20/02/2012 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo Independent 20/02/2012 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro Independent 30/03/2006 Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto Independent 20/02/2012 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira Independent 20/02/2012 Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves Independent 30/03/2006 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena Independent 12/04/2007 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus Independent 06/05/2013 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 06/05/2013 Members elected at the General Meeting of March 30, 2006 to hold office from June 30, 2006, date of entry into force of new Articles of Association and the two-tier corporate governance model. The representatives of the companies China Three Gorges Corporation, China International Water & Electric Corp., China Three Gorges New Energy Co., Ltd. and China Three Gorges (Europe) SA, initiated their term of office on 11May 2012, following the entry into force of the strategic partnership agreement concluded on 30 December 2011. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 147 The following members were elected to the General and Supervisory Board at the General Meeting of Shareholders that was held on 21 April 2015 for the three-year period between 2015 and 2017: ( 1) Independent General and Supervisory Board First appointment date Members Chairman China Three Gorges Corporation represented by Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 20/02/2012 Vice-Chairman Luís Filipe Marques Amado Independent 21/04/2015 China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd. represented by Ya Yang 20/02/2012 China International Water & Electric Corp. represented by Guojun Lu 20/02/2012 China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A.) represented by Dingming Zhang 20/02/2012 China Three Gorges (Portugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. represented by Shengliang Wu 21/04/2015 DRAURSA, S.A. represented by Felipe Fernández Fernández 21/04/2015 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 20/02/2012 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. represented by Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 21/04/2015 Sonatrach represented by Ferhat Ounoughi 12/04/2007 Senfora BV represented by Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 21/04/2015 António Sarmento Gomes Mota Independent 15/04/2009 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona Independent 20/02/2012 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Independent 20/02/2012 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo Independent 20/02/2012 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira Independent 20/02/2012 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus Independent 06/05/2013 João Carvalho das Neves Independent 21/04/2015 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa Independent 21/04/2015 María del Carmen Fernández Rozado Independent 21/04/2015 António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino Independent 21/04/2015 1) Eduardo Catroga was an independent member of the GSB in 2006-2008, 2009-2011mandates and chairman, also indepedent, in 2012-2014 mandate The representatives of the companies China Three Gorges Corporation, China International Water & Electric Corp., China Three Gorges New Energy Co., Ltd. and China Three Gorges (Europe) SA, initiated their term of office on 11 May 2012, following the entry into force of the strategic partnership agreement concluded on 30 December 2011. EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for managing the company's activities and representing the company, pursuant to Article 431 of the Company Code and Article 17 of the Articles of Association and is elected by the shareholders at a General Meeting. The Executive Board of Directors is currently made up of eight members. Pursuant to Article 16 (2) of the Articles of Association, amended at the Annual General Meeting held on 21 April 2015, the Executive Board of Directors must have a minimum of five and a maximum of eight members. The Executive Board of Directors in office until 21 April 2015 was composed of seven members: Executive Board of Directors First appointment date Chairman António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 30-03-2006 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 30-03-2006 João Manuel Manso Neto 30-03-2006 António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 30-03-2006 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 30-03-2006 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 20-02-2012 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 20-02-2012 Members elected at the General Meeting of March 30, 2006 to hold office from June 30, 2006, date of entry into force of new Articles of Association and the two-tier corporate governance model. ANNUAL REPORT 148 2015 The following members of the Executive Board of Directors were elected at that General Meeting of Shareholders for the 2015-2017 mandate: Executive Board of Directors First appointment date Chairman António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 30-03-2006 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 30-03-2006 João Manuel Manso Neto 30-03-2006 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 30-03-2006 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 20-02-2012 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 20-02-2012 Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 21-04-2015 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 21-04-2015 Members elected at the General Meeting of March 30, 2006 to hold office from June 30, 2006, date of entry into force of new Articles of Association and the two-tier corporate governance model. 18. I N D E P E N D E N T M E M B E R S O F T H E E X E C U T I V E B O A R D O F DI R E C T O R S A N D GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD EDP's Articles of Association (Article 9 (1), Artilce 10 (1), Article 11 (2) (d), Article 21 (4), Article 22 (1) (a), Article 23 and Article 27) and the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board (Article 7)), both available on its website (www.edp.pt), lay down the rules on independence and incompatibilities for members of any of the company's corporate bodies. The criteria of independence set out in EDP's Articles of Association are in line with those laid down in 414 (5) of the Company Code and determine that independence means an absence of direct or indirect relations with the company or one of its bodies and an absence of any circumstances that might affect impartiality of analyses or decisions, e.g. because the people in question own or are acting on behalf of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital of EDP or have been re-elected for more than two terms of office continuously or intermittently. Pursuant to Article 9 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association, independence is “absence of direct or indirect relations with the company or one of its bodies and an absence of any circumstances that might affect impartiality of analyses or decisions, e.g. because the people in question own or are acting on behalf of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital of EDP or have been re-elected for more than two terms of office continuously or intermittently . In view of the need to clarify the aforementioned Article 414 (5) of the Company Code, as there are diverging legal opinions, Associação de Emitentes de Valores Cotados em Mercado (“AEM”) requested an opinion from the CMVM , whose opinion was that the capacity as independent is only lost if, “on the basis of the criterion of number of terms of office, in a situation likely to affect his/her impartiality in analyses or decisions if the members of the supervisory bodies of public limited companies, having been elected for a first term of office and re-elected continuously or intermittently for a second and third term, are re-elected (for the third time, therefore) for a fourth term of office.” Pursuant to its Internal Regulations, the General and Supervisory Board has in place a specific procedure regarding compliance with a large number of rules on incompatibilities and independence applicable to positions on this board (Articles 6 and 7 of the General and Supervisory Board Internal Regulations). This procedure includes the following aspects: Acceptance of a position as member of the General and Supervisory Board is subject to a written statement setting out specifically (i) the inexistence of any incompatibility under the law or Articles of Association; (ii) compliance with the independence requirements set out in its Internal Regulations, if the person has been elected as an independent member; (iii) the members' obligation to report to the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board or, for the Chairman, directly to the board any subsequent event that might generate incompatibility or loss of independence; Every year, the members of the General and Supervisory Board must renew their statements as to the inexistence of incompatibility and compliance with the independence requirements, if applicable; Also every year, the General and Supervisory Board conducts a general assessment of compliance with the rules of incompatibility and independence by its members. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 149 At the same time, the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board has broadened the independence criteria applicable to its members, going beyond the provisions of Article 414 (5) of the Company Code and Article 9 of EDP's Articles of Association, and so people who directly or through their spouse or relative or similar in a straight line and to the collateral third degree, inclusive, are in one of the following situations cannot have independent status: Being holder, director, having contractual ties or acting on behalf or on the account of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital or voting rights in EDP or the same percentage in a company of which it is a subsidiary; Being a holder, director, having contractual ties or acting on behalf or on the account of owners of a qualifying shareholding of 2% (two percent) or more of the share capital or voting rights in a company that is a competitor of EDP; and Having been re-elected for more than two consecutive or non-consecutive terms of office. The rules of independence covering members of the General and Supervisory Board are particularly important regarding the following requirements: The board must consist of a majority of independent members (Article 434 (4) of the Company Code and Article 21 (4) of EDP's Articles of Association); The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is entirely composed of independent members of the General and Supervisory Board (Article 23 (2) of EDP By-Laws and Article 2 (1) of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee’s Internal Regulations); The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board must comprise a majority of independent members (Article 27 (1) (b) of the General and Supervisory Board's Internal Regulations). In compliance with the above procedure, at the start of their terms of office, the members of the General and Supervisory Board stated that they were not in any of the situations of incompatibility set out in the Company Code (Article 414-A (1) (a) to (e), (g) and (h) (ex vi Article 434 (4)) and Article 437 (1)) or under the Articles of Association and, where applicable, that they complied with the independence requirements of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board. At the end of 2015, the members of the outgoing General and Supervisory Board renewed their statements on incompatibilities and independence. On 3 March 2016, the General and Supervisory Board assessed compliance with the rules on incompatibilities and independence of the elected members at the General Meeting of 21 April 2015. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board of the General Meeting made similar statements of compliance with the criteria of independence and incompatibility for their positions, as set out in Article 414 (5) and Article 414-A (1) of the Company Code and in Articles 9 and 10 of EDP's Articles of Association. The above statements are available to the public on EDP's website, at “http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Independenciaeincompatibilidade/Pages/DeclaraçãodeIndependê nciaeIncompatibilidades.aspx”. The independent members of the General and Supervisory Board are shown in the table in Point 17 above. 19. QUALIFICATIONS OF THE MEMBE RS OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD AND EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS See Annex I. 20. F A M I L Y , W O R K R E L A T E D A N D B U S I N E S S R E L A T I O N S H I P S O F T H E ME M B E R S O F T H E G E N E R A L A N D S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D A N D E X E C U T I V E B O AR D O F D I R E C T O R S WITH SHAREHOLDERS OWNING A QUALIFYING SHAREHOLDING OF OVER 2% OF THE VOTING RIGHTS The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors, António Luís Nunes Guerra Mexia, is a director of Banco Comercial Português, S.A. which holds indirectly a 2.44% shareholding in EDP. As for the General and Supervisory Board, there are professional relationships between Board members and shareholders attributed a qualifying holding of more than 2% of voting rights, as described below: The members of the General and Supervisory Board Ya Yang, Guojun Lu, Dingming Zhang, and Shengliang Wu are managers of China Three Gorges Corporation which, through its subsidiary China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A., (formerly CWEI (Europe), S.A.) has a 21.35% shareholding in EDP. ANNUAL REPORT 150 2015 The member of the General and Supervisory Board Fernando Masaveu Herrero is chairman of the management body of Masaveu International, S.L. which owns 55.9% of Oppidum, S.L., a company with a 7.19% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Felipe Fernández Fernández is a manager of Liberbank, S.A. which owns 44.1% of Oppidum, S.L., a company with a 7.19% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Mohamed Ali Al-Fahim is a manager of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC) which wholly owns Senfora, BV, a company with a 4.06% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado is a manager of Banco Comercial Português S.A. which holds indirectly a 2.44% shareholding in EDP. The member of the General and Supervisory Board Ferhat Ounoughi is a manager of Sonatrach which has a 2.38% shareholding in EDP. 21. ORGANISATION CHART, DELEGATION AND DIVISION OF POWERS POWERS OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD Pursuant to article 22 of the Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board is especially responsible for: Permanently monitor the management of EDP and its subsidiaries and provide management advice and assistance to the Executive Board of Directors, particularly with regard to strategy, goals and compliance with the law; Issue opinions on the annual report and accounts; ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 151 Permanently oversee the work of the statutory auditor and external auditor and, with regard to the former, issue an opinion on their election or appointment, dismissal, independent status and other relations with the company; Oversee, on a permanent basis, and evaluate internal accounting and auditing procedures, the efficacy of the risk management system, internal control system and internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries are received and processed, whether originating from employees or not; Propose to the General Meeting the removal from office of any member of the Executive Board of Directors; Monitor the definition of criteria and responsibilities required or appropriate for the structures and internal bodies of the company or Group and their impact and draft follow-up plans; Provide for the replacement of members of the Executive Board of Directors in the event of permanent or temporary absence, as required by law; Issue an opinion on their annual vote of confidence in the directors set out in Article 455 of the Company Code, on its own initiative or when requested to do so by the CEO; Monitor and assess matters of corporate governance, sustainability, internal codes of ethics and conduct and compliance with these codes and systems for appraising and resolving conflicts of interest, including those associated with the company's relations with its shareholders, and issue opinions on these matters; Obtain the financial or other resources that it reasonably deems necessary for its work and ask the Executive Board of Directors to take any measures or make any corrections that it considers pertinent, with the power to hire independent consultants, if necessary; Receive regular information from the Executive Board of Directors on significant business relations between the company or its subsidiaries and shareholders with a qualifying holding and persons related to them; Appoint the Remuneration Committee and Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee; Represent the company in its relations with the directors; Supervise the work of the Executive Board of Directors; Oversee compliance with the law and Articles of Association; Select and replace the company's external auditor, giving the Executive Board of Directors instructions for engagement or dismissal; Monitoring the bookkeeping, accounts and supporting documents and the status of any assets or securities held by the company, as and when it deems appropriate; Supervise the preparation and disclosure of financial information Call the General Meeting when it deems appropriate; Approve internal rules, including rules on relations with the other corporate bodies; Exercise any other powers that may be granted by law, the Articles of Association or by the General Meeting. Under the corporate governance model in place at EDP, the General and Supervisory Board also has a power of particular importance. Although it does not have management powers, pursuant to Article 442 (1) of the Company Code, Article 17 (2) of the Articles of Association lays down that the approval of EDP's strategic plan and performance of the operations indicated below by EDP or its subsidiaries are subject to a prior favourable opinion from this board (see also Article 13 of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board): Acquisitions and sales of assets, rights or shareholdings of significant economic value; Financing operations of significant value; ANNUAL REPORT 152 2015 Opening and closure of establishments, or important parts thereof, and substantial extensions or limitations of company activity; Other transactions or operations of significant economic or strategic value; Formation or termination of strategic partnerships or other forms of lasting cooperation; Plans for splits, mergers or conversions; Amendments to the Articles of Association, including changes of registered office and share capital increases when on the Executive Board of Directors' initiative; Approval of the draft decision of the Executive Board of Directors to increase the share capital by means of one or more share capital increases, up to the aggregate limit of 10% of the current share capital by issuing Category A shares to be subscribed by new inputs of cash; Formation or termination of strategic partnerships or other forms of lasting cooperation. The Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board is granted particular powers, and, pursuant to Article 18 of the Rules of Procedure of the General and Supervisory Board, is responsible for: Convening and presiding over meetings of the General and Supervisory Board; Representing the General and Supervisory Board institutionally; Coordinating the work of the General and Supervisory Board and ensuring the correct operation of its committees, being entitled to attend any meeting and being kept informed of their activities; Proposing to the plenary General and Supervisory Board the members, the Chairman and, when appropriate, the Vice-Chairman of each committee; Ensuring that the members of the General and Supervisory Board punctually receive the information they need for their duties; Requesting from the Executive Board of Directors relevant information for the General and Supervisory Board and its committees to perform their duties and ensuring that the members of the General and Supervisory Board receive it in good time; Taking the necessary measures to ensure that the General and Supervisory Board adequately monitors the activity of EDP and the Executive Board of Directors in particular; Monitoring implementation of the General and Supervisory Board’s budget and managing the material and human resources assigned to it; Ensuring correct implementation of General and Supervisory Board decisions. The Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board or, in his/her absence or incapacity, a member delegated by the board for that purpose, may attend meetings of the Executive Board of Directors whenever s/he sees fit and take part in the discussion of matters to be submitted to the General and Supervisory Board, without having any voting rights pursuant to Article 21 (10) of EDP's Articles of Association. The members of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee have a duty to attend the meetings of the Executive Board of Directors when the accounts are appraised, (see Article 4 (3) (e) of the Rules of Procedure of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee). With the assistance of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the General and Supervisory Board annually performs: A self-assessment of its activity and performance and those of its committees, the conclusions of which are set out in its annual report (see Article 10 of the General and Supervisory Board Internal Regulations); An independent assessment of the activity and performance of the Executive Board of Directors, the conclusions of which are submitted to the General Meeting and are presented in an annex to the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board. EDP, on the initiative of the General and Supervisory Board has voluntarily established a formal, impartial process to assess the activity of this board and of the Executive Board of Directors. Experience of recent years ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 153 has allowed the General and Supervisory Board to make some changes in the process to make it more effective and efficient. The method used comprises the following stages: After the year’s end, the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board sends assessment questionnaires to the members of its Board. The questionnaires are answered individually and are confidential. The General and Supervisory Board Support Office statistically processes the data received and prepares the information for consideration at a General and Supervisory Board meeting; The General and Supervisory Board issues its assessment opinions and they are included in this board's annual report; At the General Meeting, the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board presents the board's opinion in the item of the agenda for assessment of the Executive Board of Directors. POWERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Executive Board of Directors is a collegial body. Individual directors in office are only allowed to represent one absent director at each meeting. All directors have equal voting rights and the Chairman has the casting vote. The powers of the Executive Board of Directors, in accordance with the Article 17 (1) of the Articles of Association, include: Setting the goals and management policies of EDP and the EDP Group; Drawing up the annual business and financial plans; Managing corporate business and undertaking all actions and operations associated with the corporate object that do not fall within the responsibilities of other company bodies; Representing the company in and out of court, actively and passively, with the power to waive, transact and admit guilt in any legal proceedings and make arbitration agreements; Buying, selling or by any other means disposing or encumbering rights or immovable assets; Setting up companies and subscribing, purchasing, encumbering and selling shareholdings; Deciding on the issue of bonds and other securities in accordance with the law and the Articles of Association, in compliance with the annual quantitative limits set by the General and Supervisory Board; Establishing the technical and administrative organisation of EDP and the rules of procedure, particularly in relation to personnel and their remuneration; Appointing proxies with such powers as it sees fit, including the power to delegate; Appointing the Company Secretary and alternate; Hiring and dismissing the External Auditor on recommendation of the General and Supervisory Board; Exercising any other powers that may be granted to it by law or by the General Meeting; Establishing its own internal rules. Proposals to amend EDP's Articles of Association regarding share capital increases submitted by the Executive Board of Directors require a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 17 (2) (g) of the Articles of Association. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors sends the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board the notices of meetings, support documents and minutes of the meetings and, on request, provides appropriate, timely information, which is accessible to all the members of the General and Supervisory Board and of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. When so requested by other members of the corporate bodies, the Executive Board of Directors also provides all the required information in a timely and appropriate fashion. There is an information sharing portal for the Executive Board of Directors and General and Supervisory Board, which is accessible to all their members. ANNUAL REPORT 154 2015 The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors is granted particular powers by Article 18 of the Articles of Association. These powers are: Representing the Executive Board of Directors; Coordinating the work of the Executive Board of Directors and convening and presiding over its meetings; Ensuring proper execution of the decisions of the Executive Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors is entitled to attend the meetings of the General and Supervisory Board, whenever considered appropriate, except when these concern decisions on the supervision of the work of the Executive Board of Directors and, in general, any situations that may involve a conflict of interest, pursuant to Article 18 (2) of the Articles of Association. In the Executive Board of Directors there is a functional division of management areas to each of its members. The college of directors is responsible for making decisions on all matters within its remit. Delegated powers are not granted to directors individually, because of the board's particular nature. The activity and performance of the Executive Board of Directors are assessed continuously and independently by the General and Supervisory Board on an annual basis. The members of the Executive Board of Directors were responsible for the following management areas and corporate topics up until 21 April 2015: ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 155 The members of the Executive Board of Directors were responsible for the following management areas and corporate topics after 22 April 2015: EDP'S FUNCTIONAL STRUCTURE GROUP'S ORGANISATIONAL MODEL The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for defining the EDP Group's organisational model and dividing duties among the different business units, the service company EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. (EDP Valor) and central structure. This structure consists of a Corporate Centre that provides assistance to the Executive Board of Directors in defining and monitoring the execution of strategies, policies and goals. The Corporate Centre is divided into departments and business units, allowing for optimisation and greater efficiency of the organisational structure. The Executive Board of Directors is also assisted by specialised committees, which ensure more effective monitoring of matters and contribute to the decision-making process. ANNUAL REPORT 156 2015 CORPORATE CENTRE The central support structure for decision-making processes in 2015 was as follows: Corporate Centre • Business Units OFFICES SUPPORT TO GOVERNANCE AREA General Secretariat and Legal office Maria Teresa Pereira Office of the Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors Martim Salgado (1) Internal Audit Department Azucena Viñuela Hernández Office of the Ethics Ombudsman José Figueiredo Soares STRATEGIC AREA Energy Planning Department Pedro Neves Ferreira Business Analysis Department Duarte Castro Bello Risk Management Department Pedro Neves Ferreira Regulation and Competition Department Maria Joana Simões Sustainability Department António Neves de Carvalho FINANCIAL AREA Financial Management Department Paula Cristina Guerra Consolidation, IFRS Reporting and Taxation Department Miguel Ribeiro Ferreira Management Planning and Control Department João Gouveia Carvalho (2) Investor Relations Department Miguel Henriques Viana RESOURCES AREA Organisational Development Department José Filipe Santos Information Systems Department Vergílio Rocha Human Resources Department Paula Maria Carneiro Labour Relations Coordination Office Eugénio Carvalho EDP University António Pita de Abreu (3) MARKETING AND COMMUNICATION AREA Brand, Marketing and Communication Global Coordination Department Paulo Campos Costa Customer and Marketing Department José Ferrari Careto Institutional Relations and Stakeholders Jorge Cruz Morais (3) BUSINESS UNITS Energy Management Business Unit Carlos Mata 1) On 22 Dec ember 2015 the EBD appointed Pedro Mc Carthy Cunha with effec t from 1 January 2016 2) Appointed on 23 April 2015 3) Appointed on 21 September 2015 The current departments and their duties are as follows: The General Secretariat and Legal Office provides administrative and logistical assistance to the Executive Board of Directors and legal advice to EDP companies with their head offices in Portugal, in order to ensure the effective operation of the Corporate Centre, compliance with applicable legislation and harmonisation of corporate governance policies in the Group. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 157 The Office of the Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors assists the CEO in all matters within his/her remit in order to help maximise the effectiveness of decisions and instructions. The main mission of the Internal Audit Department is to conduct internal audits or ensure they are performed in the Group and also run the Internal Control System for Financial Reporting ( SCIRF ) in the Group. It independently assesses this system and proposes and promotes measures contributing to its effectiveness by improving and aligning processes and systems. The Ethics Ombudsman's Office is responsible for conducting ethics procedures or ensuring that they are conducted in the Group, in order to maintain confidentiality and protect rights associated with these procedures. The mission of the Energy Planning Department is to coordinate studies for the Group's energy portfolio development strategy in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in building an integrated view of the portfolio and contributing to the planning of its development in the different regions in which EDP operates. The Business Analysis Department coordinates studies to assist with the Group's overall business strategy and performs development operations via investments, divestitures and/or partnerships in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in optimising EDP's business portfolio and promoting and taking new business opportunities. The Risk Management Department coordinates studies to assess the Group’s risk, in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in monitoring and mitigating risk and to supply integrated analyses of return-risk. The Regulation and Competition Department studies and implements regulatory strategy for the business in the MIBEL and coordinates energy regulation and competition projects for the Group, with the aim of supporting the Executive Board of Directors in decision-making and ensuring regulatory compliance by the companies covered. The Sustainability Department's mission is to analyse, propose and guarantee the Group's sustainability strategy in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in policies and goals and to ensure their implementation in the business units. The remit of the Financial Management Department is to propose and implement the Group's financial management policy and analyse and monitor management of its pension fund in order to optimise and guarantee financial sustainability and control financial liabilities in accordance with Group policy. The Consolidation, IFRS Reporting and Taxation Department is in charge of the Group's IFRS reporting in order to ensure compliance with deadlines and accounting and tax processing that is appropriate and consistent in operations at all the Group companies. The Management Planning and Control Department is responsible for the Group's management planning and oversight, to ensure alignment with strategic goals and monitor implementation of the business plan. The Investor Relations Department communicates with analysts and investors in Group companies to ensure the sustainability of EDP’s image and reputation and fulfil the information requirements of regulators and financial supervisors. The Organisational Development Department analyses, proposes and coordinates the organisation's development and provides Group-wide programmes for implementing its strategy, in order to optimise the competiveness of EDP's organisation and operation. The Information Systems Department is in charge of managing the Group's information and communication systems in the Iberian Peninsula and analysing and proposing the Group's ICT strategy in order to align it with the business units' strategy and create value by providing solutions that foster efficacy, efficiency and innovation in EDP's processes. The Human Resources Department analyses and proposes the Group's human resource strategy and is in charge of group-wide support processes, in order to contribute to the implementation of its business strategy, value and develop all employees and develop a culture that is in line with the corporate values.manages labour relations matters and coordinates labour regulations studies in Portugal, in order to achieve bargaining solutions that are in line with EDP's business goals and ensure that internal regulations are in line with labour legislation. EDP University provides, retains and shares knowledge in the Group in order to reinforce a common culture, foster employees' vocational development and facilitate the appearance of new talents and full use of their skills. In 8 October 2015, the Executive Board of Directors defined the creation of the Brand, Marketing and Communication Global Coordination Department, whose competences are development and execution of the global communication plan; a centralized and optmized management of brand costs; to offer a group vision in all geographies and business areas; to promote a brand positioning that grows with the new business and communication challenges; and to offer an integrated and synergic response to brand, marketing, communication and client areas. Direcção de Coordenacão Global de Marca, Marketing e Comunicacão, desenvolvendo as competências da Area de Coordenacão Global de Marca e Comunicacão e da autonomizacão das áreas de Comunicacão e Marca, que passaram a denominar-se Direcção de Comunicação e Direcção de Marca, cujas funções são o desenvolvimento e execução do plano global de comunicação, uma gestão centralizada e optimizada dos ANNUAL REPORT 158 2015 custos com a marca, oferecer uma visão de grupo, nas diferentes geografias e áreas de negócio, e promover um posicionamento de marca que cresce e evolui de acordo com os novos desafios de mercado, de negócios e de comunicação, e oferecer uma resposta integrada e sinérgica entre as areas de marca, comunicação, marketing e cliente. The Customer and Marketing Department analyses, proposes and monitors the commercial marketing strategy in the Iberian Peninsula in order to build a competitive market positioning and o maximise the profits of the business units covered. The Institutional Relations and Stakeholders provides the Group's stakeholders with integrated, consistent reports, in line with its vision and strategy, in order to maximise the Group's communication potential with its stakeholders and contribute to fluid, systematised information on the Group and its shares. The Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) is responsible for negotiating physical and forward purchases of fuel and contracting maritime transport on behalf of the appropriate EDP Group companies. It is also responsible for spot and forward purchases and sales in the electricity market of a physical or financial nature, such as energy derivatives and foreign exchange operations. It also decides on operation and despatch programmes for the EDP Group power stations whose energy management is its responsibility in order to optimise its portfolio and supply energy to customers of the EDP Group's sellers. It also manages the EDP Group's CO2 allowance operations and green certificates. SPECIFIC EDP COMMITTEES (FUNCTIONAL STRUCTURES) The EDP organisational model provides for management committees that contribute in two ways to the company's decision-making process: They input information to assist the Executive Board of Directors in its decision-making reflecting opinions and information from the areas in the organisation most affected by the proposal in question; They are used by an organisational unit (belonging to the Corporate Centre, a business unit or shared service unit to assist in gathering information, alignment, decisions and implementation of policies and practices with an impact on a number of areas in the organization. Considering the principle of continuous improvement that the EDP Group follows and the committees' importance in the Group's organisational model, the Executive Board of Directors approved a change in structure of the committees and appointed new members in 21 September 2015. On 31 December 2015, the committee structure was as follows: Strategic Corporate Committees Functional Corporate Committees Business Committees Risk Committe Innovation Committee Generation Committee Sustainability Committee Ethic s Committee Distribution Networks Committee Energy Planning Committee Information Disc losure Committee Iberian Commerc ial Committee Transversal Coordination of Internationalization Projec ts Investments Committee Stakeholder Committee Committee Regulation Committee Procurement Committee Pric es and Volumes Committee Acc ident Prevention and Safety Committee Iberian Commerc ial and Market Committee Pension Plan and Fund Committee Management Corporate Development Committee Human Resourc es Committee Information Tec hnology Committee Local Authorities Committee Complianc e Committee Information Sec urity and Data Managemnet Committee I STRATEGIC CORPORATE COMMITTEES RISK COMMITTEE The main duties of the Risk Committee are: Share information on the EDP Group's key risks and risk profile; Discuss the result of significant risk assessment projects undertaken in conjunction with the business units; Discuss and issue opinions or recommendations on policies, procedures, significant risks, risk limits and extraordinary risk situations; Promote and monitor maintenance of the inventory of the most significant risks (risk portal); Approve the periodical reporting model to be submitted by the business units or the Risk Management Department and other mechanisms for reporting and monitoring EDP’s risks. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 159 The Risk Committee's membership is as follows: Risk Committe Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary Head of CC Risk Management Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Risk/Finance) Member of the EBD (Spain) Member of the EBD (Brazil) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Head of CC Energy Planning Head of CC Regulation and Competition Head of CC General Secretariat and Legal Office Head of UNGE Ad-hoc members : Board member of EDP Produção Board Member of EDP Distribuição Board Member of EDP Comercial Board Member of EDP Internacional Board Member of EDP Valor General Manager EDP Spain Representative of EDP Brasil The Risk Committee held three meetings in 2015. SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Sustainability Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Share information and discuss the implications of major legislative packages in the field of sustainability; Share the Group's environmental performance indicators and benchmarks; Discuss and give opinions on the annual Operational Environment and Sustainability Plans (POSA) and the annual consolidated budget; Discuss and give opinions on the annual action plans and the EDP Group's goals and targets; Monitor the progress of approved action plans and the activities of the EDP Group companies' sustainability management structures. ANNUAL REPORT 160 2015 The Sustainability Committee's membership is as follows: Sustainability Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Head of CC Sustainability Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Área Sustainability) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Inovação Board member of EDP Foundation Head of CC Risk Management Head of CC Investor Relations Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC EDP University Head of CC Coordination of Communication Head of CC Institucional Relations and Stakeholder Head of EDP Spain (Environmental) (HC/NG) General Manager of EDP Comercial General Manager of EDP Gás Rep. EDP Renováveis Rep. EDP Brasil The Sustainability Committee held one meeting in 2015. ENERGY PLANNING COMMITTEE The main tasks of the Energy Planning Committee are: Share up-to-date information on the different markets and businesses in which the EDP Group operates (Iberia, wind, Brazil) and the performance of its portfolio in these areas; Analyse attractive business areas along the value chain and in the different geographic areas; Propose a generation portfolio and identify gas and CO2 needs for a 5-year horizon. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 161 The Energy Planning Committee's membership is as follows: Energy Planning Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Head of CC Energy Planning Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD(Renewables) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Brazil) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Brasil General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of CC Business Analysis Head of CC Risk Management Head of CC Management Planning and Control Head of CC Regulation and Competition Head of UNGE Head of EDP Renováveis (Regulação e Mercados) Head of EDP Brasil (Energy Planning) Ad-hoc members : Board Member of EDP Internacional Board Member of EDP Inovação Head of CC Sustainability Head of Investor Relations The Energy Planning Committee held one meeting in 2015. INVESTMENTS COMMITTEE The Investments Committee discusses and issues opinions on proposed investment and disinvestment projects and WACC proposals for the business units. The Investments Committee's membership is as follows: Investments Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Representative of Head of CC Business Analysis Membros CC (besides the secretary) Head of CC Business Analysis Head of CC Management Planning and Control Head of CC Energy Planning Head of CC Risk Management ad-hoc members : Responsible for the investment proposals under analysis The Investments Committee held thirty meetings in 2015. ANNUAL REPORT 162 2015 REGULATION COMMITTEE The remit of the Regulation Committee is as follows: Share regulatory practices in the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of Europe and those followed in Brazil; Analyse the European Commission's energy strategy and policies and the implementation of directives by the internal market and the competition and policies, legislation, regulations and organisation of the energy sectors in Portugal and Spain; Analyse prices and the implications of tariff policies and decisions on regulated activities; Discuss the impacts of developments and regulatory changes; Discuss and give an opinion on proposals for the definition of positions to be defended by the EDP Group in the Iberian and European market. The Regulation Committee's membership is as follows: Regulation Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Regulation and Competition) Secretary: Head of CC Regulation and Competition Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Head of CC Energy Planning Head of UNGE Head of DNG UNGE Head of EDP Spain (Regulation) Head of EDP Distribuição (Regulation) Head of EDP Comercial Head of EDP Brasil (Regulation) Head of EDP Renováveis (Regulation and Markets) Head of EDP Spain (Operations) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Gás (Regulation) Head of EDP Spain (Regulation Gas) (HC/NG) Rep. Head of CC Regulation and Competition (Regulation) Rep. Head of CC Regulation and Competition (Competition) Rep. of EDP Soluções Comerciais (Regulation) Representative of EDP Serviço Universal (Regulation) The Regulation Committee held nine meetings in 2015. PRICES AND VOLUMES COMMITTEE The Prices and Volumes Committee's main duties are: Share relevant, up-to-date information on recent developments in the Iberian electricity and gas markets; Discuss and align historical information and forecasts shared by business areas; Issue an opinion on the forward curve representing the EDP Group's best estimate on the growth of the wholesale market for a one to two-year horizon; Propose adjustments to management of the Iberian wholesale margin (in terms of risk coverage, commercial activity, placement of gas contracts, etc). The Prices and Volumes Committee's membership are as follows: ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 163 Prices and Volumes Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Energy Planning) Secretary: Head of CC Energy Planning Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Trading/Spain) Member of the EBD (Generation) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Renováveis Head of EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of CC Risk Management Head of CC Management Planning and Control Head of CC Regulation and Competition Head of CC Business Analysis Head of UNGE Head of DMO UNGE Head of DME UNGE Head of EDP Spain (Regulation) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Spain (Projects) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Produção (Planning and Control) Head of EDP Spain (Operations Gas) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Renewables (Regulation Markets) The Prices and Volumes Committee held four meetings in 2015. MARKET AND COMMERCIAL IBERIAN COMMITTEE The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Share information on the energy trading market and Iberian business for the supply of electricity, gas and services in all market segments (purchase of natural gas, gas sales balance sheet, customer losses, prices, competition, etc); Analyse the market situation and competitiveness of prices in the different electricity and gas market in segments Portugal and Spain; Propose preferential segments for the placement of gas and price policies in different segments, strategies for gas auctions, gas placement or purchase goals in gas trading, measures to retain strategic customers, adaptation or correction of current commercial policies and setting or revision of intra-group transfer prices; Monitor the implementation of the above measures. ANNUAL REPORT 164 2015 The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee’s membership are as follows: Market and Commercial Iberian Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (UNGE) Secretary: Head of UNGE Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board of Directors of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Head of EDP Spain (Trading) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Spain (Gas) (HC/NG) Adjoint Manager UNGE Head of UNGE (Supply) Head of EDP Spain (Trading B2B) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Spain (Marketing and Trading B2C) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Spain (Operations Gas) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Comercial (B2B) Representative EDP Sucursal em Espanha The Market and Commercial Iberian Committee held eight meetings in 2015. II FUNCTIONAL CORPORATE COMMITTEES INNOVATION COMMITTEE The responsibilities of the Innovation Committee are as follows: Discuss and propose strategic areas of innovation in the EDP Group; Follow the governance model and EDP’s innovation results Discuss and propose changes; Monitor the EDP Group's ongoing innovation initiatives and EDP Group projects in progress and propose corrective action. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 165 The Innovation Committee's membership is as follows: Innovation Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Board member of EDP Inovação CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of Fundação EDP Board member of Labelec General Manager of EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of EDP Renováveis (Technical) Head of CC Energy Planning Head of CC Business Analysis Head of CC Communication Coordination Head of CC EDP University Head of EDP Spain (NG/HC) Ad-hoc members: Head of CC Sustainability Head of CC Organisational Development Head of CC IT Systems Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC Customer and Marketing Others, sub-committees responsible or ad-hoc matters The Innovation Committee held one meeting in 2015. ETHICS COMMITTEE EDP has always operated in a framework of explicit or implicit ethical values. Examples of this are the vision, values and commitments defined by the Executive Board of Directors and the principles of sustainable development with customers, in professional relationships and commitments to shareholders. The Ethics Committee's duties are as follows: Issue opinions on the EDP Group's policy on its code of conduct, good practices and compliance with the highest ethical standards; Propose guidelines on regulation of matters under its remit; Foster correct regulatory application of ethical matters in the EDP Group companies. The Ethics Committee, which was set up after approval of the EDP Group's Code of Ethics, articulates with the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the General and Supervisory Board and its responsibilities are as follows: Draft and propose its Internal Regulations to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee of the General and Supervisory Board; Submit corporate ethics instruments, policies, goals and targets to the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee; Receive and examine cases of infringement prepared by the Ethics Ombudsman and issue an opinion on them; ANNUAL REPORT 166 2015 Issue an opinion, when requested to do so by any of the managing bodies of the EDP Group companies and entities on practices or codes of conduct in the fields of ethics or professional conduct within the framework of specific, legal or regulatory needs; Analyse decisions made by the Ethics Committee of EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. and the Ethics Committee of EDP Renováveis, S.A. referred to it according to 3.3.2 of the Regulations of the Ethics Code; Draft quarterly reports on the EDP Group’s performance in implementing the Code of Ethics; Annually review the Code of Ethics’ suitability to the EDP Group's needs of and draw up a report, on proposal of the Ethics Ombudsman and the Sustainability Department of the EDP Corporate Centre. The Ethics Committee's membership is as follows: Ethics Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Ethics Ombudsman Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Ethics) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Gás Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC Internal Audit Representative of EDP Brasil Ethics Ombudsman Representative of EDP Spain The Ethics Committee held three meetings in 2015. INFORMATION DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE The Information Disclosure Committee's has two main duties: Analysing and assessing information that is or should be provided periodically by EDP during preparation of reports and other communications for the market; Assessing the mechanisms for monitoring and disclosing information about EDP. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 167 The Information Disclosure Committee's membership are as follows: Information Disclosure Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Representative of Head of CC Investor Relations CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Head of CC General Secretariat and Legal Office Head of CC Management Planning and Control Head of CC Finance Management Head of CC Consolidation, Accounting Control and Taxation Head of CC Coordination of Communication Representative of EDP Brazil (Investor Relations) Representative of EDP Brazil (Accounting, Consolidation and Taxation) Representative of EDP Renováveis (Investor Relations) The Information Disclosure Committee held one meeting in 2015. STAKEHOLDERS COMMITTEE The Stakeholder Committee's duties are as follows: Evaluate the alignment and consistency of stakeholder relationship strategies in the different markets and geographical areas where the EDP Group operates; Discuss priorities and propose guidelines and a management model for the Group's relations with stakeholders; Assess compliance with the Group's stakeholder management policy. The Stakeholders Committees’ membership is as follows: Stakeholders Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Head of CC Institutional Relations and Stakeholders Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Distribution Networks) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) Member of the EBD (Brazil) Members CC and BU (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Foundation Board member of EDP Internacional Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC Coordination of Communication Head of CC Customer and Marketing Head of CC Sustainability Head of EDP Spain (HC/NG) Board member of EDP Brasil Representative of EDP Institute The Stakeholder Committee held one meeting in 2015. ANNUAL REPORT 168 2015 PROCUREMENT COMMITTEE The main responsibilities of the Procurement Committee are: Discuss and align strategic guidelines of EDP Group's procurement activity; Validate proposals for amendments to policy and the procurement organizational model of the EDP Group; Validate the procurement annual plan to be approved by the EBD; Promote the alignment of the business units regarding procurement, ensuring the articulation between top management teams; Propose Sponsors and members of the categories of groups and committees oversee the implementation of optimization strategies of categories; Discuss and propose targets for Performance indicators and supervise the performance of the procurement activity at global and local level. The Procurement Committee's membership are as follows: Procurement Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Head of EDP Valor (DNC) Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (EDP Valor) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) BU Members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Brazil Board member of EDP Renewables General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) The Procurement Committee held one meeting in 2015. ACCIDENT PREVENTION AND SAFETY COMMITTEE The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee has the following main responsibilities: Issue an opinion on proposals for setting the EDP Group’s goals in terms of occupational prevention and safety; Analyse the Annual Report and issue an opinion on the EDP Accident Prevention and Safety Action Plan; Assess the main occupational safety indicators and propose ways of improving them; Issue opinions on the regulatory documents of the safety management system that cover the EDP Group as a whole or cut across different sectors. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 169 The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee's membership is as follows: Accident Prevention and Safety Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (EDP Valor) Secretary: Head of EDP Valor (DSS) CC and BU Members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Valor Head of CC EDP University Responsible of Health and Safety (DSS EDP Valor) Representative of EDP Gás Representative of EDP Spain (HC/NG) Representative of EDP Brazil Representative of EDP Renováveis The Accident Prevention and Safety Committee held two meetings in 2015. PENSION PLAN AND FUND COMMITTEE The Pension Plan and Fund Committee's main responsibilities are: Share significant information with an impact on management of the pension fund; Analyse the performance of assets under management, fund profitability and management mandates and the performance of the different asset managers; Monitor the value of the fund's liabilities and level of financing; Issue an opinion on investment policy and/or management mandates, actuarial assumptions used in calculating the fund's liabilities and members' contributions to the fund. The Pension Plan and Fund Committee's membership is as follows: Pension Plan and Fund Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Finance) Secretary: Head of CC Finance Management CC and BU Members (besides the secretary) Head of Human Resources Head of CC Risk Management Head of CC Consolidation, Control Accounting and Taxation Representative Head of Human Resources (Labour Relations) The Pension Plan and Fund Committee held four meetings in 2015. CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE The Corporate Development Committee's duties are as follows: Promote and monitor group-wide programmes arising from the organisational and operational priorities established at the corporate level; Promote and analyse organisational benchmark studies; Analyse, discuss and issue opinions on proposed changes to the management model of Group processes and monitor their implementation; Coordinate the optimisation of processes of corporate interest; ANNUAL REPORT 170 2015 Assess and issue opinions on the support tools and organisational efficiency to meet the common needs of the EDP companies in terms of organisation and operation. The Corporate Development Committee's membership are as follows: Corporate Development Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Organisational Development) Secretary: Head of CC Organisational Development Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Human Resources) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Brazil Board member of EDP Gás Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Valor General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC IT Systems Representatives of CC Organisational Development (Organization) Representatives of CC Organisational Development (Process) The Corporate Development Committee held two meetings in 2015. HUMAN RESOURCES COMMITTEE The Human Resources Management Committee's responsibilities are as follows: Discuss and align the definition of people management strategy of the EDP Group; Analyze key indicators for the different potential segments, and discuss and align development policies and instruments; Share information and issue opinions on measures to promote internal mobility; Discuss and share initiatives aimed at cultural alignment and promoting a culture of meritocracy; Discuss and issue an opinion on the annual budget of Human Resources EDP Group and monitor its progress; Promote best practices in diversity, proposing the incorporation and compliance with the Group's policy. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 171 The Human Resources Committee's membership are as follows: Human Resources Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Head of CC Human Resources Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (HR/Brazil) Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) Member of the EBD (Distribution Networks) Member of the EBD (International) Member of the EBD (Trading, Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Gás Board member of EDP Brasil (Human Resources) Board member of EDP Foundation Head of CC Communication and Brand Head of CC Organisational Development Head of CC EDP University Head of CC Institutional Relations and Stakeholders Ethics Ombudsman Ad-hoc members: Manager EDP Brazil (HR) Manager EDP Renováveis (HR) Manager EDP Spain (HR) (HC/NG) Representative Headif CC Human Resources, according to meeting's agenda The Human Resources Committee held two meetings in 2015. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE The Information Technology Committee's duties are as follows: Discuss and issue opinions on guidelines for the strategic planning of information systems; Validate the plan and annual budget for the IT; Align priorities related to strategic projects; Issue an opinion on the relationship model between DSI and Corporate Business Units; Appreciate the performance of projects, systems and associated services, developing recommendations to achieve greater efficiency and availability. ANNUAL REPORT 172 2015 The Information Technology Committee's membership is as follows: Information Technology Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Área Sistemas de Informação) Secretary: Head of CC Sistemas de Informação CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Inovação Board member of EDP Renováveis General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of CC Organisational Development Head of CC Human Resources Head of UNGE The Information Technology Committee held three meetings in 2015. LOCAL AUTHORITIES COMMITTEE The Local Authorities Committee's duties are: Share information, events and projects that are important to relations with local authorities in each business area; Analyse strategy for settling disputes, negotiation of specific issues and creation of business opportunities; Analyse, discuss and issue opinions on relations between the Group's areas and local authorities and procedure priorities; Promote and coordinate promotional events in municipalities to develop relationships or exploit business opportunities; Promote a support platform for relations with local authorities for recording contacts with them and other information on their monitoring and relations. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 173 The Local Authorities Committee's membership is as follows: Local Authorities Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Distribution) Secretary: Board member of EDP Distribuição Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Other EBD's Members (ad-hoc/depending on the matters under discussion) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Gás Distribuição (Portgás) Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of EDP Imobiliária Representative of EDP Foundation Head of CC Communication Coordenation Head of CC Institutional Relations and Stakeholders Head of EDP Distribuição (Institutional Relations) The Local Authorities Committee held four meetings in 2015. COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE The Compliance Committee and has the following responsibilities: Monitoring the evolution of rules and regulations in the regulatory, legal and financial matters, applicable to the Group's operations in Portugal; To monitor and assess Group compliance on rules and regulations within the Committee; Assess the need for developing compliance reinforcement measures against the legal provisions fall within the scope of the Committee; Coordinate the implementation of the “Norma” Compliance Programme, the measures adopted under the project “Norma”; Evaluate and issue an opinion on compliance with the Compliance Programme and report results produced annually by the Compliance Officer; Ensure the interactions considered necessary with the Compliance Officer. ANNUAL REPORT 174 2015 The Compliance Committee is composed as follows: Compliance Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD Secretary: Head of CC Auditoria Interna Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Distribution) Member of the EBD (Finance) Member of the EBD (Regulation and Competition) Member of the EBD (Trading) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Soluções Comerciais Board member of EDP Gás Board member of EDP Valor Head of CC General Secretariat and Legal Office Head of CC Risk Management Head of CC Regulation and Competition Head of CC Consolidation, Accounting Control and Tax Head of CC Organisational Developemnt Head of CC Information Systems Ethics Ombudsman Representative of EDP Distribuição (Legal) Representative of EDP Gás (Regulation) Representative of EDP Brazil The Compliance Committee held two meetings in 2015. INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE The Information Security and Data Governance Committee, established in 21 September 2015, has the following responsibilities: Propose and promote initiatives and guidelines to ensure alignment between the various areas and group companies involved in information security; Discuss and issue opinions on the political and strategic security plan of the EDP Group's information and monitor its implementation; Assess risks and advise on exceptions to the application of information security policy; Monitor serious incidents and the evolution of the Group's information security risk profile, promoting safety initiatives and the development of policy and procedures; Data management; Discuss and advise on strategy, objectives, policies and data lifecycle management standards; Assess and advise on the plan and data governance overall budget and on the allocation of ownership of each master data; Follow the transversal project data to different BU, the operationalization of the defined data organization strategies and promoting corrective action and resolution scaling situations of conflict related data; ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 175 The Information Security and Data Governance Committee is composed as follows: Information Security and Data Governance Committee Chairman: Chaiman of the EBD (Information Systems) Secretary: Head of CC Information Systems Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Trading) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Valor Board member of EDP Brasil Board member of EDP Comercial Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP Inovação General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) Head of CC Customer and Marketing Head of CC Internal Audit Head of CC Risk Management Manager of EDP Renováveis Manager of EDP Produção Head of Information Security (IT) Head of Data EDP Soluções Comerciais O Information Security and Data Governance Committee realizou uma reunião em 2015. III BUSINESS COMMITTEES GENERATION COMMITTEE The Generation Committee's main duties are: Exchange information on business performance in each region, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of generating companies; Develop a uniform view of the business and maintain multi-region benchmarking (organisation, processes and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). ANNUAL REPORT 176 2015 The Generation Committee's membership is as follows: Generation Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Generation) Secretary: Rep. EDP Produção (Knowledge Management) Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Spain) Member of the EBD (Brazil) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) BD of EDP Produção Board member EDP Brasil Board member EDP Internacional Head of UNGE Head of CC Planeamento Energético Head of CC Sustentabilidade Manager EDP Spain (Project) (HC/NG) Ad-hoc members : Other, working groups responsible or ad-hoc matters The Generation Committee held two meetings in 2015. DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS COMMITTEE The Distribution Networks Committee's duties are as follows: Exchange information on business performance in each region, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of distributing companies; Develop a uniform view of the business and maintain multi-region benchmarking (organisation, processes and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 177 The Distribution Networks Committee’s membership is as follows: Distribution Networks Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Distribution) Secretary: Board member of EDP Distribuição Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Gás Distribuição (Portgás) Board member of EDP Brazil Board member of EDP Spain (Distribution) (HC/NG) Representative of EDP Branch in Spain Ad-hoc members : Head of CC Organisational Developemnt Head of CC Energy Planning Head of CC Regulation and Competition Head of CC Human Resources Head of CC Sustainability Head of EDP Distribuição (Regulation) Head of EDP Distribuição (Environmental) Head of EDP Distribuição (Human Resources) Head of EDP Spain (Regulation) (HC/NG) Head of EDP Spain (Environmental) (HC/NG) General Manager EDP Brasil (Distribution) Board member of EDP Inovação (*) Board member of Labelec (*) Head of CC EDP University (*) (*) Other, sub-committees responsible or ad-hoc matters The Distribution Networks Committee held three meetings in 2015. IBERIAN COMMERCIAL COMMITTEE The Iberian Commercial Committee's duties are as follows: Exchange information on business performance in each region and in the Iberian Peninsula, including the critical environments (regulations, etc); Discuss, align and issue opinions on key matters (such as goals, marketing plan, etc) for approval by the Executive Board of Directors or Board of Directors of supply companies; Develop a uniform, integrated view of the Iberian business and maintain the multi-region benchmarking (marketing, products, commercial matters and management information); Foster (best) common practices in selected processes or activities; Share unique or specialised assets (human, technological, knowledge). ANNUAL REPORT 178 2015 The Iberian Commercial Committee’s membership is as follows: Iberian Commercial Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD (Área Comercial) Secretary: General Manager EDP Spain (HC/NG) Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Regulation and Competition) Member of the EBD (Spain) CC and BU members (besides the secretary) Board member of EDP Serviço Universal Board member of EDP Comercial (B2B) Board member of EDP Comercial (B2C) Board member of EDP Gás Serviço Universal Board of Directors of EDP Soluções Comerciais Head of CC Customer and Marketing Head of CC IT Systems Head of CC Communication Coordination Head of UNGE Manager EDP Spain (Commercial B2B) (HC/NG) Manager EDP Spain (Commercial B2C) (HC/NG) Representative of EDP Spanish Branch Ad-hoc members : Head of EDP Comercial Marketing GC Head of EDP Comercial Marketing PME&E Head of EDP Comercial Marketing B2C The Iberian Commercial Committee held four meetings in 2015. TRANSVERSAL COORDINATION OF INTERNATIONALISATION PROJECTS COMMITTEE The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee's duties are as follows: To share studies and revelant information for the business development on the areas outside Portugal; Analyse promotional commercial activities in all geographies; Discuss, align and issue opinions on key issues for the business international development; Follow the process composition of commercial proposals; Foster (best) common practices. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 179 The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee has the following composition: Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee Chairman: Member of the EBD ( Internationalization) Secretary: Board member of EDP Internacional Members of the EBD (besides the Chairman): Member of the EBD (Renewables) Member of the EBD (Generation) CC and BU members (besides the secretary): Board member of EDP Produção Board member of EDP Distribuição Board member of EDP Renováveis Board member of Labelec Head of CC Business Analysis Manager of EDP Internacional Manager EDP Renováveis Head of Project A2D The Transversal Coordination of Internationalisation Projects Committee held two meetings in 2015. IV CUSTOMER OMBUDSMAN The Customer Ombudsman is an independent entity that was created in 2009 to reinforce the EDP Group's customer care policy. Its responsibilities are as follows, pursuant to Article 9 of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations: Receive and examine complaints filed by customers and directly related to actions or omissions by EDP Group companies; Enter into dialogue with customers making a complaint; Arbitrate disputes and conflicts between customers and EDP Group companies; Issue opinions on matters relating to the activity of EDP Group companies, if requested to do so by any of their corporate bodies; Propose measures to improve quality of service and customer satisfaction; Contact third parties to obtain specialist information so that recommendations can be made to the EDP Group companies on measures to be taken to improve their customer relations. The Customer Ombudsman's term of office is three years, and is renewable twice, for an equal period (Article 5 (2) of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations). In the performance of his duties, the Customer Ombudsman has an independent Customer Ombudsman Office and an annual budget (Article 20 of the EDP Group Companies' Customer Ombudsman Regulations). V SUBSIDIARY IN SPAIN Subsidiary EDP España manages and coordinates the energy interests of the EDP Group's dependent subsidiaries in Spain. Its management and supervisory bodies ensure optimisation of synergies and creation of value in operations and activities in Spain. It is also the organisational platform Iberian integration of support services. To this end, Suubsidiary EDP España owns all the majority financial holdings in EDP Renováveis and HC ENERGÍA and, indirectly, in Naturgas Energía Grupo S.A. (Naturgas) via majority control of it, among others Subsidiary EDP España has offices in Madrid and Oviedo. It is represented in relations with third parties by permanent representatives, who have been appointed members of the EDP Executive Board of Directors for that purpose. The company's steering, coordination, management and representation structure consists of an Executive Committee and Management Committee. The Executive Committee is composed of five permanent EDP representatives, one Group Controller for activities in Spain, and front line managers in charge of the business units in Spain. This committee basically serves as the coordinator of the permanent representatives' activities. ANNUAL REPORT 180 2015 The Management Committee is chaired by the Group Controller and is a natural extension of the management departments at the EDP Corporate Centre, i.e. the Business Analysis, Legal, Audit, Financial and Management, Commercial Shared Services, Information Systems departments, Human Resources and EDP España Foundation. The committee groups and performs the tasks of these departments in Spain. The Subsidiary EDP España is represented in Committees in the the EDP Iberian committees, namely: Iberian Commercial and Market Committee, Distribution Grids Committee and Iberian Commercial Committee. EDP Energias de Portugal, Sucursal en España, Sociedad Anonima ADMINIST RAT ION, COORDINAT ION, MANAGEMENT AND REPRESENT AT ION ST RUCT URE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Permanent EDP Representative António Mexia (Presidente) Permanent EDP Representative Nuno Almeida Alves Permanent EDP Representative João Manso Neto Permanent EDP Representative António Martins da Costa Permanent EDP Representative Miguel Stilwell de Andrade Chairman of the Board, HC Energía Manuel Menéndez Menéndez General Corporate Activities Spain Miguel Ribeiro Ferreira 1st Line Responsible, HC Energía Javier Sáenz de Jubera 1st Line Responsible, NG Energia Massimo Rossini 1st Line Responsible, EDP Renováveis João Paulo Costeira MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Legal Department Pelayo Echavarria Financial and Management Department Félix Arribas Human Resources Department Félix Arribas Information Systems Department José Negueruela Internal Audit Department Azucena Viñuela Business Analysis Department João Nicolau Commercial Shared Services Department Rita Ferreira EDP España Foundation Department Vanda Martins GENERAL SECRETARY José Luis Martínez Mohedano B) O PE R A T I O N 22. LOCATION WHERE THE OPERATING REGULATIONS OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD AND EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CAN SER CONSULTED The operations of the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Directors are governed by their Internal Regulations, available on EDP's website, at “http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx”. 23. MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE RATE OF EACH MEMBER OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD AND EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ordinary meetings of the General and Supervisory Board are held at least once every quarter and extraordinary meetings take place whenever convened by the Chairman, on his/her own initiative or at the request of any of its members, the Executive Board of Directors or its Chairman, pursuant to Article 24 (1) of the Articles of Association and Article 19 (1) of the Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board. The General and Supervisory Board met ten times in 2015 and minutes were kept of all the meetings. Information on the attendance of each member of the board is provided in Annex II to this report. Pursuant to the provisions of Article 20(1) of the Articles of Association and Article 6(1) of the Rules of the Executive Board of Directors, this body will have ordinarily met at least twice a month, as fortnightly meetings were compulsory. Nevertheless, the Executive Board of Directors meets weekly, as a rule. The Executive Board of Directors met forty-eight times in 2015 and minutes were kept of all the meetings. Information on the attendance of each member of the board is provided in Annex III of this report. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 181 24. C O M P A N Y B O D I E S W I T H P O W E R S T O E V A L U A T E P E R F O R M AN C E O F E X E C U T I V E DIRECTORS The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is responsible for, namely, the annual evaluation of the Executive Board of Directors, taking into account, among other factors, the fulfillment of the company's strategy and the previously set goals, plans and budgets for the purpose of considering and determining the variable remuneration of the Chairman and of the other members of the Executive Board of Directors. It also evaluates the individual performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors, including this evaluation the contribution of each member to the mode of operation of this body and the relationship between the various corporate bodies of the company. 25. PRE-DETERMINED CRI TERIA FOR PERFORMA NCE EVALUATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS These criteria for evaluating the performance of the Members of the Executive Board of Directors are set out in points 69 and 71 of the Corporate Governance report. 26. P O S I T I O N S H E L D A T O T H E R G R O U P O R N O N G R O U P C O M PA N I E S B Y E A C H M E M B E R O F T H E G E N E R A L A N D S U P E R V I S O R Y B O A R D A N D E X EC U T I V E B O A R D O F DIRECTORS The positions held by members of the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Board of Directors in other EDP Group or non-group companies are shown in Annex I and IV. C) CO M M IT T E E S O F T H E M AN A G I N G O R S UPE R V ISO R Y BO DY 27. COMMITTEES SET UP IN THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD AND EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Internal Regulations of the General and Supervisory Board provide for the establishment of standing committees and ad hoc committees, composed of some of its members, without prejudice to its responsibility for the exercise of its duties as a corporate body. These committees may be set up whenever it sees fit and appropriate and have specific duties delegated to them. The main remit of the standing and ad hoc committees is specific, continuous monitoring of the matters entrusted to them, in order to ensure informed decisions by the General and Supervisory Board or provide it with information on certain matters. The committees' activity is coordinated by the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board, who ensures proper articulation of the committees with the plenary board through their chairmen, who keep him informed by sending notices and the minutes of meetings. The General and Supervisory Board believes that the committees are important to the regular functioning of the company as they can perform certain delegated duties, especially monitoring the company's financial information, reflecting on its governance system, assessing the performance of directors and evaluating its own overall performance. The General and Supervisory Board in office until 21 April 2015 had five specialised committees: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Strategy Committee, Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee, and Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. The General and Supervisory Board that took office thereafter, established in the meeting of 22 April 2015 its specialized committees: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Strategy Committee, Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee, and Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. In the meeting of 18 June 2015, the General and Supervisory Board considered the competences of the Strategy Comitttee and of the Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee were totally compatible and, in several situations, interdependent, having thus decided to fusion both committees, creating the Strategy and Perfomance Committee. On such meeting all the internal regulations for all the commitees was approved by the General and Supervisory Board. 28. M E M B E R S H I P O F T H E E X E C U T I V E C O M M I T T E E A N D / O R N AM E O F M A N A G I N G DIRECTOR(S) Not applicable to EDP's governance model ANNUAL REPORT 182 2015 29. D U T I E S O F E A C H C O M M I T T E E A N D S U M M A R Y O F W O R K P ER F O R M E D W H I L E CARRYING THEM OUT A. THE COMMITTEES OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE/AUDIT COMMITTEE The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is made up of five independent members with the appropriate qualifications and experience, including at least one member with a degree in the area of the committee’s duties and specific knowledge of auditing and accounting, as confirmed by the Curriculum Vitae of Chairman, which can be viewed in the chapter on corporate bodies. The Financial Committee/Audit Committee had the following members until 21 April 2015: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee First appointment date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 21-02-2012 Vice-Chairman Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves 13-07-2006 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 07-05-2009 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 13-07-2006 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 The Financial Committee/Audit Committee had the following members after 22 April 2015: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee First appointment date Chairman António Sarmento Gomes Mota 07-05-2009 Vice-Chairman João Carlos Carvalho das Neves 22-04-2015 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 22-04-2015 Maria del Carmen Ana Fernández Rozado 22-04-2015 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 In accordance with the article 444 (2) of the Companies Code, the Articles of Association and the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, are assigned to this Committee, by delegation from the General and Supervisory Board, the following powers: Issue opinions on the annual report and accounts; Permanently oversee the work of the Statutory Auditor and the External Auditor of EDP and issue opinions on the Statutory Auditor's election or appointment, removal from office, independence and other relations with EDP; Permanently monitor and assess internal accounting and auditing procedures and the efficacy of the risk-management system, internal control system and internal audit system; Monitor the bookkeeping, accounting records, supporting documents and the status of any assets or securities held by EDP in any capacity, as and when it sees fit; Exercise the powers expressly granted by the General and Supervisory Board; Exercise any other powers that may be specifically granted by law. As a specialised committee of the General and Supervisory Board, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee also assists it in the hiring and dismissal of the External Auditor, pursuant to Article 10 (1) (k) of the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. The membership, role and functioning of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are in line with the European Commission Recommendation of 15 February 2005 (2005/162/EC), supplemented by the European Commission Recommendation of 30 April 2009 (2009/385/EC). In view of these duties, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee held eleven meetings in 2015, as envisaged in its Activity Plan. The matters addressed in those meetings were: supervision of the financial reporting and business of EDP, monitoring the activity of Internal Audit Department, monitoring the activity of the Risk Management Department of the EDP group, monitoring the activity of IT Department of the EDP Group, monitoring litigation processes in the EDP group, monitoring the contractual relationship with the statutory auditor and external auditor, their activities and assessing the objective conditions of their independence, ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 183 monitoring reports of irregularities (whistleblowing) and the relationship with the Audit Committees of the subsidiaries. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board, pursuant to Article 27 of EDP’s Articles of Association, defines the remuneration of the Executive Board of Directors as well as any supplements. According to the Articles of Association, the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board must submit a declaration on the remuneration policy followed for the members of the Executive Board of Directors and which it has approved by it. The Remuneration Committee held four meetings during 2015, considering its duties. The following topics were discussed: (i) the 2014 financial year variable annual remuneration policy for the members of the EBD, based on the guidelines already approved and approved at the General Meeting (ii) assessing the adequacy of the current remuneration policy of the members of the EBD and, for this purpose, the Commission decided to hire an external consultant expert in these matters to support the Committee on this matter (iii) analysis and discussion the conclusions of the study carried out by the external consultant on the relative position of the remuneration policy of EBD members of EDP by comparison with those in the market, including PSI 20 and Euro Stoxx Util 600 Companies and (iv) determination of the remuneration policy of the EBD members for 2016 in terms of fixed remuneration and annual variable remuneration and for the triennium 2015-2017, in terms of multiannual remuneration The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is made up of members of the General and Supervisory Board with the appropriate qualifications and experience, who are all independent from the managing body. This committee always has a representative at the General Meetings of Shareholders. Until 21 April 2015, the Remuneration Committee had the following members: First appointment Remuneration Committee of the GSB date Chairman Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 13-07-2006 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 22-05-2012 Guojon Lu 11-05-2012 Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto 18-04-2012 The Remunerations Committee then had the following members after 22 April 2015: First appointment Remuneration Committee of the GSB date Chairman Yang Ya 22-04-2015 Fernando Masaveu Herrero 22-04-2015 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 22-05-2012 João Carvalho das Neves 22-04-2015 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 22-04-2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is a specialised committee of the General and Supervisory Board. Its purpose is to permanently monitor and supervise all matters related with the following: Corporate governance; Strategic sustainability; Internal codes of ethics and conduct; Systems for assessing and resolving conflicts of interests, in particular pertaining to relations between EDP and its shareholders; Monitoring of the definition of criteria and duties to be complied with in EDP's bodies or subsidiaries and their repercussions on their membership; and ANNUAL REPORT 184 2015 Drafting of succession plans. The role of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is to assist the General and Supervisory Board in the continuous evaluation of the management and the performance assessment of the General and Supervisory Board itself. The General and Supervisory Board makes this assessment annually, based on the committee’s work, and publishes them in a report. The conclusions of this assessment are included in the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board and presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The topics covered in-depth at the five meetings held in 2015 of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, in compliance with its specific duties, were the following: reporting of relevant situations in terms of Conflicts of Interest, conduct and ethics, sustainability, corporate image and approval of the new Manual of Corporate Governance and monitoring the activities of the Office of the Ethics Ombudsman. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is made up of members of the General and Supervisory Board, the majority of whom are independent, with the appropriate qualifications and experience for their duties. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee had the following members until 21 April 2015: First appointment Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee date Chairman Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 18-04-2012 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 18-04-2012 Maria Celeste Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 18-04-2012 Shengliang Wu 11-05-2012 The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee then had the following members after 22 April 2015: First appointment Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee date Chairman Luís Filipe Marques Amado 22-04-2015 Felipe Fernández Fernández 22-04-2015 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 22-04-2015 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 Shengliang Wu 11-05-2012 STRATEGY COMMITTEE AND COMPETITIVENESS AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS COMMITTEE Until 21 April 2015, the Strategy Committee was composed of the following members: Strategy Committee First appointment date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 18-04-2012 Vice-Chairman Dingming Zhang 11-05-2012 Felipe Fernández Fernández 18-04-2012 Harkat Abderezak 18-04-2012 Jorge Braga de Macedo 18-04-2012 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 18-04-2012 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 09-05-2013 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 09-05-2013 Shengliang Wu 09-05-2013 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 185 From 22 April 2015 to 18 June 2015, the Strategy Committee was composed of the following members: Strategy Committee First appointment date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 18-04-2012 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 18-06-2015 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 09-05-2013 Dingming Zhang 11-05-2012 Fernando Maria Masaveo Herrero 22-04-2015 João Carlos Carvalho das Neves 22-04-2015 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 18-04-2012 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 18-04-2012 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 09-05-2013 Ferhat Onoughi 22-04-2015 Shengliang Wu 22-04-2015 The Strategy Committee met three times up until 18 June 2015 and the respective minutes were drawn up. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS AND COMPETITIVENESS COMMITTEE Until 21 April 2015, the Competitiveness and Performance Analysis Committee was composed of the following members: Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee First appointment date Chairman Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira 18-04-2012 Vice-Chairman Ya Yang 11-05-2012 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 18-04-2012 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 18-04-2012 Fernando Masaveu Herrero 18-04-2012 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 09-05-2013 Shengliang Wu 09-05-2013 From 22 April 2015 to 18 June 2015, the Competitiveness and Performance Analysis Committee was composed of the following members: First appointment Performance Analysis and Competitiveness Committee date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 18-04-2012 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 18-06-2015 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 09-05-2013 Dingming Zhang 11-05-2012 Fernando Maria Masaveo Herrero 22-04-2015 João Carlos Carvalho das Neves 22-04-2015 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 18-04-2012 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 18-04-2012 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 09-05-2013 Ferhat Onoughi 22-04-2015 Shengliang Wu 22-04-2015 The Competitiveness and Performance Analysis Committee met three times until 18 June 2015 and the respective minutes were drawn up. ANNUAL REPORT 186 2015 STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE The Strategy and Performance Committee is a specialised Committee of the General and Supervisory Board, the purpose of which is to follow and supervise the questions regarding the following matters at all times: The short-, mediumand long-term scenarios and strategies. The strategic implementation, business planning and the respective budgets. The investments and divestments. Debt and funding. Strategic alliances. Market and competitiveness evolution. Regulation. Analysis of the performance of the Group and the Business Units. The benchmarking of the company group performance compared with the companies at the top of the sector. The assessment of the competitiveness of the EDP business portfolio. The Strategy and Performance Committee is composed of the following members: Startegy and Performance Committee First appointment date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 18-06-2015 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 18-06-2015 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 18-06-2015 Dingming Zhang 18-06-2015 Fernando Maria Masaveo Herrero 18-06-2015 João Carlos Carvalho das Neves 18-06-2015 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 18-06-2015 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 18-06-2015 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado 18-06-2015 Ferhat Ounoughi 18-06-2015 Shengliang Wu 18-06-2015 The Strategy and Performance Committee held five meetings and and the respective minutes were drawn up. B. OTHER COMPANY BODIES ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY BOARD The Environment Board was set up as a company body in 1991. Its name was changed to Environment and Sustainability Board by decision of the Annual General Meeting of 30 March 2006. As a company body, the Environment and Sustainability Board has powers to advise the Executive Board of Directors on environment and sustainability matters. In particular, it provides advice and support in defining the company’s environmental and sustainability strategy and drafting opinions and recommendations on the environmental impact of projects planned by the EDP Group (Article 28 (1) of EDP’s Articles of Association). The current members of the Environment and Sustainability Board, pursuant to Article 28 (2) of EDP’s Articles of Association, have acknowledged competence in the field of environmental protection and sustainability. The members of the Environment and Sustainability Board were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 21 April 2015 for a new term of office for the three-year period between 2015 and 2017. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 187 The Environment and Sustainability Board's membership is as follows: Environmental and Sustainability Board Chairman José Pedro Sucena Paiva Alberto da Ponte António José Tomás Gomes de Pinho José Manuel Viegas Maria da Graça Madeira Martinho REMUNERATION COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL MEETING The remuneration of the corporate bodies, with the exception of the members of the Executive Board of Directors, is defined by the Remuneration Committee elected by the General Meeting (Article 11 (2) (d) of EDP’s Articles of Association). Pursuant to this Article, the majority of the members of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting must be independent. The Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting in force until 21 April 2015 had the following members: Remuneration Committe of the General Meeting Chairman José Manuel Archer Galvão Teles José de Mello Sociedade Gestora de Participações Sociais, S.A. (represented by Luís Eduardo Brito Freixial de Goes) Álvaro João Duarte Pinto Correia From 22 April 2015, the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting has the following composition: Remuneration Committe of the General Meeting Chairman Luís Miguel Nogueira Freire Cortes Martins José Gonçalo Maury Jaime Amaral Anahory III. SUPERVISION A ) CO M PO S IT IO N 30. THE SUPERVISORY BODY EDP's two-tier model of corporate governance has made possible an effective separation between supervision and management of the company. The General and Supervisory Board is the highest supervisory body. 31. M E M B E R S H I P F I N A N C I A L M A T T E R S C O M M I T T E E E F F E C TI V E M E M B E R S A N D TERM OF OFFICE The duties of the Financial Matters Committee /Audit Committee are described in Point 29 of the corporate governance report. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee is made up of five independent members with the appropriate qualifications and experience, including at least one member with a degree in the area of the committee’s duties and specific knowledge of auditing and accounting, as confirmed by the Curriculum Vitae of the Chairman, which The Financial Committee/Audit Committee had the following members until 21 April 2015: The Financial Committee/Audit Committee had the following members until 21 April 2015: ANNUAL REPORT 188 2015 Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee First appointment date Chairman Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 21-02-2012 Vice-Chairman Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves 13-07-2006 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 07-05-2009 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 13-07-2006 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 The Financial Committee/Audit Committee had the following members after 22 April 2015: Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee First appointment date Chairman António Sarmento Gomes Mota 07-05-2009 Vice-Chairman João Carlos Carvalho das Neves 22-04-2015 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 22-04-2015 Maria del Carmen Ana Fernández Rozado 22-04-2015 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 18-04-2012 32. INDEPENDENT MEMBERS OF THE FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE See Point 31. 33. QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF THE FINANCIAL MATTERS CO MMITTEE See Annex I. B) O PE R A T I O N 34. LOCATION AT WHICH THE OPERATING PRO CEDURES OF THE FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE/AUDIT COMMITTEE CAN BE VIEWED The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee's work is governed by Internal Regulations, available on EDP's website at http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx. 35. MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE RATE OF EACH MEMBER OF THE FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE/AUDIT COMMITTEE In 2014, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee met eleven times and minutes of its meetings were kept. Information on the attendance rate of the committee's members is given in Annex V of this report. 36. P O S I T I O N S H E L D I N O T H E R C O M P A N I E S W I T H I N A N D O UT S I D E T H E G R O U P B Y E A C H F I N A N C I A L M A T T E R S C O M M I T T E E / A U D I T C O M M I T T E E M EM B E R See Annex I. C) PO W E RS A N D D UT IE S 37. P R O C E D U R E S A N D C R I T E R I A G O V E R N I N G T H E S U P E R V I S OR Y B O D Y ' S INVOLVEMENT IN HIRING ADDITIONAL SERVICES FROM THE EXTE RNAL AUDITOR The proposal for hiring additional services of the External Auditor and Statutory Auditor is made by the Executive Board of Directors to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and any contracting requires the prior authorisation of that Committee. Rules of procedure on the Provision of Services by the Statutory Auditor and External Auditor of EDP are in force, in this regard, and the implications on the hiring of additional services are described in point 46. There are other rules of procedure adopted by the Executive Board of Directors that ensure all EDP Group companies comply with the rules contained in the referred rules of procedure. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 189 38. OTHER DUTIES OF THE SUPERVISORY BODIES AND, IF APPLICABLE, OF THE FINANCIAL MATTERS COMMITTEE/AUDIT COMMITTEE The duties of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, delegated to it by the General and Supervisory Board pursuant to the Articles of Association and the Internal Regulations of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are described in Point 29. IV. STATUTORY AUDITOR 39. THE STATUTORY AUDITOR AND THE CERTIFIED AUDITOR REPRESENTING IT KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (KPMG), represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, was elected EDP's Statutory Auditor for 2015-2017 at the General Meeting of 21 April, 2015. 40. NUMBER OF YEARS FOR WHICH THE STATUTORY AUDITOR HAS WORKED CONSECUTIVELY WITH THE COMPANY AND/OR GROUP The Statutory Auditor has been working with the company since 31 January 2005. 41. OTHER SERVICES PRO VIDED TO THE COMPA NY BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR The Statutory Auditor is the company body responsible for the examination of the accounting documents. It is elected by the General Meeting for three year terms, pursuant to Article 25 of EDP’s Articles of Association and Article 446 of the Portuguese Company Code. According to the Company Code and the company’s Articles of Association, the Statutory Auditor is responsible for checking (see Article 446 (3) of the Company Code): The regularity of the company’s books, accounting records and their supporting documents; The cash and all assets or securities belonging to the company or received by it as guarantees, deposits or for any other purpose, whenever and however it sees fit; The accuracy of the accounting documents; Whether the company's accounting policies and valuation criteria result in an accurate assessment of its assets and results. A description of the services provided by the statutory auditor can be found on Point 46. V. EXTERNAL AUDITOR 42. THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND CERTIFIED AUDITOR PARTNER REP RESENTING IT EDP's External Auditor is KPMG and Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho, manager of auditing at KPMG, is the partner in charge of overseeing and performing audits of the EDP Group's accounts. KPMG is registered with the CMVM under number 9093. The external auditor performs the necessary audit work to ensure the reliability of the financial reporting and credibility of the accounting documents. The external auditor's duties include checking compliance with remuneration policies and systems, the efficacy of internal control mechanisms and reporting of any deficiencies to the General and Supervisory Board. EDP takes measures specifically aimed at ensuring the independence of the external auditor, in view of the scope of services provided by audit firms. 43. NUMBER OF YEARS FOR WHICH THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND CERTIFIED A U D I T O R P A R T N E R R E P R E S E N T I N G I T H A V E W O R K E D C O N S E C UT I V E L Y W I T H T H E COMPANY AND/OR GROUP EDP's external auditor has been KPMG since December 2004 and Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho has been the certified auditor partner since 2012. 44. POLICY ON AND FREQUENCY OF ROTATION OF EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND CERTIFIED AUDITOR PARTNER REPRESENTING IT ANNUAL REPORT 190 2015 The policy on rotation of the external auditor and certified auditor partner representing it depends on the strict assessment by the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee of the independence and quality of the work done and consideration of the independence of the statutory auditor and external auditor and the advantages and costs of replacing them. The General and Supervisory Board decided, under its duties of selecting and replacing the external auditor, to hold a tendering procedure in 2013. Accordingly, the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee launched a tendering process, inviting 4 audit firms of international repute to submit bids for the provision of statutory audit and external audit services to EDP for the 2014-2016 period. Following the above tendering procedure, and taking into account that the mandate of the statutory auditor ended on 31 December 2014, the General Meeting of April 21, 2015 reappointed KPMG for the period 20152017. Given the recently legislation published on this matter, at the end of the mandate (31 December 2017) the new rules on the mandatory rotation of the statutory auditor shall be complied. 45. BODY RESPONSIBLE FOR ASSESSING THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR AND FREQUENCY OF ASSESSMENT The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee presents annually to the General and Supervisory Board a proposal for the assessment of the independence of the external auditor, which is published in the report of the General and Supervisory Board as well as the result of the appreciation of the proposal. 46. W O R K O T H E R T H A N A U D I T I N G D O N E B Y T H E E X T E R N A L AU D I T O R F O R T H E COMPANY AND/OR SUBSIDIARIES AND INTERNAL PROCEDURES FOR APPROVING HIRING OF THESE SERVICES AND REASONS FOR HIRING THEM Proposals to hire additional services from the external auditor and statutory auditor are made by the Executive Board of Directors to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and their hiring requires prior authorisation from this committee. The Regulations on Services Provided by EDP's Statutory Auditor and External Auditor, available on the EDP website, (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx), on hiring of additional services, requires the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee to deny authorisation of additional services if: The additional service is prohibited; In accordance with the standard of an objective, reasonable informed third party, the service involves a possible threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or the external auditor, i.e. not allowing self-audit or personal interest. In order to implement this CMVM recommendation, the Regulations on Services Provided by EDP's Statutory Auditor and External Auditor define the services in the following categories: AUDIT SERVICES a) Necessary services (including internal control procedures required as part of audits) for the issue of the external auditor’s annual or interim reports on the accounts. b) Services required for compliance with local legislation (including internal control procedures required as part of audits) for the issue of legal certifications of accounts. c) Other services related to the above, with a specific or limited purpose or scope, such as: Opinion on the internal control system on financial reporting; Opinion on the Consumption Efficiency Promotion Plan (PPEC); Opinion on the Environmental Development Promotion Plan (PPDA); Opinion on regulated accounts; Statements of compliance under contractual agreements; Reports on specified accounts, accounting elements or items in an EDP financial statement; Comfort letters in the issue of securities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 191 ADDITIONAL SERVICES Other services for guaranteeing reliability – services that take the form of a commitment, on the basis of appropriate, duly identified criteria, to evaluate or quantify a certain element for which a third party is responsible or to express an opinion providing a certain degree of certainty on this element. a) Tax consultancy – advisory and support services on tax matters. b) Other non-audit related services – covering all other services not included in the other additional service categories. The following additional services were hired from the External Auditor in 2015: Analysis of the business continuity management for some of the Group’s companies in Portugal Due diligence services supporting sale of financial stakes Technical support for a project regarding the harmonization of performance indexes Tax and accountancy consultancy for transactions Support for the review and translation of reports and accountancy manual Technical support for sustainability projects The reasons for hiring these services were essentially i) better understanding of the Group's business and tax issues associated with its business activity, ensuring appropriate knowledge of the relevant information, which favours greater agility and efficiency in providing solutions and ii) it was considered that the hiring of said services were not considered a threat to the independence of the External Auditor and did not foster any situation of personal interest in relation to the guarantee of independence given by the External Auditor. Additional services provided in 2015 account for around 20% of the total value of services rendered to the EDP Group by these entities. 47. ANNUAL REMUNERATION PAID BY THE COMPANY AND/OR SUBSIDIARY OR GROUP COMPANIES TO THE AUDITOR AND OTHER NATURAL OR LEGAL PERSONS B E L O N G I N G T O T H E S A M E N E T W O R K A N D B R E A K D O W N O F P E R CE N T A G E F O R T H E FOLLOWING SERVICES KPMG is responsible for conducting an independent external audit of all the EDP Group companies in Portugal, Spain, Brazil (EDP Renováveis), USA and other countries in which the Group operates. In the subgroup of EDP Brasil independent external auditing is conducted by PriceWaterhouseCoopers. In 2015, the recognised, specialised costs of the fees of KPMG and PriceWaterhouseCoopers for auditing, guarantee and reliability services, tax consultancy and services other than auditing for Portugal, Spain, Brazil, USA and other countries were as follows: KPMG United States of Other Portugal Spain Brazil Total Amercia Countries Audit and Statutory Audit of Ac c ounts 1,859,405 (1) 1,822,522 105,435 1,113,337 901,114 5,801,812 Other Audit Servic es (2) 573,940 560,867 0 0 22,555 1,157,362 Total of Audit Services 2,433,345 2,383,389 105,435 1,113,337 923,669 6,959,173 80% Tax Consultanc y Servic e 844,859 372,583 0 115,768 16,300 1,349,510 Other Additional Servic es 140,260 293,523 0 0 1,212 434,995 Total of Other Services 985,119 666,106 0 115,768 17,512 1,784,505 20% Total 3,418,463 39% 3,049,495 35% 105,435 1% 1,229,105 14% 941,181 11% 8,743,678 100% (1) Inc ludes the remuneration of the Statutory Auditors of EDP amounting 180,000 euros. (2) Inc ludes assurance and reliability servic es of the exc lusive c ompetenc e and responsibility of the Statutory Auditor and External Auditor in ac cordanc e with the regulations on servic es provided approved by the GSB. PRICE WATERHOUSE COOPERS ANNUAL REPORT 192 2015 Euros Brazil Audit and Statutory Audit of Accounts 896,884 Other Audit Services 66,253 Total of Audit Services 963,137 Tax Consultancy Service 0 Other Additional Services 0 Total of Other Services 0 Total 963,137 C. INTERNAL ORGANISATION I. ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 48. R U L E S O N A M E N D M E N T S T O T H E C O M P A N Y ’ S A R T I C L E S OF A S S O C I A T I O N EDP's Articles of Association do not set out special rules on their amendment and the general rule set out in 3 Article 386 (3) of the Company Code therefore applies, i.e. decisions to amend the Articles of Association must be approved at a General Meeting by two-thirds of the votes cast. EDP's Articles of Association may also be amended under the powers of the Executive Board of Directors to move EDP's registered office (Article 2 (1) of EDP's Articles of Association) and increase EDP's share capital (Article 4 (3) of EDP's Articles of Association). Pursuant to the general rule set out in Article 410 (7) of the Company Code, by reference to Article 433 of this code, these decisions by the Executive Board of Directors must be passed by a majority of the votes of the directors present or represented. II. WHISTLEBLOWING 49. WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY AND CHANNELS The EDP Group has consistently implemented measures to ensure the good governance of its companies, including the prevention of incorrect practices, particularly in the areas of accounting and finance. EDP provides Group employees with a channel that enables them to report any alleged unlawful practice or accounting or financial irregularity in their company directly and in confidence to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee of the General and Supervisory Board. With the creation of this channel for reporting irregular accounting and financial practices, EDP aims at: Ensuring that any employee can freely communicate his/her concerns in these fields to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee; Facilitating the early detection of irregular situations that, if they occurred, might cause serious damage to the EDP Group, its employees, customers and shareholders. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee can be contacted by email, fax and post and access to information received in this regard is restricted. The members of this committee are authorised to receive these reports. All complaints sent to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee are treated in strict confidence and the complainant remains anonymous, unless this prevents investigation of the complaint. Pursuant to the regulations, EDP guarantees that whistleblowing employees will not suffer any reprisals or disciplinary action for exercising their right to report irregularities, provide information or assist in an investigation. On 27 October 2011, the General and Supervisory Board approved new regulations, which were submitted for registration with the National Data Protection Authority. The application was approved on 6 July 2012. The Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee informed the General and Supervisory Board of its work as part of the whistleblowing mechanism in 2015. The conclusion was that none of the 60 reports received contained complaints with an impact on accounting, finance, internal control or audit matters, and all the complaints have been dealt and closed by the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee at the end of 2015. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 193 EDP makes available, at its website, greater detail regarding the Whistle Blowing Procedures’ Regulation to adopt in what concerns to Communication of Erroneous Procedures (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/comunicacaodeirregularidades/Pages/ComunicacaodeIrregularida des.aspx). III. INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT 50. PEOPLE, BODIES OR COMMITTEES RESPONSIBLE FOR INTERNAL AUDITS OR IMPLEMENTATION OF INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS Internal control matters are the responsibility of the Corporate Centre, which plays a structural role in assisting the Executive Board of Directors in defining and overseeing implementation of strategies, policies and goals. The most important of the Corporate Centre departments and offices in terms of internal control are the Internal Audit Department and the Risk Management Department. The former performs internal audits or ensures that they are performed in the Group. It is also responsible for the financial reporting internal control system (SCIRF) in the Group, with a view to an independent assessment of the internal control system and implementation of measures to make it more effective by optimising and aligning processes and systems. The Risk Management Department's main responsibility is to coordinate the Group's risk assessment studies in order to assist the Executive Board of Directors in controlling and mitigating them and provide integrated riskreturn analyses. Under the law, the General and Supervisory Board permanently oversees and evaluates internal accounting and auditing procedures, the efficacy of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries from employees and others are handled. This duty has been assigned to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, which, among other tasks, permanently monitors and supervises: EDP’s financial affairs; Internal auditing procedures, the company's accounting practices and the internal control system for financial information and financial reporting, in coordination with the Internal Audit Department; Matters relating to the risk management process, particularly taxation, legal and financial aspects. 51. DESCRIPTION OF HIERARCHI CAL AND/OR FUNCTIONAL DEPENDENCY ON OTHER COMPANY BODIES OR COMMITTEES The Internal Audit Department belongs to the Corporate Centre and although it is answerable to the CEO, it reports in practice to the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee. The department's work is supervised by the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee, which approves the annual internal audit plan before it is sent to the Executive Board of Directors and monitors its systematic implementation. 52. OTHER COMPANY AREAS WITH RISK CONTROL DUTIES The management of risk is an integral part of the common practices of business management and it is the responsibility of all, from the Executive Board of Directors right down to the individual staff member. Each one is responsible for knowing the risks existing in their area of intervention and for managing them in accordance with their role, expertise and delegated responsibilities. The Group manages its meaningful risks in a portfolio approach, optimizing the risk/ return trade-off transversely across its business areas, aiming to create value and to stand out in the markets where it operates. The Group works towards a permanent progress of its risk management processes in order to reflect the evolution of its needs and to maintain its alignment with international risk management best practices. The integration of risk management in the most relevant business and decision making processes is promoted as part of i) strategic development, ii) investment decisions, iii) business plan and iv) operations management, with the purpose of ensuring stability in results and optimize its response to changes in context and opportunities. The risk management process is structured around 3 lines of defence (business operation, risk management and internal and external auditing), each led independently and ensuring an adequate level of segregation relative to one another. The functions of risk identification, analysis, quantification, management and monitoring are followed by a set of bodies with clearly established roles and responsibilities, typified by Group policies that are approved and ratified by the competent bodies of the Group: General and Supervisory Board (GSB), in particular the Financial Committee/Audit Committee, is responsible for monitoring on a permanent basis and evaluating internal procedures for accounting and auditing, in addition to the efficacy of the risk management system, the internal control system and the internal auditing system, including the way in which complaints and queries are received and processed, ANNUAL REPORT 194 2015 whether originating from employees or not. The General and Supervisory Board is additionally responsible for the approval of the Group’s Strategic Plan, ensuring, implicitly, an alignment between management and shareholders regarding risk appetite. Executive Board of Directors (EBD) is the highest body responsible for risk-related decision-making, supervision and management control. It is responsible for setting the management objectives and policies of the EDP Group. It is responsible, among other duties, for defining the Group's risk exposure, in line with the best practices in risk management procedures and policies, as well as the allocation of resources, depending on the risk-return profile of the various options available. Risk Management Department, headed by the Chief Risk Officer lends an integrated and holistic view of the Group's risk position (top-down perspective), supporting the prioritisation and coordination of cross-cutting initiatives, offering a segregated and business-independent view regarding key risks. Its main responsibilities are: i) maintaining and updating the inventory of the Group’s most significant risks and fostering their implementation in the various Business Units and Corporate Areas; ii) promoting and monitoring the implementation of the management and control actions relative to the Group’s most significant risks; iii) systematically measuring specific risks and conducting risk-return analyses, noting and reporting adjustment needs when necessary; iv) defining main concepts, methods and risk measures and Key Risk Indicators (KRI) supplementing the Key Performance Indicators (KPI); v) developing and supporting projects and initiatives aimed at the effective improvement of the management process of significant risks; and vi) supporting the EBD in the risk management and business continuity fields. Corporate Departments and the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) have an important role in the integrated management of risk in their areas of responsibility, in due articulation with the Risk Management Department. Their responsibilities include: i) integration and promotion of risk management and compliance in their areas of responsibility; ii) the implementation of adequate risk management methods and internal control, within the policies and objectives set by the Executive Board of Directors (in coordination with the Risk Management Department); iii) risk transfer through products or services of a material or financial nature; and iv) monitoring and reporting on integrated risk management and the effectiveness of the risk controls implemented in its business activity. All other Business Units have the key role in the operational implementation of risk management, usually having a dedicated staff member (risk officer) directly answerable to the respective Board of Directors, as well as in functional coordination with the Group’s Chief Risk Officer, who leads risk management activities in a segregated and independent fashion from the management of business operations. In Business Units where its size and/or complexity so requires, a local-level replica of the Corporate Risk Management structure is in place, in close communication with the latter. Their responsibilities include: i) integration and promotion of risk management and compliance in their areas of responsibility; ii) the implementation of adequate risk management methods and internal control, within the policies and objectives set by the Executive Board of Directors (in coordination with the Risk Management Department); iii) the development of specialized studies and opinions within the scope of risk management (in coordination with other areas of the Group); iv) risk hedging/mitigation through products or services of a material or financial nature; and v) monitoring and reporting on integrated risk management and the effectiveness of the risk controls implemented in its business activity. Furthermore, there is a set of regular forums for the discussion, analysis and issue of opinions on risk-related topics: EDP Group Risk Committee has the main objective of supporting the decisions of the Executive Board of Directors in the identification, assessment, management and control of risk. It is responsible for: i) the monitoring of significant risks and the EDP Group's risk profile; ii) the approval of the reporting template or other monitoring mechanisms for EDP's risks as presented by the Business Units or by the Corporate Centre units; iii) the approval or definition of recommendations on the Group's significant risks and extraordinary situations in terms of risk, for consideration by the Executive Board of Directors; and iv) issuing recommendations on policy, procedure and risk limits for the EDP Group, for consideration and approval by the Executive Board of Directors. This Committee is held at half-yearly intervals (at least). It is composed of the key decision makers and those responsible for the Group's risk (the Executive Board of Directors, the Corporate Centre and selected Business Units). The Individual Risk Committees are set up and held at Business Unit levels when the degree of complexity of risk management justifies such, taking on a structure replicated from the Group's Risk Committee. These Committees are composed of the key decision makers and those responsible for risks of each Business Unit, typically coordinated by the respective risk officer. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 195 EDP Group’s risk Governance Bodies 53. THE MAIN TYPES OF ECONOMIC, FINANCIAL AND LEGAL RISK TO WHICH THE COMPANY IS EXPOSED IN ITS BUSINESS The taxonomy of risks for the EDP Group combines in an integrated approach and in common language the various mapped risks existing in relation to the Group's different Business Units, structured around four major families: business, financial, operational and strategic. EDP Group’s risks taxonomy ANNUAL REPORT 196 2015 BUSINESS RISKS The business risks encompass all risk factors intrinsically linked to revenue from the core activity of the EDP Group in the generation, distribution and sale of energy in the various countries and markets where it operates. The business risks can be broken down into two different types: Energy market risks, related to electricity prices (pool) and other commodities, renewable energy generating volumes (hydro and wind power), energy consumption (associated with demand) and supply margins. Regarding the price of electricity, the impact is limited by the fact that a significant share of generation is contracted in the long term, as is the case of power plants covered by CMEC1 (in Portugal) or other PPA agreements (especially in relation to EDP Renováveis and most of the installed capacity in Brazil). Currently, generation subject to market price fluctuations includes: i) all ordinary status generation in Spain; ii) the Ribatejo and Lares power plants, new hydroelectric power plant projects, as well as power plants progressively migrating to the market in Portugal until 2017; iii) generation in Brazil in excess of or in deficit to the PPA; and iv) part of the wind energy farms of EDP Renováveis in Spain, USA, Poland and Romania. The Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE) is responsible for proactively acting in the MIBEL2 and other forward markets (including OTC) in order to optimise the margin of market generation and limit the respective risk, according to the delegation of powers clearly established and ensuring periodic M@R Margin at Risk” reporting, based on a proprietary model. UNGE’s operations are adequately framed by a specific risk policy, including exposure limits. Regarding the price of other commodities (mostly fuel and CO2), subject to fluctuation due to supply and demand dynamics or changes in international legislation and relevant only to power plants exposed to market risk, this risk is monitored and proactively managed by the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE), which negotiates and manages coal and gas contracts and CO2 allowances. It is also responsible for mitigation of the fuel prices risk via hedging (including foreign exchange risk in USD, in coordination with the Financial Management Department). Regarding renewable energy generation volumes, the EDP Group has a degree of material exposure to this risk, particularly in relation to water volume (Wind Energy Capability Index3 tends to be less volatile than the Hydroelectric Capability Index4, on an annual basis), arising from its increasing focus on a generation portfolio with ever greater renewable energy. It should be noted that this risk, although it may introduce some volatility in annual results, has a significantly lower impact on NPV5 in the lifetime of the hydroelectric power plants, since it i) diversifies interannually; and ii) is uncorrelated with the market (β6 = 0). Moreover, this risk in Portugal is mitigated for the part of generation that is covered by CMEC. On the other hand, exposure in Brazil is significantly mitigated by i) the fact that there is hydrological diversification throughout the country (through financial coupling mechanisms); as well as ii) the fact that a PPA on fixed energy generation is established; and iii) the fact that the Group joined, in the end of 2015, the hydro risk renegotiation mechanism, which combined with the cap on the spot price (PLD) at R$ 388/MWh7, limits the exposure to the deficit of allocated energy relative to energy sold in PPA (for the Regulated Environment). On the other hand, the normalization of hydrological affluences and reservoir levels, investment plans for new capacity as well as the current macro-economic context contribute to limit the materiality of this risk in the future. Regarding energy consumption (electricity and gas), the EDP Group is subject to fluctuations in the amounts of energy sold (depending on factors such as, among others, economic activity and annual temperatures). A trend of falling energy sales has been noted in recent years, as the result of a slowdown in economic activity in Portugal and Spain. Consumption can also be affected, besides such economic cycle fluctuations, by situations of rationing (as happened in Brazil in 2001). Government estimates indicate a low probability of rationing in Brazil, due to the progressive normalization of hydro affluences and consequently reservoir levels (figures above homologous periods) as well as a slowdown in demand as a consequence of the current macro-economic context. This risk, like the previous one, is difficult to mitigate by itself. EDP chooses to manage it through diversification across multiple technologies, countries and business lines. Regarding sales margins, the current customer migration to the free market enhances the aggressiveness of offers from suppliers and can add additional volatility in terms of market shares and unit margins. Moreover, there is risk associated with deviations in actual consumption from the forecasting model adopted by the Group. These risks are managed by the Group's energy sales companies, with particular emphasis on initiatives to i) strengthening the core offer (e.g., through combined electricity and gas products); and ii) introducing innovative products and services (e.g., 1 Costs of Maintenance of Contractual Balance (compensation mechanism applicable to power plants that had a Contract of Energy Acquisition with REN and migrated to market on the 1st July 2007). The revisibility mechanim contemplated by the CMEC will expire, depending on power plant, by 2017, exposing the respective plants to market risk 2 Iberian electricity market 3 Ratio between the yearly wind energy output vs. reference year 4 Ratio between the yearly hydro energy output vs. reference year 5 Net present value 6 Measure of volatility in comparison to the market 7 Spot price cap increased to R$ 422,53/MWh in 2016 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 197 Funciona and Re:dy). In addition, the Prices and Volumes Committee evaluates and regularly makes recommendations for the dynamic management of this risk. Regulatory risks, related to changes in legislation and regulations that the Group is required to comply with in the various countries and markets in which it operates (in particular, but not limited to, sectoral packages, regulatory frameworks, environmental legislation and taxes, and other). Changes resulting from the introduction of sectoral packages and modifications of revenue models have impacted on the EDP Group in recent years in a material manner, particularly in Portugal (as a result of the Financial Assistance Programme) and Spain (due to the large imbalance of the tariff deficit in that country). It is expected that this risk shall continue to be relevant in the future, although somehow less burdensome as a result of the gradual stabilisation of the macroeconomic environment in Portugal and the tariff deficit in Spain and Portugal. This risk is managed proactively by the EDP Group, through monitoring and thorough preparation of the various dossiers and adopting a constructive and cooperative attitude in their discussion. This allows the materialisation of unfavourable options and/or those out of synch with reality in the different market contexts in which the Group operates to be anticipated and minimised. FINANCIAL RISKS The financial risks encompass the market risk factors linked to the (non-operational) energy business of the EDP Group in the various countries and markets where it operates. Financial risks can be divided into four different types: Financial variables risks, associated with fluctuations in international markets in interest rates, exchange rates, inflation and valuation of financial assets held by the Group. Regarding interest rates, the risk is mainly associated with the percentage of debt at floating rates, as well as any increases in costs associated with fixed rate debt refinancing needs in a context of rising current interest rates. This risk is managed and mitigated by the Group's Financial Management Department, which ensures compliance with the risk profile, using the procedures and tools provided by the Group's risk policies. Periodic reports on the evolution of these variables and sources of risk are prepared. Regarding foreign currency exchange rates, the risk is associated with fluctuations in the cost of the purchase and sale of electricity and fuel and with the cost of investments denominated in foreign currencies, as well as fluctuations in the value of net assets, debt and income denominated in foreign currencies. The EDP Group acts proactively in order to ensure a balanced net structural exposure (assets liabilities) in USD, CAD and PLN. The remaining risks are managed and mitigated by the Group's Financial Management Department, in conjunction with the Energy Management Business Unit, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, in the same way as above. Regarding inflation, the risk is mainly associated with the fluctuation of operating revenues and costs in the various countries where the EDP Group operates. In terms of mitigation, the revenue models of regulated activities as well as part of the PPAs include inflation pegging components in order to preserve adequate revenue for the business activity. A significant component of the Group's current business activities are also focused on markets with stable inflation rates. For the remaining risk, as well as active management of the various supply and services contracts, the EDP Group addresses this risk from an integrated perspective, mitigating it through an appropriate debt profile (fixed rate/floating rate). Regarding the valuation of financial assets, EDP adopts a conservative risk policy with reduced levels of exposure, based on a reduced weight of strategic financial assets and short term cash investments mainly based on bank deposits (without market risk). This risk mainly results from the possibility of devaluation of the financial assets that EDP holds (traded on securities markets). It is managed according to the procedures and tools provided by the Group's risk policies. Counterparty and credit risks, associated with unexpected changes in the compliance capacity with obligations by customers, financial counterparties (mainly associated with deposits in financial institutions) and energy counterparties. Regarding financial counterparties, the adverse macroeconomic and financial environment has led to a fall in ratings of various financial institutions where the Group invests its liquidity (impacted by the adverse macroeconomic and financial environment). This risk is managed through: i) a careful selection of counterparties; ii) an appropriate diversification of risk over multiple counterparties; iii) an exposure based on financial instruments of reduced complexity, high liquidity and of a non-speculative nature; and iv) regular monitoring of the positions held. Regarding energy counterparties, this risk is reduced for operations in an organised market. For operations in OTC markets and fuel purchases, the Energy Management Business Unit (UNGE), which is responsible for monitoring and the interface with wholesale markets, monitors transactions by applying exposure and negotiation limits that have been established and approved in advance by a higher management according to the counterparty rating (external whenever possible, or internally rated if the former is unavailable), and using clearing houses for clearing. The ANNUAL REPORT 198 2015 counterparty risk is also associated with the sale of long-term energy agreements (PPA), which is minimised by the fact that a significant proportion of counterparties in this context are sovereign entities (governments or state-owned electricity systems). Meticulous scrutiny and approval criteria are likewise applied for private counterparties. Regarding customers, the Group is exposed to default risk in Portugal, Spain and Brazil. The average level of risk in Spain is structurally mitigated in terms of expected loss due to a mix of customers with greater weight of the B2B segment (which has less relative weight of average default). The risk in Brazil is mitigated through financial collateral to mitigate the loss (for the Free Contracting Environment), and through the partial recovery of non-compliance by the regulated tariff (for the Regulated Contracting Environment). This is monitored by EDP Distribuição and EDP Soluções Comerciais (in Portugal) and HC Energía and Naturgas (in Spain), which are responsible for carrying out the meter reading cycles and cutting off the service/taking legal action and debt recovery. In addition, mitigation tools such as credit insurance and setting up bank collateral are used, whenever this is deemed necessary. Liquidity/solvency risk, associated with specific cash shortfalls, difficulties in access/cost of credit and rating reduction risk. Regarding possible sporadic cash shortfalls, there is a risk of possible default of the EDP Group in meeting all its short-term liabilities in the committed time periods, or just being able to do so under unfavourable conditions. This risk is mitigated through careful liquidity management, by means of: i) centralisation (cash pooling) of all the Group's liquidity at the holding company except for Brazil; ii) keeping adequate levels of liquidity (cash and firmly committed credit lines) based on detailed forecasting of cash requirements (enough to cover one to two years of refinancing); iii) an appropriate strategy to diversify funding sources; and iv) the diversification of debt type and maturity profiles. Regarding access to and the cost of credit, the EDP Group has achieved, despite the adverse economic context, all funding necessary for the usual roll over of debt and to finance the Group's business. EDP’s Group has successfully continued with its strategic commitment to reduce leverage (expressed as Net Debt/EBITDA excluding Regulatory Assets) over forthcoming years. Additionally, the Group has acted throughout 2015 towards increasing the average maturity of its debt and reducing its average cost. Regarding the risk of a ratings decline, the EDP Group can be impacted in its access to and cost of financing by adverse changes in its rating profile (assigned by international agencies). Regarding this matter, it should be noted positive developments during 2015 either at Group-level rating (upgrade by Moody’s) or at national level (Portuguese Republic rating upgrade by Standard & Poor’s). EDP proactively manages this risk by maintaining a low risk profile and maintaining stable contractual standards, which assure that its liquidity position does not depend on mechanisms as financial covenants or rating triggers. Other liabilities’ risk, associated with obligations relating to the capitalisation of the Defined Benefit Pension Fund of the Group for Portugal (which has a risk associated with the market value of its assets), and additional costs associated with early retirement as well as medical expenses. The liabilities for employee social benefits are calculated annually by an Independent Actuary on the basis of IFRS-IAS assumptions (taking various factors into account, including interest rate, demographic aspects, economic variables and the applicable requirements). The Defined Benefit Pension Fund is regularly monitored by a specific committee that meets at an established frequency (Pension Fund Committee), in terms of the value of its assets and the variations in terms of its liabilities (e.g., actuarially related). OPERATIONAL RISKS The operational risks encompass the risk factors other than those linked to the energy and financial business of the EDP Group in the various countries and markets where it operates, associated with the planning, construction and operation of physical assets, implementation of processes, human resources, information systems and litigation. The operational risks can be broken down into five different types: Physical assets risks, related to unforeseen occurrences in projects under development/construction, damage to physical assets in operation and (technical and non-technical) operating losses, associated with the operation of the assets (mainly in distribution). Regarding projects under development/construction and assets in operation, the EDP Group is exposed to incidents derived from external causes (e.g., seismic or atmospheric phenomena, fire, damage to structures, burglary and theft, environmental pollution) or internal causes (e.g., damage caused by defects of origin and/or faulty installation), which can result in, inter alia, threats to the physical integrity of the Group's employees or third parties, repair or replacement costs of equipment, asset unavailability and consequential loss of profit or compensation to third parties. These risks are initially managed and mitigated by the various operational areas of the Group's business units, which propose and implement in an articulated manner the best practices in terms of the different policies, standards and operating procedures, inspection and regular preventive ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 199 maintenance as well as crisis management plans and business continuity for catastrophic events. To this regard, it should be noted the revision of crisis management and business continuity policies in 2015, in order to ensure the continuous alignment with international best practices. Secondly, a significant portion of the remaining risk is mitigated through a comprehensive range of insurance policies (particularly in terms of property damage, civil liability, and the environment), insured in an integrated manner through a special area for this field the Insurable Risks’ Unit. This approach ensures consistency in the risk management policies, guarantees the dissemination of best practices and strengthens the negotiating position of the Group. The existing insurance policies contribute to significantly mitigate the impact of large-scale events (e.g., associated with extreme and comprehensive weather phenomena, non-availability of revenue generating assets or significant compensation to third parties) as well as much less frequent incidents with catastrophic impact (e.g., earthquakes). Regarding operating losses, the EDP Group is, firstly, liable for regulatory penalties if it does not meet the objectives set for distribution efficiency (technical losses) and also, on the other hand, for the loss of revenue associated with increased consumption of non-invoiced energy (non-technical losses). The various energy distribution business units (EDP Distribuição, EDP Gás, HC Energía, Naturgas Energía, Bandeirante and Escelsa) are responsible for this risk. Programmes are continuously developed to monitor and mitigate this risk (including the launch of comprehensive programmes to combat fraud). Process implementation risks, associated with irregularities in the implementation of various processes (particularly, but not limited to, commercial activities, supplier selection and management, billing and collection from customers, planning and budgeting of activities). This risk is monitored by the various business units. Its mitigation regarding financial reporting is controlled through the group-wide Financial Reporting Internal Control System (SCIRF), which systematically assess both quantitatively and qualitatively the existence and adequacy of the design and documentation of the various existing processes, as well as their internal control mechanisms, based on annual cycles. Personnel risks, associated with incidents impacting on the physical integrity of employees, the impact of unethical conduct and labour and trade union relations. Regarding incidents impacting on the physical integrity of employees, the Group directs its activity around a zero accident culture, with awareness of employees concerning the risks involved in the various activities, as well as continuous identification and implementation of best practices for the prevention and meticulous analysis of incidents. Regarding potentially unethical conduct by employees or other associated entities, the EDP Group regularly develops a training course (for all employees) on ethical models of conduct and behaviour in the presence of transgressions in the ethical domain. This risk is monitored by the Office of the EDP Ethics Ombudsman, which is an independent entity responsible for collecting, analysing and assessing in the Ethics Committee all allegations of unethical conduct, under strict conditions of confidentiality and protection of the respective sources. Moreover, the EDP Group Ethics Committee is responsible for establishing the action lines to mitigate and penalise unethical conduct, whenever necessary, according to the facts collected and reported by the Ombudsman. Information systems risks, associated with both the non-availability of management information systems as well as failures in the integrity and security of their data. These risks are managed by specialised areas within each of the business units (centralised in the Information Systems Department for Portugal and Spain). Criticality and maximum unavailability times permissible for each of the main families of applications have been established for their mitigation, in close coordination with the various Business Units (end users). Disaster recovery redundant systems been sized and implemented (at Sacavém and Ermesinde, in Portugal) to address the business specifications (particularly demanding for the associated critical systems, e.g., the implementation of financial transactions, communication and grid operation and trading of energy). Litigation risks, associated with losses arising from non-compliance with existing tax, labour, administrative, or civil legislation, or any other, that has an economic (penalties, compensation and agreements) and reputation impact. EDP Group analyses, monitors and reports the aggregate exposure and material developments to all relevant bodies, whether at the level of the Board of Directors or the General and Supervisory Board. In addition to overall exposure and by country, all cases deemed to be of a material nature (contingency over EUR 2.5 million) are collected, analysed and reported individually. All ongoing processes are evaluated and classified individually as probable, possible or remote, according to their probability of resulting in a negative impact on the EDP Group. All processes characterised as probable have, in accordance with current legislation, a provision set up equivalent to 100% of the value at risk. This treatment includes not only ongoing disputes (litigation in courts), but also the main contingencies in dispute and not materialised (and which may also translate into a negative impact, either through decision by the court or by out of court settlement). STRATEGIC RISKS ANNUAL REPORT 200 2015 Strategic risks typically incorporate risk of medium to long-term time horizons and low probability of occurrence. In any case, the EDP Group closely monitors and reports on these risks, since it considers that these risks may have a significant impact if they occur. The strategic risks can be broken down into two different types: Risk of the surrounding context, associated with external developments that may have a negative material impact on the Group, in particular but not limited to, the risk of Portugal and/or Spain leaving the Euro, expropriation of assets in countries where it operates, technological disruptions of various kinds, profound changes resulting from climate change and disruptive changes in the competitive paradigm. Regarding the risk of Portugal and/or Spain exiting the Euro (and consequent devaluation of redenominated assets in local currency), the EDP Group believes that the conclusion of the Financial Assistance Programme in Portugal (with no need for a precautionary programme) and the relative stability of the state deficit and government debt in Portugal and Spain suggest a material reduction of the probability of actual occurrence of these risks (compared with previous years). Regarding the potential expropriation of assets, the EDP Group believes that in the current context, political and social conditions are not envisaged for short-medium term that suggest the occurrence of this risk in the various countries where the Group operates. Regarding technological disruption, the EDP Group has sought to position itself at the forefront of technological development in the sector, looking at this issue not as a threat but as a central vehicle for promoting growth in the future. The EDP Group has accordingly actively and transversely invested in and investigated the promotion of new technologies in the various stages of the value chain. Regarding climate change, such changes may have a significant and across-the-board impact on the various stakeholders over the medium to long term (e.g., in terms of average temperatures, average sea levels, structural changes in water and/or wind volumes, or the incidence of extreme weather phenomena). In this sense, the Group has decisively invested over recent years in strengthening its portfolio of renewable energy as well as in a concerted strategy of environmental sustainability, which has been internationally recognised, not only in order to reduce its ecological footprint, but also to ensure its resilience to the possible materialisation of risks deriving from climate change. Regarding disruptive changes to the competitive paradigm, the Group recognises the risks associated with changes to the business model paradigm (e.g. in relation to distributed generation). The EDP Group addresses this risk through meticulous analyses and prospective investment, allowing it to proactively anticipate and adapt its business model to possible market development trends. Strategy risks, associated with investment decisions, relationships with key partners (shareholders and others), internal governance and corporate planning (in its various forms). Regarding investment decisions, EDP’s growth strategy implies the constant evaluation and decision-making in relation to investment options that allow it to implement the strategy established and approved by its shareholders. Accordingly, a meticulous and consistent process is defined across the Group, with pre-established criteria8 for analysis, decision-making and monitoring of projects. This process is conducted at the corporate level by the Business Analysis Department, locally supported by the various Business Units. Additionally, Investment Committees regularly meet to discuss, monitor and advise on i) investment analysis and decisions; ii) compliance with investment implementation schedules; and iii) evaluation of impact of detected or potential deviations. These forums are performed both at the Business Unit level and at the corporate level, involving decision-makers and key experts of the Group in the relevant fields. Regarding the relationship with partners (shareholders and others), the EDP Group has a solid and stable core of shareholders, which is aligned with and actively participates in the Group's strategy. On the other hand, the EDP Group is guided by strict criteria at all levels for the selection of its partners in the various countries and business areas in which it operates, the management of which is led by the Executive Board of Directors, Business Units and a dedicated unit (Institutional Relations and Stakeholders Department). Regarding internal governance, the Group considers that the design and implementation of its various corporate bodies ensures compliance with the best international practices on this topic (see previous section for more information). Regarding corporate planning (particularly in terms of brand and communication, investor relations, human resources, information systems, business strategy, and others) the Group believes 8 Particularly related to the definition of minimum return levels, up to date and geography/ business line-specific discount rates as well as to the resilience to multiple adverse scenarios of delays, overruns, fluctuations in key business variables, political environment and regulations ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 201 that the current structures and processes allow it to adequately manage these risks. The inauguration of the new headquarters in 2015, in addition to optimising costs, centralised in one place multiple areas presently spread over a variety of locations, promoting increased proximity between the various areas. 54. IDENTIFICATION, ASSESSMENT, MONITORING, CONTROL AND MANAGEMENT OF RISKS It is important, given the size of EDP Group and its geographical diversity, to define a common process for all Business Units that recognises and manages risks, working to ensure reduced aggregate risk. Risk management can accordingly be divided into four major integrated and structured phases: EDP Group’s Risk Management Process The identification of risks concerns the survey and update of the main risks associated with the Group's business. This exercise is firstly the responsibility of each of the Business Units, within their scope. The Risk Management Department is responsible for the coordination of the different exercises and for obtaining and maintaining a global perspective (at the EDP Group level). A top-down update of the global risk map was recently implemented, based on interviews and work in conjunction with the Group’s main risk-owners. In terms of support tools, the internally developed EDP Group’s Risk Portal acts as an updated and real time repository of the EDP Group’s main risks. It also serves as a privileged interface between the various managers of the risk, the Risk Management Department, other employees and external stakeholders (naturally safeguarding the adequate levels of confidentiality for each context). The analysis of risks is related to the assessment of the nature and order of relative magnitude according to various scenarios, as well as support for decision-making (whether or not directly related to the management and mitigation of the risks proper). This standardisation and systematisation of analysis and assessment criteria helps make risks of a heterogeneous nature comparable, informs the various decision makers of the orders of magnitude of the various risks and guides the prioritisation of management and mitigation initiatives and the definition of clear risk management policies at various levels (including the definition of limits). In addition to this perspective, risk-return analyses are systematically conducted (based on EBITDA@Risk, CF@Risk or other methods) associated with the main strategic guidelines and decisions of the Group (e.g., regarding the Group’s Strategic Plan, key investment decisions or other topics deemed to be relevant). Management and mitigation are the responsibility of the Board of Directors of the different Business Units of the Group, supported by their risk officers who, functionally reporting to the Chief Risk Officer and acting in a coordinated and business-independent manner, should propose and adopt a comprehensive set of policies (particularly in relation exposure limits by risk category) and initiatives to mitigate risk, reduce the probability of its occurrence or the impact of that risk or its transfer (e.g., using insurance policies or other hedging activities). Of note in this context is the launch in 2015 of a training course promoting a culture of risk (through EDP University), for senior management of the Group, as well as the carryout of a number of initiatives in the field of Crisis Management and Business Continuity in the various Group Business Units. ANNUAL REPORT 202 2015 The control of risks ensures the effectiveness of action on identified risks, both in terms of monitoring and periodic reporting of the Group’s position as regards several risk factors, as well as the effective implementation of the policies, standards and procedures established for risk management. This role is guaranteed by the Boards of Directors of the various Group Business Units. The Risk Management Department is responsible for promoting and enhancing risk control and management measures, disseminating best practices and supporting the disclosure of concepts, methods, risk measures and key risk indicators (KRI), to support the Executive Board of Directors in obtaining an overall view of the position and aggregate monitoring of the main risks. Weekly and quarterly executive management information reports are generated for this purpose (and presented to the Executive Board of Directors). 55. M A I N F E A T U R E S O F T H E R I S K M A N A G E M E N T A N D I N T E R NA L C O N T R O L SYSTEMS IN PLACE IN THE COMPANY FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION EDP Group has incorporated, into its management, the Internal Control System of Financial Reporting (SCIRF), based on criteria established by the regulatory framework of internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO 2013), in relation to business processes and entity level controls, and the Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT), in relation to the general controls of information technology. According to the adopted methodology and approved responsibilities model, activities were carried out related to the development, monitoring and maintaining of the internal control system, within the competence of those responsible that participating in it at the corporate level, entrepreneurial units and business units level (EU and BU). As part of the activities related to internal control system development, there is harmonization and unification between geographies, of a selected set of global controls, as well as the issue, for the first time, of entity level controls certificates for the Corporate Centre and redesign the IT general controls, strengthening the control environment and corresponding accountability at different levels in the hierarchical line. The monitoring and maintenance work was carried out through: (i) corporate and ii) EU and BU. The activities at corporate level were as follows: Planning and monitoring cycle, maintenance and review of reference models, conceptual and methodological support to EU and BU; Defining SCIRF 2015 Scope based on the consolidated financial information, supported on materiality and risk criteria on a top down (Corporate Internal Audit Department) and bottom up basis (EU/UN), from which the companies and Corporate Centre departments and respective processes considered relevant were identified. Autonomously, they were covered by the scope, most of the companies in Portugal, Spain and Brazil geographies and in aggregate, the units that make up EDP Renewables, SA, EDP Renewables Europe, SL and EDP Renewables North America, LLC; Support for EU and BU in the documentation and review of new controls and redesigned of the existing, resulting from the inclusion of new topics, by materiality and/or risk and legal, structural or procedural changes; Identification of relevant computer applications that support SCIRF and analysis of service organizations , for monitoring the issuance of the ISAE 3402 reports corresponding to an independent assessment of the control environment used by EDP’s information technology service providers; Support and monitoring the cycle evaluation process, by the External Auditor, in terms of work planning, interaction with EU and BU, resolution of identified non-compliances and reporting to those internal responsible and supervisors; Launch and monitoring of the self-certification process, through which those responsible for the internal control of the EU and BU, declare their explicit recognition about the sufficiency or insufficiency of the controls documentation in terms of updating and adjustment, its execution and maintenance of evidence, actions approval and implementation related to the resolution of non-compliance and compliance with the Code of Ethics; Completion of the self-assessment process for SCIRF 2015 cycle, through which the CAE, represented by the CEO and CFO, emit a responsibility report on the safety and reliability degree of consolidated financial statements preparation and presentation; The activities at subgroup level were as follows: Analysis of the results of the scope model application to the financial statements on an individual basis and inclusion of new topics and relevant applications, following the risk analysis bottom up ; Application of stand alone scope level for the HC Energia/ Naturgas, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil subgroups, with the profile of materiality and risk appropriate to their size, have been published by the Auditors, in their respective annual reports, the corresponding independent reports on the internal control system, in line with the publication made in the annual consolidated report; ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 203 Identification, review and appointment of SCIRF responsible, depending on the result of the Scope model application and on the review and/or update due to organizational, structural, legislative and operational changes in the EU and BU; Documentation of new controls and redesign of the controls documented in previous cycles, subject to revision due to changes at different levels of the EU and BU; Implementation of actions necessary for the resolution of non-compliances identified in the assessment tests; Self-certification by which the SCIRF leaders assess, at all levels of the chain, the sufficiency and updating of documentation and maintenance of evidence in the execution of control activities; Self-assessment by the CEO and CFO of Subgroups HC Energia/Naturgas, EDP Renováveis and EDP Brasil, through the issue of responsibility reports on the degree of safety and reliability of the preparation and presentation of financial statements, in line with the issuance of the independent reports, by the External Auditor, at stand alone level; The SCIRF 2015 evaluation was made by the Group's External Auditor, KPMG, according to the ISAE 3000 International Standard on Assurance Engagements in all geographies covered by the scope model, with the support of Price Waterhouse Coopers, in the specific case of EDP Brazil. The External Auditor issued an independent report on the Group's Internal Control System of Financial Reporting related to the financial statements of December 31, 2015, without reservations nor qualifications, presented in the annex Reporting Principles , concluding with a reasonable degree of assurance regarding the effectiveness of internal controls system on financial reporting of EDP Group. The External Auditor issued an independent report on the Group's internal control system for the financial statements of 31 December 2015, which is described in Annex ”External Checks”. IV. INVESTOR RELATIONS 56. COMPOSITION, DUTIES AND INFORMATION PROVIDED BY THESE SERVICES AND THEIR CONTACT INFORMATION The essential role of the Investor Relations Department is to act as the interlocutor between EDP's Executive Board of Directors and investors and the financial markets in general. It is responsible for all the information provided by the EDP Group, in terms of disclosure of privileged information and other market communications and publication of periodic financial statements. In carrying out its duties, the department is in constant contact with investors and financial analysts, providing all the information that they request, while observing the applicable legal and regulatory provisions. EDP's Investor Relations Department comprises six people and is coordinated by Miguel Viana. It is located at the company’s head office: Avenida 24 de Julho, nº 12, 4º Piso Poente 1249-300 Lisboa Telephone: +351 21 001 2834 Fax + 351 21 001 2899 E-mail: ir@edp.pt Website: www.edp.pt The table following shows the communication channels through which EDP provides its shareholders with information on each type of documentation. ANNUAL REPORT 204 2015 2 IR Phone Number CHANNELS www.cmvm.pt 1 www.edp.pt 3 In Person E-mail By Mail Elements required by law or regulation 4 Notice of meeting √ √ √ √ √ √ Executive Board of Directors' proposals √ √ √ √ √ Amendment of the Artic les of Association √ √ √ √ √ Other proposals √ √ √ √ Annual Report √ √ √ √ Management and supervisory positions held in other Group companies by c ompany officers √ √ √ √ Elementos adicionais disponibilizados pela EDP Ballots for voting by proxy √ √ √ √ √ Ballots for voting by mail √ √ √ √ √ Ballots for voting by e-mail √ √ √ √ √ Clarification of any issues √ √ √ √ √ EDP Articles of Association and Regulations √ √ √ √ √ √ 1) At EDP' s headquarters 2) IR phone number +351 21 0012834; 3) Written notice from the Chaiman of the Executive Board of Directors regarding Annual General Meetings 4) Art. 289 of Companies Code ang Regulation of CMVM 5/2008 57. REPRESENTATIVE FOR MARKET RELATIONS The representative for market relations is Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves, member of the Executive Board of Directors. 58. P E R C E N T A G E O F A N D R E S P O N S E T I M E T O Q U E R I E S R E C EI V E D I N T H E Y E A R O R PENDING FROM PREVIOUS YEARS EDP's goal is for communication with the market to consist of objective, transparent information that is understandable to all stakeholders and financial market agents. This is only possible with a financial reporting policy based on transparent, consistent information provided to investors and analysts, as the company has been doing. The company has therefore made a systematic effort to meet the needs of investors and analysts, which is not an easy task due to the complexity of the sector, always with a view to fostering relationships of trust with financial agents and markets. In 2015, EDP participated in events with analysts and investors to inform the market of the company's strategy and operational and financial performance. These included roadshows, presentations to analysts and investors, meetings and conference calls. 88 market communications were made in 2015. The Investor Relations Department received 355 requests for information and had 361 meetings with analysts and investors. The average response time to queries was less than 24 hours and no requests were held over into 2016. The company's efforts have been rewarded at a number of events. In 2015, EDP was nominated for the “IR Magazine Europe Awards 2015”, having been considered the 1st best company for senior management team (CEO and CFO), 2nd best company in the utilities sector concerning IR communication and 2nd best company in southern Europe. In terms of the global ranking of the “IR Magazine Europe Awards 2015”, EDP cemented its position, having been elected in 2015 the 5th best public company in Europe. V. WEBSITE 59. WEBSITE ADDRESS EDP's website (http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/msg_PCGS.aspx) provides comprehensive legal or corporate governance information, updates on the Group's activity and complete financial and operational data in order to facilitate searches and access to information by shareholders, financial analysts and others. The information made available through this channel in Portuguese and English includes data on the company, financial statements and accounts, privileged information, the Articles of Association and internal regulations of corporate bodies, the Group’s shareholder structure, preparatory documentation for General Meetings, historical ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 205 performance of EDP share prices, a calendar of company events, the names of members of the corporate bodies and the representative for market relations, contact information for the Investor Relations Department and other information of potential interest about the Group. EDP's website also allows visitors to view or request accounting documents for any financial year since 1999. 60. LOCATION OF INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY, ITS STATUS AS A PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY, H EAD OFFICE AND OTHER DETAILS MENTIONED IN ARTICLE 171 OF THE COMPANY CODE The information set out in Article 171 of the Company Code is available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/Dados%20da%20Sociedade.aspx 61. L O C A T I O N O F T H E A R T I C L E S O F A S S O C I A T I O N A N D R E GU L A T I O N S O F B O D I E S OR COMMITTEES The Articles of Association and regulations of bodies and committees are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/estatutoseregulamentos/Pages/Estatutos.aspx 62. LOCATION OF INFORMATION ON THE NAMES OF MEMBERS OF THE CORPORATE B O D I E S , M A R K E T R E L A T I O N S R E P R E S E N T A T I V E , I N V E S T O R RE L A T I O N S O F F I C E O R EQUIVALENT BODY, THEIR DUTIES AND FORMS OF ACCESS The names of members of the corporate bodies, market relations representative, investor relations office or equivalent body, their duties and forms of access are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/orgaosgovernosocietario/Pages/default_new.aspx http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/governosocietario/Pages/Dados%20da%20Sociedade.aspx 63. LOCATION OF ACCOUNTING DOCUMENTS, WHICH MUST BE AVAILABLE FOR AT L E A S T F I V E Y E A R S A N D T H E S I X M O N T H L Y C A L E N D A R O F C OM P A N Y E V E N T S DISCLOSED AT THE START OF EACH HALF YEAR, INCLUDING GENERAL MEETINGS, DISCLOSURE OF ANNUAL, SIX-MONTHLY AND , IF APPLICABLE, Q UA RTERLY ACCOUNTS The accounting documents and calendar of company events are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/Resultados/Pages/Resultados.aspx http://www.edp.pt/en/investidores/calendario/Pages/Calendario.aspx 64. LOCATION OF NOTICE OF MEETING FOR GENERAL MEETINGS AND ALL THEIR PREPARATORY AND SUBSEQUENT INFORMATION The notice of meeting for General Meetings and all their preparatory and subsequent information are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/assembleiasgerais/assembleiasanuais/Pages/AssembleiasAnuais.aspx 65. L O C A T I O N O F H I S T O R Y O F D E C I S I O N S M A D E A T T H E C OM P A N Y ' S G E N E R A L MEETINGS, THE SHARE CAPITAL REPRESENTED AND RESULT OF VOTES FOR THE PREVIOUS THREE 3 YEARS The history of decisions made at the company's General Meetings, the share capital represented and result of votes are available on EDP's website on: http://www.edp.pt/en/Investidores/assembleiasgerais/assembleiasanuais/Pages/AssembleiasAnuais.aspx ANNUAL REPORT 206 2015 D. REMUNERATION I. POWER TO SET REMUNERATION 66. POWER TO SET THE REMUNERATION OF CO RP ORATE BODIES AND COMPANY DIRECTORS Pursuant to the Articles of Association, payments to the company officers are fixed by a Remuneration Committee appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders, with the exception of the remuneration to members of the Executive Board of Directors, which is fixed by a Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board. When establishing the remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and Statutory Auditor, the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting takes account of its fixed nature and the imperative rules on its determination, in particular Article 440 (2) of the Company Code, which sets out the criteria for setting the remuneration of the General and Supervisory Board, Article 374-A of the Company Code on the remuneration of members of the officers of the General Meeting and Article 60 of Decree-Law 224/2008 of 20 November on the remuneration of the Statutory Auditor. II. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 67. M E M B E R S H I P O F T H E R E M U N E R A T I O N C O M M I T T E E , I N C L UD I N G N A M E S O F T H E N A T U R A L O R L E G A L P E R S O N S H I R E D T O A S S I S T A N D D E C L A RA T I O N O N INDEPENDENCE OF EACH MEMBER AND CONSULTANT The membership of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting and the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board is set out in Point 29. In 2015, the Remuneration Committee hired an external consultant Mercer (Portugal) Lda. to provide support regarding the assessement of the adequacy of the current remuneration policy of the EBD members. The Remuneration Commitee of the General Meeting also hired an external consultant Mercer (Portugal) Lda. to provide support rearding the revision of the remuneration policy of the members of the corporate bodies, with the exception of members of the Executive Board of Directors, as well as the presentation of the remuneration practices of the companies in the energy, oil & gas and utilities sector with a government structure similar to EDP’s. This external consultant did not provide, in the last three years, services to any unit answerable to the Executive Board of Directors, the Executive Board of Directors itself, or with a current relationship with the company or consultant of the company. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person related to the former under an employment or service agreement. 68. KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE OF REMUNERATION POLICY OF THE MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is composed of members of the General and Supervisory Board with qualifications and experience in remuneration policy, according to Annex I of the current Report. III. REMUNERATION STRUCTURE 69. R E M U N E R A T I O N P O L I C Y O F M A N A G E M E N T A N D S U P E R V I S OR Y B O D I E S EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Remuneration policy for the members of the managing body is set by the Remuneration Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board. This committee defined the remuneration of the directors, intending for it to reflect the performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors in each year of their term of office (annual variable remuneration) and their performance during their term by fixing a variable component that is consistent with maximisation of EDP's long-term performance (variable multi-annual remuneration). The recommendation uses an undetermined concept whose satisfaction depends on the concrete circumstances of the issuing company and especially on its shareholders' understanding of what is reasonable in these circumstances. Interpretation of the reasonability of the relative weight of the variable remuneration against the fixed remuneration must take account of the other elements in the recommendation, particularly of orientation towards alignment of the remuneration structure with the shareholders' long-term interests. One of the natural consequences of this principle is an increase in the weight of the variable component in order to create appropriate incentives for the company's executive directors to foster sustainable growth. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 207 The relative weight of the variable remuneration against the fixed remuneration take account particularly of orientation towards alignment of the remuneration structure with the shareholders' long-term interests. As a result the weight of the variable component is higher to create appropriate incentives for the company's executive directors to foster its sustainable growth. The remuneration policy statement, as approved by the shareholders, lays down that the total variable component can reach twice the fixed component during a term of office, thereby placing a maximum limit of twothirds of the remuneration depending on fulfilment of strict company performance goals. Variable remuneration depends on whether the executive directors achieve a performance of 90% of the business plan. Only if they achieve 110% fulfilment will they receive the maximum amounts allowed by the company's remuneration policy. Variable remuneration is divided into annual, which may only reach 80% of fixed remuneration, and multiannual, which may reach 120% of the fixed remuneration. Variable multi-annual remuneration is only paid if the goals have been met and is paid three years after the financial year in question. If the remuneration goals are fully met in a term of office, 60% of the directors' variable remuneration is deferred for no less than three years. If we compare this percentage with that set out for credit institutions and financial companies, pursuant to Directive 2010/76/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November, as it is a paradigm that was widely analysed and discussed in Europe, we find that EDP's policy on variable remuneration is equivalent to the strictest used by these entities. In accordance with the remuneration policy of the members of the Executive Board of Directors proposed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board “a significant part of the variable remuneration” corresponding to the variable multi-annual remuneration may be a maximum of 120% of gross annual remuneration and it will be paid three years after the financial year in question. The remuneration policy statement approved by the General Meeting on 21 April, 2015 for 2015-2017 sets out the following: Fixed remuneration – EUR 600,000 annual gross for the CEO and 80% of this sum for the remaining members of the Executive Board of Directors. Maintenance of directors' retirement savings plans during their term of office, at a net amount of 10% of their fixed Annual remuneration. The characteristics of these retirement savings plans are set out in current legislation applicable to these financial products; Annual variable remuneration – for each member of the Executive Board of Directors its value is limited to 80% of their gross annual fixed remuneration. The amount is determined on the basis of the following indicators for each year in office: performance of the EDP Group's total shareholder return against Eurostoxx Utilities and PSI-20, ROIC/WACC, growth in gross margin, growth in net profit, performance of EBITDA and operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables. The weighted average of these indicators is given an overall weight of 80% for all members of the Executive Board of Directors, when determining their performance bonus. The other 20% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board; Multi-annual variable remuneration – also for each member of the Executive Board of Directors, this component may be between 0% and 120% of their gross annual remuneration based on an annual accumulated assessment of the directors' performance in achieving economic sustainability for the EDP Group. The award of this multi-annual remuneration, although calculated on an annual basis, only takes effect if, at the end of the term of office, at least 90% of the strategic objectives have been achieved. These will be assessed on the basis of performance and comparison with defined strategic benchmarks. This payment component is fixed on the basis of the following factors: performance of the EDP Group's EBITDA in the term of office, ROIC/WACC, performance of total return for the Group's shareholders against Eurostoxx Utilities and PSI-20 in the term of office, performance of the sustainability index applied to the EDP Group (DJSI method) and performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables in the term of office. The weighted average of these indicators is given an overall weight of 68% for all members of the Executive Board of Directors, when determining their performance bonus. As for annual indicators, 32% of the remuneration that is determined by internal assessment of the Executive Board of Directors by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board is reserved. GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board is fixed, in view of their duties. The remuneration of the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board was fixed on the basis of the full-time performance of his duties, unlike the rest of the members. At the Annual General Meeting on 21 April 2015, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting submitted an appreciation of the remuneration policy for the corporate bodies, with the exception of the Executive Board of Directors, for the current three-year period, as follows: ANNUAL REPORT 208 2015 A simple, clear, transparent policy in line with EDP's culture so that remuneration practices can be based on uniform, consistent, fair, balanced criteria; A policy consistent with effective risk management and control in order to avoid excessive exposure to risk and conflicts of interest and achieve coherence with the company's long-term goals and values; Assessment and encouragement of meticulous action in which merit is properly rewarded, while ensuring levels of homogeneity compatible with the necessary cohesion of the General and Supervisory Board but still taking account of the economic and financial situation of the company and the country; Alignment of remuneration of the members of corporate bodies in companies with the highest market capitalisation and especially Iberian counterparts; The latest recommendations of the European Union and CMVM; Consideration of the effects of the economic crisis and current financial constraints, in order to meet requirements of great social justice in the country and in the company's different remuneration schemes. Based on these criteria the committee decided that: A differentiation between the remuneration of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and those of the members of the Executive Board of Directors shall be maintained, and there will be no variable component or any other remunerative supplement for the General and Supervisoy Board. The difficulties that the country is experiencing as a result of the worldwide economic, financial and social crisis, as well as the challenges the country holds ahead following the end of the financial intervention its was through, require containment of remuneration, though account should always be taken of the merits and the complexity of the work of the members of each body in order not to jeopardise the company's cohesion, stability and development. The progressive increase in work and responsibility of the Audit Committee members must be taken into consideration in order to differentiate them from the other members of the General and Supervisory Board. It is also important to distinguish other specific positions in the General and Supervisory Board, such as the coordination work of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The shareholders approved the statement of remuneration policy. 70. H O W R E M U N E R A T I O N I S S T R U C T U R E D T O A L L O W A L I G N M EN T O F T H E INTERESTS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE MANAGING BODY WITH THE COMPANY'S LONGTERM INTERESTS AND HOW IT IS BASED ON ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE AND DISCOURAGES EXCESSIVE RISK-TAKING As set out in the remuneration policy described in Point 69, remuneration is structured to allow alignment of the interests of the members of the Executive Board of Directors with the company's long-term interests. The time period considered for the payment of the variable component of the remuneration (gap of three years regarding the exercise at stake), the subjection of this payment to the non-performance of unlawful willful actions known after the assessment and that jeopardize the sustainability of the company’s performance, to which is added i) the utilization of qualitative criteria looking forward for a strategic perspective and of medium term in the development of the company, ii) the existence of a maximum limit for the variable remuneration and iii) the relative weight of this component in the total value of the remuneration, represent decisive elements to promote a performance of the company’s management focused not only in short term goals, but also that integrates in its performance the company’s and the shareholders’ interests in a medium and long term perspective. The members of the managing body have not concluded any agreements with the company or third parties that have the effect of mitigating the risk of variability of their remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee. 71. REFERENCE TO A VARIABLE REMUNERATION COMPONENT AND ANY IMPACT OF PERFORMANCE EVALUATION ON THIS COMPONENT As described above in point 69, remuneration policy in effect for 2015-2017 involves three main components: i) fixed remuneration, ii) annual variable remuneration and iii) multi-annual variable remuneration. The indicators used to assess the performance of the Executive Board of Directors in order to determine annual and multi-annual variable remuneration are as follows: ANNUAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1) Quantitative component and its weight ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 209 Total shareholder return vs. Eurostoxx utilities and PSI20: 19% ROIC/WACC: 19% Growth in gross profit: 14% Growth in net profit: 14% Performance of EBITDA: 7% Performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables: 7% The 80% resulting from the weighted sum of these indicators reflects a performance common to all the members of the Executive Board of Directors. 2) Qualitative component The other 20% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board, based on the individual performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. The resulting amount of the quantitative and qualitative component is then weighted, as mentioned above, by a coefficient of 80% of the annual fixed remuneration. MULTI-ANNUAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 1) Quantitative component and its weight Total shareholder return vs. Eurostoxx utilities and PSI20: 17% ROIC/WACC: 17% Performance of EBITDA: 8.5% Performance of operational cash flow excluding regulatory receivables: 8.5% Sustainability Performance Indicator: 17% The 68% resulting from the weighted sum of these indicators reflects a performance common to all the members of the Executive Board of Directors. 2) Qualitative componente The other 32% is based on an individual assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board, based on the individual performance of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. The resulting amount of the quantitative and qualitative component is then weighted, as mentioned above, by a coefficient of 120% of the annual fixed remuneration. 72. D E F E R R A L O F P A Y M E N T O F V A R I A B L E C O M P O N E N T O F R EM U N E R A T I O N A N D ITS LENGTH The multi-annual variable remuneration is calculated every year and only becomes effective at the end of the term of office if at least 90% of the strategic goals have been achieved, as assessed on the basis of company performance and its comparison with the strategic benchmarks and the individual contribution of each member of the Executive Board of Directors. All multi-annual eventual variable remuneration are paid three years after the financial year in question. 73. CRITERIA ON ALLOCATION OF VARIABLE REMUNERATION IN SHARES AND E X E C U T I V E D I R E C T O R S ' M A I N T E N A N C E O F T H E S E S H A R E S , AN Y A G R E E M E N T S CONCLUDED CONCERNING THESE SHARES, SUCH AS HEDGING OR RISK TRANSFER CONTRACTS, THEIR LIMIT AND THEIR ASSOCIATION WITH TOTAL ANNUAL REMUNERATION The members of the Executive Board of Directors do not own company shares under variable remuneration schemes. 74. CRITERIA ON ALLOCATION OF VARIABLE REMUNERATION IN OPTIONS, PERIOD OF DEFERRAL AND PRICE OF EXERCISE EDP has no variable remuneration option schemes. 75. MAIN PARA METERS AND BASIS OF ANY ANNUAL BONUS SYSTEM AND ANY NON-MONETARY BENEFITS Company directors do not receive any significant remuneration in the form of non-monetary benefits. ANNUAL REPORT 210 2015 76. M A I N C H A R A C T E R I S T I C S O F S U P P L E M E N T A R Y P E N S I O N OR E A R L Y R E T I R E M E N T S C H E M E S F O R D I R E C T O R S A N D D A T E O F A P P R O VA L I N D I V I D U A L L Y A T A GENERAL MEETING The remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board sets for a retirement savings plan-type standard financial product for the members of the Executive Board of Directors, through the application of a net amount correspondent to 10% (ten percent) of their fixed annual remuneration. It was granted in accordance with the Remuneration Policy Statement approved by resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting dated 21 April 2015. This financial product does not entail any cost to EDP in the future, as it is merely a subscription to a financial product while the members of the managing body hold their positions and is not covered by Article 402 (1) of the Company Code. IV. DISCLOSURE OF REMUNERATION 77. A N N U A L A G G R E G A T E A N D I N D I V I D U A L R E M U N E R A T I O N P AI D T O T H E M E M B E R S O F T H E C O M P A N Y ' S M A N A G I N G B O D Y B Y T H E C O M P AN Y , I N C L U D I N G F I X E D A N D V A R I A B L E R E M U N E R A T I O N A N D I T S D I F F E R E N T C O M P O N EN T S The total gross amount paid by EDP to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in 2015 was 10,004,408 euros. The table below shows the gross amounts of remuneration paid individually to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in office until 21 April 2015: Remuneration paid by EDP Euros Fixed Variable (2014) António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia (Chairman) 239,313 480,000 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 190,803 384,000 João Manuel Manso Neto 182,836 384,000 António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 223,685 365,809 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 182,836 381,937 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 101,240 225,408 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 185,182 384,000 The Remuneration Committee decided to award an addicional bonus, in the amount of 360,000 euros, covering the years 2012-2014, as a result of the leadership qualities and strategic vision revealed by the Chairman of the EBD during this period. In turn, in the table below, shows the gross amounts of remuneration paid individually to the members of the Executive Board of Directors in office after 21 April 2015: Remuneration paid by EDP Euros Fixed António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia (Chairman) 547,618 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 436,613 João Manuel Manso Neto 418,382 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 418,382 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 231,666 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 423,751 Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 175,183 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 404,969 The remuneration of the Chairman and directors of the Executive Board of Directors include the amounts associated with the retirement savings plan. The amounts of the variable remuneration were fixed on the basis of the tax treatment applicable in the director's country of tax residence. The amounts paid by EDP subsidiaries refer solely to their period of residence abroad. As results of the policy in force, the compensation is structured to allow the alignment of the EBD members' interests with the long-term interests ofteh company. In this way, taking into account the objective calculations associated with the remuneration model, the Commission set the multi-annual variable component imputable to the first year of the 2012/2014 mandate. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 211 Remuneration paid by EDP Euros Plurianual Variable (2012) António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia (Chairman) 549.149 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 439.319 João Manuel Manso Neto 439.319 António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 293.185 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 319.727 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 231.797 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 404.298 78. AMOUNTS PAID FOR ANY REASON BY OTHER SUBSIDIARY OR GROUP COMPANIES OR COMPANIES UNDER COMMON CONTROL The table below shows the gross amounts of remuneration paid by other subsidiary or Group companies or companies under common control. Remuneration paid by EDP Euros Fixed Variable (2014) João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 240.000 0 Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 197.968 0 79. R E M U N E R A T I O N I N T H E F O R M O F P R O F I T S H A R I N G A N D /O R P A Y M E N T O F B O N U S E S A N D R E A S O N S F O R T H E S E B O N U S E S O R P R O F I T S H AR I N G EDP has no schemes in place for payment of remuneration in the form of profit-sharing and/or payment of bonuses. 80. C O M P E N S A T I O N P A I D O R O W E D T O F O R M E R E X E C U T I V E DI R E C T O R S F O R TERMINATION IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR There are no agreements between the company and members of the managing and supervisory bodies providing for compensation in the event of termination, as proven by the remuneration policy statement in effect for 2015. As a result no compensation for termination was paid or is owed to former directors. It should also be noted that there are no contracts for severance payment in force, nor does the remuneration policy provide for such, in the event of dismissal or termination by agreement from the post of director. In particular, the company does not assign compensation beyond the legally required in case of dismissal from the post of director founded in inadequate performance neither was any payments made in this context during the year 2015. 81. A N N U A L A G G R E G A T E A N D I N D I V I D U A L R E M U N E R A T I O N P AI D T O T H E MEMBERS OF THE COMPANY'S SUPERVISORY BODIES 1. GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD The total gross amount paid by EDP to the members of the General and Supervisory Board in 2015 was 1,674,066 euros. ANNUAL REPORT 212 2015 The table below shows the remuneration paid in 2015 to the members of the General and Supervisory Board in office until 21 April 2015: Euros Fixed Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 149.166 China Three Gorges Corporation 22.200 China International Water&Electric Corporation 14.762 China Three Gorges New Energy Corporation Ltd. 16.865 China Three Gorges International (Europe) 15.814 Cajastur Inversiones, S.A. 16.033 Luis Filipe da Conceição Pereira 17.575 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim 15.814 Sonatrach 15.814 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 17.575 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 24.443 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 21.288 Fernando Masaveu Herrero 15.814 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 15.814 Jorge Braga de Macedo 15.814 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro 21.583 Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto 16.033 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 15.814 Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves 26.208 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena 17.575 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 15.814 Nuno Manuel Silva Amado 17.333 The table below shows the remuneration paid in 2015 to the members of the General and Supervisory Board in office after 21 April 2015: Euros Fixed China Three Gorges Corporation 341.334 Luís Filipe Marques Amado 49.800 China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd. 38.593 China International Water & Electric Corp. 33.780 China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. 36.186 China Three Gorges (Portugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 35.967 DRAURSA, S.A. 35.967 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 36.186 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 34.667 Sonatrach 36.186 Senfora BV 36.186 António Sarmento Gomes Mota 55.932 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona 48.712 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho 36.186 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo 36.186 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 36.186 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus 36.186 João Carvalho das Neves 48.417 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa 48.417 María del Carmen Fernández Rozado 48.417 António Manuel de Carvalho Ferreira Vitorino 39.425 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 213 2. OTHER COMPANY BODIES ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY BOARD The members of the Environment and Sustainability Board are paid in attendance vouchers of EUR 1,750 per meeting. In 2015, the remuneration paid to the members of the Environment and Sustainability Board was as follows: Euros José Pedro Silva Sucena Paiva 1.750 Alberto Manuel Rosete da Ponte 1.750 António José Tomás Gomes de Pinho 1.750 (1 ) José Manuel Viegas 0 Maria Graça Madeira Martinho 1.750 (1) Resigned remuneration REMUNERATION COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL MEETING The members of the Remuneration Committee of the General Meeting received the following remuneration in 2015: Euros Luís Miguel Nogueira Freire Cortes Martins 15.000 José Gonçalo Maury 10.000 Jaime Amaral Anahory 10.000 82. R E M U N E R A T I O N O F T H E C H A I R M A N O F T H E G E N E R A L M E ET I N G . I N T H E Y E A R The Chairman and Secretary of the General Meeting do not earn any remuneration in that capacity, given that they are remunerated as a member of the General and Supervisory Board and company Secretary, respectively. The Vice-Chairman of the General Meeting is paid an amount of EUR 2,000 a year, plus EUR 2,000 for each meeting over which s/he presides. V. AGREEMENTS AFFECTING REMUNERATION 83. C O N T R A C T U A L L I M I T A T I O N S F O R C O M P E N S A T I O N P A Y A B LE T O D I R E C T O R S FOR DISMISSAL WITHOUT DUE CA USE AND THEIR ASSOCIATION WITH THE VARIABLE COMPONENT OF REMUNERATION. In accordance with the remuneration policy statement in effect for 2015, EDP has no existing contracts providing for payments in the event of dismissal or termination by mutual agreement of directors. 84. D E S C R I P T I O N A N D A M O U N T S O F A G R E E M E N T S B E T W E E N TH E C O M P A N Y A N D MEMBERS OF THE MANAGING BODY AND DIRECTORS, AS SET OUT IN ARTICLE 248-B (3) OF THE SECURITIES CODE, PROVIDING F OR CO MPENSATION IN THE EVENT OF D I S M I S S A L W I T H O U T D U E C A U S E O R T E R M I N A T I O N O F E M P L OY M E N T F O L L O W I N G A CHANGE OF COMPANY CONTROL Considering Article 248-B (3) of the Securities Code, EDP has no directors other than the members of the corporate bodies. In addition to the members of these bodies, there are no managers who have regular access to privileged information and participate in decisions on the company's management and business strategy. Furthermore, we reiterate that, in accordance with the remuneration policy statement approved at a General Meeting and in effect for 2015, EDP has no existing agreements providing for payments in the event of dismissal or termination by mutual agreement of directors. ANNUAL REPORT 214 2015 VI. STOCK PURCHASE OPTION PLANS OR STOCK OPTIONS 85. PLAN AND ITS BENEFICIARIES There are no stock options for company employees. 86. DESCRIPTION OF THE PLAN (CONDITIONS FOR AWARD, CLAUSES ON NONSALEABILITY OF SHARES, SHARES PRICE CRITERIA, PRICE OF OPTIONS IN F I N A N C I A L Y E A R , P E R I O D I N W H I C H O P T I O N S C A N B E E X E RC I S E D , C H A R A C T E R I S T I C S O F S H A R E S O R O P T I O N S , I N C E N T I V E S F OR P U R C H A S E O F S H A R E S OR EXERCISE OF OPTIONS) There are no stock options for company employees. 87. STOCK OPTIONS OF COMPANY EMPLOYEES There are no stock options for company employees. 88. C O N T R O L M E C H A N I S M S S E T O U T I N A N Y E M P L O Y E E S H A RE S C H E M E S O T H A T THEY DO NOT EXERCISE THEIR VOTING RIGHTS DIRECTLY The company has no such control mechanisms. E. TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES I. MECHANISMS AND PROCEDURES OF CONTROL 89. COMPANY MECHANISMS FOR MONITORING TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES The General and Supervisory Board approved objective, transparent rules on the identification, prevention and resolution of relevant corporative conflicts of interest called Framework on Handling of Conflicts of Interest, which was revised in late 2009. Following a decision made by the General and Supervisory Board, on 17 May, 2010 the Executive Board of Directors approved the rules on identification, in-house reporting and procedure in the event of conflicts of interest applicable to all EDP Group employees who play a decisive role in transactions with related parties. These rules are also available on EDP's website. As part of its improvement of governance practices, on 29 July 2010, the General Supervisory and Board approved EDP's rules on conflicts of interest and transactions between related parties, which was reviewed in 2015 and a new version was approved on 29 October 2015, available on EDP's website (www.edp.pt). This set of rules on the prevention, identification and resolution of potential corporate conflicts of interest has a wider scope of application than that set out in CMVM Regulation 4/2013. The Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee is responsible for supervising enforcement of the aforementioned rules and reports on its work to the General and Supervisory Board. For further information on this matter, see Point 3.5.2. of the annual report of the General and Supervisory Board. 90. T R A N S A C T I O N S T H A T U N D E R W E N T C O N T R O L S I N T H E Y E AR Attentive to the current reporting obligations, the Executive Board of Directors, during 2015, submitted to the General and Supervisory Board the information concerning the transactions between related parties. Such information concerned the transactions listed below: Sale to CWEI (Brasil) Participações, Ltda., a subsidiary of CTG, of a minority interest in wind farms in Brazil. According to the terms of the purchase, CWEI (Brasil) Participações, Ltda. will invest a total of R$ 385.7 million, including investments already made and an estimated R$ 86.8 million in future investments for projects currently being built/developed. Provision by Banco Comercial Português (BCP) bank to EDP Group of financial intermediary services, having integrated the syndicate of banks which acted as Joint Lead Managers and Bookrunners for the issue of subordinated debt, in September 2015. Also in 2015, approximately € 100 million was transferred to BCP, through an assignment without recourse, which referred to part of the extra-cost deficit of SRP 2015. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 215 Sonatrach provided natural gas to the EDP group and the Soto 4 combined cycle power station under long-term supply contracts, for the amount of € 153,540,000. The General and Supervisory Board noted that, on the basis of the cases analysed and information provided by the Executive Board of Directors for 2015, there was no evidence that the potential conflicts of interest in EDP's operations were resolved contrary to the company's interests. At the same time, it is important to highlight Article 17(2) of the EDP Memorandum of Association, that defines a number of matters subject to the prior approval of the General and Supervisory Board, which has the power to set the parameters for measuring the economic or strategic value of the operations that must be submitted for its opinion, which were approved by this body in 18 June 2015. In 2015, 17 operations with an average value of EUR 487 million and a maximum value of EUR 1400 million were submitted to the General and Supervisory Board for a prior opinion. 8 operations with an average value of EUR 289 million and a maximum value of EUR 750 million were submitted to the General and Supervisory Board after waiving of a prior opinion. In what concerns the operations subject to issue of a favourable prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board, 5 of them (in the average value of EUR 930 million) have subjacent transactions with related parties. Regarding operations in which there were waiver of prior opinions, only one (in the approximate value of EUR 100 million) had subjacent a transaction with a related party. Considering the specificities inherent to these operations, previously to the issue of a favourable prior opinion or to the waiver of a prior opinion by the General and Supervisory Board, the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee analyzed them and concluded for the non-existence of evidences that the potential conflict of interests subjacent to the operations performed by EDP have been resolved in a way contrary to the Company’s interests. 91. P R O C E D U R E S A N D C R I T E R I A A P P L I C A B L E T O T H E S U P E RV I S O R Y B O D Y ' S P R I O R A S S E S S M E N T O F T R A N S A C T I O N S B E T W E E N T H E C O M P A NY A N D H O L D E R S O F QUALIFYING SHAREHO LDINGS OR ENTITIES RELATED TO THEM IN ANY WAY The current rules on the issue and waiving of a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board, as referred previously, were approved on 18 June, 2015, along with the procedures for communication and clarifications between it and the Executive Board of Directors. Pursuant to EDP's Articles of Association, the General and Supervisory Board fixes the parameters for measuring the economic or strategic value of operations submitted to it for an opinion and sets up speedy mechanisms for issuing an opinion in urgent cases or when the nature of the subject so warrants and the situations in which this opinion can be waived (Article 21 (7)). The mechanism for waiving a prior opinion from the General and Supervisory Board may only be used in cases of exceptional urgency or if the nature of the subject so warrants, as set out in EDP's Articles of Association and the regulations of the General and Supervisory Board in effect in 2011 (current Article 13 (5)). All matters in which a prior opinion is waived are later appraised at meetings of the General and Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the General and Supervisory Board has set out strict rules on transactions between related parties in order to prevent conflicts of interest. Within this scope, it should be highlighted what is defined in the Regulation regarding “Conflicts of interests between related parties in EDP” in what concerns the procedures and criteria applicable to the supervision for previous evaluation of business between the company and qualified shareholders or any entities with whom the latter are related: For legal transactions or situations between related parties that are likely to cause a conflict of interest between those involved that will have an impact on the interests of EDP, the Executive Board has to request the preliminary opinion of the General and Supervisory Board or its waiver, and also has to provide the following information: A brief description of the operations and obligations assumed by the parties. A statement the procedures adopted for selecting the counterparty, particularly if the operation was based on a tender/consultation or limited tendering procedure. In the case of a limited tendering procedure, the reasons for such decision and the measures adopted to mitigate any risks from potential conflicts of interests. In the case of a tender/consultation, statement of the type of contact established with potential stakeholders and identify such. In the event competitive offers existed, information on the terms of the different proposals and the reason for the choice made. Identification of the parameters to measure the operation performed under normal market conditions for similar transactions . Measures taken to prevent or resolve potential conflicts of interests. ANNUAL REPORT 216 2015 Evidence, if applicable, of the multiannual nature of the operation, in which case the starting date of the selected tender/contract should be reported together with the date on which the supplies and/or services provided shall be provided or carried out. With respect to legal business or cases that exist between related parties that are likely to give rise to a conflict of interests between those involved, which could impact the interests of EDP, these should be subject to a preliminary opinion from the General and Supervisory Board: If the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee can meet before the General and Supervisory Board meeting, an opinion from this Committee should be requested, which should be presented to the General and Supervisory Board for decision making purposes. If it is not possible for the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee to meet, the assessment of the potential conflict of interests must be made directly by the General and Supervisory Board within its decision making authority. With respect to legal business or cases that exist between related parties that are likely to give rise to a conflict of interests between those involved, which could impact the interests of EDP, which are subject to a request for waiver of the preliminary opinion from the General and Supervisory Board, at least three Members of the Committee should be consulted, and the majority have to be independent. When considering the request by the Executive Board, in the event of a request to waiver the preliminary report, the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the Chairman of this Board, may recommend to the Executive Board that appropriate measures must be taken to address the potential conflict of interest. II. BUSINESS INFORMATION 92. L O C A T I O N O F A C C O U N T I N G D O C U M E N T S P R O V I D I N G I N F OR M A T I O N O N TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES, PURSUANT TO IAS 24, OR REPRODUCTION OF THE INFORMATION Information on transactions with related parties, pursuant to IAS 24, is set out in Note 46 of the consolidated and individual financial statements. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 217 PART II ASSESSMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE IN EFFECT EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP) is a listed company whose securities are admitted to trading on the NYSE Euronext Lisbon stock market. Pursuant to Article 2 (1) of CMVM Regulation 4/2013 on governance of companies issuing shares admitted to trading in a regulated market located or operating in Portugal, EDP abides by the recommendations set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as approved by the CMVM in July 2013, available on www.cmvm.pt. It has not opted to follow any other code of recommendations in this matter. This report is structured in compliance with Article 1 (4) of CMVM Regulation 4/2013, and therefore abides by the model in its Annex I, not including the sections not applicable to EDP's corporate governance model. 2. COMPLIANCE WITH THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The following table lists the CMVM recommendations on corporate governance established in the referred Corporate Governance Code and indicating whether or not they were adopted, in full or partially by EDP, as well as where more detailed information can be found in this report on the adoption of each specific recommendation. 218 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                                                                                     ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 219 220 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 221 222 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 223 224 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                         ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 225 226 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ENERGY   WITH INTELLIGENCE 227 228 ANNUAL  REPORT    2015                                                                                                                                 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 229 ANNUAL v 230 REPORT 2015 3. OTHER INFORMATION Attached to this report and considered part of it there are the following documents: Annex I Corporate Bodie’s Biography Annex II Attendance list of the General and Supervisory Board Annex III Attendance list of the Executive Board of Directors Annex IV Positions held by the members of the Executive Board of Directors in other companies belonging or not to the EDP Group Annex V Attendance list of Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee Annex VI Other operations with financial instruments in which EDP’s share was used as an underlying asset were also performed ANNEX I GENERAL AND SUPERVISORY BOARD E D U A R D O D E A L M E I D A C A T R O G A . Chairman He was born on 14th November 1942. He has a degree in Finance from ISEG of Universidade Técnica de Lisboa (currently ISEG) in 1966 having received the award Alfredo da Silva for the highest course classification as well as a several other scholar awards. He was a professor at ISEF (from 1968 to 1974) and an invitee graduated professor from 1990 onwards. In 1979 he had a post-graduate degree from Harvard Business School (Program for Management Development). In 2012 he obtained the Honoris Causa Degree from Universidade Técnica de Lisboa. He as a long corporate career of over 47 years, mainly in the private sector. He began in 1967 at CUF (by then the larger corporate group in the Iberia) where he was responsible for the finance department, for the planning and control department and, by the age of 31, Chief Financial Officer and member of the Board and of the Executive Committee. Later on, he was Executive Vice-Chairman of Quimigal (sector of chemistry) from 1978 to 1980. In 1981 he became delegate director of Sapec (Belgian holding with a diversified business portfolio) and is now its Chairman. On the 80’s he was non-executive director of BP (British Petroleum) Portugal and Chairman of the Board of Directors of CELCAT. Since February 2012, he is the Chairman of EDP General and Supervisory Board, where he has been a Member since 2006. He is also a non-executive director at Nutrinveste (company that is a world leader at the consume products area such as oil and olive oil) and at the Group Banco Financia Holding (investment bank). He is also a member of the Investment Committee of PVCI (Portugal Venture Capital Iniciative), a fund of investment funds connected to Banco Europeu de Investimentos. He was Minister of Finance of the XII Government, as independent, in the last mandate of Cavaco Silve as Prime-Minister, between December 1993 and October 1995. He has also performed, always as independent, two other political missions: in 2010, he led the negotiation group of Partido Social Democrata (PSD) who agreed with the socialist government of José Sócrates the fruition of 2011 State General Budget; in middle 2011, as per PSD invitation, he coordinated the preparation of the proposal for PSD electoral programme for the June 2011 elections. He published Política Económica – 22 Meses no Ministério das Finanças (1995) and Intervenções sobre Política Económica (vol. I, Dicursos and vol. II, Debates e Entrevistas, 1995), beyond several articles in specialty magazines in the areas of economic policy, portuguese economy and corporate strategy. On 9th June 2006 he was granted by the President of Republic, with the Grã-Cruz da Ordem Militar de Cristo. In 2007, he obtained the award Carreira de Economista, attributed by Economists Bar and the distinction of Antigo Aluno do Ano by ISEG. L U Í S F I L I P E M A R Q U E S A M A D O Vice-Chairman. He was born on 17th December 1953. Natural from Porto de Mós, with a degree in economy, auditor of Tribunal de Contas. He was a deputy of Assembleia Regional da Madeira and of Assembleia da República, Secretary of State of Internal Administration and Foreign Affairs, Minister of National Defense and Minister of State and of the Foreign Affairs. He was a “Visiting professor” at Georgetown University. Currently, he is an advisor. He was non-Executive Chairman of Banif and he is nonexecutive director of SOM. Invitee professor of Instituto Superior de Ciências Sociais e Políticas and of Business School of Universidade Nova. Curator of Fundação Oriente and Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Francisco Manuel dos Santos. Member of the European Council of Foreign Relations. He received the Grã-Cruz da Ordem de Cristo and several distinctions from foreign governments. He was elected Vice-Chairman of EDP General and Supervisory Board on the General Shareholders Meeting in 21st April 2015. YA YANG, He was born on 27th August 1962. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Finance from Changsha University of Electricity. He later got his “Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures Spécialisées” from the Business School of the University of Montreal, Canada and EMBA from HEC Paris. He served a series of posts before devoting to the China Three Gorges Project. He was Project Officer of the Bureau of Hydropower Construction of Ministry of Water Resources & Hydropower and Auditor of Beijing Office of PriceWaterHouseCoopers. Currently, he is the Chief Accountant & Corporate Controller of China Three Gorges Corporation, Member of the Board of China Yantze Power Company Limited and Vice-Chairman of Risk Management Committee of China Society for Hydropower Engineering. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11th May 2012. He was appointed as representative of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd, elected as Member of EDP’S General and Supervisory Board on the 21st April 2015 General Shareholders’ Meeting. ENERGY WITH 231 INTELLIGENCE Y A Y A N G He was born on 27th August 1962. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Finance from Changsha University of Electricity. He later got his “Diplôme d'Etudes Supérieures Spécialisées” from the Business School of the University of Montreal, Canada and EMBA from HEC Paris. He served a series of posts before devoting to the China Three Gorges Project. He was Project Officer of the Bureau of Hydropower Construction of Ministry of Water Resources & Hydropower and Auditor of Beijing Office of PriceWaterHouseCoopers. Currently, he is the Chief Accountant & Corporate Controller of China Three Gorges Corporation, Member of the Board of China Yantze Power Company Limited and Vice-Chairman of Risk Management Committee of China Society for Hydropower Engineering. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11th May 2012. He was appointed as representative of China Three Gorges New Energy Co. Ltd, elected as Member of EDP’S General and Supervisory Board on the 21st April 2015 General Shareholders’ Meeting. G U O J U N L U He was born on 12th July 1956. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from East China Institute of Water Resources Engineering and a PhD in Economics from Central University of Finance and Economics in China. He served for China International Water and Electric Corporation from 1982 to 2010, starting as Deputy Chief of the Sri Lanka Office, Manager of the Pakistan Project Department and Deputy Chief of the Hydropower Department 1. He then served as Vice President and President of China International Water and Electric Corporation and Executive Vice President of China Water Investment Group Corporation. Currently, he is Assistant President of China Three Gorges Corporation and Chairman of China Three Gorges International Corporation. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China International Water & Electric Corp, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11th May 2012. He was appointed as representative of China International Water & Electric Corp, elected as Member of EDP’S General and Supervisory Board on the 21st April 2015 General Shareholders’ Meeting. D I N G M I N G Z H A N G He was born on 1st December 1963. He has a Bachelor’s degree in Power System and Automation from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 1984 and his Master’s degree in Management from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 2001. He served as an associate and then Deputy Division Chief in the Key Project Construction Department of the State Planning Commission of China (1984-1994), working in Germany between 1992 and 1993. He then worked as Deputy Division Chief, Division Chief and Deputy Director of Capital Planning Department of the Three Gorges Construction Committee under the State Council (1994-2002), before he became Deputy Director of Power Production Department of China Three Gorges Corporation (2002). He then worked as Executive Vice President of China Yangtze Power Company Limited (2002-2011) and President of Beijing Yangtze Power Capital Co. Ltd. (2008-2011). His past experience also includes Director of the Board of Guangzhou Development Industry (Holding) Co. Ltd. and Director of the Board of Yangtze Three Gorges Technology and Economy Development. From 2011 to 2015, he served as Board Secretary, Director of Strategic Development Department and Director of Marketing Department in China Three Gorges Corporation. Since 2015, he is President of China Yangtze Power Company Limited. He was appointed Vice-Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges Corporation, on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11th May 2012. He was appointed as representative of China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A., elected as Member of EDP’S General and Supervisory Board on the 21st April 2015 General Shareholders’ Meeting. S H E N G L I A N G W U He was born on 11th March 1971. He received Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from Wuhuan University of Hydraulic and Electrical Engineering in 1992. Master’s degree in Technical Economics and Management from Chongqing University in 2000. He served as technician and later as an engineer in Gezhouba Hydropower Plant (1992-1998). Secretary of Corporate Affairs Department in Gezhouba Hydropower Plant (1998-2002). Financial Manager of Capital Operating Department of China Yangtze Power Company (20022003). Information manager and then Deputy Director of Office of the Board of China Yangtze Power Company (2004-2006). Deputy Director and then Director of Capital Operating Department of China Yangtze Power Company (2006-2011). His past experience includes Director of the Board of Daye Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd (2008-2011). Executive Vice President of Beijing Yangtze Power Capital Co. Ltd (2008-2011). In 2011, he was appointed as Deputy Director of Strategic Planning Department in China Three Gorges Corporation. Since 2015, he is Vice President of China Three Gorges International Corporation, President of China Three Gorges (Europe) S.A. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of China Three Gorges International (Europe) S.A. on 20th February 2012 and initiated their term of office on 11th May 2012. He was appointed as representative of China Three Gorges (Portugal), Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda., elected as Member of EDP’S General and Supervisory Board on the 21st April 2015 General Shareholders’ Meeting. F E L I P E F E R N Á N D E Z F E R N Á N D E Z He was born on 21st December 1952. He has a degree in Economics and Management Sciences (1970 1975) from the University of Bilbao. His professional career includes the following positions: Professor at the Faculty of Economics and Business, University of Oviedo (1979 1984), Director of Regional Economy and Planning of the Principality of Asturias (1984 1990), Member of the Board and Executive Committee of the Caja de Ahorros de Asturias (1986 1990), Member of the Board of Directors and Vice-President of Sociedade Asturiana de Estudios Económicos e Industriales” (1986 1990), Member of the Board of Directors and Vice-President of the company SEDES , SA (1988 1990), President of the Committee for Planing and Urbanism of Asturias (1990 1991); Counsel for Planning, Urbanism and Housing in the Principality of Asturias (1990 1991); Counsel for Rural and Fishing Affairs in the Principality of Asturias (1991 1993), Director of the Department of Management Control of Hidrocantábrico (1993 1998), Director of the Department of Management Control, Purchasing and Quality of Hidrocantábrico (1998 2001), Chairman of the company Gas Asturias (2001 2003), Director of Support Areas and Control of Hidrocantábrico (2001 ANNUAL v 232 REPORT 2015 2002); Hidrocantábrico CFO, Chairman of Gas Capital, CEO of Hidrocantábrico Servicios, Board Member of Naturcorp, Gas de Asturias, SINAE, Canal Energía, Telecable and Sociedad Regional de Promoción de Asturias (2002 2004). He is currently Board Member of HC Energia, Board Member of Naturgas Energía Grupo, Board Member of Ahorro Corporación, Board Member of Liberbank and Member of its Management Committee (participation in the preparation and approval of Risk Appetite Frame (RAF) and of 2015 Liberbank Recovery Plan, and participation and approval of risk reports Información con Relevancia Prudencial 2014 and Informe de Autoevaluación de Capital 2014 of Liberbank; participation in trainee seminars of Price Waterhouse Coopers: Recovery Pan (November 2015) and Risk Appetite Frame – RAF (May 2015); Board Member of Cementos Tudela Veguín and Masaveu Inmobiliaria. Member of the Patronage of Fundação Princesa das Asturias and Member of the Jurado de la Concordia. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of Cajastur Inversiones SA, on 20th February 2012 and, in representation of DRAURSA, S.A., in 21st April 2015; currently he is a Member of the Corporate Governance and Sustainability Committee. F E R N A N D O M A R I A M A S A V E U H E R R E R O He was born on 21st May 1966 in Oviedo (Asturias). He received a law degree from the University of Navarra. He started to work at Masaveu Group in 1993 where he played various roles. He currently performs the following positions, among others: Chairman of Masaveu Corporation; Board Member of Hidroelectrica del Cantábrico, S.A.U.; Board Member of Naturgas Enegía Grupo; Board Member of Bankinter; Member of the Bankinter Executive Committee; Member of Bankinter Audit Committee and Rule Compliance; Board Member of ENEO SGPS; Board Member of Olmea International; Chairman of Fundação Maria Cristina Masaveu Peterson; Chairman of the Fundação San Ignacio de Loyola; Protector of Fundação Princesa das Astúrias; Member of the Executive Committee of Fundação Princesa das Astúrias; Member of the Patrimonial Committee of Fundação Princesa das Astúrias; International Protector of Associação Amigos do Museu do Prado; Honor medal of Escuela Superior de Música Reina Sofia; Patroness of scholarships; Chairman of the Board of Oppidum Capital, S.L. Beyond this, he is a Member of the Board of several companies in Masaveu Group. In the past, he occupied relevant positions in several areas: I+D: Board Member and Vice-Chairman of Agrupación de Fabricantes de Cemento (OFICEMEN) and joint Board Member of Masaveu Medicina; Furthermore: Chairman of Bodegas Murúa, Bodegas Fillaboa and Bodegas Pagos de Aráiz, Board Member at Rioja Alta; Foundations: Protector and Chairman of Fundação Masaveu, Protector and Secretary at Fundação Virgen de los Dolores, Protector of Fundação Oso; Energia: Chairman of Audit Committee of Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico; Financial: Board Member of Financiera Interprovincial SINCAV, Board Member of Banco Herrero, Member of the Internation Avisory Board of Santander Group; Transportation: Joint Board Member of Transportes Covadonga, Comercial Iberoamericana de Servicios e Fletamentos y Consgnaciones Marítimas. Environment: Board Member of Teconma; Medical: Board Member of Molypharma and of Medicina Asturiana; Editorials: Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of Ediciones Nobel; Real State and Concessions: Joint Board Member of COCANSA, Chairman of the Board of Directors of DRAURSA, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Estacionamentos Iruña, Joint Director of Aparcamientos Asturias y Estacionamientos Noroeste, Vice-Chairman and Board Member of Propriedades Urbanas, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Agüeira e Hoteles y Turismo de la Meseta, Managing Director of Danyson Kft. Member of EDP General and Supervisory Board; Member of EDP Strategy and Performance Committee; Member of EDP Remunerations Committee; he was elected Member of EDP’s General and Supervisory Board in 20th February 2012 and in 21st April 2015. N U N O M A N U E L D A S I L V A A M A D O He was born on 14th August 1957. He has a degree in Companies Organization and Management from ISCTE – Instituto Superior das Ciências do Trabalho e da Empresa. He has also complementary executive degree from INSEAD, Fontainebleau (Advanced Management Programme). From 1980 to 1985 he was employee of KPMG Peat Marwick, at the Audit and Consulting Department. From 1985 onwards he worked at Citibank and Banco Fonsecas & Burnay. Afterwards he was Member of the Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank Portugal, Member of the Executive Committee of BCI (Banco de Comércio e Indústria) / Banco Santander, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of Crédito Predial Português, Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee of Banco Totta & Açores, Member of the Executive Committee of Banco Santander Negócios de Portugal, of Banco Santander Totta, S.A. and of Banco Santander Totta, SGPS. From August 2006 until January 2012 he became CEO and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Santander Totta, S.A. and of Banco Santander Totta, SGPS. Since February 2012 he is Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of Banco Comercial Português. He is Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bank Millennium Polónia. He was appointed Member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. on May 6th 2013. At the General Shareholders’ Meeting of the 21st April 2015 he was elected Member of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A., as representative of Banco Comercial Português, S.A. F E R H A T O U N O U G H I He was born in 26th April 1967. He has a degree in Finance by the Institute of Economic Sciences of the University of Algiers in 1991. He has also an Executive MBA in Strategy by MDI Algiers and by EDHEC, University of Lille II, France, 2008. He has also professional education in audit and internal control from IFACI, the French Institute of Internal Control and Audit, 2009. He has attended several training courses on accountancy, finance, audit, dispute resolution, project management, production and exploitation of petroleum, leadership and commercial development. After the military service, he joined Sonatrach, the national Algerian company for oil and gas, at the Accountant and Financial Department. In 1999, he assume his first management position as “Order to Pay Manager” at the oil and gas production department. In 2002, he was promoted and became the financial responsible for the engineering and construction of Sonatrach upstream activity. In 2004 he was again promoted and assumed the position of Audit Procedures Head at Sonatrach upstream activity. Between 2006 and 2013, he became Internal Audit Director of Sonatrach upstream activity. While connected to the internal audit, he attended several seminars within the scope of the management risk, namely, “Risk Management” in 2007, “The role of internal Audit in the Risk Management” in 2008 and “Mapping ENERGY WITH 233 INTELLIGENCE of Major Risks” (in 2009). In 2013, he is appointed Director of Financial Operations in the Head Quarter of Sonatrach, position that he stills assumes currently. He was elected Member of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. General and Supervisory Board as Sonatrach’s representative on the 21st April 2015. M O H A M E D A L I A L F A H I M He was born on 4th March 1976. He has a degree in Finance by the University of Suffolk, Boston (1999). He has started his professional career at Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), where he worked from 2000 to 2008. His activity was focused in the identification and in the definition of investment strategies for a balanced investment portfolio of ADNOC, which could be able to meet the Groups requirements for cash flow and returns. During that time, he also had working experience as Corporate Finance Consultant for KPMG-Dubai (2001-2002) and for HSBC Bank at the Project and Export Finance Division-London (2006). Since September 2008, he has been Head of Finance at the Finance & Accounts Department of International Petroleum Investment Company (IPIC). He is a member of the board of directors of several companies as IPIC representative: AABAR Investment PJS (since May 2010), Arabtec Holdings PJSC (since April 2012), Al Izz Islamic Bank (since November 2012), RHB Group (since May 2014) and Depa Interiors (since May 2013). Mr. Al Fahim has attended Risk Management program for corporate leaders at Harvard Business School on December 2013. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP, in representation of Senfora Sarl, on 16th April 2010 and 20th February 2012 and, as representative of Senfora B.V. on the 21st April 2015. A N T Ó N I O S A R M E N T O G O M E S M O T A He has born on 10th June 1958. He has a degree in Management by ISCTE, (1981), an MBA by the School of Economics of Universidade Nova de Lisboa (1984) and a PhD in Management by ISCTE. He is a Full Professor and the head of ISCTE Business School (since 2003). He is also the head of INDEG/ISCTE (since 2005); Chairman of the General Board of the Fundo de Contragarantia Mútua (1999-) and a non-executive member of the Board of CIMPOR (2009-). Member of the Direction Board of the Portuguese Corporate Governance Institute (2010-). Previously, he was also head of the Finance and Accountancy Department of ISCTE Business School (2001-2003); Chairman of the Board of CEMAF – Centro de Investigação de Mercados e Activos Financeiros of ISCTE (1995-2003); member of the Investment Committee of FINPRO-SGPS (2002-2004); Chairman of the Board of Directors of SIEMCA – Sociedade Mediadora de Capitais (1990-1997); Consultant of PME Investimentos 1998-2000). Co-founder and first director of the “Management Revue”, he is also author of a number of books and papers on areas such as corporate governance, financial markets and instruments, strategy and business restructuring. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 15th April 2009 and reappointed on 2th February 2012 and on 21st April 2015. M A R I A C E L E S T E F E R R E I R A L O P E S C A R D O N A She was born on 30th June 1951. She holds a degree, a master and a Phd (legal-administrative sciences, specialization in Administrative Law) in law from Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de Lisboa. She was a Member of Centro de Estudos Fiscais of THE Minister of Finance. She represented Portugal, on behalf of Minister of Finance, on the Tax Affair Committee of OCDE. She has been an Assistant Professor in Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de Lisboa and in Universidade Lusíada. She was Deputy at the European Parliament and at the National Parliament. She was Minister of Justice of the XV Constitutional Government. She was graced the degree of Grande Oficial da Ordem do Infante D. Henrique, attributed in 1998, by his Excellency the President of the Portuguese Republic. She was also a non-executive Board Member of Caixa Geral de Depósitos. Mrs. Celeste Cardona published articles and opinions in specialty magazines, namely in “Ciência e Técnica Fiscal”. She is also author of several monographs and varied studies, such as “As agências de regulação no Direito Comunitário”, “O problema da retroactividade na lei fiscal e na Constituição”, “A prescrição da obrigação tributária e a caducidade da liquidação de impostos”, e “A natureza e o regime das empresas de serviço público”. She is currently a lawyer and a consultant in M. Cardona Consulting, Lda. and also a non-executive member of BCI, headquartered in Maputo, Mozambique, a member of the Fiscal Council of SIBS and a legal and fiscal consultant for several financial and non-financial institutions. She was appointed Member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on the 20th February 2012 and on the 21st April 2015. I L Í D I O D A C O S T A L E I T E D E P I N H O He was born on 19th December 1938. Degree in Electronics and Machinery Engineering. Grã-Cruz Order of Merit, Honorary member of the Industrial Order of Merit. Member of the “Ordens Honoríficas Portuguesas” from 1986 to 1999. Gold Medal and “Honorary citizen” award granted by the city of Vale de Cambra, in 1999. Gold medal and “University Benefactor” award granted by “Universidade Católica Portuguesa”. Golden Badge by the Portuguese Association of Voluntary Firemen, in 2002. Between 1986 and 1991 was non-executive Board of Directors Member of “ICEP” in representation of the National Industry. President of the City Hall Council of Vale de Cambra between 1979 and 1983 and President of the City Hall Assembly of Vale de Cambra, between 1993 and 1997. Member of the Administrative Committee of “Universidade Católica” – Oporto and of the Senate of “Universidade do Porto”. Member of University Counsel of “Universidade de Aveiro”. Member of the board of several business association. Member of the “Trilateral Commission” between 1988 and 1996. Was founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of COLEP. Was founder of NacionalGás, S.A. and its subsidiaries, LusitâniaGás, EGA, EGL, EMPORGÁS, EDISOFT, S.A. and MEGASIS. Was the main shareholder of Transinsular. Was non-executive Member of the Board of Directors of “Banco Espirito Santo, S.A.” between 2000 and 2005. Shareholder of “CEM Companhia de Electricidade de Macau, SARL”. Chairman of the Strategy Committee of “Fomentinvest, S.A.”. Founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Board of Trustees of Fundação Ilídio Pinho. Chairman of various companies of Group Ilídio Pinho. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on the 20th February 2012 and on the 21st April 2015. ANNUAL v 234 REPORT 2015 J O R G E B R A G A D E M A C E D O He was born on 1st December 1946. He has a law degree from Universidade de Lisboa in 1971. At Yale University, he completed M.A. in International Relations (1973) and also has PhD in Economics (1979). He aggregated in the Faculty of Economics from Universidade de Lisboa in 1982. Since 1999 to 2003 he belonged to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Commission in Brussels between 1988 and 1991. At a national level, he was Minister of Finance (19911993 having chaired ECOFIN) and President of the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs (1994-1995) and of the Instituto de Investigaçao Científica e Tropical (2004 – 2015). He has taught in several universities in the USA, Europe and Africa. He was a trainee at Fundo Monetário Internacional and has been a consultant at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the United Nations, the World Bank. Currently, he is a Professor and Director of the Center Globalization and Governance (CG & G) at the Nova School of Business and Economics from the Universidade Nova and a researcher at NBER (Cambridge, Mass); CEPR (London) and CIGI (Waterloo, Ont.). He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on the 20th February 2012 and on the 21st April 2015. V A S C O J O A Q U I M R O C H A V I E I R A He was born on 16th August 1939. He has a degree in Civil Engineering. He took several courses and specialties, including General Course of Staff (1969-1970), Complementary Course of General Staff (1970-1972), Course of Command and Direction for Official General (1982-1983) and the Course of National Defense (1984). In 1984 in was promoted to Brigadier and later, in 1987, he was promoted General. In 1956 he joined the Military College having received the Alcazar of Toledo Award, given to the highest rated finalist of all students from the Military Academy, and the Marechal Hermes Award in Brazil. From 1969 to 1973 he collaborated with Lisbon´s City Hall. He taught at the Military Academy and at the Institute for Advanced Military Studies. He was Deputy Secretary for Communications and Public Works of the Macau Government (1974-1975). He joined the original core of officers of the Portuguese Armed Forces, promoting the installation of a democratic regime in Portugal. Attributing great importance to his military career, he was Chief of Staff of the Army and, inherently, member of the Revolution Council (1976-1978), National Military Representative at NATO Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers in Europe SHAPE, in Belgium, and Director and Honorary Director of Weapons and Engineering. He was Minister of the Republic for the Azores (1986-1991), and Governor of Macau, where he served from 1991 until 1999. Currently, he is Member of the Board of Engineers, Member of the Academy of Engineering, Chancellor of the Former Military Orders, Member of the Supreme Council of Associations of the Former Students of the Military College, member of the Supreme Council of SHIP (Sociedade Histórica da Independência de Portugal), member of the Honorary Council of the ISCSP (Instituto Superior de Ciências Sociais e Políticas), Member of the School Board of the same Institute and Member of the Advisory Board of the Nova School of Business and Economics at Universidade Nova de Lisboa. He is an honorary associate of Lisbon Geography Society, of Sociedade Histórica da Independência de Portugal and of the Combatants League. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on 20th February 2012. A U G U S T O C A R L O S S E R R A V E N T U R A M A T E U S He was born on 27th August 1950. He has a degree in Economics from the Superior Institute of Economics and Finance (ISCEF), of Technical University of Lisbon. Guest Professor at ISEG with diversified responsibilities in the areas of European and Portuguese Economy, Economic Policy and Industrial and Competitiveness Policy at the level of degrees and masters’ degrees. Researcher and consultant in the areas of macroeconomics, economic policy, industrial competitiveness, business strategy, territorial development, program evaluation, policy and economic development of culture and criativity. Responsible for the coordination of several studies of evaluating programs and policies and for the coordination of several research projects and studies in applied economics. He has held the positions of Secretary of State for Industry (October 1995 until March 1996) and Ministry of Economy (March 1996 until December 1997). He is currently Chairman of the consulting company Augusto Mateus & Associados, founded in 1998, and General Chairman of Instituto Politecnico de Tomar since 2011. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on May 6th 2013 and on the 21st April 2015. J O Ã O C A R V A L H O D A S N E V E S Professor in finance and planning and management control, ISEG, Universidade de Lisboa. Director of the master degree in Real Estate Management and Assessement. Advisor at A2ES – Agência de Avaliação e Acreditação do Ensino Superior para as áreas da Gestão, Gestão de Saúde, Banca e Finanças. Manager Advisor (pro bono) of Raríssimas – Associação Nacional de Doenças Mentais e Raras. Independent management consultant. PhD by Manchester Business School, center for Creative Leadership, Kennedy Harvard Governement School), in management control (HEC Paris and Wisconsin Graduate Business School in Madison), in company finances (IMD and Management Center of Europe), in international finances (INSEAD), in analysis and risk management (Stern New York University) and in banks (International Banking Centre from Manchester Business School and the International Center for Monetary and Banking Studies in Geneva). Fellow by RICS Royal Institution Chartered Surveyors (management and assessment of real estate) since January 2008. Statutory Auditor since 1998 (activity suspended since portuguese legal regime in force until January 2016 made incompatible these function with the Board Members ones). Technical Account Admitted since 1981. Approved s Business Coach by the ECA European Coaching Association. Approved as Multi-Health Systems in Emotinal Intelligence Bar-On model. Chairman of ACSS Administração do Sistema Central de Saúde, I.P (2011-2014). Board Member of BPN (2008) and SLN (2008 – 2009) where he was included as member of Miguel Cadilhe team; Judicial administrator (1993 – 1998) of Torralta, TVI and Casino Hotel de Troia, taking part of the recovery process of these companies. Associated Partner of Coopers & Lybrand, now PWC (1992 – 1993), director of CIFAG/IPE (1985 – 1992) and assistant controller of Cometna (1981 – 1984); Member of the Scholar Council ISEG (2014 …); Chairman of the Audit Board ADVANCE Centro de Investigação em Gestão do ISEG (2009 – 2014); Chairman of the Audit Board of Federação Portuguesa de Judo (1997 – 2013); Member of the Audit Board of SIBS, S.A. (2007 – 2008); Member of the Audit Board of FCCN – Fundação para a Computação ENERGY WITH 235 INTELLIGENCE Científica Nacional (2009 – 2011); Member of the Scientific Council of INE for the housing prices index (2010 – 2011); Member of ISEG Scientific Coucil (2005 – 2008); Chairman of Management Department at ISEG (2007 – 2008); MBA Director at ISEG (1998 – 2020 and 2014 – 2016) and of the post-graduation and master degree in management and and real estate assessment (2001 …). Relevant experience as consultant, invitee professor abroad and author and co-author of management books. To point out the activity developed in the risk area, namely the attendance of courses, the coordination of projects, the co-authorship on several articles on the matter, the communication in national and international conferences and the guidance in PhD dissertations. He was elected member of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. in 21st April 2015. A L B E R T O B A R B O S A Has more than 35 years of professional experience. After obtaining his degree in Electrical Engineering he taught at the Faculty of Engineering of Porto University as an assistant professor and started his industrial career has an engineer in electrical studies. He enhanced his competences throughout his career with multiple technical and management training programs of both national and international institutions. He is currently member of the Board, overseeing Efacec activities in the fields of Electrical Mobility, amongst others. He has previously held positions of President of Board, Executive Director or General Manager in several national and international companies, within the Efacec and Tech M5 Groups. He has also held positions of Director and Head of Department of Efacec Automation division earlier in his career. During his career, Alberto Barbosa has headed or been involved in mergers, acquisitions and sale of over 20 companies or business areas (some of them involving several hundred million euros) and has overseen multiple projects including strategic analysis, technical analysis and financial package preparation. He has also gained strong experience in investor relations, as well as in negotiation with financial institutions. He is a member of the Portuguese Academy of Engineering (Academia de Engenharia) and has actively participated in multiple industry associations and fora, including the IEC, the Portuguese Institution of Engineers (Ordem dos Engenheiros), Animee, UNICE, APDC, APREN, APIEE and ADFER. He has also worked as an Expert for the CEC, advising the Commission on several subjects in the fields of Energy and Information Technology. Over the last 20 years he has participated in multiple conferences and colloquiums, having presented over 100 lectures in technical fields (electricity networks, telecommunications, transportation systems) as well as management areas, and wrote technical and position articles in various magazines and newspapers. He was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board of EDP on the 21st April 2015. M A R I A D E L C A R M E N F E R N Á N D E Z R O Z A D O Degree in Economic and Business Administration and Political Science and Sociology in the Complutense University of Madrid. PHD in aforementioned University. MBA in IESE Business School (University of Navarra). Member of State Tax Inspectors Body, by public competition. Account Auditor (Registered in the Auditing and Accounting Institute). During professional career, has participated in more than 50 workshops, international and national workshops and seminars regarding: Finance, Auditing, Taxes, Global Management, Business Strategy, Renewable Energies, International Cooperation. More than 35 years of experience in the field of Finance, Accounting, Taxation and in the Energy Sector. From 1983-1999 she has occupied relevant positions in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (General Tax Inspector Chief in Madrid). In 1999 was appointed member of the Board of the National Energy Commission (Regulatory Body of Spanish Energy System). During this period (1999-2011) she has participated in the Planning of the Sector including authorizations, mergers and acquisitions as well as in the implementation of the retribution model for Electricity distribution in the Spanish Market and other subjects… President during several years of the Renewable Energy TASK FORCE, Sustainability Energy Efficiency and Carbon Market in ARIAE (Latin American Energy Regulators Association). A large part of her professional career has been carried out in Latin America providing technical assistance in the Regulatory Bodies in Peru, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Argentina and Uruguay regarding aspects in implementation of technical norms in the tender of renewable energies. Development of projects in wind, solar and mini hydraulic, energy efficiency, carbon markets (elaboration of PDDs, baseline, follow-up and monitoring of GEI emissions). In the EU, she has been Vice-President of renewable energies in MEDREG (Mediterranean Regulatory Body). Since September 2011 she is International advisor for the development and implementation of business plans in energy and in Infrastructures in Latin America and Asia. Local Support with Institutions and Regulatory Bodies. From 2012-2013 she was a member of the Advisory Board of Ernst & Young (EY) in Madrid. In April 2015 she was appointed member of the General and Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee of EDP (Energias de Portugal), Lisbon. Professor at several Universities and Business Schools both Spanish and Foreign, developing programs in relation with Fiscal, Account Auditing, financing of Renewable Energy projects and Carbon Markets. Author of numerous articles and publications regarding previously mentioned activities. Member of Several Professional Associations in Spain and Latin American. Patron of the Comillas University Foundation ICAI-ICADE, Madrid. Vice-president of the Club Financiero Genova, Madrid. A N T Ó N I O V I T O R I N O He was born in Lisbon, in 1957. He has a degree in law by Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de Lisboa, in 1981. He has a master degree in legal-political sciences by Faculdade de Direito da Universidade de Lisboa, in 1986. He is a Member of Portuguese Bar Association since 1982. He was na assistant professor at Faculdade de Direito de Lisboa since 1982. He is an invitee professor at Faculdade de Direito da Universidade Nova de Lisboa between 2008 and 2010. He was a deputy at Assembleia da República between 1980 and 2006. He was Secretary of State of Parliamentary Issues (1983 – 1985); he was an Alternate Secretary of Macao Government (1986 – 1987) and a Judge at Constitutional Court (1989 – 1994). He was a Deputy at the European Parliament (1994 – 1995). He was Minister of Presidency and National Defense (1995 – 1997). He was European Commissionaire for the Justice and Internal Affairs (1999 – 2004). He is Chairman of the General Shareholders’ Meeting of Banco Santander Totta, Brisa, Auto-Estradas de Portugal, S.A. and EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A.; he is the Chairman of the Audit Board at Siemens Portugal and Tabaqueira Industria. He is also a non-executive Chairman of Áreas (Portugal), Board Member of CTT, Correios de Portugal. Chairman ANNUAL v 236 REPORT 2015 of Instituto Jacques Delors, Paris. Partner of Cuatrecasas, Gonçalves Pereira from December 2005 onwards. He was elected Member of EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A. on the 21st April 2015. EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS A N T Ó N I O L U I S G U E R R A N U N E S M E X I A , Chairman. He was born on 12th July 1957. He received a degree in Economics from Université de Genève (Switzerland) in 1980, where he was also Assistant Lecturer in the Department of Economics. He was a postgraduate lecturer in European Studies at Universidade Católica. He was a lecturer at Universidade Nova de Lisboa and at Universidade Católica from 1982 to 1995. He served as Assistant to the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade from 1986 until 1988. From 1988 to 1990 he served as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of ICEP (Portuguese Institute for Foreign Trade). From 1990 to 1998 he was Director of Banco Espírito Santo de Investimentos and, in 1998, he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gás de Portugal and Transgás. In 2000 he joined Galp Energia as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors. From 2001 to 2004, he was the Executive Chairman of Galp Energia and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Petrogal, Gás de Portugal, Transgás and Transgás-Atlântico. In 2004, he was appointed Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communication for Portugal’s 16th Constitutional Government. He also served as Chairman of the Portuguese Energy Association (APE) from 1999 to 2002, member of the Trilateral Commission from 1992 to 1998, Vice-Chairman of the Portuguese Industrial Association (AIP) and Chairman of the General Supervisory Board of Ambelis. He was also a Government representative to the EU working group for the trans-European network development. On January 2008 he was appointed as member of the General and Supervisory Board of Banco Comercial Português, SA, having been previously a member of the Superior Board of this bank. He was appointed as a Member of the Board of Directors of thos bank on February 2012. He is Chairman and Counselor-Delegate of EDP Renováveis and Chairman of The Union of the Electricity Industry – EURELECTRIC. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as Chairman of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009, 20th February 2012 and 21st April 2015. N U N O M A R I A P E S T A N A D E A L M E I D A A L V E S . He was born on 1st April 1958. He holds a degree in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering (1980) and a Master in Business Administration (1985) by the University of Michigan. In 1988, he joins the Planning and Strategy Department of Millennium BCP and in 1990 becomes an associate director of the bank’s Financial Investments Division. In 1991, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as the Investor Relations Officer for the Group and in 1994 he joins the Retail network as Coordinating Manager. In 1996, he becomes Head of the Capital Markets Division of Banco CISF, currently Millennium bcp Investimento, and, in 1997, Co-Head of the bank’s Investment Banking Division. In 1999, Mr. Nuno Alves is appointed as Chairman and CEO of CISF Dealer, the brokerage arm of Banco CISF. Since 2000, before his appointment as EDP’s Chief Financial Officer in March 2006, Mr. Nuno Alves acted as an Executive Board Member of Millennium BCP Investimento, responsible for BCP Group Treasury and Capital Markets. He is member of the Board of Directors of EDP Energias do Brasil and Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico and CEO of EDP Imobiliária e Participações and Sãvida. He was appointed on March 30th, 2006 as a Member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on June 30th, 2006, and reappointed on April 15th, 2009, February 20th, 2012 and April 21st 2015. J O Ã O M A N U E L M A N S O N E T O . He was born on April 2nd 1958. He graduated in Economics from Instituto Superior de Economia (1981) and received a post-graduate degree in European Economics from Universidade Católica Portuguesa (1982). He also completed a professional education course through the American Bankers Association (1982), the academic component of the Master’s Degree programme in Economics at the Faculty of Economics, Universidade Nova de Lisboa and, in 1985, the “Advanced Management Program for Overseas Bankers” at the Wharton School in Philadelphia.From 1981 to 1995 he worked at Banco Português do Atlântico, occupying several positions, manly as Head of the International Credit Division, and General Manager responsible for Financial and South Retail areas.From 1995 to 2002 he worked at the Banco Comercial Português, where he held the posts of General Manager of Financial Management, General Manager of Large Corporates and Institutional Businesses, General Manager of the Treasury, member of the Board of Directors of BCP Banco de Investimento and Vice-Chairman of BIG Bank Gdansk in Poland. From 2002 to 2003, he was a member of the Board of Banco Português de Negócios. From 2003 to 2005 he worked at EDP as General Manager and Member of the Board of EDP Produção. In 2005 he was elected CEO at HC Energía, Chairman of Genesa and Member of the Board of Naturgas Energia and OMEL. Currently he is CEO of EDP Renováveis and responsible for Regulation and Energy Management (Gas and electricity) at Iberian level. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as a member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009, 20th February 2012 and 21st April 2015 A N T Ó N I O F E R N A N D O M E L O M A R T I N S D A C O S T A . He was born in Oporto, Portugal on December 13th, 1954. He holds a degree in Civil Engineering from Faculdade de Engenharia do Porto (1976) and a MBA from Porto Business School (1989). He also has complementary Executive degrees from INSEAD (Fontainbleau, France – 1995), PADE from AESE (Lisbon, 2000) and the Advanced Management Program from Wharton School (Philadelphia, USA – 2003). He was a Teacher’s Assistant at the Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto between 1976 and 1989. In 1981 he joined the Hydro Generation department at EDP where he stayed until 1989. Between 1989 and 2003 he was General Director at the Millennium BCP Bank, and executive board member of Insurance, Pensions and Assets Management companies of BCP Group. Between 1999 and 2002 he was Executive Director of Eureko BV (The Netherlands), President of Eureko Polska (Poland) and Vice-President of PZU. He was the CEO and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of EDP – Energias do Brasil between 2003 and 2007. During this period, he also held positions as Vice-President of the Portuguese Chamber of Commerce in Brazil and President of the Brazilian Association of Electricity Distribution companies. In 2007, he assumed functions as Chairman and CEO of Horizon Wind Energy in the USA, being also a Member of the Executive Board of EDP Renováveis since its incorporation in 2008 until 2012. Between 2009 and 2012, he was CEO of EDP ENERGY WITH 237 INTELLIGENCE Internacional, and CEO of EDP Soluções Comerciais from 2009 to 2013. He is CEO of EDP Gás since 2012 and CEO of EDP Valor since 2013. Maintains responsibilities for EDP Distribuição at EDP’s Executive Board level. He is a Founding Member of the Portuguese Institute for Corporate Governance. He was appointed on 30th March 2006 as a member of the Executive Board of Directors, which office began on 30th June 2006, and reappointed on 15th April 2009, 20th February 2012 and 21st April 2015. J O Ã O M A N U E L V E R Í S S I M O M A R Q U E S D A C R U Z . He was born on 23rd May 1961. He holds a degree in Management (1984) from Lisbon’s ISE at the Technical University of Lisbon Instituto Superior de Economia da Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, an MBA (1989) from the Technical University of Lisbon Universidade Técnica de Lisboa and a Post Graduation in Marketing and Management of Airlines (1992) from the Bath University /International Air Travel Association, UK. He began his career at the TAP Group in 1984 (Transportes Aéreos de Portugal) having had several positions until becoming General Director. Between 1997 and 1999 he was a Board Member of TAPGER. Between 2000 and 2002, he was a member of the Board of several companies within CP – Portuguese Railways, namely EMEF. From 2002 and 2005, became CEO of Air Luxor, an airline company, and from 2005 and 2007 he was chairman and CEO of ICEP Instituto do Comércio Externo de Portugal. From March 2007 to 2012, he was a board member of EDP Internacional S.A. and in 2009 he was nominated Chairman of the Board of Directors of CEM – Macao Electrical Company. He was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis on May 2012, as Chairman of the Câmara Comércio Luso-Chinesa on April 2012 and Chairman of EDP Internacional on September 2014. He was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias do Brazil SA on April 10, 2015. He was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of Directors on 20th February 2012 and reappointed on 21st April 2015. M I G U E L S T I L W E L L D E A N D R A D E . He was born on 6th August 1976. Graduated with an M.Eng with Distinction in Mechanical Engineering in the University of Strathclyde (Glasgow, Scotland) and an MBA by MIT Sloan (Boston, USA). He initiated his career at UBS Investment Bank in London, UK, where he worked primarily in Mergers and Acquisitions in various projects in European countries, including Portugal, as well as in Japan, Thailand and Brazil. Miguel lived between 1994 and 2003 in Scotland, Italy, England, Portugal and the USA. In 2000, he joined EDP in the area of Strategy and Corporate Development / M & A and was the Director of this area between 2005 and 2009. During this period Miguel coordinated and managed various M&A and capital market transactions for EDP, including the acquisition of several companies that gave rise to EDP Renewables, the acquisition of Hidrocantabrico, the different phases of EDP’s privatization, EDP’s share capital increase in 2004, EDP Energias do Brazil IPO in 2005 and EDP Renewables IPO in 2008. He was a member of the Board of EDP Distribuição Energia from January 2009 to February 2012. Miguel was also a non-executive Member of the Board of Directors of EDP Inovação, EDP Ventures, EDP Gas Distribution and Chairman of InovGrid ACE. On 2012 he was appointed Chairman of EDP Comercial as well as Counselor-Delegate and Vice-Presidente of Hidroeléctrica del Cantabrico and Naturgas Energia. On 2014 he was appointed as Chairman of EDP Soluções Comerciais. He is currently a Director of FAE – Fórum de Administradores de Empresas and Executive Board Member of Câmara Hispano Portuguesa of Comercio and Industria in Spain. He was appointed as a member of the Executive Board of EDP on the 20th February of 2012 and reappointment on 21st April 2015. M I G U E L N U N O S I M Õ E S N U N E S F E R R E I R A S E T A S . He was born on November 12, 1970. In Brasil since 2008, Miguel Setas is currently, since January 2014, the CEO of EDP Energias do Brasil. Between 2010 and 2013, he was the Vice-President responsible for the Distribution business (CEO of EDP Bandeirante and EDP Escelsa, two electricity distribution companies). Between 2008 and 2009, he was the VP responsible for New Business Development, Commercialization and Renewables. He joined EDP in 2006, as the CEO Chief of Staff. In 2007, he was executive board member of EDP Comercial (responsible for the commercialization in the liberalized energy market). He was also Board Member of EDP Inovação, Portgás and Fundação EDP. He holds a BSc. in Physics, and a MSc. in Electrical and Computing Engineering, both granted by IST (Instituto Superior Técnico, Lisbon). He has an MBA from Universidade Nova de Lisboa (Lisbon MBA). He has been working in the energy sector since 1998, when he was Corporate Director in GDP Gás de Portugal. Between 1999 and 2001, he was Board Member of Setgás (natural gas distribution company in Setúbal, part of Galp Energia). Between 2000 and 2001, he was Executive Board Member of Lisboagás (natural gas distribution company in Lisbon, part of Galp Energia). He was Strategic Marketing Director of Galp Energia (oil and gas) until 2004. In the transportation sector, he was Executive Board Member of CP Comboios de Portugal and CEO of CP Lisboa (largest business unit of CP), between 2004 and 2006. He started his career, in 1995, as consultant in McKinsey & Co, developing strategic projects for energy, banking, insurance, retail and industry clients. He was appointed on 21st April 2015 as a member of the Executive Board of Directors. R U I M A N U E L R O D R I G U E S L O P E S T E I X E I R A . He was born on 10th October 1972. Previously he was member of the Board of Directors of EDP Renováveis, S.A., member of the Executive Committee, and the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. From 1996 to 1997, he was assistant director of the commercial naval department of Gellweiler— Sociedade Equipamentos Maritimos e Industriais, Lda. From 1997 to 2001, he worked as project manager and ship surveyor for Det Norske Veritas, with responsibilities for offshore structures, shipbuilding and ship repair. Between 2001 and 2004, he was consultant at McKinsey & Company, focussing on energy, shipping and retail banking. From 2004 to 2007, he headed the corporate planning and control division ANNUAL v 238 REPORT 2015 within the EDP Group. In 2007 also served as Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renewables Europe SL (former NEO). He was nominated Chief Financial Officer of EDP Renováveis SA in 2008. He holds a Master of Science degree in Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering from the Institute Superior Técnico de Lisboa, a Master in Business and Administration from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa and is a graduate of Harvard Business School’s Advanced Management Program. He is Chief Executive Officer of EDP – Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. He is also Member of the Board of Directors of several subsidiaries of the Company’s Group. He was appointed on 21st April 2015 as a member of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP. ENERGY WITH 239 INTELLIGENCE ANNEX II Meetings of the General and Supervisory Board and each member's attendance: Previous mandate 22/jan 03/apr Name % Eduardo de Almeida Catroga Chairman P P 100 Dingming Zhang Vice-Chairman P P 100 Guojun Lu R R 0 Ya Yang R P 50 Shengliang Wu P P 100 Felipe Fernández Fernández P P 100 Luis Filipe da Conceição Pereira P A 50 Mohamed Ali Ismaeil Ali Al Fahim P P 100 Harkat Abderezak P A 50 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro P P 100 António Sarmento Gomes Mota P P 100 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona P P 100 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero P P 100 Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho P P 100 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo P P 100 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro P P 100 Paulo Jorge de Assunção Rodrigues Teixeira Pinto P P 100 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira P P 100 Vítor Fernando da Conceição Gonçalves P P 100 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena P P 100 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura Mateus P A 50 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado P A 50 P = Presence; A = Absence; R = Represented Total of meetings in 2015: 2 Attendance average: 84% ANNUAL v 240 REPORT 2015 Current mandate 22/apr 07/may 18/jun 30/jul 11/sep 29/oct 03/dec 17/dec Name % Eduardo Almeida Catroga P P P P P P P P 100 Chairman Luís Filipe Marques Amado – P P P P P P P P 100 Vice-Chairman Dingming Zhang P R R R R P A P 37.5 Guojun Lu R R R R R R A A 0 Ya Yang P R P R P P A P 62.5 Shengliang Wu P P P P P P P P 100 Fernando María Masaveu Herrero P P P P A P R P 75 Felipe Fernández Fernández P P P P P P P P 100 Mohamed Ali Ismaeli Ali Al Fahim P P P P P P P A 87.5 Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado A P P P A P P P 75 Ounoughi Ferhat P P P P A P A P 75 Alberto Joaquim Milheiro Barbosa P P P P P P P P 100 António Manuel de Carvalho P P A P P P P P 87.5 Ferreira Vitorino António Sarmento Gomes Mota P P P P P P P P 100 Augusto Carlos Serra Ventura P P P P P P P P 100 Mateus Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho P P P A A P A P 62.5 João Carvalho das Neves P P P P P P P P 100 Jorge Avelino Braga de Macedo P P P P P P A P 87.5 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes P P P P P P P P 100 Cardona María del Carmen Fernandez P P P P P P P P 100 Rozado Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira P P P P P P P P 100 P = Presence; A = Absence; R = Represented Total of meetings in 2015: 8 Attendance average: 83% ENERGY WITH 241 INTELLIGENCE ANNEX III Meetings of the Executive Board of Directors and each member's attendance: Previous mandate 8-jan 20-jan 27-jan 3-feb 13-feb 19-feb 24-feb 25-feb 3-mar 6-mar 17-mar 31-mar 7-apr 10-apr 20-apr Name % António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 93 P P P P P P P P P P A P P P P João Manuel Manso Neto 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 93 P P P P P A P P P P P P P P P António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 100 P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 93 P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P P = Attendanc e A = Absenc e Total of meetings held in 2015 (Until 21 April 2015): 15 Current mandate 23-apr 28-apr 29-abr 7-may 8-may 21-may 26-may 5-jun 16-jun 2-jul 7-jul 14-jul 23-jul 23-jul 28-jul 30-jul Name % António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 100% P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 91% P P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P João Manuel Manso Neto 100% P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 91% P P P P P P A P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 94% P P A P P P P P P P P P P A P P Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 97% P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 91% P P A P P P P A P P P P P P P P Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 100% P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P 4-aug 1-sep 8-sep 21-sep 6-oct 13-oct 23-oct 23-oct 29-oct 3-nov 10-nov 24-nov 30-nov 2-dec 10-dec 15-dec 22-dec Name António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves P P A P P P P P P P P P P P A P P João Manuel Manso Neto P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa A P A P P P P P P P P P P P P P P João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Miguel Stilwell de Andrade A P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P A Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P P = Attendance A = Absenc e Total of meetings held in 2015 (After 21 April 2015): 33 Average attendance: 95% ANNUAL v 242 REPORT 2015 ANNEX IV Positions held by the members of the Executive Board of Directors in other companies belonging or not to the EDP Group: Nuno António João Miguel António João Manso Almeida Martins da Marques da Stilwell Miguel Setas Rui Teixeira Mexia Neto Alves Costa Cruz Andrade Balwerk Consultadoria Ec onómic a e Partic ipaç ões, S.U, Lda. M Bandeirante Energia S.A. CBD CNET – Centre for New Energy Technologies, S.A. CBD EDP Ásia Soluç ões Energétic as Lda. CBD EDP Energias de Portugal Soc iedade Anónima, Sucursal en España PR PR PR PR PR EDP Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. CBD EDP Gestão da Produç ão de Energia, S.A. CBD EDP Soluções Comerciais, S.A. CBD EDP Comercial Comerc ializaç ão de Energia, S.A. CBD EDP Comercializadora de Último Rec urso S.A. CBD EDP Empresa de Servic ios Energétic os S.L. CBD EDP Energia Gas S.L. D EDP Energía Gas SL D EDP Energia Ibérica S.A. D EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. CBD D D VP EDP Finance BV R R R R R R EDP Gás, SGPS, S.A. _ CBD D EDP Gás.Com Comérc io de Gás Natural, S.A. CBD D EDP Imobiliária e Partic ipações, S.A. CBD EDP Internac ional, S.A. CBD EDP International Investments and Servic es SL CBD EDP Pequenas Centrais Hidroelétric as S.A. CBD EDP Renewables Europe SL CBD EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. CBD EDP Renováveis Servicios Financ ieros S.L. CBD EDP Renováveis, S.A. CBD/CD CD VP/CD EDP Soluciones Comerc iales, S.A. CBD EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. CBD Empresa Hidroeléctric a do Guadiana, S.A. CBD Enagás – S.G.P.S, S.A. CBD ENERGEST S.A. CBD Energia Ásia Consultoria, Lda. CBD Energia RE, S.A. CBD ESCELSA Espírito Santo Centrais Elétricas S.A. CBD Hidroc antábrico Energía, S.A.U. CBD Hidroeléctric a del Cantábric o, S.A. D D D D Hydro Global Investment Limited CBD INVESTCO S.A. CBD Labelec Estudos, Desenvolvimento e Ac tividades Laboratoriais, S.A. CBD Lajeado Energia S.A. CBD Naturgás Energía Grupo, S.A. D D VP Naturgas Energia Servic ios S.A.U. CBD Pecém Operação e Manutenç ão de Unidades de Geraç ão Elétrica S.A. CBD Porto do Pecém Geraç ão de Energia S.A. CBD Sãvida Medic ina Apoiada, S.A. CBD SCS Serviços Complementares de Saúde, S.A. CBD Companhia de Elec tric idade de Mac au CEM, S.A. CBD Banc o Comerc ial Portugês, S.A. D EURELECTRIC Union de l’Industrie Electrique CBD Operador del Merc ado Ibéric o de Energía, Polo Español, S.A. (OMEL) R OMIP – Operador do Merc ado Ibéric o (Portugal), SGPS, S.A. R CBD Chairman of the Board of Direc tors M Manager CD Counselor-Delegate RP – Permanent Representative VP/CD – Vice-President and Counselor-Delegate R – Representative D Direc tor VP – Vic e-President ENERGY WITH 243 INTELLIGENCE ANNEX V Meetings of the Financial Matters Committee/Audit Committee and each member's attendance: Previous mandate 23-jan 06-feb 24-feb NAME % Eduardo de Almeida Catroga (Chairman) P P P 100 Vítor Fernando Conceição Gonçalves (Vice-Chairman) P P P 100 António Sarmento Gomes Mota P P P 100 Manuel Fernando de Macedo Alves Monteiro P P P 100 Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes Cardona P P P 100 P = Present; A = Absent; R = Represented Total from 2015 meetings: 3 Average participation: 100% Current mandate 29-apr 25-may 18-jun 27-jul 21-sep 22-oct 19-nov 11-dec Name % António Sarmento Gomes Mota P P P P P P P P 100 (Chairman) João Carvalho das Neves P P P P P P P P 100 (Vice-Chairman) Alberto Barbosa P P P P P P P P 100 Maria del Carmen Fernandez P P P P P P P P 100 Rozado Maria Celeste Ferreira Lopes P P P P P P P P 100 Cardona P = Present; A = Absent; R = Represented Total from 2015 meetings: 8 Average participation: 100% ANNUAL v 244 REPORT 2015 ANNEX VI In 2015, the members of the Executive Board of Directors performed the following operations with EDP shares: Avg. Purchase Titular do Órgão Social Company Security Date Quantity Operation Price (euros) João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Obrigaç ões 18-10-2015 200.000 Aquisiç ão 0,9636 In 2015, the members of the General and Supervisory Board performed the following operations with EDP shares: Avg. Purchase Member of Corporate Body Company Security Date Quantity Operation Price (euros) EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 17/04/2015 80,145 Purchase 6.156 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 20/04/2015 321,157 Purchase 6.233 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 21/04/2015 23,000 Purchase 6.243 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 21/04/2015 375,000 Purchase 6.240 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 22/04/2015 2,750 Purchase 6.235 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 24/04/2015 81,000 Purchase 6.333 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 30/04/2015 70,840 Purchase 6.208 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 04/05/2015 60,000 Purchase 6.409 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 05/05/2015 155,000 Purchase 6.450 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 05/05/2015 35,000 Purchase 6.481 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 05/05/2015 18,600 Purchase 6.450 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 20/05/2015 95,559 Purchase 6.744 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 21/05/2015 60,000 Purchase 6.739 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 01/06/2015 30,000 Sale 6.514 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 02/06/2015 20,000 Sale 6.530 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 02/06/2015 59,444 Sale 6.517 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 03/06/2015 80,000 Sale 6.550 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 03/06/2015 35,353 Sale 6.532 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 04/06/2015 37,051 Sale 6.703 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 05/06/2015 60,000 Sale 6.578 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 08/06/2015 29,087 Sale 6.478 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 03/06/2015 30,000 Sale 6.603 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 09/06/2015 48,517 Sale 6.354 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 11/06/2015 150,000 Sale 6.571 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 11/06/2015 41,298 Sale 6.613 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 11/06/2015 30,000 Sale 6.570 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 30/09/2015 147,555 Sale 5.887 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 30/09/2015 475,000 Sale 5.879 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 01/10/2015 56,146 Sale 5.846 S.A. EDP Renováveis, Ilídio da Costa Leite de Pinho Shares 01/10/2015 48,600 Sale 5.838 S.A. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 249 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 250 2015 (Page left intentionally blank) ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 251 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Income Statement as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros Notes 2015 2014 Revenues from energy sales and services and other 6 15,516,799 16,293,883 Cost of energy sales and other 6 -10,062,093 -10,926,754 5,454,706 5,367,129 Other income 7 848,783 402,278 Supplies and services 8 -920,608 -896,959 Personnel costs and employee benefits 9 -652,979 -555,438 Other expenses 10 -805,944 -674,617 -1,530,748 -1,724,736 3,923,958 3,642,393 Provisions 11 -16,056 -52,095 Amortisation and impairment 12 -1,464,523 -1,397,238 2,443,379 2,193,060 Financial income 13 936,221 960,845 Financial expenses 13 -1,768,736 -1,532,742 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 20 -23,899 15,094 Profit before income tax and CESE 1,586,965 1,636,257 Income tax expense 14 -277,769 -310,952 Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) 15 -62,054 -61,495 -339,823 -372,447 Net profit for the period 1,247,142 1,263,810 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP 912,703 1,040,448 Non-controlling Interests 33 334,439 223,362 Net profit for the period 1,247,142 1,263,810 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) Euros 30 0.25 0.29 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 252 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 2015 2014 Equity holders Non-controlling Equity holders Non-controlling Thousands of Euros of EDP Interests of EDP Interests Net profit for the period 912,703 334,439 1,040,448 223,362 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Actuarial gains/(losses) -46,223 -15,536 -153,912 11,638 Tax effect from the actuarial gains/(losses) 13,217 5,282 21,942 -3,957 -33,006 -10,254 -131,970 7,681 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Exchange differences arising on consolidation -249,688 -310,119 5,887 54,445 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -31,591 3,513 9,725 -8,593 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 8,545 -1,156 -4,646 1,230 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 13,546 122 -33,642 -1,250 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -3,085 8,583 237 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes 10,638 -2,173 -13,359 -1,077 -251,635 -309,813 -27,452 44,992 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of income tax -284,641 -320,067 -159,422 52,673 Total comprehensive income for the period 628,062 14,372 881,026 276,035 (i) See Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 253 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros Notes 2015 2014 Assets Property, plant and equipment 16 22,773,716 20,523,100 Intangible assets 17 5,524,634 5,813,026 Goodwill 18 3,388,588 3,321,286 Investments in joint ventures and associates 20 664,011 872,974 Available for sale investments 21 200,206 224,457 Investment property 22 36,465 37,399 Deferred tax assets 23 272,498 218,747 Trade receivables 25 101,087 174,591 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 3,211,231 3,052,139 Other debtors and other assets 27 444,257 780,877 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 66,855 388,808 Total Non-Current Assets 36,683,548 35,407,404 Inventories 24 204,206 266,456 Trade receivables 25 1,895,517 1,945,103 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 1,573,383 1,734,129 Other debtors and other assets 27 443,118 318,848 Current tax assets 28 314,867 371,653 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 52 9,288 10,665 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 13,060 40,362 Cash and cash equivalents 29 1,245,449 2,613,995 Assets held for sale 42 154,529 164,402 Total Current Assets 5,853,417 7,465,613 Total Assets 42,536,965 42,873,017 Equity Share capital 30 3,656,538 3,656,538 Treasury stock 31 -62,691 -69,931 Share premium 30 503,923 503,923 Reserves and retained earnings 32 3,659,302 3,550,487 Consolidated net profit attributable to equity holders of EDP 912,703 1,040,448 Total Equity attributable to equity holders of EDP 8,669,775 8,681,465 Non-controlling Interests 33 3,451,718 3,287,679 Total Equity 12,121,493 11,969,144 Liabilities Financial debt 35 15,653,876 16,400,827 Employee benefits 36 1,647,730 1,682,988 Provisions 37 481,439 463,975 Deferred tax liabilities 23 794,983 804,744 Institutional partnerships in USA 38 1,956,217 1,801,963 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 1,237,274 1,269,476 Other liabilities and other payables 40 548,136 517,486 Total Non-Current Liabilities 22,319,655 22,941,459 Financial debt 35 3,616,664 3,897,356 Employee benefits 36 175,763 197,285 Provisions 37 24,633 21,564 Hydrological correction account 34 11,417 1,010 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 3,380,358 3,182,255 Other liabilities and other payables 40 311,574 235,795 Current tax liabilities 41 517,380 415,821 Liabilities held for sale 42 58,028 11,328 Total Current Liabilities 8,095,817 7,962,414 Total Liabilities 30,415,472 30,903,873 Total Equity and Liabilities 42,536,965 42,873,017 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 254 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Income Statement for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros 2015 2014* Revenues from energy sales and services and other 3,912,022 4,470,651 Cost of energy sales and other -2,517,729 -2,982,258 1,394,293 1,488,393 Other income 165,721 85,303 Supplies and services -262,644 -253,782 Personnel costs and employee benefits -181,250 -207,792 Other expenses -183,257 -177,284 -461,430 -553,555 932,863 934,838 Provisions -7,020 -30,710 Amortisation and impairment -406,149 -382,867 519,694 521,261 Financial income 212,591 296,473 Financial expenses -419,351 -414,923 Share of net profit in joint ventures and associates 1,310 -9,661 Profit before income tax 314,244 393,150 Income tax expense -41,898 -37,355 Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) -1,191 -43,089 -37,355 Net profit for the period 271,155 355,795 Attributable to: Equity holders of EDP 176,784 274,126 Non-controlling Interests 94,371 81,669 Net profit for the period 271,155 355,795 Earnings per share (Basic and Diluted) Euros 0.05 0.08 * Restated for IFRIC 21 purposes with impacts in Other expenses of 7,880 thousands of Euros, in Income tax expense of 1,909 thousands of Euros and in Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) of 15,552 thousands of Euros. LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 255 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2015 and 2014 2015 2014* Equity holders Non-controlling Equity holders Non-controlling Thousands of Euros of EDP Interests of EDP Interests Net profit for the period 176,784 94,371 274,126 81,669 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains/(losses) -81,993 -12,298 -42,213 18,225 Tax effect from the actuarial gains/(losses) 19,531 4,181 -7,652 -6,197 -62,462 -8,117 -49,865 12,028 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences arising on consolidation 11,469 75,606 -40,739 -46,437 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 2,334 477 12,992 -566 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -1,499 -315 -4,716 -780 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 10,157 122 -46,767 -583 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -2,258 12,013 10 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates, net of taxes 1,264 803 -4,995 3,552 21,467 76,693 -72,212 -44,804 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of income tax) -40,995 68,576 -122,077 -32,776 Total comprehensive income for the period 135,789 162,947 152,049 48,893 * Restated for IFRIC 21 purposes with impact in Net profit for the period attributable to equity holders of EDP of 19,754 thousands of Euros and in noncontrolling interests of 1,769 thousands of Euros. LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 256 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Equity Fair value Fair value attributable Reserves reserve reserve to equity Total Share Share Legal and retained (Cash flow (AFS Exchange Treasury holders of Non-controlling Thousands of Euros Equity capital (i) premium (i) reserve (ii) earnings hedge) (ii) investments) (ii) differences (ii) stock (iii) EDP Interests (iv) Balance as at 31 December 2013* 11,527,902 3,656,538 503,923 620,069 3,859,171 -53,016 72,935 -128,291 -85,573 8,445,756 3,082,146 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the period 1,263,810 1,040,448 1,040,448 223,362 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -2,284 5,079 5,079 -7,363 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) net of taxes -26,072 -25,059 -25,059 -1,013 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates net of taxes -14,436 -2,301 -11,058 -13,359 -1,077 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes -124,289 -131,970 -131,970 7,681 Exchange differences arising on consolidation 60,332 5,887 5,887 54,445 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,157,061 908,478 2,778 -25,059 -5,171 881,026 276,035 Transfer to legal reserve 39,544 -39,544 Dividends paid -671,879 -671,879 -671,879 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -161,705 -161,705 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 12,142 -2,184 14,326 12,142 Share-based payments 1,460 144 1,316 1,460 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France subsidiaries 27,645 2,481 1,627 4,108 23,537 Sale without loss of control of EDPR France 68,971 6,781 830 7,611 61,360 Sale without loss of control of South Dundas 15,494 1,748 162 1,910 13,584 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales and equity increases -8,144 -911 -911 -7,233 Other reserves arising on consolidation 197 242 242 -45 Balance as at 31 December 2014 11,969,144 3,656,538 503,923 659,613 4,064,527 -47,781 47,876 -133,300 -69,931 8,681,465 3,287,679 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the period 1,247,142 912,703 912,703 334,439 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -20,689 -23,046 -23,046 2,357 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) net of taxes 10,583 10,461 10,461 122 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures and associates net of taxes 8,465 20,165 -9,527 10,638 -2,173 Actuarial gains/(losses) net of taxes -43,260 -33,006 -33,006 -10,254 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -559,807 -249,688 -249,688 -310,119 Total comprehensive income for the period 642,434 879,697 -2,881 10,461 -259,215 628,062 14,372 Transfer to legal reserve 39,289 -39,289 Dividends paid -672,308 -672,308 -672,308 Dividends attributable to non-controlling interests -146,553 -146,553 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 6,223 484 5,739 6,223 Share-based payments 1,501 1,501 1,501 Sale without loss of control of windfarms in the USA 304,372 -9,475 -1,141 -4,189 -14,805 319,177 Sale without loss of control of solar farms in the USA 25,546 407 -737 -330 25,876 Sale without loss of control of windfarms in Brazil 61,280 4,993 5,344 10,337 50,943 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales and equity increases -69,301 33,257 -4,501 1,042 29,798 -99,099 Other reserves arising on consolidation -845 -168 -168 -677 Balance as at 31 December 2015 12,121,493 3,656,538 503,923 698,902 4,262,125 -56,304 59,379 -392,097 -62,691 8,669,775 3,451,718 (i) See note 30 (ii) See note 32 (iii) See note 31 (iv) See note 33 * Restated for IFRS 10 and 11 purposes LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 257 EDP Energias de Portugal Consolidated and Company Statement of Cash Flows as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Operating activities Cash receipts from customers 14,357,283 14,802,734 2,775,960 2,403,909 Proceeds from tariff adjustments sales 903,070 1,557,113 Payments to suppliers -10,512,735 -11,417,036 -2,846,916 -2,387,043 Payments to personnel -781,382 -813,108 -35,349 -14,884 Concession rents paid -277,627 -268,249 Other receipts/(payments) relating to operating activities -462,695 -385,753 -47,976 -46,476 Net cash flows from operations 3,225,914 3,475,701 -154,281 -44,494 Income tax received/(paid) -141,780 -226,915 78,986 28,883 Net cash flows from operating activities 3,084,134 3,248,786 -75,295 -15,611 Investing activities Cash receipts relating to: Sale of assets/subsidiaries with loss of control (i) 242,985 228,114 431,398 Other financial assets and investments (ii) 33,498 1,199 16,726 Changes in cash resulting from consolidation perimeter variations (iii) 101,389 35 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11,596 13,685 19,772 2,012 Other receipts relating to tangible fixed assets 16,308 35,246 Interest and similar income 84,922 107,868 434,541 504,657 Dividends 34,359 38,441 762,260 465,704 Loans to related parties 4,482 645,720 529,539 424,588 1,879,019 1,403,771 Cash payments relating to: Acquisition of assets/subsidiaries (iv) -207,971 -21,774 -936,822 -21,940 Other financial assets and investments -78,014 -115,323 -250 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -1,835,636 -1,736,269 -57,900 -41,398 Loans to related parties -40,583 -967,085 -2,162,204 -1,873,366 -1,961,807 -63,588 Net cash flows from investing activities -1,632,665 -1,448,778 -82,788 1,340,183 Financing activities Receipts/(payments) relating to loans -1,458,838 -46,219 437,373 -37,888 Interest and similar costs including hedge derivatives -920,577 -855,562 -399,474 -464,370 Share capital increases/(decreases) by non-controlling interests -46,168 -6,116 Receipts/(payments) relating to derivative financial instruments -22,808 56,561 -36,757 -2,706 Dividends paid to equity holders of EDP (v) -672,308 -671,879 -672,588 -672,158 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -128,971 -123,836 Treasury stock sold/(purchased) (v) 6,223 12,142 7,724 13,602 Sale of assets/subsidiaries without loss of control (vi) 394,904 109,107 Receipts/(payments) from institutional partnerships USA 68,474 147,860 Net cash flows from financing activities -2,780,069 -1,377,942 -663,722 -1,163,520 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -1,328,600 422,066 -821,805 161,052 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held -39,946 35,222 344 274 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 2,613,995 2,156,707 1,344,731 1,183,405 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period * 1,245,449 2,613,995 523,270 1,344,731 (i) On a consolidated basis, includes the sale of the assets of gas transmission Naturgas (transaction included in the notes 5, 7 and 42); (ii) On a consolidated basis, includes the sale of Setgás Sociedade de Distribuição de Gás Natural, S.A. and Setgás Comercialização, S.A. (transaction included in the note 5). On a compnay basis, includes the sale of fraction of Porto headquarters to EDP Distribuição (see note 22); (iii) On a consolidated basis, includes the ENEOP assets split operation (transaction included in the notes 5, 7 and 53); (iv) On a consolidated basis, includes the payments made by EDPR EU subgroup with the following detail: aquisition of the ENEOP portfolio (transaction included in the notes 5, 7 and 53), acquisition of non-controlling interests (transactions included in the note 5), advance payments on acquisitions (conclusion of operations to be expected during 2016), capital contributions mainly in the associated french companies booked under equity method and acquisition of other companies and sucess fees. Additionaly, on a consolidated basis, includes the payments made by EDP Brasil subgroup for companies acquisitions (transactions included in the note 5). On a company basis, includes the acquisition of 15,5% shareholding of EDP Renováveis S.A. to Hidrocantábrico subgroup; (v) See Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity; (vi) On a consolidated basis, includes the sale by EDPR NA of 49% of shareholding in several american companies and 49% of shareholding in several brazilian companies (transactions included in the note 5). * See details of Cash and cash equivalents in note 29 of the Financial Statements. LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 258 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Income Statement as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros Notes 2015 2014 Revenues from energy sales and services and other 6 2,916,655 2,518,101 Cost of energy sales and other 6 -2,733,592 -2,316,860 183,063 201,241 Other income 11,657 14,821 Supplies and services 8 -172,484 -185,731 Personnel costs and employee benefits 9 -47,137 -19,183 Other expenses 10 -20,775 -14,851 -228,739 -204,944 -45,676 -3,703 Provisions 11 9,882 -982 Amortisation and impairment 12 -14,430 -12,828 -50,224 -17,513 Financial income 13 2,061,812 2,026,466 Financial expenses 13 -1,219,754 -1,230,078 Profit before income tax 791,834 778,875 Income tax expense 14 10,612 6,905 Net profit for the period 802,446 785,780 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 259 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Comprehensive Income f as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 Net profit for the period 802,446 785,780 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Actuarial gains / (losses) -194 -1,215 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 49 304 -145 -911 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss (i) Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 8,941 -16,032 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -2,635 4,762 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 6,979 3,135 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -2,055 -294 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of income tax) 11,085 -9,340 Total comprehensive income for the period 813,531 776,440 (i) See Company Statement of Changes in Equity LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 260 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros Notes 2015 2014 Assets Property, plant and equipment 16 206,054 137,492 Intangible assets 2,371 2 Investments in subsidiaries 19 10,965,580 10,036,969 Investments in joint ventures and associates 20 6,597 6,595 Available for sale investments 21 53,679 46,926 Investment property 22 32,522 104,393 Deferred tax assets 23 35,140 27,434 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 1,659 1,097 Other debtors and other assets 27 7,799,328 6,650,873 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 311,990 Total Non-Current Assets 19,102,930 17,323,771 Inventories 11 Trade receivables 25 167,089 178,647 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 26 427,621 300,623 Other debtors and other assets 27 2,126,996 1,925,649 Current tax assets 28 89,603 141,421 Collateral deposits associated to financial debt 35 22,507 Cash and cash equivalents 29 523,270 1,344,731 Total Current Assets 3,334,579 3,913,589 Total Assets 22,437,509 21,237,360 Equity Share capital 30 3,656,538 3,656,538 Treasury stock 31 -56,596 -63,836 Share premium 30 503,923 503,923 Reserves and retained earnings 32 2,393,324 2,268,563 Net profit for the period 802,446 785,780 Total Equity 7,299,635 7,150,968 Liabilities Financial debt 35 9,540,894 7,188,672 Employee benefits 36 22,828 1,346 Provisions 37 12,207 22,540 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 4,037 1,744 Other liabilities and other payables 40 2,739,715 1,685,230 Total Non-Current Liabilities 12,319,681 8,899,532 Financial debt 35 1,803,482 3,628,645 Employee benefits 36 346 Provisions 37 1,262 271 Hydrological correction account 34 11,417 1,010 Trade and other payables from commercial activities 39 550,616 638,820 Other liabilities and other payables 40 396,852 912,911 Current tax liabilities 41 54,218 5,203 Total Current Liabilities 2,818,193 5,186,860 Total Liabilities 15,137,874 14,086,392 Total Equity and Liabilities 22,437,509 21,237,360 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 261 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Income Statement for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 Revenues from energy sales and services and other 808,256 732,012 Cost of energy sales and other -763,601 -690,425 44,655 41,587 Other income 2,461 5,495 Supplies and services -45,029 -50,474 Personnel costs and employee benefits -15,175 -7,036 Other expenses -4,970 -485 -62,713 -52,500 -18,058 -10,913 Provisions 10,989 -394 Amortisation and impairment -3,955 -2,051 -11,024 -13,358 Financial income 628,178 599,391 Financial expenses -316,702 -385,789 Profit before income tax 300,452 200,244 Income tax expense -10,201 -6,087 Net profit for the period 290,251 194,157 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 262 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Comprehensive Income for the three-month period from 1 October to 31 December 2015 and 2014 Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 Net profit for the period 290,251 194,157 Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Actuarial gains / (losses) -194 -1,215 Tax effect from the actuarial gains / (losses) 49 304 -145 -911 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -4,559 -18,334 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 1,344 5,456 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 2,093 -4,944 Tax effect from the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -616 2,249 -1,738 -15,573 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of income tax) -1,883 -16,484 Total comprehensive income for the period 288,368 177,673 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 263 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Company Statement of Changes in Equity as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 Fair value Fair value Reserves reserve reserve Total Share Share Legal and retained (Cash flow (AFS Treasury Thousands of Euros Equity capital (i) premium (i) reserve (ii) earnings hedge) (ii) investments) (ii) stock (iii) Balance as at 31 December 2013 7,033,084 3,656,538 503,923 620,069 2,316,620 -868 16,280 -79,478 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the period 785,780 785,780 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes -11,270 -11,270 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) net of taxes 2,841 2,841 Actuarial gains / (losses) net of taxes -911 -911 Total comprehensive income for the period 776,440 784,869 -11,270 2,841 Transfer to legal reserve 39,544 -39,544 Dividends paid -672,158 -672,158 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 12,142 -2,184 14,326 Share-based payments 1,460 144 1,316 Balance as at 31 December 2014 7,150,968 3,656,538 503,923 659,613 2,387,747 -12,138 19,121 -63,836 Comprehensive income: Net profit for the period 802,446 802,446 Changes in the fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) net of taxes 6,306 6,306 Changes in the fair value reserve (available for sale investments) net of taxes 4,924 4,924 Actuarial gains / (losses) net of taxes -145 -145 Total comprehensive income for the period 813,531 802,301 6,306 4,924 Transfer to legal reserve 39,289 -39,289 Dividends paid -672,588 -672,588 Purchase and sale of treasury stock 6,223 484 5,739 Share-based payments 1,501 1,501 Balance as at 31 December 2015 7,299,635 3,656,538 503,923 698,902 2,478,655 -5,832 24,045 -56,596 (i) See note 30 (ii) See note 32 (iii) See note 31 LISBON, 3 MARCH 2016 THE CERTIFIED ACCOUNTANT THE MANAGEMENT THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF DIRECTORS N.º 17,713 The following notes form an integral part of these financial statements ANNUAL REPORT 264 2015 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED AND COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. Economic activity of EDP Group 265 2. Accounting policies 279 3. Critical accounting estimates and judgements in preparing the financial statements 292 4. Financial risk management policies 296 5. Consolidation perimeter 301 6. Revenues from energy sales and services and other 303 7. Other income 305 8. Supplies and services 306 9. Personnel costs and employee benefits 306 10. Other expenses 307 11. Provisions 307 12. Amortisation and impairment 308 13. Financial income and expenses 309 14. Income tax 310 15. Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) 313 16. Property, plant and equipment 313 17. Intangible assets 317 18. Goodwill 319 19. Investments in subsidiaries (Company basis) 323 20. Investments in joint ventures and associates 323 21. Available for sale investments 328 22. Investment property 329 23. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 330 24. Inventories 331 25. Trade receivables 332 26. Debtors and other assets from commercial activities 333 27. Other debtors and other assets 335 28. Current tax assets 336 29. Cash and cash equivalents 336 30. Share capital and share premium 336 31. Treasury stock 338 32. Reserves and retained earnings 338 33. Non-controlling interests 340 34. Hydrological account 340 35. Financial debt 341 36. Employee benefits 345 37. Provisions for liabilities and charges 354 38. Institutional partnerships in USA 359 39. Trade and other payables from commercial activities 359 40. Other liabilities and other payables 361 41. Current tax liabilities 362 42. Assets and liabilities held for sale 362 43. Derivative financial instruments 363 44. Commitments 366 45. Related parties 369 46. Fair value of financial assets and liabilities 374 47. CO2 licences 376 48. Relevant or subsequent events 376 49. Recent accounting standards and interpretations issued 378 50. EDP Branch in Spain 380 51. Environmental matters 381 52. Tranfers of financial assets Tariff Adjustments 382 53. Business combinations 383 54. Operating segments report 386 55. Explanation added for translation 388 Annex I Companies in the Consolidation perimeter 389 Annex II EDP Group Operating Segments Report 397 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 265 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 1. ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OF EDP GROUP The Group’s parent company, EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP, S.A.), was incorporated in 1976 as a result of the nationalisation and merger of the major Portuguese companies in the electricity sector operating in mainland Portugal. EDP S.A.'s head office is located in Lisbon at Avenida 24 de Julho, 12. During 1994, as established by Decree-laws 7/91 and 131/94, the EDP Group (EDP Group or Group) was set up following the split of EDP, S.A., which led to a number of directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of EDP, S.A. The Group’s businesses are currently focused on the generation, distribution and supply of electricity and distribution and supply of gas. Although complementary, the Group also operates in related areas such as engineering, laboratory tests, vocational training, energy services and property management. The EDP Group operates essentially in the European (Portugal, Spain, France, Poland and Romania) and American (Brazil and the United States of America) energy sectors. Activity in the energy sector in Portugal Electricity Portugal The National Electricity System (SEN) basis of organization and operation, as well as the general basis applicable to the production, transportation, distribution, supply activities of electricity, change of supplier logistics operation, and organisation of organised electricity markets, are established by the Decree-Law (DL) 29/2006 of 15 February, this DL was developed by the DL 172/2006 of 23 August. The DL 29/2006 and 172/2006 were updated by the DL 215-A/2012 and B/2012 of 8 October, incorporating essentially the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July 2009, establishing common rules for the electricity internal market. The National Electricity System includes the activities of generation and supply of electricity under free market competition conditions (through licensing in generation and through prior registration in supply), and the activities of transmission and distribution provided through exclusive public service concessions. The management activity exercise of organized electricity markets is free, subject to authorization. The activity of logistic operation to change the electricity supplier must be independent of the other SEN entities the Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos ERSE (Energy Sector Regulator) determined that, until it is developed the logistic and the legislation for this activity, it should be performed by the distribution operator of medium and high voltage, currently EDP Distribuição. The transmission, distribution and supply of electricity (including last resort activities and market facilitator), as well as the logistics of changes of supplier and organized markets management are subject to regulation by ERSE, which is responsible for the preparation, issuance and enforcement of regulations and for establishing the tariffs and prices related to network usage access tariffs and electricity supply for clients in the regulated market electricity tariffs charged by the Supplier of Last Resort. For transmission, distribution and supply of last resort activities, the law establishes a remuneration right fixed by ERSE, under the tariff regulations, to ensure economic and financial balance under an efficient management. Electricity transmission is ensured by the National Transportation Network (RNT) and is carried out under public service concessions, exclusively by REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A., for a period of 50 years. The Law 83-C/2013, Law of the State Budget 2014 ( Lei do Orçamento de Estado 2014 ), approved by the Portuguese Government on 31 December 2013, introduced an extraordinary contribution applicable to the energy sector (CESE), with the objective of financing mechanisms that promote the energy sector systemic sustainability, through the establishment of a fund which aims to contribute for the reduction of tariff debt and to finance social and environmental policies in the energy sector. This contribution focuses generally on the economic operators that develop the following activities: (i) generation, transport or distribution of electricity; (ii) transport, distribution, storage or wholesale supply of natural gas; (iii) refining, treatment, storage, transport, distribution and wholesale supply of crude oil and oil products. CESE is calculated based on the companies’ net assets as at 1 January, which comply, cumulatively, to: (i) tangible assets; (ii) intangible assets, except industrial property elements; (iii) financial assets assigned to concessions or licensed activities. In the case of regulated activities, CESE focuses on the value of regulated assets if it is higher than the value of those assets. The applicable rate is 0.85% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilization of installed capacity greater than or equal to 3,000 hours, 0.565% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilization of installed capacity greater than or equal to 1,500 and less than 3,000 hours and 0.285% for power plants with an equivalent annual utilisation of installed capacity less than 1,500 hours. The exemptions include assets of wind generation, mini-hydric power plants, and power plants with licenses granted following a public tender and land comprising the public domain. The CESE system was been extended for the years 2015 and 2016 by the Law 82-B/2014, of 31 December, Law of the State Budget 2015 ( Lei do Orçamento de Estado 2015 ) and Law 159-D/2015 of 30 December. Note that the Stability Programme 2015-2019, published in April 2015 by the Portuguese Government had already provided the term of the CESE until 2018. ANNUAL REPORT 266 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Generation The generation of electricity covers generation under ordinary and special regimes. Under the ordinary regime, where EDP Group is represented by EDP Gestão da Produção, S.A., electricity is generated and sold under free market conditions, in organised markets or through bilateral agreements, being subject only to licensing. The special regime (PRE) allows producers to deliver electricity to the network, through bilateral agreements with the Supplier of Last Resort (CUR), being subject to specific legislation, namely to promote the use of endogenous renewable resources, cogeneration or micro generation. With the publication of Decree-Law No. 215-A/2012, of 8 October, the PRE begins to integrate beside the production subject to special legal regime the entire generation of electricity from indigenous, renewable and non-renewable resources, even if not covered by a special legal regime, or even not having guaranteed remuneration, it can be remunerated by the market. The EDP Group is present in this segment through its subsidiaries EDP Gestão da Produção, S.A. and EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A., among others. Following the publication of Decree-Law 240/2004 of 27 December, which established the creation of a compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance (CMEC), in January 2005 the EDP Group signed the early termination of contracts for the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) related to the binding electricity production plants of the EDP Group, effective as of 1 July 2007, date of the launch of the Iberian Electricity Market (MIBEL). With the publication of Decree-Law 199/2007, of 18 May, the Portuguese Government confirmed its decision to early terminate the PPAs and implement the CMEC mechanism and defined the rules to calculate the compensations due to the power generators for such early termination, which essentially consisted in an adjustment of the reference market price of electricity used to calculate the CMEC initial compensation amount. On 15 June 2007, EDP and REN agreed on the early termination of the PPAs, effective as of 1 July 2007. The CMEC regulation sets the compensation due at 833,467 thousands of Euros, which in accordance with the legislation can be subject to securitisation. In June 2007, Decree-Law 226-A/2007 of 31 May, which approves the new legal regime for using hydric resources under the terms of the new Water Law (Lei da Água), came into force. This Decree-Law in article 91, foresees the transfer of concession rights of public hydric resources of RTN to the companies holding the rights, and being subject to the payment of an economic and financial equilibrium value. The article 92 defines the calculation formula for the economic and financial equilibrium value, which was determined based on the value identified in two assessements conducted by highly reputed independent entities: Caixa Banco de Investimento, S.A. and Credit Suisse First Boston. On that basis, the Government (INAG), REN and EDP Produção signed on 8 March 2008, several service concession arrangements related to the exSEP plants for which EDP Produção paid approximately 759 millions of Euros (corresponding to the contractual compensation following the Dispatch 16982/07) for the extension of the period to operate the public hydric domain for an additional average period of 26 years. On 20 August 2012, the Administrative Order 251/2012 was published. This regulation replaces the previous mechanisms and establishes a new incentive scheme to energy generators. Capacity payments should contribute decisively and rationally to maintain the production capacity of electricity (availability incentive) and to perform future investment in new production capacity (investment incentive), and therefore, to ensure security supply levels that are not guaranteed by the operation of the normal market mechanisms. The availability incentive is applicable to thermoelectric power plants until the end of the operating license, beginning in the calendar year following the date of termination of the PAF ( Programa de Apoio Financeiro ). This incentive corresponds to an annual compensation of 6,000 Euro/MW/year. Investment incentive is applicable to new hydroelectric power plants and power enhancement projects, during the first 10 years after the formal recognition of their eligibility to receive the incentive. On 27 February 2013, the Administrative Order 85-A/2013 was published, approving the nominal tariff applicable to the tariff repercussion of the yearly fixed amount of the costs for maintenance of the Contractual Stability Compensation (CMEC), setting the rate at 4.72%. This rate is applicable between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2027 and reflects a costs reduction for the system of approximately 13 millions of Euros per year, which corresponds to a present value of 120 millions of Euros. This adjustment results from the application of the calculating mechanism of the interest rate related with the fixed portion set out in Decree-Law 240/2004, of 27 December, amended by Decree-Law 32/2013, of 26 February (point iv) of paragraph b) n.4 of article 5.º). The Portuguese Government published on 28 February 2013, the Decree Law 35/2013, that modifies the remuneration applicable to the production of electricity by mini hydro plants (PCH). Establishes that the PCH that were framed by a remuneration scheme prior to DecreeLaw 33-A/2005, of 16 February, benefit from that remuneration scheme for a period of 25 years from the grant date of the exploration license or until the expiration date of their water use license, whichever occurs first. After this 25-year period and as longer as the above mentioned license remains valid, electricity produced by these plants will be sold at market prices. Following the publication of Law 74/2013 of 4 June, which established a regulatory scheme in order to ensure the balance of competition in the wholesale electricity market, determining that the costs of general economic interest (CIEG) of the global use of the system tariff (UGS) should also be supported by the producers under the ordinary regime and other producers not included in the guaranteed return system, the Dispatch 12955-A/2013, of 10 October fixed the payment per MWh injected into the network, for each one of the power plants covered, in 3€ for on-peak hours and 2€ for off-peak, during the period from 11 October to 31 December 2013. Directive 26/2013 of 27 December, established the terms and conditions of the business relationship between those electricity producers covered by DecreeLaw 74/2013 and the operator of the transmission network. On 6 February 2014, the Order 1873/2014 was published, which maintains the charge, as an advanced payment on the amounts mentioned in the n.1 of the Order 12955-A/2013 of 10 October until another mechanism to allow a fixed price paid in advance regarding the MWs injected into the network is set in the future. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 267 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 On 30 July 2015, the Administrative Order 225/2015 was published, which change the Law 74/2013 implementing rules. The impact of the designated “extra market rules” being now determined by Order of the Government member responsible for the energy. The Administrative Order still establish that between 11 October 2013 and 31 December 2014 should be paid an additional advanced payment amount in 0.9€ per MWh injected into the network, for the power plants covered by the law. On 15 October 2015, the Office of the Secretary of State for Energy (SEE) published the Order 11566-A / 2015, with the valuation of the parameters for calculation of the formula in Article 3 of Ordinance 288/2013, of 20 September, as amended by Decree 225/2015 of 30 July. On 1 April 2014, the Order 4694/2014 was published, entered into force on the next business day after its publication, which lays down the general guidelines of the revisibility calculation provided by the Decree-Law 240/2004, of 27 December, concerning the participation of CMEC plants in the secondary regulation market band, as well as the principles of the prices formation earned by the secondary regulation band power plants participating in the services system market with reference to the Spanish' system services market. Decree-Law 172/2014, of 14 November, amends the Decree-Law 138-A/2010, in order to extend the eligibility criteria for the social tariff attribution of electricity supply to final customers which are considered economically vulnerable and Decree-Law 102/2011, of 30 September, by creating and setting out the conditions for the award of extraordinary social support to the energy consumer. This legislation states that the financing of the social tariff is carried out in proportion to the installed capacity of each power plant in ordinary regime. In May 2015, it was published by ERSE, the technical standard for determining the marginal cost of reference for natural gas combined cycle plants and the monthly estimates from April 2014 to April 2015, required in the SEE Order 4694/2014. Distribution Electricity distribution is carried out through the National Distribution Network (RND) and consists of a medium and high-tension network and a low-tension distribution network, exclusively under public service concessions. The distribution of electricity in medium and high-tension has been concessioned to EDP Distribuição by the Portuguese Government pursuant to article 70 of Decree-Law no. 29/2006, as a result of converting the licence held by EDP Distribuição under the former regime into a concession agreement, which was signed on 25 February 2009, for a period of 35 years. The terms of the concession are set forth in Decree-Law no. 172/2006. In accordance with specific legislation (Decree-law 344-B/82, with the amendments set out in Decree-law 297/86 of 19 September, Decree-law 341/90 of 30 October and Decree-law 17/92 of 5 February), the right to distribute low-tension electricity in Portugal is attributed to the municipalities (local authorities). However, Service Concession Arrangements were celebrated generally with a 20 year term between each of mainland Portugal municipalities and EDP Distribuição. These concessions are in return for payment of a rent to the respective municipalities, determined in accordance with Decree-Law 230/2008 of 27 November. Although the existing concession agreements were maintained pursuant to Decree-Law no. 172/2006, the yerms for the new concessions will be established after a competition process to be implemented by the relevant municipalities. Supply The Electricity supply market is open to competition, subject only to a licensing regime. Suppliers have the right of access to the national transmission and distribution networks upon payment of the access charges set by ERSE. The activity of free supply, in EDP Group, is developed by EDP Comercial, S.A. The activity of supply of last resort (CUR), including universal public service obligations, is subject of license and is guaranteed by EDP Serviço Universal, S.A., a company wholly owned by EDP Distribuição S.A. Electric Energy Price Regime In the non-regulated market, electricity tariffs are defined by an agreement between each supplier and its customers. In the regulated market the tariffs charged by the supply of last resort are defined by ERSE. The Decree-Law 104/2010 of 29 September (amended by Decree-Law n.º 78/2011, of 20 June, 75/2012 of 26 March, 256/2012 of 29 November and 13/2014, of 22 January), establishes the end of customers regulated tariffs for very high, high, medium and low-tension from 1 January 2011. The DL 13/2014 has established that the suppliers of last resort shall, until the date to be set by ordinance, and by applying transitional rates continue to supply electricity to customers who have not hired on the open market their supply. Ordinance n.º 27/2014 has defined as the termination date of the transitional rates for this type of supplies on 31 December 2014. At 30 March 2015, Ordinance 97/2015 defined a new termination date of the transitional rates for this type of supplies on 31 December 2017. ANNUAL REPORT 268 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 For the low-voltage segment, the Decree-Law 75/2012 of 26 March, establishes the extinction of the regulated tariffs for sales to final customers with contracted power higher or equal to 10.35 kVA from 1 July 2012, and from 1 January 2013, for customers with contracted power less than 10.35 kVA. This law also establishes a transitional tariffs system set by ERSE: (i) final customers with contracted power between 10.35 and 41.4 kVA can take advantage of this rate until 31 December 2014 ; (ii) final customers with contracted power lower to 10.35 kVA can take advantage of this rate until 31 December 2015. The Decree-Law 75/2012, also establishes, for the economically vulnerable customers, the right to join the contract on the open market or choose to keep the supply by the supplier of last resort, benefiting, in any case from discounts in the tariff access provided by law. In order to postpone the extinction of the transitional rules for the supply of natural gas and electricity to final customers with annual consumption lower or equal to 10,000 m3 and in the standard low voltage, was published the Decree-Law 15/2015, of 30 January, which predicts that the date of extinction of the transitional tariff for the standard low voltage would be set by an ordinance. Consenquently, Ordinance 97/2015, like happened for the others voltage levels, defined the extinction date for the transitional tariff as 31 December 2017. Public Domain Assets In Portugal some fixed assets relating to electricity generation and distribution in the regulated market are subject to the public domain regime. These assets are directly related with the Group's activity, which can freely manage them, but cannot dispose of them for private commercial purposes while they are related with the public domain regime. Gas Portugal The National Natural Gas System (SNGN) basis of organization and operation, was established by the Decree-law 30/2006 of 15 February. This DL was developed by the DL 140/2006 of 26 July, that established the general basis applicable to the SNGN activities. The DL 231/2012 of 26 October, proceeds to the third amendment to the DL 140/2006, changed by the DL 65/2008 of 9 April and by the DL 66/2010 of 11 June, incorporating essentially the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/73/CE of 13 July, establishing common rules for the natural gas internal market. In the distribution activity for natural gas, EDP Group develops its activity in Portugal through its subsidiary Portgás, S.A. EDP Group is present in the commercialization of natural gas, both in the regulated market (EDP Gás Serviço Universal) and the free market (EDP Comercial). Additionally, the Group develops the supply business of propane gas, through EDP Gás GPL,S.A. Since 1 January 2013 the retail rates published by ERSE have a transitory character, being susceptible to quarterly reviews, according to DL 74/2012, of 26 March. This transitional period ends: (i) at 30 June 2014, for customers with annual consumption over 10,000 m3; (ii) 31 December 2014, for customers with annual consumption over 500 m3 and less than or equal to 10,000 m3; and (iii) 31 December 2015 for customers with annual consumption of less than or equal to 500 m3. Decree-Law 15/2015, of 30 January, amending Decree-Laws 74/2012, of 26 March, 66/2010, of 11 June, and 104/2010 of 29 September, in order to change the way of fixing the period of application of transitional tariffs for natural gas supplies to final customers with annual consumption lower or equal to 10,000 m3. The date for the tariffs application shall be set by a governmental order of the office responsible for the energy sector, after ERSE been heard. Therefore, according with Ordinance 97/2015 of 30 March, the extinction of the transitional tariffs for the natural gas supply to final customers with annual consumption lower or up to 10 000 m3 was set at 31 December 2017. This ordinance, also proceeds to the alteration of the extinction date of the transitional tariffs for the natural gas supply to final customers with annual consumption over to 10 000 m3, from 30 June 2015 to 31 December 2017 (amending the Ordinance 127/2014 of 25 June). On 15 June 2015, the tariffs set by ERSE were published for the years 2014-2015. The income allowed for Portgás S.A. include the initial revaluation of its assets (with reference to 31 December 2007), approved by the Finance Ministry. Activity in the energy sector in Spain Electricity Spain In Spain, Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico (HC Energia) is the parent company of an industrial group, EDP-España, that operates in the electricity and gas sectors. In the electricity sector, HC Energia generates, distributes and supplies electricity. Production is based essentially on traditional coal thermal power plants and, on a smaller scale, on hydroelectric and nuclear power plants. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 269 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Electric Sector Regulation On 27 November 1997 the Electric Sector's Law 54/1997 was approved, which (i) implements the principles included in the Protocol signed on 11 December 1996 between the Ministry of Industry and the major electric power companies regarding greater liberalization and competition in the electricity sector and (ii) incorporates into Spanish law the provisions contained in Directive 96/92/EC on common rules for the internal electricity market. Additionally, on 6 July 2007 the Law 17/2007 of 4 July came into force, amending the Law 54/1997, to adapt it to the Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Council and Parliament of 26 June 2003 on common rules for the internal market of electricity. Law 54/1997 was updated by the Royal Decree 13/2012 of 30 March, incorporating the principles of the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July that revokes the Directive 2003/54/CE. On 27 December, was published in the Official State Gazette the Law 24/2013 which replaces Law 54/1997 maintaining the principles established in previous legislation but with particular emphasis on economic and financial sustainability of the electricity sector. Generation Since 1 January 1998 electricity generation operates on a free market competition basis, which covers the purchase and sale of energy and other services related to the supply of electricity. The market structure for electricity generation has been widened by Law 17/2007 of 4 July, in order to include the forward market and the intraday market, as well as technical issues, complementary services, deviations management and non-organised markets. The organisation and regulation of the market for electric power generation is defined by Royal Decree 2019/1997 of 26 December, and its implementing standards. Electricity is paid at the system's marginal price plus a component for the adjustment services necessary to ensure an adequate supply. Additionally, the Order ITC/2794/2007 of 27 September, which revised the electricity tariffs from 1 October 2007, replaced the concept of power availability remuneration of electricity generation by the concept of capacity payments stated in article 14.5 of the Law 24/2013, which sets a remuneration of the availability service for the procurement of capacity in the medium term developed on the Order ITC/3127/2011 and the incentive to invest in long-term capacity. The set-up of new generation units is liberalised, subject to obtaining the necessary permits. Producers have the right to use primary energy sources in their generation units as deemed most appropriate, with the applicable environmental restrictions. As at 1 October 2010, the Royal Decree Law 1221/2010 was approved (which changed the Royal Decree Law 134/2010 of 12 February) that establishes the procedure for guarantee supply restrictions, as a protective measure to promote the consumption of local coal. As at 23 December of the same year entered into force the Royal Decree Law 14/2010, which obliges the producers to pay for the use of the transmission and distribution grids. On 27 January 2012, the promulgation of the Law 1/2012, temporarily suspended the new facilities' right to benefit from the specific remuneration regime of the facilities which use renewable energy sources, waste or cogeneration (applicable to the facilities that, since 28 January 2012, do not fulfil the administrative requirements referred in this standard). From 1 January 2013, the amounts of the premiums applicable to the remuneration of all facilities of the special regime were also eliminated, leaving only the tariff option or market price (Royal Decree-Law 2/2013). The Royal Decree-Law 9/2013 and the Law 24/2013, change the remuneration scheme for facilities that use cogeneration, renewable energy sources and waste (former special regime) and, in addition of the price market sale, can be charged a specific fee to cover the costs not recovered in the market, calculated based on the efficient company criteria. This scheme does not exceed the minimum necessary to cover the costs that allow equal competition between facilities and other technologies on the market generating a return, before tax, equal to the rate of the 10-year Spanish state bonds, plus a spread. This spread, since July 2013, is 300 basis points. The above mentioned Royal Decree-Law was developed in: (i) the Royal Decree 413/2014, which replaced the previous rules governing the remuneration model used mainly contained in Royal Decree 661/2007; and (ii) the Order 1045/2014, approving the remuneration parameters applicable to the plants which are using renewable energy sources, waste or cogeneration. Transmission Red Eléctrica de España, S.A. performs the activities of Transmission Manager and System Operator, being responsible for its technical management, to ensure the continuity of supply and efficient management of the generation and transmission systems. The responsibility for the economic management of the system is guaranteed by OMI Polo Español, S.A. The entities and qualified consumers have free access to the transmission and supply grids, setting out a system of tariffs for traffic. The remuneration for the transmission and distribution activities is set by the regulatory entity. The Royal Decree 325/2008 of 29 February, established a new fee regime applicable to electricity transportation facilities, that entered into service from 1 January 2009. However, since the adoption of the Royal Decree 9/2013, the retribution will be calculated based on the Spanish Government ten year bond yield, plus 200 basis points. These assumptions were developed in Royal Decree 1047/2013, repealing the Royal Decree 325/2008. According to the Law 24/2013 the transmission activity is performed by a single entity. There is also a distinction made between the primary transmission system (facilities> 380 kV with international networks and with extra-peninsular and insular systems) and the secondary transmission system (facilities <220 kV other than primary transmission systems and the one below with transmission functions). ANNUAL REPORT 270 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Distribution Law 54/1997 established that the remuneration for each company must respect criteria based on the costs needed to develop the activity, taking into account a model of characterization of distribution areas and other parameters. On 19 March 2008, the Royal Decree 222/2008 of 15 February entered into force, establishing a new system of remuneration for the electricity distribution activity and modified the system of Acometidas (system that regulates the installation that connects the distribution grid to the point of delivery of energy to the customers). This remuneration system is based on investments and increased demand of each distributor. On 1 April 2012, came into force the Royal Decree 13/2012, amending the remuneration criteria of the distribution activity related to the assets in use that are not amortised, taking as basis for their financial retribution their net amount. Additionally, the return on assets in use in the year t shall be initiated at 1 January t+2. However, since the adoption of the Royal Decree 9/2013, the distribution activity remuneration will be calculated based on the Spanish Government ten year bond yield, plus 100 basis points. during the second quarter of 2013 and 200 b.p. from 2014 forward. These principles were embodied in the new Law 24/2013 and developed in Royal Decree 1048/2013, repealing the Royal Decree 222/2008. Supply Law 54/1997 established a progressive liberalisation of electricity supply and the introduction of supply activities to enable customers to progressively choose their suppliers and liberalising the supply market from 1 January 2003. Additionally, since 1 July 2009, distributors can no longer act as suppliers (sell electricity) acting strictly as grid operators. Law 24/2013 determines that certain consumers are entitled to be provided with voluntary prices for small consumers and last resort tariffs for reference traders. The reference traders are determined according to the criteria established in Royal Decree 216/2014. Electricity Tariffs Regime The electrical system cost is described in Article 13.3 of Law 24/2013. These costs will be financed through the revenue from the electrical system, including access fees (which are intended to cover the remuneration of the transmission and distribution), charges for the payment of the cost of other items that are not covered by other income, may be compensated for any financial mechanism legally established, including the state budget. Fees, equal in all the Spanish territory, must be determined with the methodologies defined by the National Markets and Competence Commission (CNMC) considering the costs of the system as defined in the Law 24/2013. Charges applicable to consumers and producers are determined by calculation methods adopted by the Government and CNMC that will serve to cover certain costs of the system, without prejudice of what is in force for transport and distribution. Temporarily, and while these methodologies are not approved, fees and charges are defined by the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism. On the other hand, on 1 July 2009 the system of electricity tariffs became extinct and all consumers were transferred to the liberalised market. However, the Royal Decree 485/2009 of 3 April, provided that the consumers of low-tension, with contract capacity not exceeding 10 kW, were eligible for last resort tariff, which determines the maximum price of supply. These tariffs will be applicable by the suppliers of last resort, where EDP Comercializadora Último Recurso, S.A. is included. Law 24/2013 replaces the concept of last resort tariff by voluntary price for the small consumer and the concept of CUR by reference supplier , leaving the term tariff of last resort reserved for reducing the rate to be applied to vulnerable consumers or rate disincentive for consumers who are temporarily without supplier. The Royal Decree 216/2014 sets out the methodology for the calculation of the voluntary price for small consumer and their legal framework of contracting. Vulnerable Consumers Royal Decree 13/2012 and Law 24/2013 define vulnerable consumers as individuals who meet certain social characteristics of consumption and consumer purchasing power determined by the Ministry of Industry. Until the Ministry of Industry defines new criteria, these customers must apply the criteria defined by Royal Decree 6/2009 of 30 April on the social allowance, which is a subsidy covering the difference between the value of the Tariff of Last Resort (TUR) and the reference value. The Royal Decree-Law 9/2013 establishes that social allowance will be financed by vertically integrated companies that perform simultaneously the activities of generation, distribution and sale of electricity. Law 24/2013 maintains the established by Royal DecreeLaw 9/2013 and determines that the social allowance will cover the difference between the voluntary price for small consumer and a baseline, called tariff of last resort and will be applied by the correspondent reference supplier in the invoices of the covered consumers. Since Royal Decree 216/2014, the discount is a reduction of 25% of the value of the voluntary price for the small consumer. On 28 March 2014, the Spanish Government approved the Royal-Decree 216/2014 which establishes the structure and the calculation of the voluntary prices applicable to small electricity consumers and the legal regime under which the contracts will be indexed to the market electricity price. This Royal-Decree entered into force on 1 April, with retroactive effects to 1 January 2014. Gas Spain NG Energia, a subsidiary of HC Energia Group which operates in the natural gas distribution and supply, owns all the EDP Group's gas assets in Spain. The transport and distribution of natural gas in Spain is a regulated activity. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 271 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Law 34/1998, approved on 7 October 1998, amended by Law 12/2007 of 2 July 2007, transposed to Spanish legislation the provisions of Directive 2003/55/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 26 June 2003 related with common rules for the natural gas internal market. Law 34/1998 was updated by the Royal Decree 13/2012 of 30 March, incorporating the principles set by the European Parliament and Council’s Directive 2009/72/CE of 13 July which came to revoke the Directive 2003/55/CE. The above mentioned legislation identifies the following operators in the context of the supply of natural gas by pipeline: § Gas transport companies, owners of facilities for regasification of liquefied natural gas, transport or storage of natural gas. After the publication of Royal Decree 13/2012, companies that hold the equipment from the main grid of transport must operate and manage their own grids or hand over their management to an independent operator, in the cases referred by legislation; § Distribution companies, owners of distribution facilities, whose function is to distribute natural gas by pipeline, as well as to build, maintain and operate such facilities in order to bring natural gas to the consumption points; § Suppliers, companies that have access to the facilities owned by third parties, which purchase natural gas for sale to consumers or other suppliers for the purpose of international exchanges; § Final consumers, who purchase natural gas for own consumption and direct consumers in the market, who have direct access to third party facilities. The Royal Decree 6/2000 of 23 June, also creates the figure of Technical Manager of the System, which is responsible for the technical management of the basic gas and secondary transmission grids, attributed to ENAGÁS, S.A. The system of provisioning and supplying based on tariffs for natural gas distribution companies expired on 1 July 2008. Since then, new last resort tariffs have been set, that can benefit consumers who are covered by the regulation (from July 2009 defined as those consuming less than 50,000 kWh/year), and which will be implemented by the suppliers that, in accordance with Article 82 of Law 34/1998, have an obligation as suppliers of last resort. EDP Comercializadora Último Recurso, S.A. is one of the trading companies designated by the Ministry. For suppliers of last resort, the Royal Decree 485/2009 makes it possible for groups of companies that have the obligation to provide lastresort electricity and gas, to aggregate in a single company both obligations (EDP Comercializadora de Último Recurso, S.A. currently covers suppliers obligations of last resort for gas and electricity). The Royal Decree 104/2010 of 5 February, regulates the supplier of last resort in the natural gas sector and establishes that the last resort tariff (TUR) became the only tariff from 1 January 2010 on, denying to suppliers of last resort the application of discounts over customers with TUR. Law 15/2012, of 27 December, of Fiscal measures for the Energetic Sustainability, modifies the type of taxes applied to hydrocarbons of natural gas that until this date was 0% with the exception of vehicles gas, and establishes three types of taxes depending on the natural gas use, and the tax payer becomes the supplier rather than the distributor. On 4 July 2014, the Spanish Government approved the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, subsequently amended by Law 18/2014, of 15 October. Thus, urgent measures were approved for growth, competitiveness and efficiency in the energy sector, in accordance with european directives. For the gas sector, the objective of this reform is to design an economical stable system, minimizing costs to consumers and eliminating the structural tariff deficit. The main measures are: i) creation of a National Energy Efficiency Fund, for which the gas and electricity suppliers companies and petroleum products traders will have to make mandatory contributions until 2020. This fund will also be provided with resources from EU funds (FEDER) and other resources allocated by the state budget; ii) definition of the mechanism of gas deficit recovery generated until 31 December 2014 for a period of 15 years and the deficit generated from 1 January 2015 for a period of 5 years; and iii) aligning remuneration of regulated activities with the demand trends; iv) elimination of the distribution remuneration update based on price and review of the compensation units; and v) cut in the remuneration of regulated activities since 5 June 2014. The parameters of the remuneration of the regasification, storage, transportation and distribution of natural gas activities will be determined by regulatory periods of 6 years, subject to adjustments every 3 years. The Ministerial Order IET/289/2015, of 20 February, establishes the contribution obligations to the National Fund for Energy Efficiency in 2015 as needed to comply with the energy efficiency requirements of traders. It also oversees the payment of the contribution obligation of the year 2014. Law 2/2015 of 30 March, on the indexation of the Spanish economy, aims to establish a new index system, in order to monetary values of regulated prices do not be amended as a result of price index or formulas, affecting the determination of price updates related to the hire of meters, royalties, and periodic inspections. Until the approval of the Royal-Decree that will detail how these updates will be revised, the reference prices as the industrial index price and the consumer index price will be zero. ANNUAL REPORT 272 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Law 8/2015 of 21 May, which among other modifies the Law 34/1998 of 7 October, liberalize the periodic inspection service in the hydrocarbon sector, that until now was performed exclusively by the distributor, considers the connections of transportdistribution as distribution' assets and enables the Corporation of Strategic Reserves of Oil Products (CORES) to constitute strategic reserves of natural gas and promote the development of the organized market. These aspects are regulated in more detail in Royal Decree 984/2015 of 30 October. Additionally, Royal Decree 984/2015 amends the Royal Decree 949/2001 in relation to third party access regime to the natural gas system facilities allowing independent procurement of inputs and outputs for the transmission and distribution system that allows users to change the gas introduced without any restriction, which is essential for the development of the organized market of natural gas. The regulation of the natural gas organized market is complete with the Resolution of 4 December 2015, of the Secretary of State for Energy, approving: (i) the market rules that determine the technical and economic management of the organized market; (ii) the accession agreement that the agents have to subscribe to operate in the market; and (iii) the resolutions relating to the operation of the market. The Ministerial Order IET/2736/2015, of 17 December, establishes the tariffs and the revenues related with the access to the gas sector installations by third parties and the remuneration of regulated activities for the year 2016. The update of the retribution will be calculated according to Law 18/2014. Activity in the energy sector in Brazil Electricity Brazil In Brazil, the EDP Group generates, distributes and supplies electric energy through its subsidiary EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. (EDP Energias do Brasil). In early 90s, the Brazilian electricity sector has undergone major structural and institutional changes, having migrated from a monopoly run by the State to a market model, involving private capital. This market model includes the existence of two distinct systems, the regulated system and the liberalised system. Regulated System The Regulated Contracting Environment is for the sale of electricity between generators, energy importers or retailers, selling energy to distributors who in turn, acquire energy to ensure supply to consumers. Since 2004, the main form of contracting by a distributor concessionaire is through the realization of public auctions regulated by National Electricity Agency (ANEEL). The rules of these auctions are designed so that the winner is the one with the lowest price. The distribution companies must estimate the amount of electricity to contract in auctions and they are obliged to purchase 100% of their needs respecting the condition that, market increases must be met by energy from new ventures, contracted 3 years (Auction A-3) or 5 years (Auction A-5) in advance. Failure to comply with the supply of energy to its markets may result in severe fines. Liberalised system In the liberalised market, electricity is traded among production concessionaires, independent power producers, auto-producers, agents and free consumers. In this market, the contractual conditions, such as price, duration and amount of the contract are traded freely and negotiated between the parties (Decree No. 5,163/04). Free consumers can return to the regulated system under certain conditions. The Federal Government has defined changes in the electric sector through Provisional Measures. The Provisional Measure 577, published on 31 August 2012, addresses the termination of public service concessions of electricity and the temporary service, and the intervention for the suitability of the public service of electricity. Regulatory changes Several significant changes in regulation regarding the electric sector occurred during 2012, such as the Provisional Measure 579/2012, in which the Federal Government presented measures to reduce electric energy bill to the consumer. The expected average reduction for Brazil amounted to 20.2% due to government actions: Concession Renewals (13%) and changes of Sector charges (7%). This measure results in the Law 12,783 of 11 January 2013. Regarding concessions renewal, the generation concessionaires in which contracts expire between 2015 and 2017 may renew their concessions and shall make available their physical energy guarantee for the quotas system to be distributed proportionally to the market share of each distributor, affecting the energy acquisition contracts. The transmission concessionaires in which contracts expire between 2015 and 2017 may renew their concessions and, considering that the assets bounded to the electricity transmission service are totally depreciated, only the operation and maintenance costs will be considered for the annual allowed revenues calculation. On 24 January 2013, ANEEL approved the Extraordinary Tariff Review ETR specific for the adjustment of energy costs, transmission costs and sectorial charges, from all energy distributors. Thus, the unmanageable costs and supply tariffs will be reduced, with no impact in the distributors margin. These effects were noticeable by consumers, from the end of January 2013. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 273 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 On 23 January 2013, was published the Provisional Measure 605, which objective was to increase the scope of application of the resources of the CDE (Energy Development Account), which began promoting resources to cover the discounts applied to the tariffs and involuntary exposure of distributors resulting from the non-adherence to the extension of part of the generation concessions. This measure amended the Law 10,438/2002 which established the application of CDE resources. The Decree 7,891, of 23 January 2013, establishes more options for the implementation of CDE resources, which can be used to compensate the discount on the electricity tariffs established by law, such as the social tariff of low income, rural, water, sewage and sanitation, among others. Thus, the difference the revenue due to the discounts no longer will be reimbursed through the tariffs of other consumers. This decree was amended on 7 March 2013, by the Decree 9,745, which increased the costs that can be incurred with funds from the Energy Development Account CDE. Eletrobrás, the managing company of the sector funds, among them the CDE, is responsible for monthly transferring to the distribution utilities of the costs related to: generation allocated under the Energy Relocation Mechanism ERM (Hydrological Risk Quotas); replacement amount not covered by quotas (Involuntary Exposure) and the additional cost of the thermal power plants activation outside the order of merit (ESS Energy Security), occurred from January to December 2013 and the annual amounts approved by ANEEL to cover, entirely or partially, the positive balances in Conta de Compensação de Variação de Valores de Itens da Parcela A CVA , arising from the cost of purchasing electricity and System Services Charge ESS. Following the tariff readjustment process of EDP Escelsa, on 30 July 2013, Resolution 1,576/13 approved the amount of 90,670 thousands of Reais. For EDP Bandeirante this process occurred on 23 October 2013 and Resolution 1,641/13 approved the amount of 237,874 thousands of Reais. These values were transferred by Eletrobrás, as a lump sum to cover the positive balances of CVAs corresponding to the acquisition of electricity and the ESS, as established in Decree 7,891, with redaction of the Decree 7,945. On 12 February 2014, ANEEL, after examining the administrative appeal filed by EDP Escelsa, reviewed by the Order No. 287/2014, the Regulatory Remuneration Base (BRR) part of the 6th Periodic Tariff Review, incorporating 32 millions of Reais to the Gross BRR and 24 millions of Reais to the Net BRR. The amount was incorporated into the tariff and the values that were not received in 2013 were adjusted by the SELIC (overnight rate of the Sistema Especial de Liquidação e de Custódia) and added as financial component in the tariff adjustment of 2014. On 7 March 2014, the Decree 8,203/2014 was published, which authorizes the transfer of funds from CDE to pay the exposure costs to the spot market in the Electricity Trading Chamber CCEE in January 2014. 1.2 millions of Reais were allocated to Brazilian distribution companies, according to ANEEL's calculations published in Order No. 515/2014. On 13 March 2014, the Ministries of Mines and Energy (MME) and Treasury announced the following measures to support the national electricity sector: (i) Establishment of Centralized Account (Account-ACR), managed by the CCEE (Electricity Trading Chamber) with the aim of preserving the consumer tariff volatility, besides relieving distributors cash flow for 2014 expenses; (ii) 4 billions of Reais of additional Financial Contribution from the National Treasury in the Energy Development Account (CDE); and (iii) performance of Existing Energy Auction of the Year A , with energy delivery in 2014, expected to be held in April and supply starting from 1 May 2014. These measures were implemented by Decree 8,221/2014, of 2 April 2014 related with the cover of the extra costs for 2014, with retroactive effects to February, which defines the financing method and the subsequent effect on electricity tariffs. This is a non-refundable contribution cost. On 25 April 2014, CCEE signed contracts with some banks to finance 11.2 billions of Reais for the ACR-Account to cover the disbursements of the electricity distributors with exposure to the spot market and the energy power stations dispatch. The Energy Development Account CDE was incharge for the funds for the loan payment, present in the energy tariffs and the reimbursement will be made starting on November 2015. The ACR-Account resources obtained through bank loans sold out in April 2014. Therefore, in August 2014 a new loan of 6.5 billions of Reais was approved. EDP Escelsa received 596 millions of Reais until November, related with the months of February to October 2014, while, for the same period EDP Bandeirante received 309 millions of Reais. The value of the AccountACR was insufficient to cover the November and December deficit, forcing ANEEL to defer payment for 2015. In March 2015, CCEE signed a new loan of 3.4 billions of Reais. Thus, EDP Escelsa and EDP Bandeirante received 104.2 millions of Reais and 64.4 millions of Reais, respectively, to cover the deficits of November and December 2014. The amounts received by the ACR-Account to cover the 2014 deficit will be considered in the energy tariffs from the 2015 ordinary tariff processes. The existing energy auction, called Auction A , held on 30 April 2014, for the purchase of electricity from existing generation projects secured the contracting of approximately 2,046 MW of hydroelectric and thermal power plants of natural gas and biomass. The power supply starts in 1 May 2014 until 31 December 2019. Auction A aimed to meet the immediate need for energy contracting by distribution due to involuntary exposure as well as reduce the impact on tariff adjustments. Following the tariff readjustment process of EDP Escelsa, which occurred on 6 August 2014, Resolution 1,768/14 approved an index of 26.54% which 19.61% is from economic adjustment and 6.93% from the financial components adjustment. For EDP Bandeirante the tariff adjustment process took place on 22 October 2014, and was approved by Resolution 1,809/14 an index of 22.34% rate, being 15.05% the economic adjustment and 7.29% the financial components adjustment. Through Normative Resolution 613/2014 of May of 2014, ANEEL establishes the criteria for the allocation of the exceeding funds of the Reserve Energy Account CONER, which has been allocated to distributors in order to reduce the tariff deficit. ANNUAL REPORT 274 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 From January 2015, entered into force the Flags Tariff System. This system signals to consumers the real costs of electricity generation, and consists on three flags: green, yellow and red. The green flag indicates that the cost of energy production is lower and, therefore no changes are applied to the energy tariffs. The yellow and red flags represent the increase in energy production cost, and is added an additional amount to the energy tariff. Only consumers classified as low income residential subcategory will have discount on the additional amount applied by the yellow and red flags. On a monthly basis, the operating system conditions are reassessed by the National Electric System Operator ONS, which defines the best strategy for power generation over demand. On 4 February 2015, the Tariff Flag Resource Account was established, through the Decree 8,401. Distributors should collect the proceeds from the application of this system to this account, managed by the CCEE. Proceeds are allocated to cover the costs that are not included in the distribution tariff, such as: Energy Security of the System Service Charge ESS, thermal dispatch, Itaipu hydrological risk and quotas, exposure to spot market and the Power Reserve Account CONER surplus. ANEEL should approve on a monthly basis, the transfers to the distribution companies. Any costs not covered by revenue will be considered in the next tariff process. On 27 February 2015, through Ratifying Resolution 1,859, ANEEL established the new criteria for the additional tariff and the operation of the Flags Tariff System: a) Green Flag: used in the months in which the value of the Variable Unit Cost CVU of the last plant to be dispatched is less than the amount of 200 R$/MWh; b) Yellow Flag: used in the months in which the value of the Variable Unit Cost CVU of the last plant to be dispatched is equal to or greater than 200 R$/MWh and lower than the maximum value of the Differences Settlement Price PLD, currently at 388.48 R$/MWh. For the period of 1 January to 1 March 2015, the consumption proportional increase is 1.5 R$ per 100 KWh. From 2 March 2015, the consumption proportional increase is 2.5 R$ per 100 KWh; and c) Red Flag: used in the months in which the value of the Variable Unit Cost CVU of the last plant to be dispatched is equal to or greater than the maximum value of the PLD. For the period from 1 January to 1 March 2015, the consumption proportional increase is 3 R$ per 100 KWh. From 2 March 2015, the consumption proportional increase is 5.5 R$ per 100 KWh. After 1 September 2015, as determined by ANEEL Ratifying Resolution 1,945 of 28 August 2015, occured the approval of the red flag amount redution to 4,5 R$ per 100 KWh. At the same time, ANEEL accepted the request of Extraordinary Tariff Review RTE from the distributors and defined the applicable methodology. The results of the RTEs Dealers of Electricity Distribution were approved, through the Resolution 1,858. For EDP Bandeirante the application of new tariffs, from 2 March, resulted in an average increase in its customers of 25.12% and for EDP Escelsa the effect was 26.83%. As at 26 January 2016, ANEEL approved the division of the red flag in two price levels, into force from 1 February. The first level will have a value of 3 R$ per 100 kWh consumed and will be used when the CVU of the most expensive plant to be dispatched is between 422.56 R$/MWh and 610 R$/MWh; the second level will continue to be 4.50 R$ per 100 kWh consumed and will be used when the CVU of the most expensive plant to be dispatched exceeds 610 R$/MWh. On 28 April 2015, through the Normative Resolution 660, ANEEL approved changes in the methodology applicable to the Periodic Tariff Review processes for distributors valid for the processes performed from 6 May 2015. The changes occurred on the following aspects: (i) general procedures; (ii) operating costs; (iii) X factor (productivity gains); (iv) non-technical losses; (v) unrecoverable revenues and (vi) other income, among with: a) Extinction of the tariff cycle concept, starting to be used methodologies and parameters prevailing at the time of the tariff review. The update of the parameters will occur in periods of 2/4 years while the updating of the methodologies in periods of 4/8 years; b) The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) increased from 7.5% to 8.09% (after taxes). The points considered in the update were: (i) standardization of series; (ii) use of average credit risk of companies in the debt capital of third parties; and (iii) recalculation of the cost of capital every 3 years, with methodology review in every 6 years; c) Remuneration for the risk associated with investment operations carried out with third-party funds (subsidies); d) For the definition of efficient operating costs, were considered the quality index and losses ; e) To define the level of non-technical losses, it was included the variable low-income and the database updated based on 3 statistical models; f) The level of unrecoverable revenues (%) shall be calculated based on past 60 months of non-compliance of the reference distributors; g) The percentage share of other revenue has been changed to 30% in the following services: (i) efficiency of energy consumption; (ii) qualified cogeneration facility; and (iii) data communication services. For the other services the share percentage was set at 60%; and h) The calculation of the X Factor now regards commercial quality. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 275 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 These changes, which represent an increase in future income, will only impact the tariff review of Bandeirante, that occured at 20 October 2015, and Escelsa, which according with Management expectations should occur in August 2016. On 4 August 2015, ANEEL approves the Annual Tariff Adjustment of EDP Escelsa, through Resolution 1,928. The rates were increased on average by 2.04% and 1.68% for high voltage consumers and 2.29% for low voltage consumers. On 20 October 2015, ANEEL approved the result of the 4th Periodic Tariff Review of EDP Bandeirante. The average effect for consumers was 16.14%, being 17.09% for high voltage consumers and 15.37% for low voltage consumers. The portion B, designed to cover the costs of the electricity distribution business, was set at 823 millions of Reais, which deducted from the Other Revenue sharing results in 791 millions of Reais. For 2016 to 2019, the annual Productivity component (Pd) of factor X was set at 1.14%, while the transition component (T) of the same factor X was set at -0.23%. Technical losses were set at 4.59% and non-technical losses were fixed in a downward trajectory that starts at 9.83% in 2016 and ends at 8.45% in 2019. On 23 November 2015, ANEEL approved, through Normative Resolution 686/2015, changes to the tariff revision methodology on Regulatory Remuneration Base (BRR). The main changes are the following: (i) the exchange of BRR monetary adjustment index, from IGP-M (General Market Price Index), from FGV (Getulio Vargas Foundation), to the IPCA (Price Index Broad consumer), from IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics); (ii) the assessment of hand labor costs and smaller components of investment through pre-approved regulatory values by type of equipment; and (iii) update of tariff transfer of systems, vehicles, and rentals. The hydro concessions held by EDP Group Energias do Brasil have been granted after February 1995, corresponding to the date of the entry into force of Law 8,987, thus they are not covered by the regulatory changes introduced. Still, these changes will influence the rules that will be applied on the renewal of these concessions in the future, in the following conditions: § Each hydro plant should be remunerated by a tariff calculated by the ANELL; § Power selling (Physic guarantees) defined through production quotas dedicated exclusively to the regulated sector, that is to the distributors; and § Compliance with the quality service standards determined by ANEEL. Generation The generation market is based predominantly on the existence of Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) between generators and distributors, with tenders to supply long-term demand, the adjustment of medium and short term and daily market for deviations, or spot market. Electricity generation in Brazil relies mostly on hydroelectric technology. Power generation plants are the object of concession, permit or registration, according to the type of plant, the power capacity to be installed and the destination of the energy. Depending on the destination of energy, power generation plants can be classified as: § Generation companies, producing electricity for public service distribution; § Independent producers (which assume the risk of the sale of electricity with distributors or directly with free consumers); § Auto-producers (energy generation for own consumption, the excess of which can be sold through an authorization). The capacity payments of a generation plant defined by the Ministry of Mines and Energy and set out in the concession agreement or authorization act, correspond to the maximum amount of energy that can be used for commercialization through contracts, in accordance with Decree 5,163 of 2004. An unfavorable hydrological scenario could damage revenues and the results of hydroelectric production due to the lack of capacity to produce the necessary energy in order to fulfill the contractual obligations. The systemic production deficit, by national hydroelectric plants related to the Energy Reallocation Mechanism (MRE), cause the reduction of capacity of all hydropower plants in the country, through the factor known as Generation Scaling Factor GSF. This decrease compels those companies to buy energy in the free market to comply with the agreements with the consequent of a negative exposure in the spot market. According to the Provisional Measure 688, published on 18 August 2015, the hydrological risk supported by hydroelectric generation agentes of MRE can be combined again by producers, with ANEEL approval, with effect from 1 January 2015, upon consideration of hydroelectric generation agents such as the payment of risk premium for hydropower producers, among others. In bidding processes of production concessions, transmission and distribution of electricity that are not extended, pursuant to Law 12,783, will be required the payment of the bonus for the award of the concession of production, distribution and transmission of electricity. This Provisional Measure was converted into Law 13,203/2015 and by Normative Resolution 684/2015. ANNUAL REPORT 276 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Distribution The public service concession arrangements for electricity distribution are allocated by tender and establish rules regarding price, regularity, continuity, safety, timeliness and quality of services and supplies provided to consumers and users. These arrangements also define penalties for possible irregularities. With the publication of the Decree 8,461, of 2 June 2015, the extension of the electricity distribution concessions encompassed in the Law 12,783, of 11 January 2013, may be extended for thirty years, once meet the following criteria: (i) relative efficiency to the service quality; (ii) economic and financial management efficiency; (iii) operating and economic rationality; and (iv) moderate tariffs. The distribution concessions held by EDP Energias do Brasil, which were granted after February 1995, date of entry into force of Law 8,987, are not covered by the regulatory changes. Still, these changes are likely to influence the rules that will be applied in the renewal of these concessions. In most states, mainly in the North and Northeast, the concession area corresponds to the state boundaries. However, mainly in São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul, the concessions for distribution may cover areas smaller than the state itself. In some cases, the concession area is extended beyond the geographical limits of the state where the distribution company is located. The distribution activity operates in a regulated environment, with tariffs determined in the context of incentive regulation ( price cap ) with a remuneration on the basis of the assets used in the distribution energy service (BRR). The tariff also includes a portion to cover the operating costs established from a standard company, the reference company (with costs that would be charged by an efficient operator at the concession area). The regulatory EBITDA has two parts: (i) regulatory depreciation of BRR assets and (ii) return on capital prudently invested multiplied by the regulatory WACC. Finally, the tariffs also consider the costs of acquiring energy, hiring the use of transmission and sector-based charges as costs to be included in the tariff. The tariff portion that includes the regulatory remuneration, the depreciation charge and the value of the operating costs is called portion B. The costs of buying energy, hiring of basic network and charges, set up the portion A of the tariffs as set out in the concession contracts for distribution companies. Tariffs are adjusted annually based on changes in portion A costs and in the monetary correction of portion B costs, by the Market prices index (IGPM), discounted of productivity gains (factor X). The adjustment index is calculated in such a way to pass the non-controlling cost variations of the portion A and the corrected portion B. Periodically (on average every 4 years), a Periodic Tariff Review occurs, generating the recalculation of all costs, the definition of a new BRR and a new reference company, capturing productivity gains occurred in the period between revisions. At the beginning of 2010 an addendum to the concession contracts of distribution companies was signed to ensure the neutrality of sector costs. On 25 November 2014, ANEEL made addendums to the concession contracts with brazilian electric distribution companies to reduce significant uncertainties regarding to the recognition and realization of regulatory assets/liabilities and, as a consequence, to qualify them to be recognised in the financial statements. After the addendums, it was considered that the conditions are met to recognise regulatory assets/liabilities as assets and liabilities. Therefore, on 10 December 2014, EDP Brasil signed the Fourth and Fifth Addendum to the Concession Agreement with ANEEL. Supply The electricity suppliers that do not own electric assets, are authorised to act exclusively in the free market (ACL), selling or buying energy in quantity, conditions and prices freely negotiated. The commercialization of energy with a distributor is only possible through participation in the Auction set by the distributors , with the negotiation of contracts, for a maximum of two years, and commencement of energy delivery within a period not exceeding two years. Public Domain Assets In Brazil, fixed assets used in the distribution and the supply activities are bound to these services and cannot be removed, sold, transferred or mortgaged without the prior and express consent of the regulator (ANEEL). Activity in the Renewable Energies Sector In December 2007 the EDP Group incorporated EDP Renováveis, S.L. in Spain so as to concentrate the Group's subsidiaries in the renewable energies sector. On 18 March 2008, EDP Renováveis was converted into a public limited company. On 4 June 2008, a share capital increase of EDP Renováveis was made through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of 196,024,306 shares. This share capital increase was not subscribed by the EDP Group, resulting in a dilution of the interest held in EDP Renováveis from 100% to 77.53%. The share capital increase amounted to 1,566,726 thousands of Euros, of which 980,121 thousands of Euros relates to the capital increase and 586,605 thousands of Euros relates to the share premium. Electricity Renewable Generation In December 2015, EDP Renováveis, the subsidiary of EDP Group for the renewable energies sector, holds the share capital of EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (EDPR EU, previous designated as Nuevas Energias del Ocidente, S.L), EDP Renewables North America , L.L.C. (EDPR NA, previous designated as Horizon Wind Energy, L.L.C. ) and EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A., operating respectively in Europe, in the United States of America and in Brazil. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 277 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 EDP Renewables Europe operates through its subsidiaries located in Portugal, Spain, France, Belgium, Poland, Romania, Italy and United Kingdom. EDPR EU's main subsidiaries are: EDP Renováveis Portugal, EDP Renewables España, EDP Renewables France, Greenwind (Belgium), EDP Renewables Polska, EDP Renewables Romania, EDP Renewables Italia and EDPR UK Limited. As at 31 December 2015, Spain and Portugal are the most relevant geographical markets where EDPR EU operates. In July 2007 the EDP Group acquired from Goldman Sachs, 100% of the share capital of EDPR NA, which develops, manages and operates wind farms in the United States of America. EDPR NA holds a series of wind farms in operation and a pipeline of projects under development for the construction of wind farms. Regulatory framework for the activities in Spain On December 2012, following the Law 15/2012 of 27 December, the Spanish Government approved a 7% tax on electricity generation, as well as new taxes on nuclear and large-scale hydropower, plus a new carbon levy. These taxes have been applied since 2013. On 4 February 2013, the Spanish Government published the Royal Decree-Law 2/2013 “urgent measures in the electrical system and financial sector” that included a set of regulatory modifications applicable to the Spanish electricity sector and affecting wind energy assets. The main measures of RD-L 2/2013 were the following: New index to update annually all regulated activities in the electricity sector. This new index is the annual inflation (“IPC”) excluding some components of it, such as: tax variations, non-manufactured products and energy products; Sole formula to remunerate special regime facilities: the remuneration through the price market plus premium is eliminated. Therefore, the remuneration of all the special regime facilities had to be done under the regulated tariff formula, unless the titleholder of the facility decided to receive only the market price, but without a premium; and Other consequences for facilities that had previously chosen the option “market plus premium”. Those facilities that between 1 January 2013 and 2 February 2013 (date of entry into force of the Royal Decree-Law) had sold their energy according to that system, received an amount equivalent as if they had chosen the regulated tariff option. On 12 July 2013 the Spanish Council of Ministers approved a comprehensive reform of the Spanish energy sector aimed to end with the Spanish tariff deficit. The energy reform has been afterwards implemented by means of a new Energy Sector Act, a Decree-Law, eight Royal Decrees and three Ministerial Orders. As a part or this Energy Reform, the RD-L 9/2013 was approved in July 2013. According to it, renewable energy facilities would be subject to a new framework, by which they would be remunerated by the market price plus a payment per installed MW allowing that the return on investment would be equivalent to the Spanish Government 10-year bonds yield plus a spread of 300 basis points (being based on the asset’s regulatory life). The RD-L also suppresses the renewables remuneration for reactive power (2€/MWh). On 26 December 2013, the Spanish government published a new regulation that will govern the electricity sector (Law 24/2013) replacing the existing from 1997 (Law 54/1997).The law refers to the need to finish with the sector’s structural deficit that had been accumulated during the last decade, as the motivation to undertake the reform. Two years after, it seems that this target is to be achieved. Indeed, in November 2015, the CNMC (National commission of markets and competition) published the final balance of the Spanish electricity system for the year 2014 delivering a surplus of 550.3 Millions of Euros, being the first surplus of the Spanish electricity system after 9 consecutive years of deficit. The Spanish Government published in 20 June 2014, the Order IET/1045/2014, which included the parameters to remunerate the renewable energy assets, under the new remuneration framework that was approved by the Decree-Law 413/2014 of June 2014. The final legislation had no significant changes to the previous draft versions. In the case of wind farms onshore, the DL 413/2014 confirmed that the wind farms in operation in 2003 (and before) would not receive any further incentive, while the incentive for the rest of the wind farms would be calculated in order to reach of 7.398% return before taxes. In October 2015 the Government approved the Royal Decree 947/2015 and a Ministerial Order aimed at allowing the installation of new renewable capacity through competitive auctions. On 3 December 2015, the conditions for the upcoming auction were published. Additionally, the Government also approved the “National Energy Infrastructure Plan 2015-20”, envisaging an increase in wind capacity of 6.5 GW and the “Plan de Relazamiento de la Industria Eólica”, consisting in 15 specific measures focused in relaunching the wind manufacturing sector. Some of the measures are focused to spur the competitiveness of the Spanish wind manufacturer sector, while others are aimed at increasing turbine exports and others at boosting research and development. On 14 January 2016, the first auction of renewables’ capacity was held. The auction was designed to provide a similar remuneration scheme that the one that applies to current installations (RD 413/2014). Following this framework, auction participants were requested to bid on the “initial investment” (CAPEX) parameter which would then, by being plugged in the formula set by RD 413/2014 determine the “Rinv” (investment premium) that would eventually be awarded. Developers were bidding to build 500 MW of wind energy and 200 MW of biomass plants. The auction was very competitive, around 5 times oversubscribed for onshore wind energy, and awarded contracts without any incentive, this is, at 100% discount to the opening price. EDPR Group was awarded 93 MW of wind energy (see note 48). ANNUAL REPORT 278 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The Government has announced that more auctions will be organised, possibly in 2016, to contract the capacity that Spain needs to comply with its 2020 targets. Regulatory framework for the activities in Portugal The general Portuguese legal bases applicable to the generation of electrical power based on renewable resources are currently established by Decree-Law 189/88 dated 27 May, as amended by Decree-Law 168/99 dated 18 May, Decree-Law 312/2001 dated 10 December, and Decree-Law 339-C/2001 dated 29 December. Also relevant is Decree-Law 33-A/2005, dated 16 February 2005 (“DL 33A/2005”), which establishes the remuneration formula applicable to energy produced by renewable sources. The Portuguese Government published on 28 February 2013, the Decree Law 35/2013, that maintains the legal stability of the current contracts (Decree-Law 33-A/2005) and protects the value of the investments made by the wind energy producers in the Portuguese economy. The wind energy producers can voluntarily invest to secure further remuneration stability, through a new tariff scheme to be applied upon the actual 15 years established by law. The total investment will be used to reduce the overall costs of the Portuguese electricity system. In order to maximise the number of wind developers that voluntarily adheres to the extension of the remuneration framework, the Government proposed four alternative tariff schemes to be elected by each of the wind developers, that include the following conditions: (i) alternative cap and floor selling prices; (ii) alternative durations to the new scheme beyond the initial 15 years of the current contracts; and consequently (iii) alternative levels of investment (on a per MW basis) to adhere to the new scheme. EDPR has chosen a 7 year extension of the tariff defined as the average market price of previous twelve months, with a floor of 74€/MWh and a cap of 98€/MWh updated with inflation from 2021 onwards, in exchange for a payment of 5,800€/MW from 2013 to 2020. The Environment and Energy Ministry published, on 24 June, the Decree Law 94/2014 that allows the increase of installed capacity of wind farms up to 20%. The additional production generated from the capacity increase will have a fixed remuneration of 60 €/MWh, whilst the remaining production is remunerated at the previous tariff. On 7 April 2015 the Administrative Order 102/2015 was published, which establishes the procedures for the placement of additional energy and for the repowering authorisation of wind farms previously defined by Decree-Law 94/2014 of 24 June. The main measures introduced by this legislation are: (i) the energy produced by repowering wind farms (increasing the number of wind turbines in existing wind farms) is remunerated at a fixed rate of 60€/MW; (ii) the energy corresponding to the difference between installed capacity and the injected energy in the network is remunerated at 60€/MW; and (iii) recognition of the wind farms repowering as an independent generator. Regulatory framework for the activities in the United States of America The United States federal government and various state governments have been implementing policies to promote the growth of renewable energy, particularly wind power. The main federal renewable energy incentive program is the Production Tax Credit (PTC), which was created by the U.S. Congress as part of 1992 EPACT. Additionally, several states have passed legislation, mainly in the form of renewable portfolio standards (RPS), which require utilities to purchase a certain percentage of their energy supply from renewable sources, similar to the Renewable Energy Directive in the EU. American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 includes a number of energy measures related to tax and policy provisions to benefit the development of wind energy generation, namely (i) a three year extension of the PTC until 2012 and (ii) an option to elect a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) that could replace the PTC through the duration of the extension. This ITC allows the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects placed in service or with the beginning of construction in 2009 and 2010. In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment, Insurance and Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 was approved and includes an one year of ITC extension, which allow the companies to receive 30% of the cash invested in projects with beginning of construction until December 2011 as long as placed in service until December 2012. On 1 January 2013, the US Congress approved The American Taxpayer Relief Act that includes an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) instead of the PTC. Congress set 31 December 2013 as the new expiration date of these benefits and changed the qualification criteria (projects will only qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2013). The legislation also includes a depreciation bonus on new equipment placed in service which allows the depreciation of a higher percentage of the cost of the project (less 50% of the Investment Tax Credit) in the year that it is placed in service. This bonus depreciation was 100% in 2011 and 50% for 2012. On 16 December 2014, the US Congress approved the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 that included an extension of the Production Tax Credit (PTC) for wind energy, including the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) instead of the PTC. Congress set a new expiration date of 31 December 2014 and kept the qualification criteria (projects can qualify as long as they are under construction by year-end 2014). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 279 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 On 15 December 2015, the US Congress approved the “Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016” that included an extension of the PTC for wind energy, as well as the possibility of a 30% Investment Tax Credit instead of the PTC. Developers now have until the end of 2016 to start construction of new wind farms to qualify for 10 years of production tax credits at the full level. Congress introduced a phase out for projects that start construction after 2016 and before 2020. These projects will still qualify for production tax credits, but at reduced levels. The levels are 80% for projects starting construction in 2017; 60% in 2018; and 40% in 2019. Developers of projects that start construction before 2020 may elect to claim 30% investment tax credits instead of production tax credits, subject to a similar phase out. The phase out reduces the value of the 30% investment tax credit to 24% in 2017; 18% in 2018; and 12% in 2019. Neither production tax credits nor investment tax credits are allowed for wind projects that start construction in 2020 or later. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 extended the Investment Tax Credit (ITC) for solar projects. Solar projects that are under construction by the end of 2019 will now qualify for the 30% ITC. The credit is reduced to 26% for projects starting construction in 2020 and to 22% for projects starting construction in 2021. The credit drops to a permanent 10% level for projects that begin construction in 2022 or later or that begin construction before 2022, but are placed in service in 2024 or later. Projects must be placed in service by the end of 2023 to qualify for a credit above 10%. 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES a) Basis of presentation The accompanying consolidated and company financial statements of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. reflect the results of the company's operations and its subsidiaries (EDP Group or Group) and the Group's interest in its joint ventures and associated companies, for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014. EDP S.A.'s Executive Board of Directors approved the consolidated and company financial statements (referred to as financial statements ) on 3 March 2016. The financial statements are presented in thousands of Euros, rounded to the nearest thousand. In accordance with Regulation (EC) 1606/2002 of the European Council and Parliament, of 19 July 2002, as transposed into Portuguese legislation through Decree-law 35/2005 of 17 February, the company's financial statements and the Group's consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the European Union (EU). IFRS comprise accounting standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as well as interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) and their predecessor bodies. The EDP Group's consolidated and company financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 were prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the E.U. until 31 December 2015. As described in note 49, the Group adopted in the preparation of consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2015, the accounting standards issued by IASB and IFRIC interpretations effective since 1 January 2015. The accounting policies used by the Group in preparing the consolidated financial statements described in this note were adopted in accordance. The new standards and interpretations recently issued but not yet effective and that the Group has not yet applied on its consolidated financial statements, can also be analysed in note 49. The financial statements were prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the application of the fair value accounting to derivative financial instruments, financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and available-for-sale investments, except those for which fair value is not available. Assets and liabilities that are hedged under hedge accounting are stated at fair value in respect of the hedged risk. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Liabilities for defined benefit plans are recognised at the present value of the obligation net of plan assets fair value. In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, if the initial purchase price allocation of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is identified as provisional, in the subsequent 12 months after the business combination transaction, the legal acquirer should make the final allocation of the purchase price related to the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent acquired. These adjustments with impact on the amount of goodwill determined and booked in previous periods, originates a restatement of the comparative information, which are reflected on the Statement of financial position, with effect from the date of the business combinations transactions liabilities. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the Executive Board of Directors to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and related assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The issues involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are considered to be significant, are presented in note 3 (Critical accounting estimates and judgments in preparing the financial statements). Accounting policies have been applied consistently by all Group companies and in all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. b) Basis of consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the assets, liabilities and results of EDP, S.A. and its subsidiaries (Group or EDP Group) and the equity and results attributable to the Group, through the investments in associates and jointly controlled entities. ANNUAL REPORT 280 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As from 1 January 2010 onwards, the EDP Group applied IFRS 3 (revised) for the accounting of business combinations. The changes in accounting policies resulting from the application of IFRS 3 (revised) are applied prospectively. Controlled entities Investments in subsidiaries where the EDP Group has control are fully consolidated from the date the Group assumes control over their financial and operating activities until the moment that control ceases to exist. An investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee, independently of the percentage of voting rights held. Until 31 December 2009, when the accumulated losses of a subsidiary attributable to non-controlling interests exceed the non-controlling interests in its equity, the excess was attributed to the Group and charged to the income statement as incurred. Profits subsequently reported by the subsidiary were recognised as profits of the Group until the losses attributable to the non-controlling interests previously recognised by the Group have been recovered. As from 1 January 2010, the due proportion of accumulated losses are attributed to noncontrolling interests, implying that the Group can recognise negative non-controlling interests. As from 1 January 2010, on a step acquisition process resulting in the acquisition of control the revaluation of any investee previously held is booked against the income statement when goodwill is calculated. On a partial disposal resulting in loss of control over a subsidiary, any participation retained is revalued at market value on the sale date and the gain or loss resulting from this revaluation is booked against the income statement, as well as any gain or loss resulting from the disposal. Jointly controlled entities EDP Group classifies an arrangement as a joint arrangement when the jointly control is contractually established. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties that collectively control the arrangement. After determining the existence of joint control, the Group classifies joint arrangements into two types joint operations or joint ventures. A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint operators) have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement, so the assets and liabilities (and related revenues and expenses) in relation to its interest in the arrangement are recognised and measured in accordance with relevant IFRSs applicable. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement (i.e. joint ventures) have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, so this investment is included in the consolidated financial statements under the equity method. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of joint ventures, included under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in a jointly controlled entity, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of that entity. Entities over which the Group has significant influence Investments in associates are included in the consolidated financial statements under the equity method from the date the Group acquires significant influence to the date it ceases. Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over its financial and operating policies. The existence of significant influence by the Group is usually evidenced by one or more of the following: Representation on the Executive Board of Directors or equivalent governing body of the investee; Participation in policy-making processes, including participation in decisions about dividends or other distributions; Existence of material transactions between the Group and the investee; Interchange of managerial personnel; and Provision of essential technical information. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's attributable share of total reserves and profits or losses of associates, included under the equity method. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Group's carrying amount is reduced to zero and recognition of further losses is discontinued, except to the extent that the Group has a legal or constructive obligation to cover such losses on behalf of the associate. Accounting for investments in subsidiaries in the company's financial statements Investments in subsidiaries not classified as held for sale or not included in a disposal group which is classified as held for sale are accounted for at cost in the company's financial statements, and are subject to periodic impairment tests, whenever indication exists that certain financial investment may be impaired. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 281 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Goodwill Following the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) on 1 January 2004 and as permitted under IFRS 1 Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, the EDP Group decided to maintain the goodwill resulting from business combinations that occurred prior to the transition date, calculated in accordance with the Group's previous accounting policies. Business combinations that occurred after 1 January 2004 are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The acquisition cost corresponds to the fair value determined at the acquisition date, of the assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed including the costs directly attributable to the acquisition, for acquisitions up to 31 December 2009. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, costs directly attributable to the acquisition of a subsidiary are booked directly in the income statement. As from the transition date to IFRS (1 January 2004), positive goodwill arising from acquisitions is recognised as an asset carried at acquisition cost and is not subject to amortisation. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates is defined as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, the EDP Group has the possibility to book non-controlling interests at fair value or at cost, implying that the full amount of goodwill can be booked in the financial statements, including the portion attributable to the non-controlling interests, against non-controlling interests, if the first option is chosen. Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates is defined as the difference between the cost of acquisition and the total or corresponding share of the fair value of the net assets acquired, depending on the option taken. Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement in the period the business combination occurs. The recoverable amount of the goodwill in subsidiaries is assessed annually, regardless of the existence of any impairment triggers. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is determined based on the value in use of the assets, calculated using valuation methodologies supported by discounted cash flow techniques, considering market conditions, the time value of money and the business risks. Until 31 December 2009, contingent acquisition prices were determined based on the best estimate of probable future payments, being the future changes in the estimate booked against goodwill. As from 1 January 2010, goodwill is no longer adjusted due to changes in the initial estimate of the contingent purchase price and the difference is booked in the income statement. Purchases of non-controlling interests and dilution Until 31 December 2009, in the acquisition of non-controlling interests, the difference between the fair value of the non-controlling interests acquired and the consideration paid, was accounted against goodwill. The acquisitions of non-controlling interests through written put options related with investments in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests, were recorded as a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, against non-controlling interests. The difference between the non-controlling interests acquired and the fair value of the liability, was recorded as goodwill. The fair value of the liability was determined based on the contractual price which may be fixed or variable. In case of a variable price, the changes in the liability were recognised as an adjustment to the cost of the business combination against goodwill and the effect of the financial discount of the liability (unwinding) was recognised as a financial expense in the consolidated income statement. This accounting treatment is maintained for all options contracted until 31 December 2009. Until 31 December 2009, when an interest in a subsidiary was disposed, without a loss of control, the difference between the sale price and the book value of the net assets held by the Group, plus the carrying value of goodwill in that subsidiary, was recognised in the income statement of the period as a gain or loss resulting from the disposal. The dilution effect occurs when the percentage of interest in a subsidiary decreases without any sale of interest in that subsidiary, for example, if the Group does not participate proportionally in the share capital increase of that subsidiary. Until 31 December 2009, the Group recognised the gains or losses resulting from a dilution of the interest in a subsidiary following a sale or capital increase, in the income statement. As from 1 January 2010 onwards, in an acquisition (dilution) of non-controlling interests not resulting in a loss of control, the difference between the fair value of the non-controlling interests acquired and the consideration paid, is accounted against reserves. The acquisitions of non-controlling interests through written put options related with investments in subsidiaries held by non-controlling interests, are recorded as a financial liability for the present value of the best estimate of the amount payable, against non-controlling interests. The fair value of the liability is determined based on the contractual price which may be fixed or variable. In case of a variable price, the changes in the liability are recognised against the income statement as well as the effect of the financial discount of the liability (unwinding). Investments in foreign operations The financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries and associates of the Group are prepared using their functional currency, defined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate. In the consolidation process, the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Euros at the official exchange rate at the balance sheet date. ANNUAL REPORT 282 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Regarding the investments in foreign operations that are consolidated using the full consolidation method and equity method, the exchange differences between the amount of equity expressed in Euros at the beginning of the period and the amount translated at the official exchange rates at the end of the period, on a consolidated basis, are booked against reserves. Foreign currency goodwill arising on the acquisition of these investments is remeasured at the official exchange rate at the balance sheet date directly against reserves. The income and expenses of foreign subsidiaries are translated into Euros at the approximate exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Exchange differences from the translation into Euros of the net profit for the period, arising from the differences between the rates used in the income statement and those prevailing at the balance sheet date are recognised in reserves. On disposal of a foreign subsidiary, the related exchange differences previously recognised in reserves, are accounted for in the income statement. Balances and transactions eliminated on consolidation Inter-company balances and transactions, including any unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised gains and losses arising on transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Group's interest in those entities. Business combinations achieved in stages In a business combination achieved in stages, the excess of the aggregate of (i) the consideration transferred, (ii) the amount of any noncontrolling interest recognized in the acquiree (iii) the fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquired business; over the net of amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is recognised as goodwill. If applicable, the negative difference, after evaluating the consideration transferred, of the amount of any non-controlling interest recognised in the acquiree, the fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquired business; over the net value of the indentifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, is recognised in the income statement. The Group recognises the difference between the fair value of the previously held equity interest in the acquired business and the carrying value in consolidated results according to its previous classification. Additionally, the Group reclassifies the deferred amounts in other comprehensive income relating to the previously held equity interest to the income statement or consolidated reserves, according to their nature. c) Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into Euros at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. These exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income statement. Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities accounted for at historical cost are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign currency non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value are translated into Euros at the exchange rates at the dates the fair value was determined. d) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments are recognised on the trade date at fair value. Subsequently, the fair value of derivative financial instruments is remeasured on a regular basis, being the gains or losses on remeasurement recognised directly in the income statement, except for derivatives designated as cash flow hedging instruments. Recognition, in the income statement, of the resulting gains and losses on remeasurement of hedging derivatives depends on the hedge model used. The fair value of derivative financial instruments corresponds to their market value, if available, or is determined by external entities through the use of valuation techniques. Hedge accounting The Group uses financial instruments to hedge interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and price risk resulting from its operational and financing activities. Derivatives not qualified for hedge accounting under IAS 39 are accounted for as trading instruments. Hedging derivatives are recorded at fair value, being the gains and losses recognised in accordance with the hedge accounting model applied by the Group. Hedge relationship exist when: (i) At the inception of the hedge there is formal documentation of the hedge; (ii) The hedge is expected to be highly effective; (iii) The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured; (iv) The hedge is revalued on an on-going basis and is considered to be highly effective throughout the reporting period; and (v) The forecast transaction being hedged must be highly probable and must be exposed to changes in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit or loss. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 283 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged assets and liabilities or group of hedged assets and liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk. When the hedging relationship ceases to comply with the requirements for hedge accounting, the accumulated gains or losses concerning the fair value of the risk being hedged are amortised over the residual period to maturity of the hedged item. Cash flow hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives qualified as cash flow hedges are recognised in reserves. The cumulative gains or losses recognised in reserves are reclassified to the income statement when the hedged item affects the income statement. When a hedging relation of a future transaction is discontinued, the changes in the fair value of derivative recognised in reserves remain recognised in reserves until the future hedged transaction occurs. When the future transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gains or losses recognised in reserves are recorded immediately in the income statement. Net investment hedge The net investment hedge model is applied on a consolidated basis to investments in subsidiaries in foreign currencies. This model allows that the exchange differences recognised in the exchange differences consolidated reserves to be offset by the foreign exchange differences in foreign currency loans or currency derivatives contracted. The ineffective portion of the hedging relationship is recognised in the income statement. The accumulated foreign exchange gains and losses regarding the net investment and the related hedging instrument recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement when the foreign entity is sold, as part of the gain or loss resulting from the disposal. Effectiveness For an hedge relationship to be classified as such, in accordance with IAS 39, its effectiveness must be demonstrated. Therefore, the Group performs prospective tests at the inception date of the hedge and prospective and retrospective tests in each balance sheet date, to demonstrate its effectiveness, showing that any adjustments to the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged are offset by adjustments to the fair value of the hedging instrument. Any ineffectiveness is recognised in the income statement when it occurs. e) Other financial assets The Group classifies its other financial assets at acquisition date, considering the underlying purpose, in the following categories: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss This category includes: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, acquired for the purpose of being traded in the short term, and (ii) other financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception (fair value option). Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets which: (i) the Group intends to hold for an undetermined period of time, or (ii) are designated as available-for-sale on initial recognition. Initial recognition, measurement and derecognition Purchases and sales of: (i) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and (ii) available-for-sale investments, are recognised on the trade date, which is the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell these financial assets. Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, in which the transaction costs are recognised directly in the income statement. Financial assets are derecognised when: (i) the contractual rights to receive their future cash flows have expired, (ii) the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership or (iii) although retaining some, but not substantially all of, the risks and rewards of ownership, the Group has transferred control over the assets. Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value and gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. ANNUAL REPORT 284 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Available-for-sale investments are also subsequently carried at fair value. However, gains and losses arising from changes in their fair value are recognised directly in equity until the financial assets are derecognised or impaired. When this occurs, the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in equity are immediately recognised in the income statement. Foreign exchange differences relating to these assets are also recognised in fair value reserves if arising from shares, and in the income statement if arising from debt instruments. Interest, calculated using the effective interest rate method, as well as dividends received, are recognised in the income statement. The fair value of listed investments in active markets is based on current bid prices. The Group determines the fair value of unlisted securities through (i) valuation methodologies, such as the price of similar recent arm’s length transactions and discounted cash flow techniques, and (ii) valuation assumptions based on market information. The remaining financial assets whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, with any subsequent impairment loss being booked against the income statement. Reclassifications between categories The Group does not transfer financial instruments into or out of fair value through profit or loss. Impairment At each balance sheet date, an assessment is performed as to whether there is objective evidence of impairment, including any impairment resulting in an adverse effect on estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets and when it can be reliably measured. For the financial assets that present evidence of impairment, the respective recoverable amount is determined, and the impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after their initial recognition, such as: (i) in the case of listed securities, a significant or prolonged decline in the listed price of the security, and (ii) in the case of unlisted securities, when that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated amount of the future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets, that can be reliably estimated. If there is objective evidence of impairment on available-for-sale investments, the cumulative potential loss recognised in fair values reserves, corresponding to the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value at the balance sheet date, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in the income statement, is transferred to the income statement. For debt instruments, if in a subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss decreases, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed in the income statement up to the amount of the acquisition cost, if the increase is objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. In the case of equity instruments, impairment losses can not be reversed and any subsequent event that results in a fair value increase is recognised in equity under fair value reserves. f) Financial liabilities An instrument is classified as a financial liability when there is a contractual obligation for the issuer to liquidate capital and/or interests, through delivering cash or other financial asset, regardless of its legal form. Financial liabilities are recognised (i) initially at fair value less transaction costs and (ii) subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective interest method. All financial liabilities are booked at amortised cost, with the exception of the financial liabilities hedged at fair value hedge, which are stated at fair value on risk component that is being hedged. g) Equity instruments A financial instrument is classified as an equity instrument when there is no contractual obligation at settlement to deliver cash or other financial asset to another entity, regardless of its legal form, and there is a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities. Costs directly attributable to the issuance of equity instruments are recognised in equity, as a deduction to the amount issued. Amounts paid or received relating to sales or acquisitions of equity instruments are recognised in equity, net of transaction costs. Distributions related to equity instruments are deducted from equity, as dividends, when declared. Preference shares issued by the Group are considered as an equity instrument when there is no contractual obligation to redeem the shares and dividends are paid at the discretion of the Group. Preference shares issued by subsidiaries, classified as equity instruments and held by third parties, are recognised as non-controlling interests. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 285 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 h) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. On transition to IFRS, on 1 January 2004, the Group decided to consider as deemed cost the revalued amount of Property, plant and equipment in accordance with the Group's previous accounting policy, which was comparable in general terms to the depreciated cost determined in accordance with IFRS. Subsequent costs are recognised as property, plant and equipment only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group. Repair and maintenance costs are charged in the income statement as incurred, according to the accrual principle. The Group carries out impairment tests whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the latter being calculated by the present value of the estimated future cash flows obtained from continued use of the asset and its sale at the end of its useful life. Land is not depreciated. Depreciation of tangible assets is calculated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Number of years Buildings and other constructions 8 to 50 Plant and machinery: Hydroelectric generation 30 to 75 Thermoelectric generation 25 to 45 Renewable generation 25 Electricity distribution 10 to 40 Other plant and machinery 4 to 25 Transport equipment 4 to 25 Office equipment and tools 2 to 16 Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 50 According to IFRS, the estimate of the useful life of assets should be reviewed whenever a change in the expected economic benefits flowing from the assets occurs as well as when the technical use planned for the assets differs from previous estimates. Changes occurring in the depreciation charge for the year are accounted prospectively. Capitalisation of borrowing costs and other directly attributable costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of assets are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. A qualifying asset is an asset that needs a substantial period of time to be ready for its intended use or sale. The amount of interest costs eligible for capitalisation is determined by applying a capitalisation rate to the expenditures on those assets. The capitalisation rate corresponds to the weighted average of the borrowing costs applicable to the outstanding borrowings during the period. The capitalisation of borrowing costs begins when expenditure for the assets is being incurred, borrowing costs have been incurred and activities necessary to prepare all or part of the assets for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying assets for their intended use or sale are completed. Other expenses directly attributable to the acquisition and construction of the assets, such as cost of consumed materials and personnel costs, are also capitalised as part of the cost of the assets. Government grants Government grants are initially booked as deferred revenue, under non current liabilities only when there is reasonable certainty that the grant will be received and that the Group will fulfil the grant term conditions. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are booked in the income statement on a linear basis, on the same period in which the expenses are incurred. Grants that compensate the Group for the acquisition of assets are recognised in the income statement over the related assets useful life. Transfers of assets from customers The International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) issued in November 2008, the interpretation IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers. This interpretation was approved by the European Commission on 27 November 2009, being applicable for periods beginning after 31 October 2009. For EDP Group, the first period after the approval of this interpretation is the year 2010. ANNUAL REPORT 286 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 IFRIC 18 is applicable for agreements in which an entity receives from a customer an item of Property, plant, and equipment that the entity must then use either to connect the customer to a network or to provide the customer with ongoing access to a supply of energy. This interpretation clarifies: the conditions in which an asset is under this interpretation; recognition of the asset and its initial measurement; identification of the services identified (one or more services in exchange for assets transferred); income recognition; and accounting for the transfer of money from customers. The Group adopted this interpretation for the allowances received from customers, recognising the assets received by its estimated construction cost against operating income. The assets are depreciated based on its useful life. i) Intangible assets The Group's intangible assets are booked at acquisition cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. The Group performs impairment tests whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use, the latter being calculated by the present value of the estimated future cash flows obtained from continued use of the asset and its sale at the end of its useful life. Acquisition and development of software The costs of purchasing software and the costs incurred by the Group to implement it are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. Costs incurred by the Group directly related to the development of software, that are expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets. Such costs include employee costs directly associated to the project and are amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. Software maintenance costs are charged to the income statement when incurred. Concession rights on distribution of electricity and gas The concession rights on distribution of electricity in Brazil and the concession rights related to the distribution of gas in Portugal, are recorded as intangible assets and amortised on a straight-line basis over the concessions period, not exceeding 30 and 40 years, respectively. Concession rights to use the public hydric domain Portuguese concession rights to use the public hydric domain are booked as intangible assets and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the concession period, which currently does not exceed 45 years. EDP Group records as concession rights the financial compensations for the use of public domain assets, whenever these compensations are paid and for all the Group subsidiaries. The accounting policy related to intangible assets assigned to concessions is described in note 2aa), Group concession activities. Industrial property and other rights Industrial property and other rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets, which does not exceed 6 years. j) Leases The Group classifies its lease transactions as finance leases or operating leases based on the substance of the transaction rather than its legal form. A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers to the lessee substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Operating leases Lease payments under operating lease contracts are recognised as an expense in the period to which they relate. Finance leases Finance leases are recognised by the lessee, at the inception of the lease, as assets and liabilities at the fair value of the leased assets which is equivalent to the present value of the future lease payments. Lease payments include the interest charges and the amortisation of the outstanding principal. The interest charges are recognised as costs over the lease period in order to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 287 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Lessors record assets held under finance leases as leased capital, by the net amount invested in the lease. Lease payments include the financial income and the amortisation of the outstanding principal. Financial results recognised reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the outstanding net balance of the lessor. Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease Following the issuance by International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease, applicable from 1 January 2006, arrangements including transactions that, although do not take the form of a lease, convey the right to use an asset in return for a payment, are recognised as leases, provided that, in substance, they comply with the requirements defined in the interpretation. k) Investment property The Group classifies as investment property, property held for capital appreciation and/or for rental purposes. Investment property is recognised initially at acquisition or production cost, including directly attributable transaction costs, and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Subsequent expenditures on investment property are only added to the cost of the asset when it is probable that additional future economic benefits will arise when compared to initial recognition. l) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories includes purchases, conversion and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated selling costs. The cost of inventories is determined by using the weighted average method. CO2 licences held by the Group for trade purposes are booked as inventories and measured at fair value, at each balance sheet date, against the income statement. m) Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost and being presented in the statement of financial position net of impairment losses which are associated. Impairment losses are recorded based on the regular assessment of the existence of objective evidence of impairment resulting from doubtful accounts receivable as of the balance sheet date. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, being subsequently reversed through the income statement if the estimated losses decrease, in a later period. n) Employee benefits Pensions Some EDP Group companies grant post-retirement benefits to employees under defined benefit and defined contribution plans, namely pension plans that grant complementary retirement benefits for age and early retirement pensions. Defined benefit plans In Portugal, the defined benefit plan is assured by (i) a closed pension fund managed by an external entity, covering responsibilities with benefits that are complementary to those provided under the Social Security System (namely retirement and early retirement pensions), and (ii) by a complementary specific provision, recognised in EDP Group company’s statement of financial position. Benefits are generally determined and assigned through the combination of one or more factors, such as age, years of service and the relevant base retribution (pensionable salary). In Brazil, Bandeirante and Escelsa have defined benefit plans managed by a closed complementary welfare entity, external to EDP Group, covering responsibilities associated with retirement and early retirement pensions, according to factors such as age, years of service and the relevant base retribution. The Group’s pension liability for each plan is calculated by independent experts annually, for each plan, at the balance sheet date, using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate used in the calculation is determined based on market interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have similar maturity to the related pension liability. ANNUAL REPORT 288 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Actuarial gains and losses resulting from: (i) differences between financial and actuarial assumptions used and actual amounts; and (ii) changes in the actuarial assumptions are recognised against equity. The increase in past service costs arising from early retirements (retirements before the normal retirement age) or plan amendments are recognised in the income statement when incurred. The Group recognises as operational results, in the income statement, current and past service costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) is recognised in financial results. The assets of the plan comply with the recognition criteria established by IFRIC 14 IAS 19 and the minimum funding requirements established by law or by contract. Defined contribution plans In Portugal, Spain and Brazil, some companies have defined contribution social benefit plans that complement those granted by the Social Security System, under which they pay an annual contribution to the plans, calculated in accordance with the rules established in each plan. These contributions represent a percentage of the fixed and variable remuneration of the employees included in this plan and are accounted for as cost for the period in which they are due. Other benefits granted Medical benefits Some EDP Group companies provide medical benefits under which employees and covered direct family have favorable conditions in medical assistance and health care services, namely: Concerning to EDP Group companies in Portugal, through the provision of medical assistance that is complementary to the one provided under the National Health System, provided using infrastructures owned and managed internally; and, Concerning to EDP Group companies in Brazil, through the share of costs in eligible medical and heath expenses, in an external agreed network. The medical benefits plans are classified as defined benefit plans, the liability being covered by provisions booked in the Group’s statement of financial position. Measurement and recognition of the medical benefits liabilities are similar to the defined benefit pension plans liabilities, explained above. Other benefits In addition, EDP Group grants other benefits, supporting charges arising from responsibilities for disability benefit’s complements, death benefits, survival benefits, life insurance, antiquity and retirement benefits, power and gas tariff discounts, among others. Benefits included in each Plan for Portugal and Brazil are detailed in EDP’s Collective Labor Agreement, published in the Labor Bulletin of 8 October 2014 and in the website of the Plan management entity Enerprev (www.enerprev.com.br), respectively. o) Provisions Provisions are recognised when: (i) the Group has a present legal, or constructive obligation; (ii) it is probable that settlement will be required in the future; and (iii) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made. Provisions for dismantling and decommissioning in electric power plants The Group accounts for provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of assets when there is a legal, contractual or constructive obligation at the end of the assets’ useful life. Therefore, such provisions have been booked for the electric power plants to cover the cost of restoring the location and land to their original condition. The provisions are calculated at the present amount of the expected future liability and are accounted for as part of the cost of the related property, plant and equipment being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of those assets. Decommissioning and dismantling provisions are remeasured on an annual basis based on the best estimate of the settlement amount. The unwinding of the discount at each balance sheet date is charged to the income statement. p) Recognition of costs and revenues Costs and revenues are recognised in the period to which they relate regardless of when paid or received, in accordance with the accrual basis. Differences between amounts received and paid and the corresponding revenue and costs are recognised under Other assets or other liabilities. Revenue in EDP Group arises essentially from electricity generation and energy (electricity and gas) distribution and supply activities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 289 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Revenue related to the sale of energy and access tariffs to energy distribution network is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts and after elimination of intra-group sales. Revenue recognition occurs when the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, the entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the extent usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be reliably measured. The moment when an entity has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer varies depending on the activities carried out by the Group companies. Regarding the electricity generation, this transfer occurs when the energy is generated and injected into the transport/distribution grids. The electricity generated is sold under free market conditions or through the establishment of medium/long term power purchase agreements. The energy distribution is a regulated activity, which is remunerated through tariffs set by each country Regulatory Body (ERSE in Portugal, CNE in Spain and ANEEL in Brazil). In Portugal and Spain, revenue arises mainly from the sale of access tariffs, as well as from the recovery, from the commercialisation entities, of the costs related to the global management activity of the system. In Brazil, revenue results from the electricity sales to final consumers, in the regulated market, based on the tariffs determined by ANEEL, which are included the use of the distribution and transport system tariff, among other components. In Portugal and Brazil, these activities are subject to public service concession arrangements (see aa)). The energy supply is carried out in regulated and non-regulated markets. In non-regulated market, revenue is recognised based on commercial agreements. In regulated market, revenue is recognised according to the tariffs determined by each country Regulatory Body. Revenue recognition includes two components: (i) energy sales already invoiced, based on actual consumption readings and/or in estimated consumption based on the historical data of each consumer; (ii) and estimates of energy supplied and not yet invoiced (energy into energy meter). Differences between estimated and actual amounts are recorded in subsequent periods. Additionally, it should be noted that, in energy distribution and supply activities, there is a tariff adjustment mechanism through which gains or losses of a certain year are recognised in the period to which they relate and recovered in the future years tariffs – Tariff Adjustments (see x)). The revenue recognition related with services rendered is based on the percentage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date. This occurs when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, when it is probable the existence of economic benefits associated with the transaction to the entity who sells, when the percentage of completion of the transaction at the reporting date can be reliably measured and the costs incurred with the transaction and the costs to be incurred to complete the transaction can be reliably measured. Whenever it is not possible to reliably measure the completion of a transaction involving services rendered, revenue is only recognised to the extent of the expenses recognised as recoverable. q) Financial results Financial results include interest costs on borrowings, interest income on funds invested, dividend income, foreign exchange gains and losses, realised gains and losses, as well as gains and losses on financial instruments and changes in the fair value of hedged risks, when applicable. Interest is recognised in the income statement on an accrual basis. Dividend income is recognised on the date the right to receive is established. Financial results also include impairment losses on available-for-sale investments. r) Income tax Income tax recognised in the income statement includes current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is also recognised in equity. Deferred taxes arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale investments and cash flow hedge derivatives recognised in equity are recognised in the income statement in the period the results that originated the deferred taxes are recognised. Current tax is the tax expected to be paid on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. ANNUAL REPORT 290 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Deferred taxes are calculated in accordance with the balance sheet liability method, considering temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their respective tax basis, using the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date for each jurisdiction and that are expected to be applied when the temporary difference is reversed. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except for goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, differences arising on initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not be reversed in the future. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable profits will be available to absorb deductible temporary differences for taxation purposes. The Group offsets, as established in IAS 12, the deferred tax assets and liabilities if, and only if: (i) the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities; and (ii) the deferred tax assets and the deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities which intend either to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in future periods in which significant amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or recovered. s) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the consolidated and the company net profit attributable to the equity holders of EDP, S.A. by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding the average number of shares held by the Group and by EDP, S.A., respectively. For the diluted earnings per share calculation, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted to consider conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and stock options granted to employees. The dilution effect corresponds to a decrease in earnings per share resulting from the assumption that the convertible instruments are converted or the options granted are exercised. t) Share based payments The stock options remuneration program enables the Group's employees to acquire EDP, S.A. shares. The exercise price of the options is calculated based on the listed price of the shares at the grant date. The fair value of the options granted, determined at the grant date, is recognised in the income statement against equity during the vesting period, based on their market value calculated at the grant date. If the option is exercised, the Group acquires shares in the market to grant them to employees. u) Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations Non-current assets or groups of non-current assets held for sale (groups of assets and related liabilities that include at least one noncurrent asset) are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be recovered mainly through sale, the assets or groups of assets are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. The Group also classifies as non-current assets held for sale, non-current assets or groups of assets acquired exclusively for its subsequent resale, that are available for immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. The measurement of all non-current assets and all assets and liabilities included in a disposal group, is adjusted in accordance with the applicable IFRS standards, immediately before their classification as held for sale. Subsequently, these assets or disposal groups are measured at the lowest between their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. v) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include balances with maturity of less than three months from the balance sheet date, including cash and deposits in banks. This caption also includes other short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, and specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships that are funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships in U.S.A. w) Operating segments The Group presents the operating segments based on internal management information. In accordance with IFRS 8, an operating segment is a Group component: (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the entity's chief operating decision maker in order to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial information is available. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 291 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 x) Tariff adjustments In regulated activities, the regulator establishes, through the tariff adjustment mechanism, the criteria to recognise gains or losses of one period in future periods. The tariff adjustments accounted for in the EDP Group financial statements represent the difference between the amounts invoiced by Portuguese regulated companies (based on the applicable tariffs published by ERSE in December of the previous year) and the regulated revenue calculated based on actual costs. The assets or liabilities resulting from the tariff adjustments are recovered or returned through the electricity and gas tariffs charged to customers in subsequent periods. Decree-Law 165/2008 of 21 August recognised the unconditional right of the regulated operators of the electric sector to recover the tariff adjustments under a regime identical to the one used for the tariff deficits. Consequently, EDP Group booked under the income statement caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Electricity and network access, the effects resulting from the recognition of tariff adjustments, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities. According to the referred Decree-Law, the tariff adjustments determined annually, will be recovered by the regulated operators even in case of insolvency or cease of operations. ERSE is the entity responsible to establish the method to ensure that the entity entitled to these rights continues to recover the tariff adjustments until its complete payment. The Decree-Law also allows the transfer of the right to receive the tariff adjustment to third parties, in whole or in part, through future electricity tariffs. Decree-Law 87/2011 of 18 July establishes the unconditional right of regulated operators in the natural gas sector to recover tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations, and allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. The EDP Group recorded in the income statement, under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Gas and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments of Natural Gas, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. y) CO2 licences and greenhouse gas emissions The Group holds CO2 licences in order to deal with gas emissions resulting from its operational activity and licences for trading. The CO2 and gas emissions licences held for its own use are booked as intangible assets and are valued at the quoted price in the market on the date of the transaction. The licences held by the Group for trading purposes are booked under Inventories at acquisition cost, and are subsequently adjusted to the lower of the acquisition cost or the net realisable value. Gains and losses resulting from these adjustments are recognised in the income statement of the period. z) Statement of Cash Flow The Statement of Cash Flow is presented under the direct method, by which gross cash flows from operating, financing and investing activities are disclosed. The Group classifies cash flows related to interest and dividends paid as financing activities and interest and dividends received as investing activities. aa) Group concession activities The International Financial Reporting Committee (IFRIC) issued in July 2007, IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. This interpretation was approved by the European Commission on 25 March 2009 and is applicable for the annual periods beginning after that date. In the case of the EDP Group, the first annual period after the approval date is 2010 and, therefore, the EDP Group adopted IFRIC 12 for comparative purposes as of 1 January 2009. IFRIC 12, was applied prospectively since it was impracticable to apply it retrospectively. IFRIC 12 is applicable to public-private concession contracts in which the public entity controls or regulates the services rendered through the utilisation of certain infrastructure as well as the price for such services and also controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure. According to IFRIC 12, the infrastructures allocated to concessions are not recognised by the operator as tangible fixed assets or as financial leases, as the operator does not control the assets. These infrastructures are recognised according to one of the following accounting models, depending on the type of remuneration commitment of the operator assumed by the grantor within the terms of the contract: Financial Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator has an unconditional right to receive certain monetary amounts regardless the level of use of the infrastructure within the concession and results in a financial asset recognition, booked at amortised cost. ANNUAL REPORT 292 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Intangible Asset Model This model is applicable when the operator, within the concession, is remunerated on the basis of the level of use of the infrastructure (demand risk) and results in an intangible asset recognition. Mixed Model This model is applicable when the concession includes simultaneously guaranteed remuneration and remuneration based on the level of use of the infrastructure within the concession. Under the terms of concession contracts of the EDP Group to which IFRIC 12 is applicable, construction activities are outsourced to external specialised entities, and therefore the EDP Group has no margin associated with the construction of assets assigned to concessions. Therefore, the revenue and the expenditure from the acquisition of these assets are equivalent (see note 6). Intangible assets within concessions are amortised over their respective useful lives during the concession period. The Group carries out impairment tests to the intangible assets within concessions whenever events or circumstances may indicate that the book value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, being any impairment recognised in the income statement. Grants received from customers related to assets within concessions are delivered to the Group on a definitive basis, and, therefore, are not reimbursable. These grants are deducted from the value of the assets allocated to each concession. The concession contracts that exist currently in EDP Group are based in the mixed model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil. 3. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN PREPARING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS require the use of judgement and the making of estimates in the decision process regarding certain accounting treatments, with impact in total assets, liabilities, equity, costs and income. The actual effects may differ from these estimates and judgements, namely in relation to the effect of actual costs and income. The main accounting estimates and judgements used in applying the accounting policies are discussed in this note in order to improve the understanding of how its application affects the Group’s reported results and disclosures. A broader description of the accounting policies employed by the Group is disclosed in note 2 to these consolidated financial statements. Considering that in many cases there are alternatives to the accounting treatment adopted by EDP Group, the reported results could differ if a different treatment was chosen. The Executive Board of Directors believes that the choices made are appropriate and that the financial statements present fairly the Group operations in all material respects. Impairment Impairment of available-for-sale investments The Group determines that available-for-sale investments are impaired when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in their fair value. Determination of a significant or prolonged decline requires judgement. In making this judgement, the Group assesses, among other factors, the normal share price volatility, assuming as significant a decline of more than 20% in listed shares. In addition, valuations are generally obtained through market prices or determined by external entities, or through valuation models that require assumptions or judgment in making the fair value estimates. Alternative methodologies and the use of different assumptions and estimates could result in different impairment losses recognised with a consequent impact in results. Impairment of long term assets and Goodwill Impairment tests are performed whenever there is a trigger that the recoverable amount of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets is less than the corresponding net book value of the assets. On an annual basis, the Group reviews the assumptions used to assess the existence of impairment in goodwill resulting from acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries. The assumptions used are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic indicators and business assumptions used by management. The net interest in associates is reviewed when circumstances indicate the existence of impairment. Considering the uncertainties regarding the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill as they are based on the best information available, changes in the assumptions could result in changes on the determination of the amount of impairment and, consequently, in results. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 293 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Impairment of receivables Impairment losses related to doubtful debts are estimated by EDP based on the estimated recoverable amounts, the date of default, debt write offs and other factors. Certain circumstances and facts may change the estimated impairment losses of doubtful debts, namely changes in the economic environment, economic sector trends, client’s credit risk and increases in the rate of defaults. Changes in the estimates and judgement could change the impairment test results, thereby affecting results. Fair value of financial instruments Fair values are based on listed market prices, if available, otherwise fair value is determined either by the price of similar recent transactions under market conditions or determined by external entities, or by pricing models based on net present value of estimated future cash flows techniques considering market conditions, time value, yield curves and volatility factors. These methodologies may require the use of assumptions or judgements in estimating fair values. Consequently, the use of different methodologies and different assumptions or judgements in applying a particular model, could generate different financial results from those reported. Contractual Stability Compensation CMEC Following a Portuguese Government decision to extinguish the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA), EDP and REN agreed to the early termination of the PPAs, with effect from 1 July 2007. As a result of the PPAs termination and in accordance with the applicable legislation, a contractual stability compensation (CMEC) was granted to EDP Group. The mechanism for granting this compensation includes three types of compensation: initial compensation, compensation resulting from the revisable mechanism and final compensation. Initial compensation was recognised when the PPAs terminated as an account receivable of 833,467 thousands of Euros, booked at its net present value, against deferred income. Part of the initial compensation is recognised as operating income each year against a reduction of the deferred initial compensation. According to the applicable legislation, securitisation of this amount is possible. Compensation resulting from the revisable mechanism refers to the correction of the initial compensation for each period considering the actual conditions and is recognised as a loss or gain in the period to which it relates. Final compensation will be calculated in accordance with the terms defined by the legislation relating to the termination of the PPAs, after the end of the revisable mechanism period (10 years). Interest resulting from the discount rate used is booked in the period to which it relates, based on the respective implicit rate, against income for each period. Contractual Stability Compensation Revisable mechanism The revisable mechanism consists in correcting on an annual basis, during a 10-year period after the termination of the PPAs, the positive and negative variations between the estimates made for the initial stability compensation calculation and the actual amounts occurred in the market for each period. This mechanism gives rise to compensation resulting from the correction of the estimate referred to as CMEC revisable mechanism. In each period, EDP Group calculates the CMEC considering market prices and the actual quantities sold, using the assumptions defined in the Valor água model defined in the Decree-Law 240/2004 and the guidelines of the revisibility calculation according to the Order 4694/2014. Consequently, the use of different methodologies and assumptions from the used model, could give rise to different financial results from those considered. Review of the useful life of the assets The Group reviews annually the reasonableness of the assets' useful lives that are used to determine the depreciation rates of assets assigned to the activity, and prospectively changes the depreciation charge of the year based on such review. In the second quarter of 2011, EDPR Group changed the useful life of its wind farms from 20 to 25 years. The redefinition of the useful life of the wind generation assets was based on a technical study performed by an independent entity which considered the technical availability for an additional period of 5 years of useful life of these assets. The referred study covered 95% of wind installed capacity of EDPR Group, in its different geographies (Europe and North America), based on assumptions and estimates that required judgement. The regulatory authority of Brazil, ANEEL, issued Normative Resolution 474 on 7 February 2012, which revised the economic useful life of assets assigned to distribution concessions, and established new annual depreciation rates with retroactive effect from 1 January 2012. The implementation of this change in annual depreciation rates led to an increase in the average useful life of Bandeirante's and Escelsa's assets from 22 to 24 years and 20 to 22 years, respectively. In the third quarter of 2013, the Group reviewed and extended the useful life of the combined cycle plants from 25 to 35 years based on a technical study conducted by an independent entity that considered the technical availability for an additional period of 10 years. This study covered the combined cycle plants in Portugal (Lares and Ribatejo) and Spain (Castejon 1 and 3, Grupo 4 and Soto 5). ANNUAL REPORT 294 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Useful lives of generation assets Hydro independent generator in Brazil The hydro generation assets in Brazil for Independent generators are amortised during their estimated useful lives, considering the existing facts and circumstances at the date of preparation of the financial statements. This includes, among other issues, EDP's best estimates of the useful lives of such assets, which are consistent with the useful lives defined by ANEEL, the respective contractual residual indemnification values at the end of each concession period, as well as related technical and legal opinions. The remaining period of amortisation and the indemnification values at the end of the concessions may be influenced by changes in the regulatory legal framework in Brazil. Tariff adjustments Portugal Tariff adjustments in Portugal represent the difference between costs and income of the National Electricity and Gas System, estimated at the beginning of each period for purposes of calculating the tariff, and the actual costs and income of the System established at the end of each period. The tariff adjustments assets or liabilities are recovered or returned through electricity tariffs to customers in subsequent periods. Decree-Law 237-B/2006 of 19 December, and Decree-Law 165/2008 of 21 August, recognised an unconditional right of the operators of the electricity sector to recover the tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations. Additionally, the legislation allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. Therefore, under this legislation, regulated companies may provide to third parties, in whole or in part, the right to receive the tariff adjustments through the electricity and gas tariffs. In accordance with the accounting policy in force, the EDP Group books under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Electricity and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments in the electricity sector, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. Decree-Law 87/2011 of 18 July also establishes the unconditional right of regulated operators in the natural gas sector to recover tariff adjustments and related interest expenses, notwithstanding the form of the future payment or situations of insolvency and cessation of operations, and allows the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments. EDP Group books under the caption Revenues from energy sales and services and other Gas and network access, the effects of the recognition of tariff adjustments of Natural Gas, against Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities. Spain Royal Decree Law 6/2009, published on 7 May 2009, established, among other matters: (i) the possibility to securitise the Spanish tariff deficit supported by the electricity sector companies using a State guarantee through the tariff deficit amortisation fund; (ii) the calendar for the elimination of the tariff deficit, such that on 1 January 2013 access tariffs would be sufficient to cover the cost of regulated activities, without the creation of an ex-ante tariff deficit and, in order to ease this gradual elimination, Royal Decree Law 6/2009 also provided for the passage of some costs included in the electricity tariff to the Spanish State Budget; (iii) the revocation, as from 1 July 2009, of Royal Decree Law 11/2007, which established the obligation to return the additional revenues obtained from the incorporation of CO2 costs in market prices, and which was to be in force until 2012; (iv) the creation of a social subsidy, which translates to a lower tariff for low income consumers and (v) the charge to electric companies of the costs associated with the management and treatment of radioactive waste from nuclear power plants and fuels consumed. However, Royal Decree Law 29/2012, endorsed on 28 December, abolished the regulatory requirement mentioned in paragraph (ii) above. The direct consequence of this suppression is that access tariffs will not be related to the sufficiency of the tariffs, so there may be temporary imbalances, to be recovered in a single annual fee in subsequent years. In 2010, Royal Decree Law 14/2010 addressed the correction of the tariff deficit of the electricity sector. Under this decree, the temporal mismatch of the settlements for 2010 tariff deficits came to be considered as a revenue deficit of the electricity system and a set of measures was established so that the various industry players contribute to the reduction of the tariff deficit. These measures included the establishment of generation rates, financing plans energy efficiency savings by the generation companies and various regulatory measures that help reduce the additional costs of certain technologies in the special regime. In 2012, two decrees were adopted to reduce the tariff deficit in order to reach the limit set by Royal Decree Law 14/2010: (i) Royal Decree Law 1/2012, which temporarily suspended the inclusion of new facilities in the ‘‘pre-asignación’’ registrations maintained by the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism before the power plant is entitled to make use of the Spanish special regime; and (ii) Royal Decree Law 13/2012, which provided for reductions in the remuneration for distribution activity and an extraordinary decrease on other regulated activities. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 295 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 In 2014, Royal Decree Law 1054/2014, establishes the procedures for the transfer of the right to receive the deficit of 2013 from the Spanish system, as well as, the methodology to define the interest rate applicable to this deficit, which main guidelines are: (i) definition of a 15 years time frame during which the deficit amount will cumulate interest. This time frame consists in two periods: the first, which began in 1 January 2014 ending on the date of the additional liquidation of the provisional liquidation 14 of the year 2013; and the final period, from which the additional liquidation of the provisional liquidation 14 of the year 2013, is made, until 31 December 2028; and (ii) the rights to receive (base amount plus interests) are expressly recognised, with their respective taxes and will be considered as system costs. These rights can be total or partially assigned, transferred, transmitted, discounted pledged to third parties, if properly communicated to CNMC ( Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia ). Brazil On 25 November 2014, ANEEL made addendums to the concession contracts with brazilian electric distribution companies to reduce significant uncertainties regarding to the recognition and realization of regulatory assets/liabilities that existed since 2010, when the IFRS were adopted in Brazil. As a consequence, the CPC issued on 28 November 2014, the OCPC 08 (Recognition of Certain Assets and Liabilities in Accounting and Financial Reports of Electric Distribution) which determines how to treat these regulatory assets/liabilities in the financial statements. Therefore, on 10 December 2014, EDP Brasil signed the Fourth and Fifth Addendum to the Concession Agreement, where it was established that, in the case of concession termination, the outstanding balances of any failure of payment or reimbursement by the tariff (assets and liabilities), will be considered on the indemnity calculation, based on the regulator pre-established regulations. As a consequence, in 2014, Bandeirante and Escelsa booked in its financial statements a net profit of 112,433 thousands of Euros and 79,587 thousands of Euros, respectively. EDP Group considers, based on the issued legislation (Portugal, Spain and Brazil), that the requirements for the recognition of tariff deficits as receivables and payables against the income statement have been satisfied. Revenue recognition Energy sales revenue is recognised when the monthly energy invoices are issued, based on actual meter readings or estimated consumption based on the historical data of each consumer. Revenue relating to energy to be invoiced, regarding consumption up to the balance sheet date but not measured, is booked based on estimates that take into consideration factors such as consumption in prior periods and analysis relating to the energy balance of the operations. The use of different estimates and assumptions could affect the Group’s revenue and, consequently, its reported results. Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in several jurisdictions. Certain interpretations and estimates are required in determining the global amount of income tax. There are several transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business. Different interpretations and estimates could result in a different level of income taxes, current and deferred, recognised in the period. In Portugal, the tax authorities are entitled to review EDP, S.A. and its subsidiaries’ determination of their annual taxable earnings for a period of four years. In case of tax losses carried forward, this period is twelve years for annual periods starting from 2014, five years for 2013 and 2012, four years for 2011 and 2010 and six years for previous annual periods. In Spain the period is four years and in Brazil it is five years. In the United States of America, in general, for the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) to issue additional income tax assessments for an entity, the period is three years from the date that the income tax return is filed by the taxpayer. As a result, it is possible that some additional taxes may be assessed, mainly as a result of differences in interpretation of the tax law. However, the EDP Group and its subsidiaries do not anticipate any significant changes to the income tax booked in the financial statements. Pensions and other employee benefits Determining pension and other employee benefits liabilities requires the use of assumptions and estimates, including actuarial projections, estimated rates of return on investments, discount rates and pension and salary growth and other factors that can impact the cost and liability of pension plans, medical plans and other benefits. Changes in the assumptions could materially affect the amounts determined. Provisions for dismantling and decommissioning of power generation units There are legal, contractual or constructive obligations to dismantle and decommission of property, plant and equipment assets allocated to electricity generation operations. The Group records provisions in accordance with existing obligations to cover the present value of the estimated cost to restore the locations and land where the electricity generation units are located. The calculation of the provisions is based on estimates of the present value of the expected future liabilities. ANNUAL REPORT 296 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The use of different assumptions in the estimates and judgement from those referred could lead to different financial results than those considered. Measurement criteria of the concession financial receivables under IFRIC 12 In 2012, the Provisional Measure 579/12 was published in Brazil, meanwhile converted into Law 12.783/13, which determines the amount of the indenisation payable to the distribution companies regarding the assets not amortised or depreciated at the end of each concession, that should be determined based in the methodology of the new replacement value. This methodology determined an increase in the indenisation amount (financial asset IFRIC 12) of Bandeirante and Escelsa, booked under IFRIC 12 terms, against Other income. This amount corresponds to the difference between the new replacement value versus the historical cost. Entities included in the consolidation perimeter In order to determine which entities must be included in the consolidation perimeter, EDP Group evaluates whether it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee ( de facto control). This evaluation requires judgement, assumptions and estimates in order to conclude whether the Group is in fact exposed to the variability of returns and has the ability to affect those returns through its control over the investee. Other assumptions and estimates could lead to a different consolidation perimeter of the Group, with direct impact on the consolidated financial statements. Business combination Under IFRS 3 (Business Combination) in a business combination, the acquirer shall recognise and measure in the consolidated financial statements the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at fair value at the acquisition date. The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired leads to the recognition of goodwill or a gain from a purchase at a low price (bargain purchase). The fair value determination of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is carried out internally or by independent external evaluators, using the discounted cash flows method, using the replacement cost or other fair value determination techniques, which rely on the use of assumptions and estimates including macroeconomic indicators such as inflation rates, interest rates, exchange rates, discount rates, sale and purchase prices of energy, cost of raw materials, production estimates and business projections. Consequently, the determination of the fair value and goodwill or gain from a purchase at a low price is subject to numerous estimates and judgments and therefore changes in assumptions could result in different impacts on results. Fair value measurement of contingent consideration The contingent consideration, from a business combination or a sale of a financial investment is measured at fair value at the acquisition date as part of the business combination or at the date of the sale in the event of a sale of a financial investment . The contingent consideration is subsequently remeasured at fair value at balance sheet date. Fair value is based on discounted cash flows. The main assumptions consider the probability of achieving each objective and the discount factor, corresponding to the best estimates of management at each balance sheet date. Changes in assumptions could have significant impact on the values of contingent assets and liabilities recognised in the financial statements. 4. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES Financial risk management The EDP Group’s business is exposed to a variety of financial risks, including the effect of changes in market prices, foreign exchange and interest rates. The Group’s exposure to financial risks arises essentially from its debt portfolio, resulting in interest and exchange rate exposures. The status and evolution of the financial markets are analysed on an on-going basis in accordance with the Group’s risk management policy. Derivative financial instruments are used to minimise potential adverse effects, resulting from interest rate and/or foreign exchange rate risks on EDP Group's financial performance. The management of financial risks of EDP, S.A. and other EDP Group entities is undertaken centrally by the Financial Department of EDP, S.A., in accordance with policies approved by the Executive Board of Directors. The Financial Department identifies, evaluates and submits to the Board for approval, hedging mechanisms appropriate to each exposure. The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for the definition of general risk management principles and the establishment of exposure limits. As for the subsidiaries in Brazil, the Local Risk Management Department is responsible for the management of financial risks arising from fluctuation in interest and exchange rates. This management is performed according to the principles/policies set by the EDP Group for this geographical area. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 297 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Exchange-rate risk management EDP, S.A.'s Financial Department is responsible for managing exchange rate risk exposure resulting from foreign currency financial debt, entered into with the aim of funding the EDP Group's investments in the currency of its respective cash flows. Seeking to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the financial costs of the EDP Group companies and, consequently, on the consolidated results the Group resorts to exchange rate derivative financial instruments and/or other hedging structures. The policy implemented by the EDP Group consists of undertaking derivative financial instruments to hedge exchange rate risk with characteristics similar to those of the hedged asset or liability. The operations are revalued and monitored throughout their useful lives and, periodically, their effectiveness in controlling and hedging the risk that gave rise to them is evaluated. EDP Group is exposed to exchange rate risk in US Dollars (USD), Brazilian Reais (BRL), Romanian Leu (RON), Polish Zloty (PLN) and Canadian Dollars (CAD). Currently, the exposure to USD/EUR, PLN/EUR, RON/EUR and CAD/EUR exchange rate risk results essentially from investments of EDP Group in wind parks in the USA, Poland, Romania and Canada, respectively. The majority of these investments were financed with debt contracted in the respective local currency which allows to mitigate the exchange rate risk related to these assets. The Brazilian subsidiaries exposed to the USD/BRL exchange rate risk as a result of their USD debt, use derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk. Additionally, investments in the Brazilian subsidiaries of EDP Energias do Brasil, whose net assets expressed in BRL are exposed to exchange rate risks, are monitored through analysis of the evolution of the BRL/EUR exchange rate. Regarding investments in wind farms of EDP Renováveis in Brazil, the Group also contracted financial derivatives to cover exchange rate exposure of these assets. The exchange rate and interest rate risk on the GBP, CHF and JPY bonds issued by EDP Finance B.V. under the Medium Term Notes Program for the Issuance of Debt Instruments has been hedged as from their issuing date. Sensitivity analysis exchange rate Regarding the financial instruments that result in an exchange rate risk exposure, a fluctuation of 10% in the Euro exchange rate in relation to the following currencies, as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, would lead to an increase/(decrease) in the EDP Group results and/or equity as follows: Dec 2015 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD 54,120 -66,146 -32,238 39,402 54,120 -66,146 -32,238 39,402 Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity Thousands of Euros +10% -10% +10% -10% USD -10,617 12,976 -14,882 18,189 -10,617 12,976 -14,882 18,189 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely interest rates, remain unchanged. Interest rate risk management The aim of the interest rate risk management policies is to manage the financial charges and to reduce the exposure to interest rate risk from market fluctuations through the settlement of derivative financial instruments. In the floating rate financing context, the EDP Group enters into interest rate derivative financial instruments to hedge the cash flows associated with future interest payments, which have the effect of converting floating interest rate loans into fixed interest rate loans. Long-term loans engaged at fixed rates are, when appropriate, converted into floating rate loans through interest rate derivative financial instruments designed to level them to current and expected market conditions. All the operations are undertaken on liabilities in the EDP Group’s debt portfolio and mainly involve perfect hedges, resulting in a high level of correlation between the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the changes in fair value of the interest rate risk or future cash flows. The EDP Group has a portfolio of interest rate derivatives with maturities up to 13 years. The Group’s Financial Departments undertake sensitivity analyses of the fair value of financial instruments to interest rate fluctuations. After the hedging effect of the derivatives 55% of the Group's liabilities are at fixed rate. ANNUAL REPORT 298 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Sensitivity analysis Interest rates (excluding the Brazilian operations) Based on the debt portfolio engaged by the Group, except for Brazil and the related derivative financial instruments used to hedge the related interest rate risk, a 50 basis points change in the reference interest rates at 31 December 2015 and 2014 would lead to an increase/(decrease) in the EDP Group results and/or equity as follows: Dec 2015 Profit or loss Equity 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp Thousands of Euros increase decrease increase decrease Cash flow effect: Hedged debt -16,421 16,421 Unhedged debt -19,232 19,232 Fair value effect: Cash flow hedging derivatives 19,356 -20,275 Trading derivatives (accounting perspective) 319 -4,548 -35,334 31,105 19,356 -20,275 Dec 2014 Profit or loss Equity 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp Thousands of Euros increase decrease increase decrease Cash flow effect: Hedged debt -18,421 18,422 Unhedged debt -28,509 28,509 Fair value effect: Cash flow hedging derivatives 16,583 -17,328 Trading derivatives (accounting perspective) 83 -70 -46,847 46,861 16,583 -17,328 This analysis assumes that all other variables, namely exchange rates, remain unchanged. Counterparty credit risk management EDP Group’s policy in terms of counterparty risk on financial transactions is managed through an analysis of the technical capacity, competitiveness, credit rating and exposure to each counterparty, avoiding significant concentrations of credit risk. Counterparties in derivative financial instruments are credit institutions with high credit rating so the risk of counterparty default is not considered to be significant. Therefore, guarantees and other collaterals are not typically required for these transactions. EDP Group has documented its financial operations in accordance with international standards. Derivative financial instruments are mainly contracted under ISDA Master Agreements. The amount receivable from customers is mainly generated by operations in Portugal, Spain and Brazil, with a diversified customer base, both geographically and in terms of segments (business clients, private and public sector) and size (Supply companies, Business to Business and Business to Consumer). EDP is present in 14 countries and has more than 9.7 million customers in the electricity sector and 1.4 million customers in the gas sector, and usually the contractual relationship with the counterparty tends to be long-lasting. EDP Group believes that the amount that best represents the Group's exposure to credit risk corresponds to the carrying amount of trade receivables and other debtors, net of the impairment losses recognised. As at 31 December 2015, the maximum exposure to customer credit risk by counterparty type is detailed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Corporate sector and individuals: Supply companies 262,247 B2B 337,163 B2C 382,298 981,708 Public sector: Debt with payment agreement 105,209 Debt without payment agreement 71,426 176,635 Accruals 760,235 Other 78,026 1,996,604 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 299 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The amounts receivable from supply companies are concentrated mainly in Portugal, Brazil and EDP Renováveis Group, as follows: In Portugal, these counterparties present a significantly reduced days sales outstanding, about 20 days, and these entities are subject to the sector regulation that establishes collaterals to reduce credit risk. The collateral provided is updated based on the average of the last quarter monthly sales, which reinforces a low risk profile; In Brazil, it refers mainly to: (i) the amounts from sale of electricity to resellers dealers and trading companies, (ii) accounts receivable relating to energy traded in the Electric Energy Trading Chamber CCEE; and (iii) charges for the electricity network access; In EDPR EU, main customers are operators and distributors in the energy market of their respective countries. Credit risk is not significant due to the limited days sales outstanding and to the quality of its debtors. Counterparty risk comes from the countries that have renewable energy incentives, and is usually seen as a regulatory risk; and In EDPR NA, main customers are regulated utilities and regional market agents in the USA. As it occurs in Europe, credit risk is not significant due to the limited days sales outstanding and to the quality of the debtors. However, the exposure to customers in long term contracts also arises from the mark-to-market of these contracts. This exposure is managed by a detailed assessment of the counterparty before signing any long term agreement and by a requirement of collaterals depending on the exposure and on the rating. Regarding receivables from companies and individual customers, resulting from the current activity of EDP Group, the credit risk is essentially the result of customers defaults, whose exposure is limited to the supply made until the possible date of supply disruption. A very criterious credit risk analysis made for new costumers, as well as the large number of customers and their diversity in terms of sectors of activity are some of the main factors that mitigate the concentration of counterparty credit risk. Amounts receivable from public sector customers include amounts receivable from renegociated debt with payment agreements, which, as the counterparty is a public entity and has already recognised the debt through payment protocols, present a lower risk. These amounts also include debt without payment agreements arising from the normal power supply activity similar to that described for the corporate and individual sector. Accruals relate to recognised revenue based on estimates of energy supplied and not yet invoiced at the balance sheet date (energy into energy meter). Electricity sales billing is done on a monthly or bimonthly basis except for the “conta certa” system on which the billing is annual. Regarding to past-due and not impaired Trade receivables, as at 31 December 2015, is analysed as follow: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Past due but not impaired trade receivables: Less than 3 months 158,745 More than 3 months 18,582 177,327 Impaired trade receivables 338,179 Not past due and not impaired trade receivables 1,819,277 2,334,783 Past due but not impaired trade receivables includes debt with payment agreement. The age of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired may vary significantly depending on the type of the costumer (corporate sector and individuals or public sector). EDP Group recognised impairment based on economic analysis case by case, according with the characteristics of the costumers. The Group believes that the credit quality of these receivables is adequate and that no significant impaired credits exist that have not been recognised as such and provided for. Liquidity risk management The EDP Group undertakes management of liquidity risk through the engagement and maintenance of credit lines and financing facilities with a firm underwriting commitment with national and international financial institutions as well as term deposits, allowing immediate access to funds. These credit lines are used to complement and backup national and international commercial paper programmes, allowing the EDP Group’s short-term financing sources to be diversified (see notes 29 and 35). ANNUAL REPORT 300 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Energy market risk management In its operations in the non-regulated Iberian electricity market, EDP Group purchases fuel to generate electric energy and sells the electric energy generated by its plants in the organised market (OMIE and OMIP) as well as to third parties. The Group is exposed to energy market risks namely in its operations in the non-regulated market. Some electricity generating plants despite operating in the market, are subject to the CMEC legislation, and the changes in the operating margins are determined essentially by the difference between the prices in the market and the reference indexes defined in the contracts. As a result of its energy management operations, EDP Group has a portfolio of operations related to electric energy, carbon emissions (CO2) and fuel (coal, fuel and gas). The portfolio is managed through the engagement of operations with financial and physical settlement on the forward energy markets. The objective of the operations is to reduce volatility of the financial impact resulting from the managed positions and also to benefit from arbitration or positioning within the trading limits approved by the Executive Board of Directors. The financial instruments traded include swaps (electricity, fuel and coal) and forwards to fix prices. The activity of energy management is subject to a series of variables which are identified and classified based on their common uncertainty characteristics (or risk). Such risks include market price evolution risk (electricity and fuel) and hydroelectric production volume risk (price and volume risk), as well as credit risk of the counterparties. Monitoring the price, volume and credit risks includes their quantification in terms of positions at risk which can be adjusted through market operations. This quantification is made by using specific models that value positions so as to determine the maximum loss that can be incurred, with a given probability and a determined time frame. Risks are managed in accordance with the strategies defined by the Executive Board of Directors, which are subject to a periodic review based on the evolution of the operations, in order to change the profile of the positions and adjust them to the established management objectives. Risks are monitored by means of a series of actions involving daily monitoring of the different risk indicators, of the operations grouped in the systems and the prudence limits defined by management area and risk component, as well as regular backtesting and supplementary validation of the models and assumptions used. This monitoring not only ensures the effectiveness of the strategies implemented, but also provides elements to enable initiatives to be taken to correct them, if necessary. The principal price and volume risk indicator used is the margin at risk (P@R), which estimates the impact of the variation of the different risk factors (price of electricity and hydrological) on the following year’s margin, P@R corresponding to the difference between an expected margin and a pessimistic scenario with a probability to occur of 5% (confidence interval of 95%) considering a time frame of 1 year. Both the volumes which are certain and those, which although uncertain, are expected, namely production of the plants and the corresponding consumption of fuel, are considered. The P@R distribution by risk factor is as follows: P@R Distribution by risk factor Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Risk factor Negotiation 2,000 1,000 Fuel 20,000 25,000 CO2 10,000 10,000 Electricity 47,000 20,000 Hydrological 123,000 59,000 Diversification effect -119,000 -54,000 83,000 61,000 Regarding credit risk, the quantification of exposure considers the amount and type of transaction (e.g. swap or forward), the rating of the counterparty risk that depends on the probability of default and the expected value of credit to recover, which varies depending on the guarantees received or the existence of netting agreements. The EDP Group's exposure to credit risk rating is as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Credit risk rating (S&P) AAA to AA15.32% 2.58% A+ to A60.38% 63.18% BBB+ to BBB14.04% 15.14% BB+ to B0.24% 0.28% No rating assigned 10.02% 18.82% 100.00% 100.00% Brazil Interest rate and exchange rate risk management The main tool used to monitor and control market risk in the Brazilian subsidiaries is Value at Risk (VaR). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 301 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 VaR is the maximum expected loss on the operations portfolio over a specific period of time, resulting from an adverse movement in the market that has a specific confidence interval. The VaR model used is based on a confidence interval of 95% and assumes a 10 day time frame for settlement of positions, based essentially on historical data. Considering market data for the last 2 years and observation of the relationship between the different prices and markets, the model generates a series of scenarios for changes in market prices. The VaR methodology used in Brazil considers a series of stress tests with the objective of monitoring the financial impact of the different market scenarios. The summary of VaR on the operations of the Brazilian subsidiaries is as follows: VaR Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Exchange rate risk 202 610 Interest rate risk 4,870 5,739 Diversification effect -240 -825 4,832 5,524 Capital management EDP is not an entity subject to regulation in terms of capital or solvency ratios. Therefore, capital management is carried out within the financial management process of the entity. Additionally, management describes this aspect of its strategic objectives in the chapters Strategic Agenda and Value Creation to Shareholders of the Annual Report. The Group’s goal in managing equity is to safeguard the Group’s capacity to continue operating as a going concern, grow steadily to meet established objectives and maintain an optimum capital structure to reduce equity cost. In conformity with other groups operating in this sector, the Group controls its financing structure based on several control mechanisms and ratios. 5. CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER During 2015, the following changes occurred in the EDP Group consolidation perimeter: Companies acquired: ● EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. acquired 26% of the share capital of Ambertree Tecnologias para Redes de Energia Eléctrica, Lda.; ● EDP Renovables España, S.L. acquired 40% of the share capital of Desarrollos Catalanes Del Viento, S.L. with the subsequent gain of 100% of share interest in: Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A., Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de la Terra Alta, S.A., Parc Eòlic de Coll de Moro, S.L., Parc Eòlic de Torre Madrina, S.L. and Parc Eòlic de Vilalba dels Arcs, S.L.; ● EDP Renovables España, S.L. acquired 2% of the share capital of Acampo Arias, S.L., 24% of the share capital of Compañía Eólica Campo de Borja, S.A., 5% of the share of D.E. Rabosera, S.A., 20% of the share capital of Molino de Caragüeyes, S.L., 5% of the share capital of Parque Eólico La Sotonera, S.L., 16% of the share capital of Eólica Alfoz, S.L., 40% of the share capital of Investigación y Desarrollo de Energías Renovables, S.L., 32% of the share capital of Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A and 40% of the share capital of Parques de Generación Eólica, S.L.; ● EDP Cogeneracion S.L. acquired 10% of the share capital of Cerámica Técnica de Illescas Cogeneración, S.A.; ● EDP Energias do Brasil acquired 50% of the share capital of Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. (Porto do Pecém) owned by Eneva, holding now the control of the company and fully consolidating 100% of its share capital. To the extent that EDP Energias do Brasil already had a share in Porto do Pecém, this transaction constitutes an acquisition in stages (step acquisition), leading to a gain value in the amount of 294,938 thousands of Euros at the level of EDP Group (884,697 thousands of Reais at the level of EDP Energias do Brasil) booked under Other income (see notes 7 and 53). To mention that, under the applicable tax law, EDP Brasil recognised a tax effect associated with this gain of 36,293 thousands of Euros (120,109 thousands of Reais); ● EDP Renovavéis Brasil, S.A. acquired 100% of the share capital of Central Eólica Aventura II, S.A.; ● EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. acquired 100% of the share capital of EDPR Yield Spain Services, S.L.U.; ● In September 2015, the ENEOP consortium members reached an agreement on the consortium's assets split which had been created for a wind power tender launched by the Portuguese Government in 2005-2006. Under this agreement, EDP Group gained the exclusive control of the following wind farm portfolio: Eólica do Alto da Lagoa, S.A., Eólica da Serra das Beiras, S.A., Eólica do Cachopo, S.A., Eólica do Castelo, S.A., Eólica da Coutada, S.A., Eólica do Espigão, S.A., Eólica da Lajeira, S.A., Eólica Alto do Mourisco, S.A., Eólica dos Altos de Salgueiros-Guilhado, S.A., Eólica Alto da Teixosa, S.A., Eólica da Terra do Mato, S.A. and Eólica do Velão, S.A. This transaction was treated as a business combination achieved in stages and generated a gain on the revaluation of the previously held interest in the amount of 124,750 thousands of Euros, which was recognized under Other income (see notes 7 and 53); ● EDP GRID Gestão de Redes Inteligentes de Distribuição S.A. acquired 100% of the share capital of APS Soluções em Energia S.A.; ● EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. acquired 100% of the share capital of Stirlingpower, Unipessoal Lda.; ● EDP Renewables Polska S.P. ZO.O. acquired 100% of the share capital of Brent Investments, S.A. ANNUAL REPORT 302 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Disposal of non-controlling interests: ● EDP Renovables España, S.L. sold 6% of its interests in Iberia Aprovechamientos Eólicos, S.A.U. by 18 thousands of Euros; ● In the second quarter of 2015, EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. concluded the sale to Fiera Axium L.L.C., by 292,558 thousands of Euros that equals 324,716 thousands of US Dollars (corresponding to a sale price of 348,000 thousands of US Dollar deducted of 6,009 thousands of US Dollar of transaction costs and 17,275 thousands of US Dollar of capital distributions): (i) 49% of its interests in the following companies: Blue Canyon Windpower V, L.L.C.; Paulding Wind Farm II, L.L.C.; Headwaters Wind Farm, L.L.C.; Rising Tree Wind Farm, L.L.C.; Rising Tree Wind Farm II, L.L.C.; 2009 Vento V, L.L.C.; 2011 Vento IX, L.L.C.; 2014 Vento XI, L.L.C.; 2014 Vento XII, L.L.C.; Horizon Wind Ventures III, L.L.C.; Horizon Wind Ventures IX, L.L.C.; EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C.; EDPR Wind Ventures XII, L.L.C. (ii) 25% of its interests in the following companies: Cloud County Wind Farm, L.L.C.; Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm I, L.L.C.; Arlington Wind Power Project, L.L.C.; 2008 Vento III, L.L.C.; Horizon Wind Ventures IC, L.L.C. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without loss of control and therefore the negative difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 14,805 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy; ● In the second quarter of 2015, EDP Renewables North America LLC. sold to DIF Infra 3 US, L.L.C. 49% of its interests, by 25,281 thousands of Euros that equals to 28,061 thousands of US Dollar (corresponding to a sale price of 30,000 thousands of US Dollar deducted of 1,939 thousands of US Dollars of transaction costs), in the following companies: EDPR Solar Ventures I, L.L.C.; 2014 Sol I, L.L.C.; Lone Valley Solar Park I, L.L.C.; Lone Valley Solar Park II, L.L.C. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without loss of control and therefore the negative difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 330 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy; ● In the second quarter of 2015, EDP Renováveis Brasil, S.A. sold to Cwei Brasil Participações Lda (CWEI Brasil) 49% of its interests in a set of wind farm assets, by 66,962 thousands of Euros that equals to 247,664 thousands of Brazilian Real (corresponding to a sale price of 249,613 thousands of Brazilian Real deducted of 1,949 thousands of Brazilian Real of transation fees), in the following companies: Central Eólica Aventura, S.A.; Central Nacional de Energia Eólica, S.A.; Elebras Projetos Ltda; Central Eólica Feijao I, S.A.; Central Eólica Feijao II, S.A.; Central Eólica Feijao III, S.A.; Central Eólica Feijao IV, S.A.; Central Eólica Jau, S.A. This transaction was treated as a disposal of non-controlling interests without loss of control and therefore the positive difference between the book value and the fair value of the non-controlling interests sold, totalling 10,337 thousands of Euros, was booked against reserves under the corresponding accounting policy. Companies sold and liquidated: ● EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. liquidated Terra Verde Bioenergia Participações, S.A.; ● Naturgas Energía Distribución, S.A.U. sold Gás Energía Distribución Murcia, S.A. by 122,758 thousands of Euros (corresponding to a sale price of 125,683 deducted of 2,925 thousands of Euros of transaction fees) (see notes 7 and 42); ● EDP Renovables España, S.L. liquidated Tratamientos Medioambientales del Norte, S.A. and Industrias Medioambientales Río Carrión, S.A.; ● EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. liquidated EDP Serviner Serviços de Energia, S.A. and EDP Projectos SGPS, S.A.; ● Enagás SGPS, S.A. sold Setgás Sociedade de Distribuição de Gás Natural, S.A. and Setgás Comercialização, S.A. by 36,218 thousands of Euros, subject to price adjustment, with a loss of 5,256 thousands of Euros at EDP Group level; ● Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. liquidated Inverasturias I Fondo Capital Riesgo. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 303 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Companies merged: ● Home Energy II, S.A. was merged into EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A.; ● The following companies were merged into EDP Cogeneración, S.L.: Cerámica Técnica de Illescas Cogeneración, S.A.; Energía e Industria de Toledo, S.A.; Iniciativas Tecnológicas de Valorización Energética de Residuos, S.A.; Sinova Medioambiental, S.A.; Tratamientos Ambientales Sierra de la Tercia, S.A. Companies incorporated: ● EDPR Servicios de México, S. de R.L. de C.V.; ● EDP Small Hydro, S.A.; ● Vientos de Coahuila, S.A. de C.V.; ● 2015 Vento XIV, L.L.C. *; ● 2015 Vento XIII, L.L.C.; ● EDPR Wind Ventures XIV, L.L.C.; ● EDPR Wind Ventures XIII, L.L.C.; ● Nation Rise Wind Farm GP Inc.; ● Nation Rise Wind Farm LP; ● South Branch Wind Farm II GP Inc. *; ● South Branch Wind Farm II GP LP *; ● EDP Renewables Sharp Hills Project LP *; ● EDPR Yield France Services, S.A.S.; ● EDPR Yield Portugal Services, Unip. Lda.; ● Sino-Portuguese Centre for New Technologies (Shangai) CO., Ltd; ● TACA Wind, S.r.l.; ● Hydro Global Investment Ltd; ● EDPR PT Parques Eólicos, S.A.; ● EDPR Vento I Holding, L.L.C. *; ● EDPR WF, L.L.C. *; ● EDP Pequenas Centrais Hidroeléctricas, S.A. * EDP Group holds, through EDP Renováveis and its subsidiaries EDPR NA and EDPR Canada, a set of subsidiaries in the United States and Canada legally established without share capital and that, as at 31 December 2015, do not have any assets, liabilities, or any operating activity. Other changes: ● During 2015, WindPlus, S.A. reduced its share capital and the shareholder Principle Power Inc. decreased its stake. Afterwards there was a capital increase, with the entry of new shareholders, which EDP Renewables SGPS, S.A. subscribed 19.4%. 6. REVENUES FROM ENERGY SALES AND SERVICES AND OTHER Revenues from energy sales and services and other are analysed by sector is as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Electricity and network access 13,731,633 14,172,119 2,457,118 2,131,863 Gas and network access 1,302,037 1,604,825 210,346 208,612 Sales of CO2 licences 7,887 14 103,902 38,257 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 372,953 413,233 Other 102,289 103,692 145,289 139,369 15,516,799 16,293,883 2,916,655 2,518,101 Revenues from energy sales and services and other by geographical market, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Iberia Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Electricity and network access 10,290,147 2,654,400 503,088 283,998 13,731,633 Gas and network access 1,302,037 1,302,037 Sales of CO2 licences 7,887 7,887 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 286,520 86,433 372,953 Other 88,138 13,786 199 166 102,289 11,974,729 2,754,619 503,287 284,164 15,516,799 ANNUAL REPORT 304 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Iberia Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Electricity and network access 10,782,278 2,761,255 384,532 244,054 14,172,119 Gas and network access 1,604,825 1,604,825 Sales of CO2 licences 14 14 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 315,411 97,822 413,233 Other 87,450 15,795 -2 449 103,692 12,789,978 2,874,872 384,530 244,503 16,293,883 In 2015, the caption Electricity and network access in Iberia, on a consolidated basis, includes a net revenue of 1,377,259 thousands of Euros (income in 31 December 2014: 1,917,332 thousands of Euros) regarding the tariff adjustments of the period in Portugal (see notes 26 and 39), as described under accounting policy 2 x). In 2015, this caption also includes, a net profit of 136,145 thousands of Euros related to recognition of tariff adjustments for the period in Brazil, booked as Debtors and other assets from commercial activities and Trade and other payables from commercial activities (31 December 2014: 192,020 thousands of Euros). Additionally, the caption Electricity and network access includes, on a consolidated basis, 205,627 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 159,234 thousands of Euros) related to the Contractual Stability Compensation (CMEC) as a result of the Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) termination. The Revenues from energy sales and services and other, in Iberia, includes 7,778,088 thousands of Euros in Portugal and 4,196,641 thousands of Euros in Spain (31 December 2014: 8,358,318 thousands of Euros in Portugal and 4,431,660 thousands of Euros in Spain). The breakdown of Revenues from energy sales and services and other by segment is presented in the segmental reporting (see Annex II). Cost of energy sales and other are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Cost of electricity 7,634,223 8,480,403 2,416,596 2,069,661 Cost of gas 933,216 1,158,253 Expenditure with assets assigned to concessions 372,953 413,233 Changes in inventories and cost of raw materials and consumables used Fuel, steam and ashes 567,021 399,568 Gas 286,966 279,267 210,346 208,612 Cost of consumables used 14,724 13,535 CO2 licences 140,603 87,625 106,634 38,578 Own work capitalised -77,474 -84,907 Other 189,861 179,777 16 9 1,121,701 874,865 316,996 247,199 10,062,093 10,926,754 2,733,592 2,316,860 On a company basis, Cost of electricity includes costs of 1,145,082 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,039,747 thousands of Euros) with the purchase of energy under the agreement for management, purchase and resale of energy signed between EDP, S.A. and EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. Under the terms of concession contracts of EDP Group to which IFRIC 12 is applicable, the construction activities are outsourced to external specialised entities. Therefore, EDP Group has no margin in the construction of assets assigned to concessions. The revenue and the expenditure with the acquisition of these assets have equal amounts, being analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Revenue from assets assigned to concessions 372,953 413,233 Expenditure with assets assigned to concessions Subcontracts and other materials -276,188 -318,582 Personnel costs capitalised (see note 9) -88,530 -83,547 Capitalised borrowing costs (see note 13) -8,235 -11,104 -372,953 -413,233 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 305 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 7. OTHER INCOME Other income, for the Group, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Income arising from institutional partnerships EDPR NA 197,442 123,582 Estimation of the revised selling price of EDPR PT 17,491 Gains related with business combinations 419,688 Gains on disposals gas and electricity business assets 88,916 130,833 Remeasurement of IFRIC 12 indenisation amount in Brazil concessions (see note 26) 41,226 Other 101,511 130,372 848,783 402,278 Income arising from institutional partnerships EDPR NA relates to revenue recognition arising from production and investment tax credits (PTC/ITC) and tax depreciations regarding Vento I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII and XIII, Blue Canyon I and Sol I projects, in wind farms and solar plants in USA (see note 38). The caption Gains related with business combinations results from the acquisition of the Porto do Pecém by EDP Energias do Brasil and the asset split in the ENEOP consortium (see note 53). On 9 December 2014, EDP Brasil entered into an agreement for the acquisition of the 50% Porto do Pecém share capital, owned by Eneva, S.A., starting to hold full control of this company. This transaction was subject to approval and authorisation of the competition authority, of ANEEL, of the funding banks of Porto do Pecém and Eneva (BNDES and Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento – BID) and other creditors of Eneva. Additionally, the transaction conclusion was dependent on other measures of corporate and contractual nature, in particular, the approval of the Eneva's recovery plan. This transaction was concluded in May 2015 and occured in two stages, the first through the debt capitalisation of Porto do Pecém with Eneva, resulting in a reduction of EDP's original shareholding of 50% to 41.27% and the second with the acquisition, by 300,000 thousands of Reais, of 58.73% of Porto do Pecém by EDP. The gross gain, in the amount of 294,938 thousands of Euros, recognised in Gains related with business combinations, includes the following effects: i) dilution effect in the capital increase by Eneva; ii) gain on the revaluation of the previously held interest; and iii) bargain purchase. In September 2015, the ENEOP consortium members reached an agreement on the consortium's assets split which had been created for a wind power tender launched by the Portuguese Government in 2005-2006. Under this agreement, EDP Group gained the exclusive control of the following wind farm portfolio: Eólica do Alto da Lagoa, S.A., Eólica da Serra das Beiras, S.A., Eólica do Cachopo, S.A., Eólica do Castelo, S.A., Eólica da Coutada, S.A., Eólica do Espigão, S.A., Eólica da Lajeira, S.A., Eólica Alto do Mourisco, S.A., Eólica dos Altos de Salgueiros-Guilhado, S.A., Eólica Alto da Teixosa, S.A., Eólica da Terra do Mato, S.A. and Eólica do Velão, S.A. This transaction was treated as a business combination achieved in stages and generated a gain on the revaluation of the previously held interest and of the adquired assets fair value in the total amount of 124,750 thousands of Euros. Gains on disposals gas and electricity business assets is related with the gain on the sale of the assets allocated to gas transmission business in Murcia as well as in other Spanish regions (mainly in Extremadura and Gerona) to Redexis Gas, S.A. The sale of this assets generated a gain in the amount of 79,091 thousands of Euros in the first sale phase and a gain of 9,825 thousands of Euros in the transaction conclusion in the total amount of 88,916 thousands of Euros (see notes 5 and 42). As at 31 December 2014, this caption included the gain on the sale of 50% of the stake held in Jari (CEJA) and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant projects in the amount of 130,676 thousands of Euros which included the fair value revaluation effect of the retained interest (50%) in the amount of 65,691 thousands of Euros. In 2007 and under the acquisition of EDPR NA, the power purchase agreements between EDPR NA and its customers were valued based on market assumptions, at the acquisition date, using discounted cash flow models. At that date, these agreements were valued at approximately 190,400 thousands of US Dollars and recorded as a non-current liability (see note 39). This liability is depreciated over the period of the agreements against Other income Other. As at 31 December 2015, the amortisation for the period amounts to 9,961 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 8,938 thousands of Euros). Other include the effect of the application of IFRIC 18 related to customers contributions in the electricity and gas distribution activities in Spain in the amount of 12,001 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 12,457 thousands of Euros), as referred in accounting policy 2h). ANNUAL REPORT 306 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 8. SUPPLIES AND SERVICES Supplies and services are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Consumables and communications 53,534 50,586 8,589 6,753 Rents and leases 115,825 105,936 45,137 40,635 Maintenance and repairs 329,512 315,533 19,664 23,120 Specialised works: Commercial activity 171,528 178,373 8,410 7,091 IT services, legal and advisory fees 72,681 81,322 23,552 20,990 Other services 54,997 52,755 18,751 20,158 Provided personnel 29,068 49,523 Other supplies and services 122,531 112,454 19,313 17,461 920,608 896,959 172,484 185,731 9. PERSONNEL COSTS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Personnel costs and employee benefits are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Personnel costs Board of Directors remuneration 14,995 15,323 5,798 5,676 Employees' remuneration 488,579 484,927 20,752 3,467 Social charges on remuneration 119,422 121,251 5,200 1,453 Performance, assiduity and seniority bonus 76,099 77,774 11,745 6,816 Other costs 28,042 30,301 168 1,090 Own work capitalised: Assigned to concessions (see note 6) -88,530 -83,547 Other -62,942 -64,517 575,665 581,512 43,663 18,502 Employee benefits Pension plans costs 26,121 25,469 1,050 440 Medical plans costs and other benefits 10,916 8,408 650 160 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) -80,586 Other 40,277 20,635 1,774 81 77,314 -26,074 3,474 681 652,979 555,438 47,137 19,183 Pension plans costs include 10,895 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 9,544 thousands of Euros) related to defined benefit plans (see note 36) and 15,226 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 15,925 thousands of Euros) related to defined contribution plans. Medical plans costs and other employee benefits of 10,916 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 8,408 thousands of Euros) is related to the charge of the period (see note 36). At 31 December 2014, Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) is related essentially with: i) plan ammendements resulting from the new Collective Labour Agreement (see note 36) which resulted in a decrease of liabilities in the amount of 129,020 thousands of Euros; and ii) increase in liabilities under the permanent employees reduction program that covered Portugal employees (160 employees of EDP Produção and EDP Distribuição) and Spain employees (41 employees of HC Group) in the amount of 48,434 thousands of Euros (see note 36). During 2015, EDP Group distributed treasury stocks to employees (422,779 shares) totalling 1,501 thousands of Euros. The breakdown by management positions and category of professional staff is as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Executive Board of Directors 8 7 8 7 Senior management 700 706 96 25 Managers 782 714 40 13 Specialists 3,896 3,711 262 47 Support, Operational and Administrative Technicians 6,698 6,660 89 12,084 11,798 495 92 The variation occorred in the EDP, S.A. employee numbers is related with the reallocation of employees to companies that actually provide services (see note 36). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 307 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 10. OTHER EXPENSES Other expenses, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Concession rents paid to local authorities and others 273,546 274,160 Direct and indirect taxes 304,547 259,791 1,849 1,016 Irrecoverable debts 27,370 11,854 Donations 40,086 26,558 16,400 11,145 Impairment losses: Trade receivables 29,610 19,034 Debtors -2,007 5,717 -39 28 Write-off of tangible assets EDP Renováveis Group 68,134 2,070 Other 64,658 75,433 2,565 2,662 805,944 674,617 20,775 14,851 The caption Concession rents paid to local authorities and others includes essentially the rents paid to the local authorities under the terms of the low tension electricity distribution concession contracts and rents paid to city councils where the power plants are located. The caption Direct and indirect taxes includes a tax of 7% over electricity generation in Spain from 1 January 2013, following the publication of Law 15/2012 on 27 December. The impairment losses on Trade receivables and Debtors are analysed in notes 25 and 26, respectively. The caption Write-off of tangible assets EDP Renováveis Group includes the write-off of assets under construction (see note 16), which mainly refers to: (i) 41,423 thousands of Euros related to the abandonment of ongoing projects in EDPR NA subgroup, which were considered to be economically unviable under current market conditions, due to the recent publication of new legislation – the final version of Clean Power Plan and Renewable Portfolio Standards; (ii) 20,638 thousands of Euros related to the abandonment of ongoing projects in EDPR EU subgroup, following the reduced probability of their future development; and (iii) 5,395 thousands of Euros, due to damage in the measurement tower in the offshore wind park Moray Offshore Renewables Limited (held by EDPR UK Limited). 11. PROVISIONS Provisions are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Charge for the period 50,097 70,445 2,225 1,870 Write-back for the period -34,041 -18,350 -12,107 -888 16,056 52,095 -9,882 982 Provisions for the period, at 31 December 2015, include a net increase in provisions for: labour, legal and other contingencies in Brazil in the amount of 9.4 millions of Euros (31 December 2014: 10 millions of Euros); a net increase in provisions for contractual, legal and other liabilities and charges in Portugal of 3.7 millions of Euros (31 December 2014: 17 millions of Euros) and in Spain of 3 millions of Euros (31 December 2014: 25 millions of Euros), which are classified as probable contingencies (see note 37). ANNUAL REPORT 308 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 12. AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT Amortisation and impairment are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Property, plant and equipment Buildings and other constructions 11,152 10,678 135 239 Plant and machinery 977,335 884,551 44 22 Other 65,505 63,227 13,072 10,026 Impairment loss 24,043 34,390 1,078,035 992,846 13,251 10,287 Intangible assets Concession rights and impairment 81,888 83,402 Intangible assets assigned to concessions IFRIC 12 302,554 318,945 Other intangibles 3,283 3,409 2 2 Impairment loss 14,780 25,360 402,505 431,116 2 2 Investment property 754 446 2,067 2,539 1,481,294 1,424,408 15,320 12,828 Compensation of amortisation and depreciation Partially-funded property, plant and equipment -28,896 -27,448 -890 Impairment of Goodwill 12,125 278 1,464,523 1,397,238 14,430 12,828 In 2015, property, plant and equipment amortisations reflects the useful life extension of some coal plants in Spain, leading to an amortisation reduction of 16 millions of Euros. During 2015, and taking into consideration the increasing uncertainty on the Romanian market, EDPR Romania has downgraded their future estimates namely the price of green certificates. Following this analysis it was recognized an impairment loss on property, plant and equipment of 26,491 thousands of Euros (see note 16). Additionally, EDPR Romania booked, in 2014, an impairment of 15,571 thousands of Euros in Property, plant and equipment and 11,434 thousands of Euros in intangible assets, as a result of the impairment tests performed for wind farms and green certificates. Taking into consideration the fair value of investment in Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Eléctricas, S.A. as a result of the impairment test carried out as at 30 September 2015, an impairment loss was booked in the concession rights and goodwill of 14,780 thousands of Euros and 11,955 thousands of Euros, respectively, essentially related with the Brazilian Real devaluation during 2015 (see notes 17 and 18). In 2014, EDP Produção booked an impairment of 26,736 thousands of Euros (12,810 thousands of Euros in Property, plant and equipment and 13,926 thousands of Euros in Intangible assets), related with Alvito hydroelectric plant, given that due to market conditions there was some short term uncertainty about the economic viability of this project. The partially-funded property, plant and equipment is depreciated on the same basis and at the same rates as the Group’s remaining assets, being the corresponding cost compensated through the amortisation of the amounts received (booked under Trade and other payables from commercial activities) on the same basis and at the same rates as the corresponding partially-funded assets. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 309 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 13. FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Financial income and expenses, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Financial income Interest income from bank deposits and other applications 37,816 50,111 Interest income from loans to joint ventures and associates 21,284 29,230 Interest from derivative financial instruments 158,200 158,110 Derivative financial instruments 376,543 272,739 Other interest income 47,557 48,410 Foreign exchange gains 77,244 31,133 CMEC 45,777 47,775 Gains on the sale of financial investments 1,249 118,352 Other financial income 170,551 204,985 936,221 960,845 Financial expenses Interest expense on financial debt 958,579 968,433 Capitalised borrowing costs: Assigned to concessions (see note 6) -8,235 -11,104 Other -75,356 -157,748 Interest from derivative financial instruments 130,456 123,089 Derivative financial instruments 294,586 288,011 Other interest expense 23,507 27,066 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets 21,996 2,339 Foreign exchange losses 194,441 68,208 CMEC 15,595 18,017 Unwinding of liabilities 120,595 94,885 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability (see note 36) 16,746 24,415 Net interest on the medical liabilities and other benefits (see note 36) 27,188 39,087 Other financial expenses 48,638 48,044 1,768,736 1,532,742 Financial income/(expenses) -832,515 -571,897 The caption Financial income CMEC totalling 45,777 thousands of Euros includes 30,453 thousands of Euros related to interest on the initial CMEC (31 December 2014: 32,125 thousands of Euros) included in the annuity for 2015 and 15,218 thousands of Euros related to the financial effect considered in the calculation of the initial CMEC (31 December 2014: 15,290 thousands of Euros). In 2014, the caption Gains on the sale of financial investments includes the gain in the sale of 50% of EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Lda share capital (holder of 21.19% of the share capital of the Companhia de Electricidade de Macau (CEM)) by EDP S.A. to ACE Asia (company holded by CWEI Hong Kong Company Limited, a subsidiary of China Three Gorges). The shareholding was sold by 94,222 thousands of Euros and generated a consolidated gain of 117,978 thousands of Euros which includes the fair value revaluation effect for the retained interest (50%) in the amount of 55,728 thousands of Euros. The caption Other financial income includes essentially 73,445 thousands of Euros related with interest income on tariff adjustment and tariff deficit in the national electricity system in Portugal (31 December 2014: 86,351 thousands of Euros), 641 thousands of Euros related with interest income on tariff deficit in Spain (31 December 2014: 3,721 thousands of Euros), 15,648 thousands of Euros related with interest income on tariff deficit in Brazil and 55,600 thousands of Euros related to gains, on sale of part of the electricity tariff deficit related to the over cost with the acquisition of electricity from Special Regime Generators in Portugal of 2014 and 2015 (31 December 2014: 77,718 thousands of Euros related to the 2013 and 2014 Special Regime Generators over cost) (see note 26). Capitalised borrowing costs includes the interest capitalised in assets under construction according to the accounting policy described in paragraph 2 h). In what concerns to the rate applicable to borrowing costs related to tangible/intangible assets under construction that is used in the determination of the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalization (see note 16 and 17), it varies depending on the country and currency, since EDP Group incorporates in the scope of consolidation (see Annex I) a significant number of subsidiaries over several geographies with different currencies. Therefore, for the most representative geographies, the weighted average funding rates, in use in 2015, ranged from 3.3% to 6.6% in Portugal, from 4.6% to 4.9% in Spain, from 0.57% to 8.25% in the United States of America and 11.9% in Brazil, depending on related assets under construction and related financing. The caption Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets includes 21,987 thousands of Euros related to the increase of impairment of the investment held in Banco Comercial Português, S.A. as a result of the devaluation of the market value of this shares (see note 21). Financial expenses CMEC, in the amount of 15,595 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 18,017 thousands of Euros), relates mainly to the unwinding of the initial CMEC, booked against Deferred Income (see note 39). ANNUAL REPORT 310 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The Unwinding of discounted value liabilities refers essentially to: (i) the unwinding of the dismantling and decommissioning provision for wind generation assets of 7,145 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 8,233 thousands of Euros), (ii) the implied financial return in institutional partnership in USA which amounted to 78,953 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 56,551 thousands of Euros), and (iii) the financial expenses related to the discount of the debt associated to the concessions of Alqueva/Pedrógão, Investco and Enerpeixe of 10,253 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 10,383 thousands of Euros), 2,718 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,706 thousands of Euros) and 10,606 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 6,074 thousands of Euros), respectively. Financial income and expenses, for the Company, are analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Financial income Interest income from loans to subsidiaries and related parties 421,051 514,521 Interest from derivative financial instruments 170,506 113,808 Derivative financial instruments 646,049 629,328 Income from equity investments 762,260 375,825 Gains on the sale of financial investments 42,387 376,572 Other financial income 19,559 16,412 2,061,812 2,026,466 Financial expenses Interest expense on financial debt 438,163 472,351 Interest from derivative financial instruments 150,572 106,568 Derivative financial instruments 591,187 584,489 Foreign exchange losses 27,063 25,904 Other financial expenses 12,769 40,766 1,219,754 1,230,078 Financial income/(expenses) 842,058 796,388 In 2014, the caption Gains on the sale of financial investments, for the Company, includes 94,220 thousands of Euros related with the gain in the sale of 50% of the EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Lda share capital by EDP S.A. to ACE Asia. In the context of the corporate restructuring of the gas activity in Iberia, carried out during the second quarter of 2014, in 22 December 2014, EDP, S.A. sold to EDP Gas Iberia, S.L. 100% of the share capital of EDP Gás SGPS, S.A. for the amount of 462,591 thousands of Euros, of which 285,422 thousands of Euros correspond to the sale value of equity shares and 177,169 thousands of Euros correspond to supplementary capital and loans. As at 31 December 2014, this transaction was recognised in accordance with the fair value model, under the company accounting policy, and a gain in the amount of 282,352 thousands of Euros was booked on a company basis. The final amount of the transaction was subject to price adjustments under the purchase agreement, whereby in 2015 was recognized an additional gain of 38,968 thousands of Euros on a company basis in the caption Gains on the sale of financial investments. This price adjustment includes the fair value of a contingent price in the amount of 28,429 thousands of Euros related to a litigation that is ongoing. These intra-group transactions were made with reference to market values and with the individual gains to be eliminated on a consolidation process of EDP Group. In 2014, the caption Other financial expenses includes 23,574 thousands of Euros, related to the increase of impairment of financial investments in the subsidiaries EDP Internacional and Balwerk, net of the impairment reduction on EDP Imobiliária, due to the valuation of financial assets held by it. 14. INCOME TAX The guiding principles regarding EDP Group’s tax mission and policy are disclosed in EDP’s site, in http://www.edp.pt/en/aedp/sobreaedp/principiosepoliticas/Pages/MissaoPoliticaFiscal.aspx Main features of the tax systems of the countries in which EDP Group operates The statutory corporate income tax rates applicable in the main countries in which EDP Group operates are as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Europe: Portugal 21% 29.5% 23% 31.5% Spain 25% 28% 28% 30% Netherlands 25% 25% America: Brazil 34% 34% United States of America 38.2% 38.2% The EDP Group companies are taxed, whenever possible, on a Group consolidated basis as allowed by the tax legislation of the respective countries. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 311 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As per the currently applicable legislation, in general terms, tax periods may be subject to review and reassessment by the various tax administrations during a limited number of years. Statutes of limitation differ from country to country, as follows: Portugal 4 years or, if tax losses or credits have been used, the number of years that such tax losses or credits may be carry forward; Spain: 4 years; USA and the Netherlands: 3 years; Brazil: 5 years. Tax losses generated in each year are also subject to tax administrations review and reassessment. Tax losses may be used to offset yearly taxable income assessed in the subsequent periods, as follows: In Portugal, 6 years (for the tax losses until 2009), 4 years (for the tax losses of 2010 and 2011), 5 years (for the tax losses of 2012 and 2013), and 12 years (for the tax losses of 2014 and 2015), 9 years in the Netherlands, 20 years in the USA and without an expiry date in Brazil and Spain. Moreover, in the Netherlands the tax losses of a year may be used to recover current tax of the previous year and in the USA to the 2 previous years. However, the deduction of tax losses in Portugal, Spain and Brazil may be limited to a percentage of the taxable income of each period. EDP Group companies may, in accordance with the law, benefit from certain tax benefits or incentives in specific conditions, namely the Production Tax Credits in the USA, which are the dominant form of wind remuneration in that country, and represent an extra source of revenue per unit of electricity ($23/MWh in 2015 and 2014), over the first 10 years of the asset’s life. EDP Group's transfer pricing policy follows the rules, guidelines and international best practices applicable in the geographies where the Group operates, in strict compliance with the spirit and letter of the Law. Changes in the law with relevance to the EDP Group in 2015 In Portugal, the Law 82-B/2014, published on 31 December (State Budget Law for 2015) established a reduction of the standard Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rate from 23% to 21%, effective from 1 January 2015, to which is added the municipal and state surcharge. The state surcharge would be calculated as follows (i) at a rate of 3% over taxable income exceeding 1.5 until 7.5 millions of Euros, (ii) at a rate of 5% over taxable income exceeding 7.5 until 35 millions of Euros, and (iii) 7% over taxable income exceeding 35 millions of Euros. In Spain, the Law 27/2014 was published in the Official State Gazette on 28 November 2014, that reduced the CIT rate from 30% to 25% in 2016 (with an interim 28% rate applicable in 2015), introduced limits on the deduction of tax losses carried forward up to a maximum of 60% of taxable income in 2016, and 70% from 2017 onwards and eliminated the time limit in which tax losses can be carried forward. In addition, this Law established that the impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including goodwill, as well as capital losses generated in intra-group transactions becomes non-deductible and replaced the tax deduction of goodwill, limited to 5%. In Navarra, the CIT also was reduced from 28% to 25%, as per Law Foral 29/2014 of 24 December, with effect from 1 January 2015 onwards. Corporate income tax provision Income tax expense is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Current tax -280,024 -114,539 -5,200 -10,604 Deferred tax 2,255 -196,413 15,812 17,509 -277,769 -310,952 10,612 6,905 Reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate The effective income tax rate for the EDP Group and EDP, S.A. is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Profit before tax 1,586,965 1,636,257 791,834 778,875 Income tax -277,769 -310,952 10,612 6,905 Effective income tax rate 17.5% 19.0% -1.3% -0.9% The difference between the nominal and the effective tax rate, results from the application of the law provisions in the determination of the tax base, as demonstrated below. ANNUAL REPORT 312 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group, as at December 2015, is analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax (*) 22.5% 1,586,965 357,067 Different tax rates (includes state surcharge) 8.4% 593,409 133,517 Tax losses and tax credits -2.6% -186,418 -41,944 Dividends -0.9% -61,004 -13,726 Tax benefits -1.3% -93,484 -21,034 Differences between tax and accounting gains and losses -7.7% -543,071 -122,191 Other adjustments and changes in estimates -0.9% -61,867 -13,920 Effective tax rate and total income tax 17.5% 1,234,530 277,769 (*) Statutory Corporate Income Tax rate applicable in Portugal (21%) and municipal surcharge (1.5%) The difference between the nominal rate and the effective tax rate is mainly due to the non-taxation of capital gain generated on the sale of gas distribution assets in Spain, non-taxation of the gain generated with the revaluation of the previously held investment in ENEOP consortium and with the non-taxation of the partial gain with the control acquisition of Porto do Pecém under the applicable tax law. The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Group, as at December 2014, is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax (*) 24.5% 1,636,257 400,883 Different tax rates (includes state surcharge) 6.5% 434,273 106,397 Tax losses and tax credits -0.7% -47,816 -11,715 Dividends -1.0% -65,837 -16,130 Tax benefits -3.6% -242,216 -59,343 Differences between tax and accounting gains and losses -1.1% -75,890 -18,593 Financial investments in join ventures, associates and subsidiaries -0.6% -41,731 -10,224 Change of CIT rate (Portugal and Spain) -4.2% -277,722 -68,042 Other adjustments and changes in estimates -0.8% -50,127 -12,281 Effective tax rate and total income tax 19.0% 1,269,191 310,952 (*) Statutory Corporate Income Tax rate applicable in Portugal (23%) and municipal surcharge (1.5%) The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Company, as at December 2015, is analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax (*) 29.5% 791,834 233,591 Tax losses and tax credits -3.6% -96,434 -28,448 Dividends -28.3% -759,064 -223,924 Difference between tax and accounting gains/losses -1.6% -42,302 -12,479 Other adjustments and changes in estimates 2.7% 69,993 20,648 Effective tax rate and total income tax -1.3% -35,973 -10,612 (*) Statutory Corporate Income Tax rate applicable in Portugal (21%), municipal surcharge (1.5%) and the state surcharge (7%) The caption Difference between tax and accounting gains/losses is mainly due to the non-taxation, under current tax law, of the gain related to a price adjustment to the sale transaction of EDP Gás SGPS, S.A., in the amount of 38,968 thousands of Euros (see note 13). The reconciliation between the nominal and the effective income tax rate for the Company, as at September 2014, is analysed as follows: Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Rate % Tax basis Tax Nominal rate and income tax (*) 31.5% 778,875 245,346 Tax losses and tax credits -4.3% -105,860 -33,346 Dividends -15.1% -372,629 -117,378 Difference between tax and accounting gains/losses -14.1% -348,308 -109,717 Other adjustments and changes in estimates 1.1% 26,000 8,190 Effective tax rate and total income tax -0.9% -21,922 -6,905 (*) Statutory Corporate Income Tax rate applicable in Portugal (23%), municipal surcharge (1.5%) and the state surcharge (7%) On 31 December 2014, the caption Differences between tax and accounting gains/losses includes the gains arising from the sale of 50% of the share capital of EDP Asia and 100% of EDP Gas SGPS, in the amount of 376,572 thousands of Euros, which under the current tax legislation are not included in the taxable income of EDP S.A. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 313 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 15. EXTRAORDINARY CONTRIBUTION TO THE ENERGY SECTOR (CESE) The Law no. 83-C/2013, of 31 December (State Budget for 2014), established the Extraordinary Contribution to the Energy Sector (CESE). The application of this Contribution has been extended for the years 2015 and 2016, by Law no. 82-B/2014, of 31 December (State Budget for 2015) and Law no. 159-C/2015, of 30 December. Note that the Stability Programme 2015-2019, published in April 2015 by the Portuguese Government had already provided the duration of the CESE until 2018. This Contribution aims to finance mechanisms that promote the systemic sustainability of the energy sector, through the establishment of a fund that aims to contribute for the reduction of tariff debt and to finance social and environmental policies in the energy sector. The contribution is due by EDP companies that operate in the generation and distribution of electricity and in the distribution of natural gas. CESE is calculated based on the assets value with reference to the first day of financial year 2015 (1 January 2015) which respect, cumulatively, to Tangible assets; Intangible assets, with the exception of elements of industrial property; Financial assets assigned to concessions or licensed activities. In the case of regulated activities, CESE focuses on the value of regulated assets (i.e the amount recognised by ERSE for the calculation of allowed revenues as at 1 January 2015) if it is higher than the value of the previous referred assets. Given its legal framework, CESE is not considered a deductible expense in determining the taxable income. Therefore, the Group booked under the caption Extraordinary contribution to the energy sector (CESE) in the Consolidated Income Statement, the amount of 62,054 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 61,495 thousands of Euros) concerning to CESE for the year ended 31 December 2015. This contribution is also applicable to EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. power plants that are subject to the legal regime that establishes the compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance, and so this contribution amount was recognised according to the Decree-Law n.º 240/2004 of 27 December. 16. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Cost Land and natural resources 99,487 129,589 23,877 24,130 Buildings and other constructions 489,377 450,017 114,411 16,536 Plant and machinery: Hydroelectric generation 8,746,274 8,572,837 5,912 254 Thermoelectric generation 8,569,641 7,620,657 Renewable generation 15,171,961 12,704,857 Electricity distribution 1,544,519 1,485,617 Gas distribution 990,047 971,985 Other plant and machinery 72,598 110,190 196 916 Other 980,409 871,444 170,395 125,772 Assets under construction 3,212,012 3,436,839 15,068 81,910 39,876,325 36,354,032 329,859 249,518 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Amortisation charge -1,053,992 -958,456 -13,251 -10,287 Accumulated amortisation in previous periods -15,922,931 -14,770,676 -105,772 -96,957 Impairment losses -24,043 -34,390 Impairment losses in previous periods -101,643 -67,410 -4,782 -4,782 -17,102,609 -15,830,932 -123,805 -112,026 Carrying amount 22,773,716 20,523,100 206,054 137,492 The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Group, for the period ended 31 December 2015 are analysed as follows: Perimeter Variations/ Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Cost Land and natural resources 129,589 447 -14,855 229 -12,128 -3,795 99,487 Buildings and other constructions 450,017 34,209 -49,918 61,976 -76,480 69,573 489,377 Plant and machinery 31,466,143 606,304 -53,169 1,188,347 100,797 1,786,618 35,095,040 Other 871,444 38,939 -16,255 81,542 3,182 1,557 980,409 Assets under construction 3,436,839 1,241,463 -73,567 -1,442,023 22,287 27,013 3,212,012 36,354,032 1,921,362 -207,764 -109,929 37,658 1,880,966 39,876,325 ANNUAL REPORT 314 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Perimeter Charge/ Variations/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 145,987 11,152 -7,285 -5,476 -16,606 5,361 133,133 Plant and machinery 14,977,971 1,001,391 -49,254 -17,517 54,813 240,854 16,208,258 Other 702,942 65,492 -15,104 -129 2,797 1,188 757,186 15,830,932 1,078,035 -71,643 -23,122 41,004 247,403 17,102,609 Assets under construction are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Solar photovoltaic plants in Europe 223,161 Wind farms in USA 698,693 559,853 Wind Farms in Europe 335,292 314,615 Hydric Portugal 1,755,399 1,910,126 Other assets under construction 422,628 429,084 3,212,012 3,436,839 The capitalised costs for Property, plant and equipment for the period, except Land and natural resources, are as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Subcontracts and other materials 1,333,629 1,254,870 Purchase price alocation (see note 53) 401,155 Lease contract of Porto headquarters 31,867 Dismantling and decommissioning costs (see note 37) 15,966 67,627 Personnel costs (see note 9) 62,942 64,517 Borrowing costs (see note 13) 75,356 157,748 1,920,915 1,544,762 As at 31 December 2015, the expected entry into operation, the accumulated capitalised costs and the commitments for the principal hydroelectric investments, are as follows: Expected entry into Thousands of Euros operation Capitalised costs Commitments Baixo Sabor 1st Quarter 2016 659,318 12,975 Foz Tua 1st Semester 2017 368,534 67,181 Venda Nova III 1st Semester 2016 394,085 17,463 Salamonde II January 2016 236,266 2,230 1,658,203 99,849 The entry into operation of hydroelectric investments depends, in some cases, of external factors to EDP Group, namely the water levels in reservoirs for tests to be performed. At the date of preparation of the financial statements, Salamonde II had already entry into operation. Additions include the investment in wind farms by the subgroups EDPR NA, EDPR EU, EDPR BR and EDPR Poland. In the Portuguese generation activity, the Group is carrying out hydroelectric investments in the construction of several new power plants and power enhancement projects (Baixo Sabor, Foz Tua, Venda Nova III and Salamonde II). Charge/Impairment losses includes 26,491 thousands of Euros related with impairments in wind farms in the subgroup EDPR Romania (see note 12). Disposals/Write-offs includes 67,456 thousands of Euros disaggregated in: (i) 41,423 thousands of Euros related to the abandonment of ongoing projects in EDPR NA; (ii) 20,638 thousands of Euros related to the abandonment of ongoing projects in EDPR EU; and (iii) 5,395 thousands of Euros, due to damage in the met mast of the offshore wind park held by Moray (see note 10). Transfers includes generation assets which were classified as assets held for sale of Brazil in the amount of 23,656 thousands of Euros (88,159 thousands of Reais) and of Poland in the amount of 63,151 thousands of Euros (264,253 thousands of Zlotys) (see note 42). In relation to Transfers from assets under construction into operation, the amount refers mainly to solar and wind farms of EDP Renováveis that become operational in Romania, United States of America, Poland, France, Spain and Italy and to the entry into operation of the Baixo Sabor downstream hydroelectric plant and the Ribeiradio-Ermida hydroelectric plant. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 315 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Perimeter Variations/Regularisations includes: (i) the impact of the acquisition of 50% of the share capital of Porto do Pecém (see note 53), in the net amount of 1,042,797 thousands of Euros (3,358,535 thousands of Reais); (ii) the impact of the consolidation of new wind farms in EDP Group as a result of the ENEOP consortium's deal (see note 5), in the net amount of 594,492 thousands of Euros. Additionally, additions include the effect of the revaluation of these assets of Porto do Pecém amounting to 151,484 thousands of Euros (560,275 thousands of Reais) and ENEOP of 249,671 thousands of Euros (see note 53). The movement in Exchange differences in the period results mainly from the net effect of the depreciation of Brazilian Real (BRL) and the appreciation of US Dollar (USD), against the Euro during 2015. As at 31 December 2015, the Group has an agreement in place, which constitutes a financial lease as defined by IFRIC 4, which net value of the assets allocated amounts to 19,562 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 20,961 thousands of Euros). The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Group, for the period ended 31 December 2014 are analysed as follows: Perimeter Variations/ Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Cost Land and natural resources 149,857 881 -1,672 -1,828 1,797 -19,446 129,589 Buildings and other constructions 471,276 520 -7,968 -17,854 3,865 178 450,017 Plant and machinery 30,116,979 80,454 -97,827 556,834 740,328 69,375 31,466,143 Other 808,591 23,301 -13,911 50,407 4,725 -1,669 871,444 Assets under construction 2,789,402 1,440,487 -5,210 -852,647 59,509 5,298 3,436,839 34,336,105 1,545,643 -126,588 -265,088 810,224 53,736 36,354,032 Perimeter Charge/ Variations/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Exchange Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers Differences sations December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 153,937 10,678 -6,367 -13,699 1,333 105 145,987 Plant and machinery 14,073,226 918,933 -92,390 -100,812 160,482 18,532 14,977,971 Other 650,811 63,235 -12,616 -731 3,443 -1,200 702,942 14,882,006 992,846 -111,373 -115,242 165,258 17,437 15,830,932 Additions include the investment in wind farms by the subgroups EDPR EU and EDPR NA. Additionally, the EDPR EU subgroup carried out investments related with the construction of the solar photovoltaic plants in Romania. In Portugal, the additions relate to hydroelectric investments in the construction of several new power plants and power enhancement projects (Baixo Sabor, Foz Tua, Ribeiradio-Ermida, Venda Nova III and Salamonde II). Charge / Impairment losses includes 12,810 thousands of Euros on Alvito hydroelectric and 15,571 thousands of Euros as a result of impairments on assets of wind farms in Romania (see note 12). Transfers from assets under construction into operation, refer mainly to wind and solar farms of EDP Renováveis that become operational in Poland, Italy, France, United States of America and Canada. Additionally,this caption includes the transfer to Investment property in the net amount of 8,188 thousands of Euros (see note 22) and the Naturgas's gas distribution assets transfer to held for sale in the net amount of 141,659 thousands of Euros (see note 42). The movement in Exchange differences in the year results mainly from the appreciation of Brazilian Real (BRL) and US Dollar (USD) against the Euro during 2014. As at 31 December 2015, Property, plant and equipment financed through lease contracts for the Group, amount to 15,319 thousands of Euros (14,249 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014), with accumulated depreciation of 7,083 thousands of Euros (6,499 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014) and the respective future lease payments amount to 7,734 thousands of Euros (7,316 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014). Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts is detailed as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Future lease Future lease Thousands of Euros Principal Interest payments Principal Interest payments Less than one year 3,340 213 3,553 2,937 270 3,207 Between one and three years 3,777 136 3,913 3,533 198 3,731 Between three and five years 263 5 268 368 10 378 7,380 354 7,734 6,838 478 7,316 ANNUAL REPORT 316 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 During 2015, the costs incurred with these assets amounted to 705 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 643 thousands of Euros) and are booked in the income statement under Supplies and services. The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Company, for the period ended 31 December 2015 are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers sations December Cost Land and natural resources 24,130 -288 35 23,877 Buildings and other constructions 16,536 31,867 -247 66,255 114,411 Other 126,942 21,955 -1,473 29,079 176,503 Assets under construction 81,910 28,492 -95,334 15,068 249,518 82,314 -2,008 35 329,859 Charge/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers sations December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 15,052 135 -247 14,940 Other 92,942 13,116 -1,225 104,833 112,026 13,251 -1,472 123,805 Additions of buildings and other constructions regards to the Porto building headquarters, subject to a lease contract for a period of 25 years with the EDP Pension Fund (see note 40). Additionally, additions include the investment in the new Lisbon building headquarters in the amount of 21,159 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 35,232 thousands of Euros). In 2015, Transfers of assets under construction to Buildings and other constructions relates with the new EDP Group headquarter in Lisbon. The movements in Property, plant and equipment, for the Company, for the period ended 31 December 2014 are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers sations December Cost Land and natural resources 60,148 -19,660 -16,358 24,130 Buildings and other constructions 85,393 -1,671 -67,249 63 16,536 Other 117,692 7,089 -707 1,854 1,014 126,942 Assets under construction 45,402 42,261 -345 -5,408 81,910 308,635 49,350 -22,383 -87,161 1,077 249,518 Charge/ Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals/ Regulari31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers sations December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Land and natural resources 4,032 4,032 Buildings and other constructions 22,445 239 -1,124 -6,574 66 15,052 Other 83,555 10,048 -550 -1,074 963 92,942 110,032 10,287 -1,674 -7,648 1,029 112,026 Transfers refers to Investment Property. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 317 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As at 31 December 2015 and for the Company, the Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts amount to 4,065 thousands of Euros (3,785 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014), with accumulated depreciation of 1,841 thousands of Euros (1,978 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014) and the respective future lease payments amount to 2,086 thousands of Euros (1,605 thousands of Euros at 31 December 2014). Property, plant and equipment financed by leasing contracts is detailed as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Future lease Future lease Thousands of Euros Principal Interest payments Principal Interest payments Less than one year 921 52 973 718 61 779 Between one and three years 999 32 1,031 735 39 774 Between three and five years 81 1 82 51 1 52 2,001 85 2,086 1,504 101 1,605 During 2015, the costs incurred related to these assets amount to 162 thousands of Euros (185 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2014) and are booked under Supplies and services in the income statement. 17. INTANGIBLE ASSETS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Cost Concession rights 14,808,407 15,168,856 CO2 licences 142,509 162,389 Other intangibles 243,879 197,272 Intangible assets in progress 560,553 518,679 15,755,348 16,047,196 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Amortisation of concession rights -384,442 -402,347 Amortisation of other intangibles -3,283 -3,409 Accumulated amortisation in previous periods -9,803,051 -9,803,054 Impairment losses -14,780 -25,360 Impairment losses in previous periods -25,158 -10,230,714 -10,234,170 Carrying amount 5,524,634 5,813,026 The concession rights over the electricity distribution networks in Brazil, namely Bandeirante (State of São Paulo) and Escelsa (State of Espírito Santo) are amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period until 2028 and 2025, respectively. Concession rights in Portugal relate to the natural gas distribution network (Portgás), being amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period, until 2047, as well as the concession of the public hydric domain for hydroelectric generation (EDP Produção and Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana), which useful life currently does not exceed 75 years. The concession rights over electricity production in Brazil, namely for Lajeado Energia and Investco, are amortised on a straight-line basis over the concession period, until 2032. The movements in Intangible assets during 2015, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Perimeter variations / Balance at Balance at Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Cost Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 1,085,306 28,891 -866 -98,968 -971 1,013,392 Gas Portugal 138,354 138,354 Hydric Portugal 1,419,622 366 1,419,988 CO2 licences 162,389 128,620 -135,475 -13,025 142,509 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12): Intangible assets 12,525,574 373 -40,307 229,790 -479,297 540 12,236,673 Intangible assets in progress 107,335 372,580 -1,193 -337,487 -6,618 26 134,643 Other intangibles 197,272 21,618 114 300 7,218 17,357 243,879 Other intangible in progress 411,344 10,653 -1,438 -1,724 -4,536 11,611 425,910 16,047,196 563,101 -178,299 -123,012 -582,201 28,563 15,755,348 ANNUAL REPORT 318 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Perimeter Charge/ variations / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 547,862 51,147 -260 -32,921 -78 565,750 Gas Portugal 34,589 3,144 37,733 Hydric Portugal 302,825 42,377 345,202 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) 9,288,159 302,554 -36,579 -339,655 532 9,215,011 Other intangibles 60,735 3,283 -16 -126 -303 3,445 67,018 10,234,170 402,505 -36,595 -386 -372,879 3,899 10,230,714 The contracts assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) that currently exist in EDP Group fall within the Mixed Model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil, as referred in the note 2 aa). Additions of CO2 Licences include 125,889 thousands of Euros of licences purchased in the market for own consumption and 2,731 thousands of Euros of CO2 licences granted free of charge to the EDP Group plants operating in Portugal and in Spain. The disposals/writeoff of CO2 licences correspond to the licences consumed during 2014 and delivered to regulatory authorities. The amount booked in Transfers is relate to the CO2 licenses transferred to Inventories (trading portfolio), in the amount of 13,025 thousands of Euros, as a result of allocation of licenses initially held for consume, in order to cover the need for CO2 licenses arising from consumptions (own use). Charge/Impairment losses includes an impairment loss of 14,780 thousands of Euros in concession rights of Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Electricas, S.A., mainly related with the devaluation of the Brazilian Real during 2015 (see note 12). The caption Other intangible in progress, includes the concession rights of hydric projects in Portugal namely Fridão and Foz Tua, in the amount of 287,343 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 287,343 thousands of Euros) and 87,974 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 86,025 thousands of Euros), respectively. In relation to Transfers from assets under construction into operation, the amount includes the transfers of intangible assets in progress assigned to concessions of 107,697 thousands of Euros relate to increases of financial assets under IFRIC 12, included under Debtors and other assets from commercial activities (see note 26). Additionally, includes the transfer of the generation assets which were classified as assets held for sale in Brazil in the amount of 1,904 thousands of Euros (6,366 thousands of Reais) (see note 42). The caption Other intangibles include 100,987 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 91,359 thousands of Euros) related to wind generation licenses of EDPR NA Group and 55,990 thousands of Euros related with deferred green certificates in Romania (31 December 2014: 37,426 thousands of Euros). Perimeter Variations/Regularisations of Other intangibles includes: (i) the impact of the acquisition of 50% of the share capital of Porto do Pecém (see note 5), in the net amount of 817 thousands of Euros (2,632 thousands of Reais); and (ii) the effect of ENEOP consortium's asset division decided by the consortium members wich results in an impact of 22,436 thousands of Euros with the introdution of new wind farms in EDP Group (see note 53). Additionally, additions includes the fair value recognition of the authorization agreement for energy production of Porto do Pecém thermoelectric power station in the amount of 29,182 thousands of Euros (107,933 thousands of Reais) under the purchase price allocation process at fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities, to be amortized until 2043 (see note 53). The capitalised costs of the period related to construction of intangible assets are included in own work capitalized in notes 6, 9 and 13. The movements in Intangible assets during the period ended 31 December 2014, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Perimeter variations / Balance at Balance at Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Additions Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Cost Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 1,079,171 1,958 4,177 1,085,306 Gas Portugal 138,354 138,354 Hydric Portugal 1,418,998 624 1,419,622 CO2 licences 235,435 47,319 -120,365 162,389 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12): Intangible assets 12,370,174 340 -190,865 363,856 23,320 -41,251 12,525,574 Intangible assets in progress 175,055 412,893 -7,719 -485,363 2,574 9,895 107,335 Other intangibles 158,218 29,627 -65 -1,177 10,535 134 197,272 Other intangible in progress 405,138 11,664 -251 -365 173 -5,015 411,344 15,980,543 504,425 -319,265 -123,049 40,779 -36,237 16,047,196 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 319 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Perimeter Charge/ variations / Balance at Balance at Impairment Disposals / Exchange Regularisa31 Thousands of Euros 1 January losses Write-offs Transfers differences tions December Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses Concession rights: Distribution and generation Brazil 509,178 37,891 793 547,862 Gas Portugal 31,444 3,145 34,589 Hydric Portugal 260,459 42,366 302,825 Assigned to concessions (IFRIC 12) 9,129,664 318,945 -174,563 17,088 -2,975 9,288,159 Other intangibles 31,996 28,769 -50 -112 1,083 -951 60,735 9,962,741 431,116 -174,613 -112 18,964 -3,926 10,234,170 Additions of CO2 Licences include 14,703 thousands of Euros of CO2 licences granted free of charge to the EDP Group plants operating in Portugal and in Spain and 32,616 thousands of Euros of licences purchased at market for own consumption. The disposals / write-off of CO2 licences include licences consumed during 2013 and delivered to regulatory authorities in the amount of 119,509 thousands of Euros. The additions of Other intangibles includes the recognition of rights related to deferred green certificates in Romania in the amount of 24,885 thousands of Euros. Charge / Impairment losses includes 13,926 thousands of Euros related to impairments on Alvito hydroelectric plant and 11,434 thousands of Euros related to green certificates in Romania (see note 12). Transfers include the net transfers of intangible assets in progress assigned to concessions of 121,507 thousands of Euros relate to increases of financial assets under IFRIC 12, included under Debtors and other assets from commercial activities (see note 26), the remaining amounts relate to Naturgas gas distribution assets transfer to held for sale (see note 42). 18. GOODWILL Goodwill for the Group, resulting from the difference between the acquisition value and the corresponding share of the fair value of the assets acquired, at the acquisition date, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 HC Energia Group 1,940,712 1,940,712 EDP Renováveis Group 1,361,305 1,287,004 EDP Brasil Group 46,053 53,052 Other 40,518 40,518 3,388,588 3,321,286 The movements in Goodwill during the period ended 31 December 2015, are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Exchange 31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Increases Decreases Impairment differences December HC Energia Group 1,940,712 1,940,712 EDP Renováveis Group 1,287,004 3,346 -2,000 -170 73,125 1,361,305 EDP Brasil Group 53,052 10,495 -723 -11,955 -4,816 46,053 Other 40,518 40,518 3,321,286 13,841 -2,723 -12,125 68,309 3,388,588 The movements in Goodwill during the period ended 31 December 2014, are analysed as follows: Balance at Balance at Exchange 31 Thousands of Euros 1 January Increases Decreases Impairment differences December HC Energia Group 1,946,935 1,090 -7,313 1,940,712 EDP Renováveis Group 1,212,787 823 -2,587 -278 76,259 1,287,004 EDP Brasil Group 52,904 148 53,052 Other 40,518 40,518 3,253,144 1,913 -9,900 -278 76,407 3,321,286 ANNUAL REPORT 320 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 HC Energia Group The goodwill held in HC Energia Group is analysed as follows: HC Energia Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Liberalised activities 592,487 592,487 Regulated networks 1,348,225 1,348,225 1,940,712 1,940,712 EDP Renováveis Group The goodwill held in EDP Renováveis Group is analysed as follows: EDP Renováveis Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Goodwill in EDPR Europe Group 635,576 634,399 Goodwill in EDPR North America Group 724,813 651,264 Other 916 1,341 1,361,305 1,287,004 EDPR Europe Group During 2015, EDPR Europe Group presents a decrease in goodwill movement in the amount of 2,000 thousands of Euros and an increase in the amount of 2,499 thousands of Euros both related with the contingent price revision under the purchase agreements of three projects in EDPR Spain and several projects in EDPR Poland, respectively. These contracts were signed before 1 January 2010, date of the adoption of the revised IFRS 3 as mentioned in the accounting policy 2 b). During 2015, EDPR Europe Group acquired 100% of Stirlingpower, Unipessoal Lda (see note 5) by 798 thousands of Euros, which generated a goodwill of 797 thousands of Euros. The decrease in goodwill movement in EDPR Europe Group in 2014 is related with the cancellation of the success fee associated to a project in EDPR France. During 2014, EDPR Europe acquired 100% of Wincap, S.R.L. and Radziejów Wind Farm Sp. ZO.O. by 2,085 thousands of Euros, which generated a goodwill of 651 thousands of Euros. EDPR North America Group The goodwill movement in EDPR North America relates with the appreciation of the US Dollar against the Euro. EDP Brasil Group On 31 December 2015 the goodwill related to the company Pantanal Energética Ltda was reclassified to non-current assests held for sale in the amount of 723 thousands of Euros (see note 42). Additionally, EDP GRID Gestão de Redes Inteligentes de Distribuição S.A. acquired 100% of APS Soluções em Energia S.A. (see note 5) by 11,995 thousands of Euros, from which 3,784 thousands of Euros were received on 7 December 2015 and the remaining 8,211 thousands of Euros will be received in the next five years, if all clauses established under the sell and purchase agreement are met. This acquisition generated a goodwill of 10,495 thousands of Euros. In the context of impairment tests, an impairment of goodwill of Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Electricas S.A., essentially relates to the depreciation of the Brazilian Real during the year of 2015 (see the Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Group and note 12). Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Group The recoverable amount of the goodwill in subsidiaries is assessed annually, as at 30 September, independently of the existence of any indicators of impairment. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. The recoverable amount is determined based on the value in use of the assets, calculated using valuation methodologies supported by discounted cash flow techniques, considering market conditions, the time value of money and the business risks. The EDP Group is composed by a significant number of subsidiaries in several locations, as mentioned in its consolidation perimeter. Therefore, the impairment tests at subgroup level are carried out for each cash generating unit (CGU) identified in each country where the EDP Group develops its activities, namely: ● HC Energia Distribution, Generation & Supply of electricity; ● HC Energia (including NG Energia Group) Distribution & Supply of gas; ● EDPR Europe – Renewable generation; ● EDPR North America and EDPR Brasil Renewable generation; ● EDP Brasil Generation, Distribution and Supply of electricity. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 321 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 At EDP Group level, these cash generating units are subsequently aggregated by business units, ensuring however that goodwill impairment analysis does not exceed a business segment. For the purposes of these tests, the EDP Group has defined a set of assumptions to determine the recoverable amount of the main investments by each cash generating unit, being presented by aggregation in each business units after the impairment tests carried out at each subgroup/cash generating unit. Goodwill impairment test analysis – HC Energia Group (including NG Energia) The discount rates after taxes used by the Group in the impairment test analysis range between 4.5% and 5.5% (2014: between 4.7% and 5.8% respectively). Regarding to generation business, the evaluation of the assets (power plants) considers a portfolio logic based in the future cash flow projection of the remaining useful life. In the electricity and gas transmission business the cash flow projection period considers the perpetuity of the business as assets are operating under a license with no foreseen end date. The main assumptions on which impairment tests are based are as follows: In the generation business, the estimated energy produced by the power plants: consider the best estimate of future market demand and total installed capacity; Prices of electricity, gas and coal were defined considering the market expectations regarding future price curves and considering the regulation in force. For gas and coal prices were also used the contracted prices for future long term purchases, namely the acquisition contracts for gas; Investment costs: the best available estimates of the future investments were used in order to guarantee a regular use of existing assets, as well as the estimates that resulted from legislative changes; Operating costs: operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s historical experience and internal models; In the regulated business, namely distribution of electricity and gas, officially approved asset remuneration was used, considering the regulated mechanisms for the annual remuneration updates. In generation, the elimination of generation taxes has been considered from 2021 onwards and capacity payments have been considered from 2023 onwards; The projections for the generation and electricity distribution businesses are based on the long-term estimates of the various assumptions used in the analysis. Regarding the supply of electricity and gas businesses, long-term projections were extrapolated using growth rates that evolve at inflation rate; Discount rate: the discount rates used reflect EDP Group’s best estimate regarding the specific risks associated to each CGU. The Group has performed a series of sensitivity analyses to the results of impairment tests in some key variables, such as (i) cost of fuel and respectively pool price, (ii) alternative case with a less favorable regulatory context and (iii) discount rates. The sensitivity analysis results show that (i) a decrease of 5% in the cost of fuel accompanied by the expected impact in the pool prices and operation hours of the generation assets or (ii) alternative case with a less favorable regulatory context or (iii) an increase of 100 bps on the discount rate do not result in any impairment indicators. Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Renováveis The future cash flows projection used is the useful life of the assets (25 years) which is consistent with the current depreciation method. This projection also incorporate the long-term energy sale contracts in place and long-term estimates of energy prices, for the asset with market exposure. ANNUAL REPORT 322 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The main assumptions used for the impairment tests are as follows: Power produced: net capacity factors used for each CGU utilize the wind studies carried out, which takes into account the long-term predictability of wind output and that wind generation is supported in nearly all countries by regulatory mechanisms that allow for production and priority dispatching whenever weather conditions permit; Electricity remuneration: regulated or contracted remuneration has been applied where available, as for the CGUs that benefit from regulated remuneration or that have signed contracts to sell their output during all or part of their useful life; where this is not available, prices were derived using price curves projected by the company based on its experience, internal models and using external data references; New capacity: tests were based on the best information available on the wind farms expected to be built in coming years, adjusted by probability of success and by the growth prospects of the company based on the Business Plan Targets, its historical growth and market size projections. The tests considered the contracted and expected prices to buy turbines from various suppliers; Operating costs: established contracts for land leases and maintenance agreements were used. Other operating costs were projected consistent with the company’s experience and internal models; Terminal value: considered as a 15% of the initial investment in each wind farm, considering inflation; and Discount rate: the discount rates post-tax used reflect EDPR Group’s best estimate of the risks specific to each CGU and range as follows: 2015 2014 Europe 3.8% 6.0% 4.0% 6.4% United States of America 4.5% 6.6% 5.1% 7.1% Brazil 9.6% 11.7% 8.6% 10.3% Impairment tests were performed taking into account the regulation changes in each country, as disclosed in note 1. A series of sensitivity analysis were performed on the results of impairment tests namely in some of the key variables, such as: 5% reduction of Merchant Prices used in the case base. This sensitivity analyses performed for this assumption independently would not suppose any impairment for the goodwill allocated to each country, except for Romania amounting to 9,392 thousands of Euros, corresponding to the total amount of goodwill in the geography; 100 basis points increase of the discount rate used in case base. This sensitivity analyses performed for this assumption independently would not suppose any impairment for the goodwill allocated to each country, except for Romania amounting to 9,392 thousands of Euros. Goodwill impairment test analysis – EDP Brasil Group For EDP Brasil, the cash flows were determined based on the production and consumption volume and estimated tariffs and installed capacity and tariff evolution prospects in the different markets/power purchase agreements. The period considered for the cash flows corresponds to the useful life of the plant & machinery and other relevant equipments or until the end of the concession contracts, if lower than the useful life. The discount rates used reflect the specific risks for each activities: 8.8% in generation, 9.8% to 10.3% in distribution and 10.3% in supply (2014: 7.8%, 8.9% and 9.3% respectively). The terminal value of the generation business corresponds to the present value of the assets at the end of the concession period (Regulatory Asset Base). In the supply business, it is considered the perpetuity of the business. An impairment of goodwill of Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Eléctricas, S.A. was booked in the amount of 11,955 thousands of Euros (corresponding to the total amount of goodwill). Given this goodwill was booked in the currency Euro, this impairment resulted mainly due to Brazilian Real depreciation during 2015. A sensitivity analysis increasing 100 basis points in the discount rate used has not determined the existence of impairment indicators for goodwill and concession rights in any other subsidiary of EDP Brasil, except for Escelsa, in which it leads to an additional impairment loss of concession rights in the amount of 24 millions of Euros. For generation companies, the following sensitivity analysis have been performed: (i) a GSF increase of 100 basis points; (ii) a PLD change of 10 Brazilian Reais; and (iii) an increase of 100 basis points in inflation rate. These sensitivity analysis have not determined any existence of impairment in goodwill or concession rights. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 323 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 For distribution companies, the following sensitivity analysis have also been performed: (i) an increase of 50 basis points in the efficiency factor demanded by the Regulator (X Factor); and (ii) an increase of 5% in the operating costs component (“glosa”) of the remuneratory base for all forecast periods. These sensitivity analysis have not determined any existence of impairment in goodwill. 19. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (COMPANY BASIS) This caption is analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Acquisition cost 11,982,481 11,047,079 Effect of equity method (transition to IFRS) -785,593 -785,593 Equity investments in subsidiaries 11,196,888 10,261,486 Impairment losses on equity investments in subsidiaries -231,308 -224,517 10,965,580 10,036,969 On the date of transition to IFRS, EDP, S.A. ceased to apply the equity method of accounting to its investments in its unconsolidated financial statements, having considered this method in the determination of the deemed cost at transition date. Investments in subsidiaries are analysed as follows: Company Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Net amount Net amount Investments in subsidiaries: EDP Renováveis, S.A. 3,854,811 2,939,889 EDP Gestão de Produção de Energia, S.A. 2,156,054 2,156,054 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. 2,105,002 2,093,601 EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. 1,686,145 1,686,145 EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. 482,695 482,695 EDP Comercial, S.A. 299,073 299,073 EDP International Investments and Services, S.L. 281,854 281,854 Other 99,946 97,658 10,965,580 10,036,969 The variation in the caption Investments in subsidiaries on a company basis results essentially from: (i) the acquisition of the remaining 15% of EDP Renováveis S.A. from Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A.U. in the amount of 914,922 thousands of Euros; and (ii) the acquisition of the treasury stock (0.26%) of Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A., becoming a single-member company and thus changing its name to Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A.U. in the amount of 11,401 thousands of Euros. 20. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Investments in joint ventures 615,223 748,750 6,597 6,595 Investments in associates 48,788 124,224 664,011 872,974 6,597 6,595 As at 31 December 2015, for the Group, this caption includes goodwill in investments in joint ventures of 42,730 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 42,730 thousands of Euros) and goodwill in investments in associates of 9,248 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 36,900 thousands of Euros). ANNUAL REPORT 324 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The movement in Investments in joint ventures and associates, for the Group, is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance as at 1 January 872,974 645,421 Acquisitions/Entries 3,002 117,585 Fair value adjustments 118,877 Increases/Decreases of share capital 74,912 65,220 Disposals -256,812 -80,899 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates -23,899 15,094 Dividends -21,645 -33,783 Exchange differences 11,932 27,458 Hedging reserve in joint ventures and associates 3,863 -2,184 Others -316 185 Balance as at 31 December 664,011 872,974 The movement in Investments in joint ventures is mainly explained by the change in the consolidation method of Porto do Pecém (negative impact in the amount of 163,400 thousands of Euros), which began to be fully consolidated after the acquisition of the remaining share capital, and by the capital increases in Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão, S.A. and Empresa de Energia São Manoel S.A in the total amount of 64,665 thousands of Euros. The movement in Investments in associates is mainly explained by the transfer of the investment in Inch Cape Offshore Limited to assests held for sale in the amount of 14,433 thousands of Euros (see note 42), by the end of equity method of the ENEOP consortium in the amount of 44,107 thousands of Euros (see note 5 and 53) and by the sale of Setgás Sociedade de Distribuição de Gás Natural, S.A. e da Setgás Comercialização, S.A. in the amount of 37,655 thousands of Euros (see note 5). As at 31 December 2014, the Fair value adjustments line refers to the revaluation of share of capital held in Companhia Energética do Jari, in EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda and in Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A., companies sold with loss of control. These sales with loss of control led to entries of these companies as joint ventures, which essentially justifies the value in the Acquisitions/Entries line. The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures whose investment is included under the equity method in the Group consolidated accounts, as at 31 December 2015: Energia Energia Flat Rock Jari Cachoeira São Windpower Flat Rock Thousands of Euros Group Caldeirão Manoel II Windpower Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 410,550 306,821 356,437 121,644 301,415 Current Assets 35,735 9,286 11,217 393 4,631 Cash and cash equivalents 17,311 9,258 11,100 104 2,557 Total Equity 112,768 141,536 71,738 120,202 301,530 Long term Financial debt 223,213 117,093 Non-Current Liabilities 279,460 119,353 18,506 1,420 3,737 Short term Financial debt 42,353 1,253 258,986 Current Liabilities 54,057 55,218 277,410 415 779 Revenues 57,712 5,437 25,791 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -14,136 -7,339 -21,479 Other financial expenses -32,876 -2,564 -8,719 -64 -213 Income tax expense 914 1,656 689 Net profit for the period -8,892 -3,214 -1,338 -6,116 -8,834 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 101,600 71,163 23,913 60,101 150,765 Goodwill Dividends paid 747 5,293 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 325 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Compañía Eólica Bioeléctrica CIDE EDP Asia Thousands of Euros Aragonesa Group HC Energía Group Outras Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 130,283 124,438 1,656 95,219 83,402 Current Assets 6,038 15,015 47,520 29,403 Cash and cash equivalents 4,965 8,887 557 17,020 Total Equity 105,421 22,353 3,412 95,219 28,075 Long term Financial debt 62,431 19,454 Non-Current Liabilities 27,653 71,705 1,227 25,850 Short term Financial debt 9,752 4,739 31,219 Current Liabilities 3,247 45,395 44,537 58,880 Revenues 17,835 49,250 242,182 24,273 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -10,306 -9,485 -29 -3,078 Other financial expenses -159 -1,562 -641 -2,400 Income tax expense -95 -1,880 -1,604 51 Net profit for the period 379 4,820 3,361 18,409 -1,911 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 61,846 11,177 1,625 104,154 28,879 Goodwill 39,558 3,172 Dividends paid 5,000 1,000 5,670 1,480 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of joint ventures whose investment is included under the equity method in the Group consolidated accounts, as at 31 December 2014: Companhia Energia Energia Compañía Porto do Energ. Do ECE Cachoeira São Eólica Thousands of Euros Pecém Jari Participações Caldeirão Manoel Aragonesa Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 1,259,134 280,105 365,412 238,542 134,136 134,860 Current Assets 167,600 8,746 80,418 78,494 84,272 16,560 Cash and cash equivalents 47,098 71 52,489 75,905 83,078 12,677 Total Equity 291,427 161,179 170,284 110,271 -850 108,144 Long term Financial debt 586,320 108,265 225,797 92,919 173,475 Non-Current Liabilities 816,682 110,766 231,383 95,819 204,081 30,066 Short term Financial debt 55,744 16,263 10,692 94,039 Current Liabilities 318,625 16,905 44,163 110,946 15,178 13,210 Revenues 369,570 62,117 14,167 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -43,826 -925 -2,625 -5,257 Other financial expenses -95,621 -13,603 -3,215 -1,416 -7,609 -174 Income tax expense 43,548 -471 -14,811 567 452 2,531 Net profit for the period -75,681 20,137 35,339 -1,101 -877 4,282 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 145,714 58,068 85,142 55,664 66,657 Goodwill 39,558 Dividends paid 2,500 ANNUAL REPORT 326 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Flat Rock Windpower Flat Rock Bioeléctrica CIDE EDP Asia Thousands of Euros II Windpower Group HC Energía Group Others Companies' financial information of joint ventures Non-Current Assets 115,477 289,039 133,424 1,776 80,883 77,170 Current Assets 869 4,392 9,397 47,046 23,889 Cash and cash equivalents 534 2,525 3,506 10 14,816 Total Equity 115,012 290,048 17,533 1,550 80,883 25,149 Long term Financial debt 72,018 47,098 Non-Current Liabilities 1,215 3,156 80,778 1,174 55,637 Short term Financial debt 9,798 732 6,815 Current Liabilities 119 227 44,510 46,098 20,273 Revenues 8,392 31,488 49,355 232,498 25,136 Fixed and intangible assets amortisations -6,165 -18,206 -9,457 -24 -6,931 Other financial expenses -57 -147 -1,940 -540 -5 -1,856 Income tax expense -1,759 -1,770 572 Net profit for the period -1,345 2,403 3,941 3,760 13,321 -1,511 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 57,506 145,024 8,766 775 96,170 29,264 Goodwill 3,172 Dividends paid 2,813 11,689 737 The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates whose investment is included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2015: Les Eoliennes Parque Parque Principle D.E. de en Mer Eólico Eólico Power Thousands of Euros Canarias Noirmoutier Belmonte Madero Inc. Outras Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 2,860 16,614 21,936 53,199 19,993 86,789 Current Assets 1,571 6,334 1,187 6,874 4,140 53,515 Total Equity 3,855 16,125 4,494 23,531 20,015 58,994 Non-Current Liabilities 314 4,544 1,883 3,416 47,932 Current Liabilities 262 6,823 14,086 34,659 702 33,377 Revenues 2,638 3,933 10,146 6,941 63,046 Net profit for the period 824 -636 275 1,623 -2,849 -10,637 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 8,204 6,934 3,069 9,883 6,223 14,475 Goodwill 6,479 1,725 1,018 26 Dividends paid 191 2,263 Others include companies with financial statements as of 31 December 2015, with the exception of companies that have no activity or are in liquidation process, and Portsines whose financial statements are for the period ended 30 November 2015, because the accounts of 31 December 2015 were not timely approved. The following table resumes the companies' financial information of associates whose investment is included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2014: ENEOP Seaenergy Eólicas de Renewables Thousands of Euros SETGAS Portugal Inch-Cape Others Companies' financial information of associates Non-Current Assets 168,922 1,296,820 46,688 206,369 Current Assets 15,554 365,479 2,662 74,363 Total Equity 72,117 98,056 -3,228 110,347 Non-Current Liabilities 75,143 1,399,319 46,169 69,666 Current Liabilities 37,216 164,923 6,408 100,604 Revenues 27,501 212,687 100,169 Net profit for the period 5,475 36,167 -1,201 -12,493 Amounts proportionally attributed to EDP Group Net assets 35,135 35,261 14,190 39,638 Goodwill 11,986 15,772 9,142 Dividends paid 1,157 14,887 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 327 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Others include companies with financial statements as of 31 December 2014, with the exception of companies that have no activity or are in liquidation process, and Portsines whose financial statements are for the period ended 30 November 2014, because the accounts of 31 December 2014 were not timelly approved. As at 31 December 2015, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Adjustments Goodwill Others Assets Companhia Energética do JARI 112,768 50.00% 45,216 101,600 Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. 141,536 50.00% 395 71,163 Empresa de Energia São Manoel S.A. 71,738 33.33% 23,913 Flat Rock Windpower II LLC 120,202 50.00% 60,101 Flat Rock Windpower LLC 301,530 50.00% 150,765 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 105,421 50.00% 9,135 61,846 EDP Produção Bioeléctrica, S.A. 22,353 50.00% 11,177 CIDE HC Energía, S.A. 3,412 50.00% -81 1,625 EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda 95,219 50.00% 56,544 104,154 Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. 3,855 44.75% 6,479 8,204 Les Eoliennes en Mer lles d'Yeu Noirmountier, SAS 16,125 43.00% 6,934 Parque Eólico de Belmonte, S.A. 4,494 29.90% 1,725 3,069 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero S.A. 23,531 42.00% 9,883 Principle Power, Inc. 20,015 26.00% 1,018 6,223 As at 31 December 2014, the significant companies' financial information of joint ventures and associates presents the following fair value reconciliation of net assets proportionally attributed to EDP Group: % Fair Value Net Thousands of Euros Equity EM Adjustments Goodwill Others Assets Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia, S.A. 291,427 50.00% 145,714 Companhia Energética do Jari 161,179 50.00% 62,620 -85,142 58,068 ECE Participações, S.A. 170,284 50.00% 85,142 Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão, S.A. 110,271 50.00% 528 55,664 Energia São Manoel, S.A. -850 33.40% 284 Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. 108,144 50.00% 12,585 66,657 Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. 115,012 50.00% 57,506 Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. 290,048 50.00% 145,024 EDP Produção Bioeléctrica, S.A. 17,533 50.00% 8,766 CIDE HC Energía, S.A. 1,550 50.00% 775 EDP ASIA Investimento e Consultadoria, Lda 80,883 50.00% 55,728 96,170 SETGAS Soc. de Prod. e Dist. de Gás, S.A. 72,117 33.05% 11,300 35,135 ENEOP Éolicas de Portugal, S.A. 98,056 35.96% 35,261 Inch Cape Offshore Limited -3,228 49.00% 15,772 14,190 Operating and real guarantees granted by joint ventures, included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, are disclosed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Operating guarantees Companhia Energética do Jari 6,097 Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. 3,474 6,644 Energia São Manoel S.A. 6,206 11,889 Others 920 1,747 10,600 26,377 Real guarantees 24 ANNUAL REPORT 328 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The commitments relating to short and medium-long term financial debt, future lease payments under operating leases and other purchase obligations of joint ventures included in the Group consolidated accounts under the equity method, as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, are disclosed by maturity as follows: Dec 2015 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (inc. falling due interest) 495,070 148,773 92,666 55,619 198,012 Finance lease commitments 1,331 257 387 247 440 Operating lease commitments 20,663 2,289 2,819 2,814 12,741 Purchase obligations 638,286 172,347 253,216 24,400 188,323 1,155,350 323,666 349,088 83,080 399,516 Dec 2014 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Short and long term financial debt (inc. falling due interest) 1,005,043 136,881 207,486 227,468 433,208 Finance lease commitments 1,563 280 471 275 537 Operating lease commitments 25,000 1,754 3,380 2,995 16,871 Purchase obligations 1,172,001 402,184 416,248 173,348 180,221 2,203,607 541,099 627,585 404,086 630,837 The summarised financial information for subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests, namely EDP Brasil and EDP Renováveis, as at 31 December 2015, are disclosed in the note 54 and Annexes I and II. 21. AVAILABLE FOR SALE INVESTMENTS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 53,276 71,434 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 51,920 44,949 51,920 44,949 Tejo Energia, S.A. 19,700 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 61,277 59,584 Others 33,733 28,790 1,759 1,977 200,206 224,457 53,679 46,926 During the nine month period ended 30 September 2015, the market value of the financial investment held in BCP has decreased 24,247 thousands of Euros, which was recorded under fair value reserves (see note 32). As at 30 September 2015, following the decrease in BCP market value, an impairment loss in the amount of 21,987 thousands of Euros was booked under Other financial expenses (see note 13). In the last quarter of 2015 the BCP market value of the financial investment incresead by 6,089 thousands of Euros, which was recorded under fair value reserves (see note 32). During 2015, the financial investment held in REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A., increased by 6,971 thousands of Euros being the increase booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). On 6 November 2015, EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. reached an agreement with Trust Energy,B.V. to sell its 11,11% financial investment held in Tejo Energia, S.A., which shall be concluded during the first semester of 2016. As at 31 December 2015, the financial investment of Tejo Energia, S.A. reevaluation to the transaction value led to a decrease in the amount of 2,486 thousands of Euros, which was booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). The fair value of the financial investment, in the amount of 17,214 thousands of Euros, was then reclassified into assets held for sale (see note 42). The Zephyr Fund represents the participation units in a fund of stocks and bonds held by Energia RE, as a result of its reinsurance activity. During 2015, Energia RE increased this participation by 1,000 thousands of Euros, therefore the investment incresead by 693 thousands of Euros being the increse booked against fair value reserves (see note 32). Under IFRS 13 (note 46), available for sale investments are classified into three levels of fair value: level 1 includes essencially financial investment held in Banco Comercial Português, S.A. and REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. since they are indexed to market price; level 2 includes the fund of stocks and bonds held by Energia RE and level 3 covers all other available for sale investments. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 329 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 In 2015, the movements in Available-for-sale investments are analysed as follows: Balance at Change in Other Balance at Thousands of Euros 1 January Acquisitions Disposals Impairment fair value variations 31 December Banco Comercial Português 71,434 -21,987 3,829 53,276 REN Redes Energéticas 44,949 6,971 51,920 Tejo Energia 19,700 -2,486 -17,214 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 59,584 1,000 693 61,277 Others 28,790 1,231 -905 -9 4,661 -35 33,733 224,457 2,231 -905 -21,996 13,668 -17,249 200,206 In 2014, the movements in Available-for-sale investments are analysed as follows: Balance at Change in Other Balance at Thousands of Euros 1 January Acquisitions Disposals Impairment fair value variations 31 December Banco Comercial Português 65,790 44,973 -39,329 71,434 REN Redes Energéticas 41,828 3,121 44,949 Tejo Energia 21,500 -1,800 19,700 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 53,751 3,000 2,833 59,584 Others 29,614 1,451 -168 -2,339 283 -51 28,790 212,483 49,424 -168 -2,339 -34,892 -51 224,457 Available-for-sale investments are booked at fair value being the changes since the date of acquisition, net of impairment losses, recorded against fair value reserves (see note 32). The fair value reserve attributable to the Group is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 6,089 2,260 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 26,100 19,129 Tejo Energia, S.A. 10,859 13,345 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 6,907 6,214 Others 11,610 6,029 61,565 46,977 In addition in 2015, the variation in fair value of the available-for-sale investments includes the positive amount of 122 thousands of Euros attributable to non-controlling interests. The fair value reserve of the EDP Group also includes the positive variation of 1,042 thousands of Euros related to an increase of the share capital of Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A. 22. INVESTMENT PROPERTY This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Cost 58,821 57,718 40,127 120,246 Accumulated depreciation -22,356 -20,319 -7,605 -15,853 Carrying amount 36,465 37,399 32,522 104,393 As at 2014, on a company basis, Porto headquarters was classified as investment property. The infrastructure's cost amounted to 85,487 thousands of Euros and the accumulated depreciation was 11,159 thousands of Euros. During 2015, the lease rents received by EDP S.A. regarding this building were 6.128 thousands of Euros. The useful life of the building is 50 years. In December 2015, EDP S.A. sold fractions of this building to the EDP Pension Fund (independent third party) in the amount of 55,277 thousands of Euros and EDP Distribuição in the amount of 16,385 thousands of Euros generating a financial gain of 1,836 thousands of Euros booked against Gains on the sale of financial investments. Subsequent to the sale, EDP signed a contract lease on the fractions obtained by EDP Pension Fund for a period of 25 years (see note 40). On a Group basis, the investment properties are mainly land and buildings held to obtain rents or for capital appreciation and are not material. ANNUAL REPORT 330 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 23. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES The EDP Group records the tax effect resulting from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Net Deferred Net Deferred tax assets tax liabilities Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Europe Tax losses and tax credits 217,068 188,342 Provisions for social benefits, bad debts and other risks 543,823 451,351 15,488 909 Financial instruments 76,825 42,496 49,367 15,574 Tangible and intangible fixed assets 169,418 184,895 258,833 261,836 Reinvested gains 7,622 6,737 Financial and available-for-sale investments 75,153 73,797 1,076 16,327 Tariff adjustments and tariff deficit 46,808 59,612 526,784 596,039 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 24,653 25,538 595,536 548,179 Accounting revaluations 166,806 183,310 93,214 99,457 Deferred income relating to CMEC 153,770 123,662 Other temporary differences 19,228 21,290 97,828 57,198 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -1,170,316 -1,062,248 -1,170,316 -1,062,248 169,466 168,383 629,202 663,670 Brazil Tax losses and tax credits 106,765 31,246 Provisions for social benefits, bad debts and other risks 88,858 81,610 Tariff adjustments and tariff deficit 49,286 104,013 58,070 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 131,321 52,201 Use of public property 24,071 29,551 9,450 13,236 Fair value of financial assets 15,079 4,091 Other temporary differences 38,654 6,291 37,648 54,175 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -204,860 -98,890 -204,860 -98,890 102,774 49,808 92,651 82,883 United States of America and Canada Tax losses and tax credits 932,689 822,370 Property, plant and equipment 4,846 3,304 426,059 377,734 Allocation of fair value to assets and liabilities acquired 154,204 122,009 Gains from institutional partnerships in USA wind farms 430,304 389,475 Other temporary differences 3,668 7,399 3,508 1,490 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -940,945 -832,517 -940,945 -832,517 258 556 73,130 58,191 272,498 218,747 794,983 804,744 As referred under accounting policies note 2 r), the compensation between deferred tax assets and liabilities is performed at each subsidiary, and therefore the consolidated financial statements reflect in its assets the total of the deferred tax of subsidiaries that have deferred tax assets and in its liabilities the total of the deferred tax of subsidiaries that have deferred tax liabilities. On a company basis, EDP, S.A. records the tax effect resulting from temporary differences between the assets and liabilities determined on an accounting basis and on a tax basis, which are analysed as follows: Net Deferred Net Deferred tax assets tax liabilities Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Tax losses and tax credits 74,147 50,491 Provisions for social benefits, bad debts and other risks 9,803 4,056 Financial instruments 2,443 4,877 Financial and available-for-sale investments 4,937 7,667 Property, plant and equipment 5,461 6,125 Accounting revaluations 13,261 13,274 Other temporary differences 3,074 3,068 51,464 35,576 Assets/liabilities compensation of deferred taxes -64,725 -48,850 -64,725 -48,850 35,140 27,434 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 331 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The deferred tax movement, for the Group and for the Company, in 2015 and 2014 is analysed as follows: Deferred taxes Deferred taxes Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at 1 January -585,997 -438,502 27,434 25,097 Charges to the profit and loss account 2,255 -196,413 15,812 17,509 Charges against reserves 22,803 23,389 -4,641 4,772 Exchange differences and other variations 38,454 25,529 -3,465 -19,944 Balance at 31 December -522,485 -585,997 35,140 27,434 On an individual basis, the caption Other variations differences includes the tax losses charge-off from the subsidiaries of the EDP Sucursal Group for fiscal consolidation. Taxes recorded against reserves are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Deferred tax Financial instruments and fair value 7,389 -3,416 -2,635 4,762 Actuarial gains and losses 18,499 17,985 49 304 Changes in fair value of financial assets held for sale -3,085 8,820 -2,055 -294 22,803 23,389 -4,641 4,772 The Group tax losses carried forward are as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Expiry date: 2015 22,996 2016 322 1,435 2017 10,672 40,535 2018 17,977 29,138 2019 17,337 20,538 2020 13,953 4,236 2021 a 2035 2,429,499 2,134,568 Without expiry date 924,763 857,865 3,414,523 3,111,311 Of the total of EDP Group’s tax losses available to carry forward as at 31 December 2015, the amount of 298,437 thousands of Euros does not have deferred tax asset, in accordance with the applicable accounting standards since, at the present date, there is still not sufficient visibility about the future period in which such tax losses will be used. 24. INVENTORIES This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Merchandise 21,993 35,953 Finished, intermediate products and sub-products 21,857 15,457 Raw and subsidiary materials and consumables (coal and other fuels) 77,530 100,228 Nuclear fuel 18,758 18,324 Others 64,068 96,494 204,206 266,456 At 31 December 2014, the caption Others include CO2 licences held for trading, measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realisable value, which corresponds to the market quote, as described in accounting policy 2 y), in the amount of 23,360 thousands of Euros. At 31 December 2015, EDP Group does not have CO2 licences held for trading. ANNUAL REPORT 332 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 25. TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Trade receivables Non-Current Corporate sector and individuals: Iberia 4,407 4,879 Brazil 12,089 85,047 Public Sector: Iberia 109,226 115,177 Brazil 6,349 6,124 132,071 211,227 Impairment losses -30,984 -36,636 101,087 174,591 Trade receivables Current Corporate sector and individuals: Iberia 1,464,827 1,578,637 Brazil 505,125 436,787 U.S.A. 65,353 43,428 Other 66,911 47,147 Public Sector: Iberia 61,587 96,936 Brazil 38,909 31,544 2,202,712 2,234,479 Impairment losses -307,195 -289,376 1,895,517 1,945,103 1,996,604 2,119,694 Trade receivables, for the Company, are analysed as follows: Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Trade receivables Current Corporate sector and individuals: Iberia 177,046 188,604 177,046 188,604 Impairment losses -9,957 -9,957 167,089 178,647 The movement in Impairment losses, in 2015, for the Group is analysed as follows: Perimeter Reversal of Variations / Balance at Charge for Impairment Exchange RegulariBalance at Thousands of Euros 1 January the period losses Charge-off differences sations 31 December Corporate sector and individuals Iberia 234,286 55,824 -21,400 -4,327 101 264,484 Brazil 48,382 59,737 -55,020 -12,916 3 40,186 Public sector Iberia 42,181 72 -9,674 32,579 Brazil 1,163 644 -573 -304 930 326,012 116,277 -86,667 -4,327 -13,220 104 338,179 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 333 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The movement in Impairment losses, in 2014, for the Group is analysed as follows: Perimeter Reversal of Variations / Balance at Charge for Impairment Exchange RegulariBalance at Thousands of Euros 1 January the period losses Charge-off differences sations 31 December Corporate sector and individuals Iberia 233,978 88,515 -64,468 -23,700 -39 234,286 Brazil 47,327 3,596 -3,065 524 48,382 Public sector Iberia 73,281 49 -6,122 -25,032 5 42,181 Brazil 643 529 -9 1,163 355,229 92,689 -73,655 -48,732 515 -34 326,012 In 2014, the movement in Impairment losses in EDP S.A. is related with charge for the period, booked against income statement. 26. DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Non-Current, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 1,440,282 1,341,117 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil 22,783 67,738 Amounts receivable from tariff expenses Gas Spain 69,000 Amounts receivable relating to CMEC 653,359 661,457 Amounts receivable from concessions IFRIC 12 949,914 888,941 Sundry debtors and other operations 79,108 96,131 3,214,446 3,055,384 Impairment losses on debtors -3,215 -3,245 3,211,231 3,052,139 Debtors and other assets from commercial activities Current, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Amounts receivable from tariff expenses Electricity Spain 1,000 2,270 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 791,662 1,063,661 Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil 154,095 119,036 Receivables relating to other goods and services 94,537 64,439 47,445 13,125 Amounts receivable relating to CMEC 174,470 99,757 Accrued income relating to energy sales activity 120,656 133,165 239,052 223,871 Sundry debtors and other operations 258,093 276,083 142,063 64,605 1,594,513 1,758,411 428,560 301,601 Impairment losses on debtors -21,130 -24,282 -939 -978 1,573,383 1,734,129 427,621 300,623 The caption Amounts receivable relating to CMEC amounts to 827,829 thousands of Euros, and includes 653,359 thousands of Euros as non-current and 174,470 thousands of Euros as current. The amount receivable relating to the initial CMEC includes 569,286 thousands of Euros as non-current and 42,806 thousands of Euros as current, and corresponds to the initial CMEC granted to EDP Produção (833,467 thousands of Euros) deducted from the annuities for the years 2007 to 2015. The remaining 84,073 thousands of Euros as noncurrent and 131,664 thousands of Euros as current correspond to the receivable amounts through the revisibility calculation from 2014 and 2015. As referred in the note 2 aa), the concession contracts currently in force in EDP Group are based in the Mixed Model, namely in the electricity and gas distribution concessions in Portugal and electricity distribution in Brazil. Therefore, the caption Amounts receivable from concessions IFRIC 12 in the amount of 949,914 thousands of Euros relates to the financial asset to be received by the EDP Group regarding the electricity and gas concessions in Portugal and Brazil, resulting from the application of the mixed model. The variation in the period includes: (i) the effect of the depreciation of Brazilian Real against Euro in the amount of 85,012 thousands of Euros; (ii) transfers from intangible assets assigned to concessions in the amount of 107,697 thousands of Euros (see note 17); and (iii) unwinding of the financial assets in Brazil in the amount of 41,226 thousands of Euros (see note 7). ANNUAL REPORT 334 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The variation in Receivables relating to other goods and services is mainly due to the recognition by Hidrocantábrico, of the best estimated amount to be recovered following a court law decision. The Ministerial Order ITC 3315/2007 (MO) determined a reduction of the retribution for the electricity generation activity in 2006, in the amount equivalent to the CO2 emission allowances allocated free of charge by the Spanish State. Hidrocantábrico, as the remaining companies of the sector, contested the figures settled by CNMC (former CNE) in particular with respect to the applicability of this MO to bilateral agreements. In the course of the third quarter, and following a favorable decision of the Supreme Court in Spain, Hidrocantábrico recorded a gain of 40.6 millions of Euros, corresponding to the chargeback of the amounts paid to CNMC regarding this process. The movement for the period in Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal (Current and Non-current) is analysed as follows: NonThousands of Euros Current Current Balance as at 1 January 2014 1,056,572 1,237,623 Receipts through the electric energy tariff -895,939 Partial sale of 2013 and 2014 over costs for the special regime generators -1,032,857 Tariff adjustment of 2013 36,849 Tariff adjustment for the period 983,856 1,161,612 Transfer to/from tariff adjustment payable -463 Interest income 85,933 418 Securitisation adjustment of 2012 CMEC -228,826 Transfer from Non-Current to Current 1,058,536 -1,058,536 Balance as at 31 December 2014 1,063,661 1,341,117 Receipts through the electric energy tariff -1,033,759 Partial sale of 2014 over costs for the special regime generators -744,234 Partial sale of 2015 over costs for the special regime generators -100,000 Tariff adjustment of 2014 55,131 Tariff adjustment for the period 429,536 1,142,653 Transfer to/from tariff adjustment payable 4,394 Interest income 73,298 147 Transfer from Non-Current to Current 1,043,635 -1,043,635 Balance as at 31 December 2015 791,662 1,440,282 The caption Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil corresponds to tariff adjustments booked in Bandeirante and Escelsa with the accumulated amount as at 31 December 2015 of 115,657 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 109,143 thousands of Euros) and 61,221 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 77,631 thousands of Euros), respectively. The period variation respects to tariff adjustment for the period of 143,408 thousands of Euros (see note 6), unwinding of 15,112 thousands of Euros, receipts through the electric energy tariff with a negative impact of 114,962 thousands of Euros and exchange differences due to depreciation of Brazilian Real with a negative impact of 53,454 thousands of Euros. During the fourth quarter of 2015, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. (EDP SU), the last resort supplier for the Portuguese electricity system, agreed to sell a portion of the 2015 tariff deficit, which resulted from the deferral, for the period of 5 years, of the recovery of the 2015 over costs related to the acquisition of electricity from special regime generators (including the adjustments for 2013 and 2014), in the amount of 100,000 thousands of Euros. In this sale transaction of assets, EDP SU gave in fully and without recourse, the right to receive such amounts and interest. The sale price amounted to 103,609 thousands of Euros and generated a net gain of expenses with the transaction of 2,960 thousands of Euros (see note 13). During the second and fourth quarter of 2015, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. (EDP SU), the last resort supplier for the Portuguese electricity system, agreed to sell, in two independent operations, a portion of the 2014 tariff deficit, which resulted from the deferral, for the period of 5 years, of the recovery of the 2014 over costs related to the acquisition of electricity from special regime generators (including the adjustments for 2012 and 2013), in the amount of 278,816 thousands of Euros. In this sale transaction of assets, EDP SU gave in fully and without recourse, the right to receive such amounts and interest. The sale price amounted to 300,000 thousands of Euros and generated a net gain of expenses with the transaction of 20,903 thousands of Euros (see note 13). During the first quarter of 2015, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. (EDP SU), the last resort supplier for the Portuguese electricity system, sold without recourse to Tagus – Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A., a portion of the 2014 tariff deficit in the amount of 465,418 thousands of Euros, and respective interest. The 2014 tariff deficit resulted from the deferral, for the period of 5 years, of the recovery of the 2014 over costs (including the adjustments for 2012 and 2013) related to the acquisition of electricity from special regime generators. The sale price amounted to 499,461 thousands of Euros and generated a gain net of transaction costs of 31,737 thousands of Euros (see notes 13 and 52). On 22 December 2014, EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A., the concessionaire and operator entity of the National Distribution Grid of electric energy, sold without recourse the right to recover the correction portion of the compensation mechanism to maintain the contractual balance (CMEC) referring to 2012, in the amount of 228,826 thousands of Euros. The total sale price amounted to 239,832 thousands of Euros and generated gains net of transaction costs of 10,711 thousands of Euros. This transaction carried out by Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A. was a securitisation transaction through the issuance of senior notes (see note 52). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 335 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 In 2014, EDP SU, sold, in three independent operations, the rights to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2013 and 2014 overcost with the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime generators, in the amount of 1,032,857 thousands of Euros (832,857 thousands of Euros in 2013 and 200,000 thousands of Euros in 2014). In these assets’ sales operations, EDP SU sold without recourse the rights to receive the referred amounts and interests. The total sale price amounted to 1,113,313 thousands of Euros and generated gains net of transaction costs of 67,007 thousands of Euros. From the three transactions, two of them were direct sales of assets to BCP and Banco Santander Totta, in the total amount of 363,313 thousands of Euros and the other was a securitisation transaction carried out by Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de Créditos, S.A. through the issuance of senior notes in the amount of 750,000 thousands of Euros (see note 52). The following table provides details for the caption Amounts receivable from tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal, by nature and year of establishment, as well as presents the amounts of tariff deficit that have been securitised during 2015: SecuritiDeficit Tariff Total Thousands of Euros sation Year: 2012 6,254 6,254 2013 218,913 218,913 2014 1,134,843 172,652 -744,234 563,261 2015 1,482,331 61,185 -100,000 1,443,516 2,842,341 233,837 -844,234 2,231,944 The movements in Impairment losses on debtors Non-Current are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at beginning of the period 3,245 3,310 Charge of the period 47 1 Perimeter variations/Other regularisations -77 -66 Balance at end of the period 3,215 3,245 The movements in Impairment losses on debtors Current are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at beginning of the period 24,282 18,652 978 950 Charge of the period 1,239 7,259 28 Reversal of impairment losses/Charge-off -3,293 -1,543 -39 Perimeter variations/Other regularisations -1,098 -86 Balance at end of the period 21,130 24,282 939 978 27. OTHER DEBTORS AND OTHER ASSETS Other debtors and other assets are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Debtors and other assets Non-Current Loans to subsidiaries 7,065,870 6,310,508 Loans to related parties 8,413 434,062 90 90 Guarantees rendered to third parties 40,862 61,884 5 Derivative financial instruments 261,894 236,174 733,209 340,270 Excess/deficit of the Pension Fund financing (see note 36) 58,724 159 Sundry debtors and other operations 74,364 48,757 444,257 780,877 7,799,328 6,650,873 Debtors and other assets Current Loans to subsidiaries 836,870 1,271,831 Loans to related parties 65,479 95,910 14,794 14,802 Receivables from the State and concessors 36,165 39,878 Derivative financial instruments 271,436 137,572 461,786 291,940 Subsidiary Companies 801,842 343,178 Guarantees rendered to third parties 6,871 6,779 Sundry debtors and other operations 63,167 38,709 11,704 3,898 443,118 318,848 2,126,996 1,925,649 887,375 1,099,725 9,926,324 8,576,522 ANNUAL REPORT 336 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Loans to subsidiaries Non-Current and Current, for the Company, mainly includes 4,295,300 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 4,332,139 thousands of Euros) of loans granted to EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A., 2,297,781 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 2,847,897 thousands of Euros) of loans granted to EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. (see note 45). Additionally, this caption include 893,616 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 65 thousands of Euros) of loans granted to EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. through EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España (see notes 45 and 50). The variation in Loans to related parties Non-Current and Current is mainly due to the conclusion of the acquisition of the remaining share capital of Porto do Pecém de Energia S.A. and the control acquisition of the ENEOP wind farms porffolio, which began to be fully consolidated. Additionally, loans granted by EDPR UK Limited to Inch Cape Offshore Limited in the amount of 25,731 thousands of Euros, were reclassified to Assets held for sale (see note 42). Sundry debtors and other operations Non-Current includes 33,717 thousands of Euros of financial assets advance payments regarding to Banzi Project by EDP Renewables Italia S.R.L. Subsidiary Companies Current, for the company, mainly includes receivables from the EDP Group's financial system in the amount of 772,630 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 297,303 thousands of Euros). 28. CURRENT TAX ASSETS Current tax assets are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Income tax 118,240 196,397 34,366 117,215 Value added tax (VAT) 179,805 154,378 51,189 20,951 Turnover tax (Brazil) 4,773 4,814 Other taxes 12,049 16,064 4,048 3,255 314,867 371,653 89,603 141,421 29. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Cash 59 32 8 Bank deposits Current deposits 395,639 518,928 15,937 13,716 Term deposits 811,691 1,958,068 397,325 1,106,015 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships 38,048 78,855 Other deposits 12 12 1,245,390 2,555,863 413,262 1,119,731 Operations pending cash settlement Current deposits 15,000 110,000 225,000 Other short term investments 43,100 1,245,449 2,613,995 523,270 1,344,731 Specific demand deposits in relation to institutional partnerships corresponds to funds required to be held in escrow sufficient to pay the remaining construction related costs of projects in institutional equity partnerships (see note 38), under the accounting policy 2 v). As at 31 December 2015, on a company basis, the caption Operations pending cash settlement relates with commercial paper issued by EDP, S.A., in the terms of Group accounting policy is booked as financial debt at the trade date of each emission. This caption of 110,000 thousands of Euros refers to commercial paper issued on 31 December 2015, acquired by EDP Finance B.V., and which settlement date occured on 5 January 2016. As at 31 December 2014, the caption Other short term investments includes very short term investments promptly convertible into cash. 30. SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM EDP, S.A. is a company that was incorporated as a State-owned company and started its privatisation process in 1997. The second and third phases of the privatisation process were carried out in 1998, the fourth phase in 2000, the fifth phase consisting of a capital increase in 2004 and a sixth phase in 2005. In December 2007, the State issued bonds convertible into shares of EDP, S.A. under the seventh phase of the privatisation process. On 11 May 2012, regarding EDP's eight reprivatisation phase, the Portuguese State sold to China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. (former CWEI (Europe), S.A.), the ownership of 780,633,782 shares representing 21.35% of the share capital of EDP, S.A. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 337 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 On 21 February 2013, Parpública – Participações Públicas (SGPS) S.A. (Parpública) notified EDP that on 19 February 2013 sold 151,517,000 shares, which correspond to 4.14% of EDP share capital. As a result of this two last transactions, Parpública no longer has a qualified shareholding position in EDP share capital. The share capital amounts of 3,656,537,715 Euros and is represented by 3,656,537,715 fully paid up ordinary shares of 1 Euro each. EDP Energias de Portugal S.A. shareholder structure as at 31 December 2015 is analysed as follows: Nr. of Shares % Capital % Voting China Three Gorges 780,633,782 21.35% 21.35% Guoxin International 110,435,491 3.02% 3.02% Capital Group Companies, Inc. 620,583,780 16.97% 16.97% Oppidum Capital, S.L. 263,046,616 7.19% 7.19% BlackRock, Inc. 182,733,180 5.00% 5.00% Senfora, BV 148,431,999 4.06% 4.06% Millennium BCP Group and Pension Fund 89,139,594 2.44% 2.44% Sonatrach 87,007,433 2.38% 2.38% Qatar Investment Authority 82,868,933 2.27% 2.27% EDP (Treasury stock) 21,424,972 0.58% Remaining shareholders 1,270,231,935 34.74% 3,656,537,715 100.00% Share capital and Share premium are analysed as follows: Group and Company Share Share Thousands of Euros capital premium Balance as at 1 January 3,656,538 503,923 Movements during the period Balance as at 31 December 3,656,538 503,923 The earnings per share (EPS) attributable to the equity holders of EDP are as follows: Group Company Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Net profit attributable to the equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 912,702,744 1,040,448,196 802,446,376 785,779,977 Net profit from continuing operations attributable to the equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 912,702,744 1,040,448,196 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 3,634,400,494 3,632,169,707 3,635,913,494 3,633,682,707 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares outstanding 3,634,400,494 3,632,219,937 3,635,913,494 3,633,732,937 Basic earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 0.25 0.29 Diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP (in Euros) 0.25 0.29 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations (in Euros) 0.25 0.29 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (in Euros) 0.25 0.29 EDP Group calculates basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders of EDP using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, net of changes in treasury stock during the period. The average number of shares was determined as follows: Group Company Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Ordinary shares issued at the beginning of the period 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 Effect of shares issued during the period Average number of realised shares 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 3,656,537,715 Effect of treasury stock -22,137,221 -24,368,008 -20,624,221 -22,855,008 Average number of shares during the period 3,634,400,494 3,632,169,707 3,635,913,494 3,633,682,707 Effect of stock options 50,230 50,230 Diluted average number of shares during the period 3,634,400,494 3,632,219,937 3,635,913,494 3,633,732,937 ANNUAL REPORT 338 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 31. TREASURY STOCK This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Book value of EDP, S.A. treasury stock (thousands of Euros) 62,691 69,931 56,596 63,836 Number of shares 21,424,972 23,488,399 19,911,972 21,975,399 Market value per share (in Euros) 3.321 3.218 3.321 3.218 Market value of EDP, S.A.'s treasury stock (thousands of Euros) 71,152 75,586 66,128 70,717 Operations performed from 1 January to 31 December 2015: EDP, S.A. Energia RE Volume acquired (number of shares) 2,416,650 Average purchase price (in Euros) 3.249 Total purchase value (thousands of Euros) 7,852 Volume sold (number of shares) -4,480,077 Average selling price (in Euros) 3.480 Total sale value (thousands of Euros) 15,591 Final position (number of shares) 19,911,972 1,513,000 Highest market price (in Euros) 3.731 Lowest market price (in Euros) 2.975 Average market price (in Euros) 3.370 The treasury stock held by EDP, S.A. is within the limits established by the Company's articles of association and by the Código das Sociedades Comerciais (Companies Commercial Code). The treasury stock is stated at acquisition cost. 32. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Legal reserve 698,902 659,613 698,902 659,613 Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) -73,866 -62,953 -8,216 -17,157 Tax effect of fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) 17,562 15,172 2,384 5,019 Fair value reserve (available for sale investments) 61,565 46,977 21,762 14,783 Tax effect of fair value reserve (available for sale investments) -2,186 899 2,283 4,338 Exchange differences arising on consolidation -392,097 -133,300 Treasury stock reserve (EDP, S.A.) 56,596 63,836 56,596 63,836 Other reserves and retained earnings 3,292,826 2,960,243 1,619,613 1,538,131 3,659,302 3,550,487 2,393,324 2,268,563 Legal reserve In accordance with Article 295 of Código das Sociedades Comerciais (Companies Commercial Code) and EDP, S.A.'s articles of association, the legal reserve must be increased by a minimum of 5% of the annual profit until it reaches 20% of the company’s share capital. This reserve can only be used to cover losses or to increase share capital. Fair value reserve (cash flow hedge) This reserve includes the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of the cash flow hedging financial derivative instruments. During 2015, with the acquisition of full control of Porto do Pecém and the 12 companies from ENEOP, the amounts previously recognised under fair value reserve (cash flow hedge), regarding the shareholding previously held, were recognised in results, as referred in note 53. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 339 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Fair value reserve (available-for-sale investments) This reserve includes the accumulated net change in the fair value of available-for-sale investments as at the balance sheet date, net of impairment losses. The changes in this consolidated caption for the period are as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Increases Decreases Balance as at 1 January 2014 536,272 -455,653 Changes in fair value 9,254 -43,775 Transfer of impairment to profit or loss 1,253 Transfer to the income statement relating to assets sold -374 Balance as at 31 December 2014 545,152 -498,175 Changes in fair value 18,663 -26,908 Changes in perimeter 1,042 Transfer of impairment to profit or loss 21,996 Transfer to the income statement relating to assets sold -205 Balance as at 31 December 2015 564,652 -503,087 Changes in fair value reserve attributable to the EDP Group during the period ended 31 December 2015 are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros Increases Decreases Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 6,089 -24,247 Zephyr Fund (Energia RE portfolio) 694 REN Redes Energéticas Nacionais, SGPS, S.A. 6,971 Tejo Energia, S.A. -2,486 Others 4,909 -175 18,663 -26,908 Exchange differences on consolidation Exchange differences on consolidation includes the amounts resulting from changes in the value of shareholder's equity of subsidiary, joint ventures and associated companies resulting from changes in exchange rates. The exchange rates used in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: Exchange rates Exchange rates at Dec 2015 at Dec 2014 Average Average Closing exchange Closing exchange Currency rates rate rates rate US Dollar USD 1.089 1.110 1.214 1.329 Brazilian Real BRL 4.312 3.699 3.221 3.122 Macao Pataca MOP 8.691 8.862 9.700 10.615 Canadian Dollar CAD 1.512 1.419 1.406 1.466 Zloty PLN 4.264 4.184 4.273 4.184 Romanian Leu RON 4.524 4.446 4.483 4.444 Pound Sterling GBP 0.734 0.726 0.779 0.806 Rand ZAR 16.953 14.172 14.035 14.404 Mexican Peso MXN 18.915 17.617 Chinese yuan CNY 7.061 7.039 During 2015, with full control of Porto do Pecém, the amount previously recognised under exchange diferences, regarding the shareholding previously held, were recognised in results, as referred in note 53. Treasury stock reserve (EDP, S.A.) In accordance with the article 324.º of Código das Sociedades Comerciais , EDP, S.A., has created an unavailable reserve with an amount equal to the book value amount of treasury stock held. Dividends On 21 April 2015, the Shareholders General Meeting of EDP, S.A. approved the dividends distribution to shareholders of the net profit for the year 2014 in the amount of 676,459 thousands of Euros, corresponding to a dividend of 0.185 Euros per share (including the treasury stock dividend owned by EDP, S.A. and Energia RE in the amount of 3,871 thousands of Euros and 280 thousands of Euros, respectively). This distribution occurred on 14 May 2015. ANNUAL REPORT 340 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 33. NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Non-controlling interests in income statement 334,439 223,362 Non-controlling interests in equity and reserves 3,117,279 3,064,317 3,451,718 3,287,679 Non-controlling interests, by subgroup, are made up as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 EDP Renováveis Group 2,203,157 1,811,426 EDP Brasil Group 1,107,100 1,345,246 Other 141,461 131,007 3,451,718 3,287,679 During 2015, EDP Group generated profits of 334,439 thousands of Euros attributable to non-controlling interests (31 December 2014: 223,362 thousands of Euros). The movement in non-controlling interests of EDP Renováveis Group is mainly related to: (i) profits attributable to non-controlling interests of 114,417 thousands of Euros; (ii) a negative impact of 51,025 thousands of Euros related to dividends attributable to noncontrolling interests; (iii) a positive impact of 26,046 thousands of Euros resulting from exchange differences; (iv) a negative impact resulting from share capital increases/decreases of 45,162 thousands of Euros; (v) acquisition without change of control of EDPR Spain subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests with a negative impact of 59,131 thousands of Euros (see note 5); (vi) sale without loss of control of EDPR NA subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests with a positive effect of 345,053 thousands of Euros (see note 5); and (vii) sale without loss of control of EDPR Brasil subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests with a positive effect of 50,943 thousands of Euros (see note 5). The movement booked in non-controlling interests of EDP Brasil Group includes: (i) 206,539 thousands of Euros of profits attributable to non-controlling interests; (ii) a decrease of 329,016 thousands of Euros resulting from exchange differences; (iii) a negative impact of 92,143 thousands of Euros related to dividends attributable to non-controlling interests; (iv) a negative impact of 10,254 thousands of Euros from actuarial losses net of taxes recognised; and (v) a negative impact of 12,732 thousands of Euros arising from the control gaining of Porto do Pecém, in accordance with the accounting treatment of a step acquisition, the amounts previously recognised in reserves related to exchange differences and fair value reserve were recognised in EDP Group results (see note 53). 34. HYDROLOGICAL ACCOUNT The movements in the Hydrological account are analysed as follows: Group and Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 1,010 35,641 Amounts received/(paid) during the period 10,142 -35,641 Financial charges 265 1,010 Balance at the end of the period 11,417 1,010 The hydrological account was established by Decree-law 338/91 and consists of a legal mechanism for compensating the variable costs of generating electricity. The hydrological account was set up in 1994 when the actual EDP Group was owned by the State, through a charge against the income statement. In 2000, through a spin-off of EDP, REN was set up, and new regulations were issued (through Decree-law 98/2000) which reinforced and maintained the requirement to keep the hydrological account in EDP’s statement of financial position. As explained above, REN was part of the EDP Group until 2000. Thus, the entries in the hydrological correction account were made within the EDP Group. Since the split of REN in June 2000, EDP, S.A. (the Group parent company) has paid to or received cash from REN, which is booked against the hydrological correction account in the statement of financial position and the related financial charges are booked in the income statement. REN uses the amounts received or paid to compensate the operators in the liberalised market, in accordance with the objectives of the hydrological correction account as explained above. In October 2010 it was issued the Decree-Law 110/2010, which determines the extinction of the hydrological account mechanism on 31 December 2016. The differential of hydrological adjustment should be reflected in the tariff calculation applicable to all energy consumers, to cover the variation risk of tariff costs and revenues associated to the hydrological variability in Portugal. This decree regulates that the account of hydrological correction should be maintained in the statement of financial position of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. and the correspondent annual movements explained in the notes to the financial statements. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 341 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 According to the publication of 2015 Tarifs by ERSE ( Income and adjustments allowed for 2015 of regulated electricity companies ), the amount received through global system use tariff in 2015 is 10,142 thousands of Euros. As at 31 December 2015, this caption corresponds to the amount above referred, plus the financial charges related to 2015 and 2014 (which amounts 1,275 thousands of Euros). As at 31 December 2014, the amount were exclusively related to financial charges. 35. FINANCIAL DEBT This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Debts and borrowings Non-current Bank loans: EDP, S.A. 413,002 976,269 422,115 985,944 EDP Finance B.V. 2,336,111 2,643,765 EDP Brasil Group 766,476 108,641 EDP Renováveis Group 935,218 742,723 EDP Produção 82,906 89,342 Others 21,329 25,506 4,555,042 4,586,246 422,115 985,944 Non-convertible bond loans: EDP, S.A. 300,000 450,000 8,150,000 5,800,000 EDP Finance B.V. 9,202,141 10,320,906 EDP Brasil Group 432,452 449,394 9,934,593 11,220,300 8,150,000 5,800,000 Hybrid bond: EDP, S.A. 739,147 739,147 739,147 739,147 Commercial paper: EDP, S.A. 229,632 402,728 229,632 402,728 229,632 402,728 229,632 402,728 Other loans: Investco preference shares 11,986 15,657 EDP Brasil Group 7,462 13,997 EDP Renováveis Group 1,138 9,861 Others 83 454 20,669 39,969 15,479,083 16,249,243 9,540,894 7,188,672 Accrued interest 3,033 Other liabilities: Fair value of the issued debt hedged risk 171,760 151,584 Total Debt and borrowings 15,653,876 16,400,827 9,540,894 7,188,672 Collateral Deposits Non-current (*) Collateral deposit EIB -311,990 -311,990 Other collateral deposits -66,855 -76,818 Total Collateral Deposits -66,855 -388,808 -311,990 15,587,021 16,012,019 9,540,894 6,876,682 ANNUAL REPORT 342 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Debt and borrowings Current Bank loans: EDP, S.A. 69,770 74,100 69,770 74,100 EDP Finance B.V. 199,789 796,733 EDP Brasil Group 83,241 173,697 EDP Renováveis Group 134,728 144,023 Others 9,955 13,775 497,483 1,202,328 69,770 74,100 Non-convertible bond loans: EDP, S.A. 247,019 247,019 EDP Finance B.V. 2,248,970 1,581,236 EDP Brasil Group 108,036 218,943 EDP Renováveis Group 29,497 2,357,006 2,076,695 247,019 Commercial paper: EDP, S.A. 418,352 183,000 1,633,352 3,225,000 HC Energia Group 47,372 418,352 230,372 1,633,352 3,225,000 Other loans 14,669 10,733 3,287,510 3,520,128 1,703,122 3,546,119 Accrued interest 329,154 371,468 100,360 81,319 Other liabilities: Fair value of the issued debt hedged risk 5,760 1,207 Total Debt and borrowings 3,616,664 3,897,356 1,803,482 3,628,645 Collateral Deposits Current (*) Collateral deposit EIB -22,507 -22,507 Other collateral deposits -13,060 -17,855 Total Collateral Deposits -13,060 -40,362 -22,507 3,603,604 3,856,994 1,803,482 3,606,138 (*) Collateral Deposits informative note Following EDP's downgrade in 2012 and in the course of negotiations with EIB, on 31 October 2012 EDP constituted an escrow deposit which amount at 31 December 2014 was 334,497 thousands of Euros (311,990 thousands of Euros non-current and 22,507 thousands of Euros current), associated with several loans contracted in previous years with this entity. In October 2015, after further negotiations, EIB allowed the full release of this escrow deposit. In addition, the Group has 79,915 thousands of Euros (66,855 thousands of Euros non-current and 13,060 thousands of Euros current) of other deposits constituted as collateral for financial guarantee. Commercial Paper non-current refers to a Commercial Paper program with a firm underwriting commitment for a period of over one year, in the amount of 250,000 thousands of US Dollars. Main events of the period: i) Impact of changes in the scope of consolidation Following the acquisition of the remaining investment in Porto do Pecém, which began to be fully consolidated, Financial debt as at 31 December 2015 includes an amount of 513,696 thousands of Euros (463,744 thousands of Euros non-current and 49,952 thousands of Euros current) and Collateral deposits include an amount of 4,726 thousands of Euros. Following the asset slip process of ENEOP consortium in Portugal, the Group took control of an agreed wind farm portfolio. These wind farms have been consolidated by the full method, which resulted in an increase in Financial debt as at 31 December 2015 in the amount of 240,708 thousands of Euros (221,805 thousands of Euros non-current and 18,903 thousands of Euros current). Additionally, Collateral deposits include 8,690 thousands of Euros. ii) Financing and refinancing transactions In February 2015, EDP Finance B.V. signed a five-year credit facility of 2,000,000 thousands of Euros with a syndicate of 16 international banks that was used to early repay a term loan signed in January 2013 of 1,600,000 thousands of Euros and which would mature in January 2017 (50%) and January 2018 (50%). The new facility includes a 500,000 thousands of Euros Revolving Credit Facility Tranche (fully available at 31 December 2015). In April 2015, EDP issued a Eurobond of 750,000 thousands of Euros maturing in April 2025. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 343 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 In September 2015, EDP issued a non-callable up to 5.5 years subordinated bond in the amount of 750,000 thousands of Euros, with final maturity date in September 2075. The nominal value of outstanding Bond loans placed with external counterparts, as at 31 December 2015, is analysed as follows: Nominal Issue Interest Type Conditions/ Value in Issuer date rate of hedge Redemption Million Thousands of Euros Currency Group Company Issued by EDP S.A. EDP, S.A. (ii) May/08 Variable rate (iii) n.a. May/18 300 EUR 300,000 300,000 300,000 300,000 Hybrid by EDP S.A. EDP, S.A. (iv) Sep/15 Fixed rate EUR 5.375% (v) n.a. Sep/75 750 EUR 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000 Issued under the Euro Medium Term Notes program EDP Finance B.V. (i) Aug/02 Fixed rate GBP 6.625% Fair Value Aug/17 200 GBP 320,000 EDP Finance B.V. Dec/02 Fixed rate EUR (iii) n.a. Dec/22 94 EUR 93,357 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Jun/05 Fixed rate EUR 4.125% n.a. Jun/20 300 EUR 300,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/06 Fixed rate EUR 4.625% n.a. Jun/16 500 EUR 500,000 EDP Finance B.V. Nov/07 Fixed rate USD 6.00% Net Investment Feb/18 1,000 USD 918,527 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/08 Fixed rate GBP 8.625% Fair Value Jan/24 325 GBP 410,314 EDP Finance B.V. Nov/08 Zero coupon EUR (iii) n.a. Nov/23 160 EUR 160,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Jun/09 Fixed rate JPY (iii) n.a. Jun/19 10,000 JPY 96,050 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/09 Fixed rate EUR 4.75% n.a. Sep/16 1,000 EUR 1,000,000 EDP Finance B.V. Sep/09 Fixed rate USD 4.90% Net Investment Oct/19 1,000 USD 918,527 EDP Finance B.V. Feb/11 Fixed Rate EUR 5.875% n.a. Feb/16 750 EUR 750,000 EDP Finance B.V. Sep/12 Fixed Rate EUR 5.75% n.a. Sep/17 750 EUR 750,000 Fair Value/ EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/12 Fixed Rate CHF 4.00% Cash Flow Nov/18 125 CHF 103,922 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Sep/13 Fixed Rate EUR 4.875% Fair Value Sep/20 750 EUR 750,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/13 Fixed Rate EUR 4.125% Fair Value Jan/21 600 EUR 600,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jan/14 Fixed Rate USD 5.25% Net Investment Jan/21 750 USD 688,895 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Apr/14 Fixed Rate EUR 2.625% Fair Value Apr/19 650 EUR 650,000 EDP Finance B.V. Jun/14 Variable rate (iii) Net Investment Jun/19 100 USD 91,853 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Sep/14 Fixed Rate EUR 2.625% Fair Value Jan/22 1,000 EUR 1,000,000 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Nov/14 Fixed Rate EUR 4.125% Net Investment Jan/20 750 USD 688,895 EDP Finance B.V. (i) Apr/15 Fixed Rate EUR 2.00% Fair Value Apr/25 750 EUR 750,000 11,540,340 Issued by the EDP Energias do Brasil Group in the Brazilian domestic market Bandeirante Jul/10 CDI + 1.50% n.a. Jul/16 156 BRL 36,181 Energest Apr/12 CDI + 0.98% n.a. Apr/17 120 BRL 27,831 Energias do Brasil Apr/13 CDI + 0.55% n.a. Apr/16 250 BRL 57,982 Lajeado Energia Nov/13 CDI + 1.20% n.a. Nov/19 450 BRL 104,367 Bandeirante Apr/14 CDI + 1.39% n.a. Apr/19 300 BRL 69,578 Escelsa Aug/14 CDI + 1.50% n.a. Aug/20 177 BRL 41,005 Energias do Brasil Oct/15 IPCA + 8.3201% n.a. Sep/21 183 BRL 42,488 Energias do Brasil Oct/15 CDI + 1.74% n.a. Sep/18 664 BRL 154,058 Energias do Brasil Oct/15 IPCA + 8.2608% n.a. Sep/24 49 BRL 11,353 544,843 13,135,183 1,050,000 (i) These issues by EDP Finance B.V. are associated with interest rate swaps and/or currency swaps. (ii) Fixed in each year, varies over the useful life of the loan. (iii) These issues correspond to private placements. (iv) There is a call option exercisable at par by EDP at March 2021, March 2026 and subsequently on each date of interest payment. (v) Fixed rate in the first 5.5 years, subsequently updated every 5 years. EDP Group has various credit facilities it uses for liquidity management. EDP Group has short-term credit facilities of 357,000 thousands of Euros, indexed to Euribor for the agreed period of use with spread conditions agreed in advance, and with a firm underwriting commitment, which as at 31 December 2015 are totally available. Also EDP Group has Commercial Paper programs of 100,000 thousands of Euros with guaranteed placement, being fully available as at 31 December 2015. EDP Group has a medium term Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) of 3,150,000 thousands of Euros, with a firm underwriting commitment and maturing in 2019 and a RCF of 500,000 thousands of Euros, with a firm underwriting commitment and maturing in 2020, which as at 31 December 2015 are totally available. ANNUAL REPORT 344 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As at 31 December 2015, future debt and borrowings payments and interest by type of loan and currency are analysed as follows: Following Thousands of Euros 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 years Total Bank loans: Euro 392,938 333,317 316,389 122,639 1,614,446 584,466 3,364,195 Brazilian Real 77,537 117,088 156,781 108,396 72,016 279,978 811,796 US Dollar 3,303 481,046 484,349 Others 43,911 39,451 37,634 38,392 37,264 218,950 415,602 517,689 489,856 510,804 750,473 1,723,726 1,083,394 5,075,942 Bond loans: Euro 2,462,908 1,031,632 417,185 652,675 1,078,639 2,828,942 8,471,981 Brazilian Real 124,920 153,562 147,847 79,275 30,563 21,206 557,373 US Dollar 64,057 917,129 1,082,114 684,508 980,898 3,728,706 2,651,885 1,185,194 1,482,161 1,814,064 1,793,710 3,831,046 12,758,060 Hybrid Bond: Euro 11,785 739,147 750,932 11,785 739,147 750,932 Commercial paper: Euro 420,636 420,636 US Dollar 229,632 229,632 420,636 229,632 650,268 Other loans: Euro 9,191 1,221 10,412 Brazilian Real 5,478 2,710 1,985 1,644 727 12,382 24,926 14,669 3,931 1,985 1,644 727 12,382 35,338 3,616,664 1,678,981 1,994,950 2,795,813 3,518,163 5,665,969 19,270,540 As at 31 December 2014, future debt and borrowings payments and interest by type of loan and currency are analysed as follows: Following Thousands of Euros 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 years Total Bank loans: Euro 791,607 796,490 1,135,159 1,112,061 122,267 572,161 4,529,745 Brazilian Real 155,090 26,728 26,494 26,134 5,297 6,458 246,201 US Dollar 250,986 432,419 683,405 Others 71,937 41,158 32,716 29,775 30,681 190,248 396,515 1,269,620 864,376 1,194,369 1,167,970 590,664 768,867 5,855,866 Bond loans: Euro 1,974,049 2,250,000 1,037,778 554,072 657,755 3,071,596 9,545,250 Brazilian Real 279,652 144,689 102,459 94,807 87,170 20,270 729,047 US Dollar 131,067 823,655 992,150 1,535,483 3,482,355 2,384,768 2,394,689 1,140,237 1,472,534 1,737,075 4,627,349 13,756,652 Commercial paper: Euro 232,234 196,814 429,048 US Dollar 205,914 205,914 232,234 196,814 205,914 634,962 Other loans: Euro 2,995 9,135 956 224 13,310 Brazilian Real 7,739 4,446 3,629 2,658 1,781 17,140 37,393 10,734 13,581 4,585 2,658 1,781 17,364 50,703 3,897,356 3,469,460 2,339,191 2,643,162 2,535,434 5,413,580 20,298,183 Some of the loans contracted by the EDP Group, mainly debt issued under the EMTN programme include some clauses that are usual for this type of operations, namely, change-of-control , negative pledge pari-passu and cross-default , each referring to a resctricted set of circumstances. The Group has project finance loans with the usual guarantees for such loans, namely pledges or promissory pledges over shares, bank accounts and assets relating to the projects. As at 31 December 2015 and 2014 these loans amounted to 1,609,375 thousands of Euros (including 516,569 thousands of Euros of nominal debt of Porto do Pecém and 240,702 thousands of Euros of nominal debt of wind farms of ENEOP consortium) and 993,409 thousands of Euros, respectively (see note 44). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 345 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The fair value of EDP Group’s debt is analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Carrying Market Carrying Market Thousands of Euros amount value amount value Debt and borrowings Non-Current 15,653,876 16,291,289 16,400,827 17,585,217 Debt and borrowings Current 3,616,664 3,397,597 3,897,356 3,606,383 19,270,540 19,688,886 20,298,183 21,191,600 In accordance with accounting policies note 2 d) and f), the financial liabilities whose risks are being hedged by derivative financial instruments and that comply with hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39, are accounted at fair value. The financial liabilities are booked at amortised cost. For fair value of debt purposes, the Hybrid bond was valued considering the maturity of the first call date (March 2021). 36. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Employee benefits are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Provisions for social liabilities and benefits 883,447 930,291 13,303 1,346 Provisions for medical liabilities and other benefits 940,046 949,982 9,871 1,823,493 1,880,273 23,174 1,346 This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Non-Current 1,647,730 1,682,988 22,828 1,346 Current 175,763 197,285 346 1,823,493 1,880,273 23,174 1,346 As at 31 December 2015, Provisions for social liabilities and benefits include 882,269 thousands of Euros related to retirement pension defined benefit plans (31 December 2014: 927,141 thousands of Euros) and 1,178 thousands of Euros related to the estimated cost of services rendered by third parties under the human resources rationalisation program (31 December 2014: 3,150 thousands of Euros). The movement in Provisions for social liabilities and benefits is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 930,291 960,356 Charge for the period 27,641 33,959 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) 11,180 Actuarial (gains)/losses 35,569 80,376 Charge-off -166,908 -153,203 Surplus / (Deficit) pension funding (see note 27) 58,724 Transfers, reclassifications and exchange differences -1,870 -2,377 Balance at the end of the period 883,447 930,291 The breakdown of actuarial gains and losses is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Actuarial gains and losses arising from: changes in demographic assumptions 1,072 727 changes in financial assumptions 21,924 116,252 experience adjustments 19,173 663 Actuarial gains and losses arising from return on plan assets -6,560 -39,871 Actuarial gains and losses of asset ceiling -40 2,605 35,569 80,376 ANNUAL REPORT 346 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The movement in Provisions for medical liabilities and other benefits is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 949,982 974,179 Charge for the period 38,104 47,495 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) -91,766 Actuarial (gains)/losses 26,190 61,898 Charge-off -44,967 -44,861 Transfers, reclassifications and exchange differences -29,263 3,037 Balance at the end of the period 940,046 949,982 The breakdown of actuarial gains and losses is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Actuarial gains and losses arising from: changes in financial assumptions 2,444 111,778 experience adjustments 23,746 -49,880 26,190 61,898 In accordance with accounting policies note 2 n), the EDP Group opted, upon transition to IFRS, to charge to reserves, the total amount of the deferred actuarial losses existing at that date, for the several employee benefits plans. The impact on reserves at 31 December 2004 amounted to 1,162,000 thousands of Euros. In the following years the actuarial gains and losses of these plans were booked directly in reserves. As at 31 December 2015 were recognised losses of 61,759 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 142,274 thousands of Euros). On 16 July of 2014, EDP Group formalised and concluded the signature of the new agreement that had been intensely negotiated since September 2012 with the several unions representing its employees, namely the new Collective Labour Agreement (ACT 2014), that covers the 23 companies over which it exercises control, based in Portugal. This agreement covers approximately 6,700 employees of EDP Group in Portugal. On 30 June 2014, the relevant aspects of the New ACT 2014 were already concluded and agreed, including among others, the following main changes in comparison with the previous collective agreement in force, with impact in the future liabilities: i) Co-payment in the acquisition moment of 22,5% for the drugs not supported by the SNS (National Healthcare Service) and 24% in the specialist medical consultations; ii) 24% of the costs not included in the first bullet through a monthly payment (“mútua”); and iii) Possibility of access to early retirement if the employee has 61 years old and 37 years of service (was 60/36 years). The changes in the post-employment benefits described above are in accordance with IAS 19, a plan amendment which determines a decrease in 2014 in the present value of future liabilities. These changes were measured and recognised in the income statement in the amount of 129,020 thousands of Euros (see note 9). In the course of 2015, all EDP Group companies are covered by the referred ACT, therefore the employees were reallocated to companies that provide effective service. As at 31 December 2015, this reallocation led to a transfer of the employee benefits liability between Group companies, against receivable and payable amounts. In EDP, S.A., these liabilities amount to 20,978 thousands of Euros whose receipt is in Other receipts/(payments) relating to operating activities in Statement of Cash Flows. During 2014, under the employees' reduction program, EDP Group entered into early retirement and anticipation of early retirement agreements with Portuguese employees (160 employees of EDP Produção and EDP Distribuição) and Spanish employees (41 employees of HC Group) that will cease their services during the years 2014 and 2015. This increase in liabilities with employee benefits was measured and recognised in the income statement in the amount of 48,434 thousands of Euros (see note 9). The weighted average duration of the defined benefit liabilities in Portugal is 10 years. Employee benefit plans Some EDP Group companies grant post-retirement benefits to employees, under defined benefit and defined contribution plans, namely pension plans that pay retirement complements of age, disability and surviving pensions, as well as early retirement pensions. In some cases healthcare is provided during retirement and early retirement, through mechanisms complementary to those provided by the National Health Service. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 347 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The following is a summary of the nature of the plans and the companies covered, as well as financial and economic data of the plans: I. Defined benefit pension plans The EDP Group companies in Portugal resulting from the EDP spin-off in 1994 have a social benefits plan funded by a closed Pension Fund, complemented by a specific provision. The EDP Pension Fund is managed by an external entity as well as the management of its assets is subcontracted to external asset management entities. This Pension Fund covers the liability for retirement pension complementary benefits for age. The responsibilities for early retirement are not covered by the fund’s assets, being adequately provisioned through a specific provision. In Spain, following the revision of the collective labour agreement ( Convenio Colectivo ) signed in December 2007, HC Energia Group companies implemented an early retirement program. Bandeirante in Brazil has two defined benefit plans managed by a closed complementary welfare entity, sponsored by companies of EDP Brasil, in order to manage a set of benefit plans for employees and ex-employees of Bandeirante: DB Plan in force up to 31 March 1998, a Benefit Plan that grants Balanced Proportional Supplementary Benefits (BSPS) in the form of an annuity payable to participants enrolled until 31 March 1998, of an amount defined in proportion to accumulated past service up to that date, based on compliance with the regulatory granting requirements. The company is fully liable to fund this plan; DB plan in force after 31 March 1998, grants an annuity in proportion to the accumulated past services after 31 March 1998, on the basis of 70% of the average actual monthly wage for the last 36 months in service. In the event of death or disability caused by a labour accident, the benefits incorporate all the past service (including that accumulated up to 31 March 1998), and not only past service accumulated after 31 March 1998. The Company and the participants are equally responsible for funding the Plan. Escelsa, Bandeirante and Energest have Defined Benefit Plans that grant complementary pensions for retirement and early retirement. In the pension plans in Portugal, and according with the Pension Funds regulation, the surplus amount of the assets fund, under certain conditions, can be reimbursed to the company. In the pension plans in Brazil, the surplus amount of the assets fund generally can not be reimbursed to the company, since there are very strict rules on the amount that can be recovered, therefore the asset amount to be recognised is greatly reduced. The number of participants covered by the pension plans and similar obligations was as follows: 2015 2014 Portugal Spain Brazil Portugal Spain Brazil Number of participants: Retirees and pensioners 17,791 1,331 1,840 17,982 1,387 1,812 Active workers 4,939 1,415 1,178 5,178 1,395 1,256 22,730 2,746 3,018 23,160 2,782 3,068 The following financial and actuarial assumptions were used to calculate the liability of the EDP Group pension plans and similar obligations: Dec 2015 Portugal Spain Brazil Bandeirante Escelsa Energest Assumptions Discount rate 1.90% 2.00% 12.75% 12.75% 12.75% Salary increase rate 2.30% 3.00% 7.82% 7.82% 7.82% Pension increase rate 1.50% not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 2016 0% // Social Security salary appreciation After 2016 not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 1,4% Inflation rate 1.50% 1.75% 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% Born< 1950 TV99/01 (+1) // PERM/FMortality table AT-2000 AT-2000 AT-2000 Born>= 2000P 1950 -TV99/01 Disability table 50%EKV 80 not applicable Light Forte Muller Muller Expected % of eligible employees accepting early retirement (a) not applicable not applicable not applicable not applicable ANNUAL REPORT 348 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Dec 2014 Portugal Spain Brazil Bandeirante Escelsa Energest Assumptions Discount rate 1.90% 2.00% 12.25% 12.25% 12.25% Salary increase rate 2.30% 3.00% 6.34% 6.34% 6.34% Pension increase rate 1.50% not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 2015 0% // Social Security salary appreciation After 2015 not applicable 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% 1,4% Inflation rate 1.50% 1.75% 5.50% 5.50% 5.50% Born< 1950 TV99/01 (+1) // PERM/FMortality table AT-2000 AT-2000 AT-2000 Born>= 2000P 1950 -TV99/01 Disability table 50%EKV 80 not applicable Light Forte Muller Muller Expected % of eligible employees accepting early retirement (a) not applicable not applicable not applicable not applicable (a) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 37 years of service with at least 61 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). The assumptions used in the calculation of the liability for employees defined benefit plans, were updated considering the evolutions occurred in the financial markets during 2015. The liability for retirement pensions and related coverage for the Group is analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the period 1,693,576 94,172 191,663 1,979,411 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period -964,620 -218,359 -1,182,979 Surplus / (Deficit) pension funding 58,724 58,724 Asset ceiling 27,113 27,113 Provision at the end of the period 787,680 94,172 417 882,269 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the period 1,805,677 104,810 251,557 2,162,044 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period -992,501 -278,746 -1,271,247 Asset ceiling 36,344 36,344 Provision at the end of the period 813,176 104,810 9,155 927,141 The caption Asset ceiling refers to the unrecognised assets in the respective accounting periods. The reconciliation between the opening balance and the closing balance is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Asset ceiling at the beginning of the period 36,344 33,490 Effect of changes in restricted net assets of benefits to the asset ceiling -3,917 -1,582 Interest received or paid 3,877 4,187 Exchange differences -9,191 249 Asset ceiling at the end of the period 27,113 36,344 The evolution of the present value of the plan liability and fair value of the plan assets of the related funds is analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Provision for Pension Plans Liability at the end of the period 1,979,411 2,162,044 2,171,716 2,181,366 2,206,529 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the period -1,182,979 -1,271,247 -1,250,007 -1,281,773 -1,252,622 Surplus / (Deficit) pension funding 58,724 Asset ceiling 27,113 36,344 33,490 32,601 40,754 Provision at the end of the period 882,269 927,141 955,199 932,194 994,661 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 349 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has really occurred) for the Portugal Pension Funds are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustments for the Plan liabilities -16,902 11,260 -25,100 -25,009 -53,764 Experience adjustments for the Plan assets 16,025 34,347 64,074 32,511 -70,732 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has really occurred) for the Brazil Pension Funds are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustments for the Plan liabilities -2,271 -11,923 308 3,469 -12,478 Experience adjustments for the Plan assets -9,465 5,524 -36,750 21,032 35,706 The past service liability of the pension plans for the Group is as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the period 1,805,677 104,810 251,557 2,162,044 Current service cost 9,702 1,586 -393 10,895 Net interest on the pensions plan liability 32,590 1,682 25,996 60,268 Benefits paid -199,697 -14,905 -17,622 -232,224 Actuarial losses and gains 46,000 1,072 -4,903 42,169 Currency fluctuation -64,274 -64,274 Other -696 -73 1,302 533 Liability at the end of the period 1,693,576 94,172 191,663 1,979,411 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the period 1,858,039 89,902 223,775 2,171,716 Current service cost 11,193 -1,660 11 9,544 Net interest on the pensions plan liability 48,311 2,511 27,678 78,500 Benefits paid -196,240 -10,022 -19,826 -226,088 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) 3,050 8,130 11,180 Actuarial losses and gains 82,158 16,005 19,479 117,642 Currency fluctuation 1,299 1,299 Other -834 -56 -859 -1,749 Liability at the end of the period 1,805,677 104,810 251,557 2,162,044 The components of the consolidated net cost of this pension plans recognised during the period are as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Current service cost 9,702 1,586 -393 10,895 Operational component (see note 9) 9,702 1,586 -393 10,895 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability 14,354 1,682 710 16,746 Financial component (see note 13) 14,354 1,682 710 16,746 24,056 3,268 317 27,641 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Current service cost 11,193 -1,660 11 9,544 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) 3,050 8,130 11,180 Operational component (see note 9) 14,243 6,470 11 20,724 Net interest on the net pensions plan liability 21,805 2,511 99 24,415 Financial component (see note 13) 21,805 2,511 99 24,415 36,048 8,981 110 45,139 ANNUAL REPORT 350 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The evolution of the consolidated assets of the Pension Funds is analysed as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Pension funds Assets value at the beginning of the period 992,501 278,746 1,271,247 Group contribution 12,108 12,108 Plan participants contributions 847 847 Benefits paid -61,991 -17,405 -79,396 Interest on the pensions plan assets 18,236 25,286 43,522 Actuarial gains/(losses) 16,025 -9,465 6,560 Currency fluctuation -72,212 -72,212 Other variations -151 454 303 Assets value at the end of the period 964,620 218,359 1,182,979 The actuarial gains/losses in Brazil include the negative amount of 40 thousands of Euros (149 thousands of Reais) related to actuarial gains and losses of the asset ceiling not recognised in reserves (2014: positive in 2,605 thousands of Euros). To determine the amount of provisions for pension funds, it has been deducted from the assets funds the value of the asset ceiling of 27,113 thousands of Euros (116,905 thousands of Reais). As at 31 December 2014 the value of the asset ceiling was 36,344 thousands of Euros (117,054 thousands of Reais). Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Group Pension funds Assets value at the beginning of the period 993,423 256,584 1,250,007 Group contribution 6,579 6,579 Plan participants contributions 702 702 Benefits paid -61,775 -19,695 -81,470 Interest on the pensions plan assets 26,506 27,579 54,085 Actuarial gains/(losses) 34,347 5,524 39,871 Currency fluctuation 2,329 2,329 Other variations -856 -856 Assets value at the end of the period 992,501 278,746 1,271,247 The assets of the pension fund in Portugal are analysed as follows: Fund assets by nature Thousands of Euros Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2015 17,766 440,453 323,501 96,120 86,780 964,620 31 December 2014 11,264 471,078 376,393 56,452 77,314 992,501 Fund assets by nature % Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2015 1.84% 45.66% 33.54% 9.96% 9.00% 100.00% 31 December 2014 1.13% 47.46% 37.92% 5.69% 7.80% 100.00% The portfolio shares and bonds have a quoted market price in an active market. Properties included in the fund, that are being used by the Group amount to 68,473 thousands of Euros as at 31 December 2015 (31 December 2014: 26,901 thousands of Euros). Bonds include 9,159 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 10,887 thousands of Euros) relating to bonds issued by EDP Finance B.V. Shares include securities issued by Group companies that are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 Shares: EDP Renováveis 10,744 8,053 10,744 8,053 Pension fund assets in Brazil are analysed as follows: Fund assets by nature Thousands of Euros Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2015 185,953 28,861 866 2,679 218,359 31 December 2014 232,483 41,398 916 3,950 278,746 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 351 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Fund assets by nature % Liquidity Bonds Shares Property Other Total 31 December 2015 85.16% 13.22% 0.40% 1.22% 100.00% 31 December 2014 83.40% 14.85% 0.33% 1.42% 100.00% Assumptions regarding the discount rate The discount rates used for the EDP Group pension plan were selected based on an analysis of the rates of return available on the date for the high quality corporate bonds. Bonds with maturities and ratings considered appropriate were selected considering the amount and the periods that the benefits are expected to be paid. The real return rate on assets of the pension fund in 2015 was positive in 3.51% (2014: positive in 6.39%). As at 31 December 2015 the amount of future benefits expected to be paid, related to the activity in Portugal, Spain and Brazil, is analysed as follows: Expected future benefits to be paid Medical plan Portugal Pensions and other Total benefits 2016 195,509 32,296 227,805 2017 180,970 32,808 213,778 2018 168,144 33,444 201,588 2019 153,616 33,787 187,403 2020 141,080 34,501 175,581 2021 128,429 34,422 162,851 2022 112,329 34,852 147,181 2023 98,209 35,181 133,390 2024 85,256 35,359 120,615 2025 73,637 35,587 109,224 In 2015 and 2014, no contributions were made to the pension funds. In 2015, the pensions paid by the funds in Portugal totalled 61,991 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 61,775 thousands of Euros). Expected future benefits to be paid Other Spain Benefits 2016 8,423 2017 5,511 2018 5,786 2019 5,939 2020 4,947 2021 4,715 2022 4,689 2023 4,657 2024 4,630 2025 4,606 In 2015, the pensions paid by the Funds in Spain totalled 14,905 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 10,022 thousands of Euros). The amount of 94,172 thousands of Euros related to HC Energia Group, included in provisions for social welfare and benefits, includes 84,001 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 89,584 thousands of Euros) related with provisions for the revision of the collective labour agreement. The provision includes 10,171 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 15,226 thousands of Euros) related with responsibilities with pre-retirement before 31 December 2007. Expected future benefits to be paid Medical Other Brazil Pensions Total Plans Benefits 2016 13,351 6,240 228 19,819 2017 14,383 6,886 33 21,302 2018 15,334 7,613 76 23,023 2019 16,415 8,358 39 24,812 2020 17,466 9,184 55 26,705 2021 to 2025 104,875 60,807 93 165,775 ANNUAL REPORT 352 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The contributions made to the Pension funds in 2015 amounted to 12,108 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 6,579 thousands of Euros) and were fully paid in cash. The pensions paid by the Funds in 2015 in Brazil totalled 17,405 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 19,695 thousands of Euros). The sensitivity analysis for the Pension Plan in Portugal is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the period Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -61,203 66,197 Pension increase (0.5% movement) 381,306 -171,581 Social Security Pension increase (0.5% movement) -127,077 244,471 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 48,173 The sensitivity analysis for the Pension Plan in Brazil is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the period Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -8,987 9,837 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 2,128 II. Defined contribution pension plan EDPR Europe and HC Energia in Spain, Bandeirante in Brazil and several subsidiaries in Portugal, have defined contribution plans for their employees that complement those granted by the Social Welfare Systems, under which they pay annual contributions to these plans, calculated in accordance with the rules established in each case. III. Liability for Medical Care and Other Benefits Plans Defined Benefit Type The Group companies in Portugal resulting from the spin-off of EDP in 1994 have a Medical Care Plan which is fully covered by a provision. In Brazil, Escelsa, Energest and Investco in Brazil also have Medical and other benefits plans for retired employees which are also fully covered by provisions. In addition, EDP Group grants other benefits, supporting charges arising from responsibilities for disability benefit’s complements, death benefits, survival benefits, life insurance, antiquity and retirement benefits, power and gas tariff discounts, among others. The actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liability for Medical Care Plans are as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Portugal Brazil Portugal Brazil Assumptions Discount rate 1.90% 12.75% 1.90% 12.25% Annual increase rate of medical service costs 3.50% 11,50% (b) 3.50% 11,51% (c) Estimated administrative expenses per beneficiary per year (Euros) 238€ / year not applicable 223.8€/year not applicable Born<1950 -Born<1950 -TV99/01 TV99/01(+1) RP-2000 RP-2000 Mortality table (+1) // // Geracional Geracional Born>=1950 Born>=1950 -TV99/01 -TV99/01 Wyatt 85 Wyatt 85 Disability table 50%EKV 80 Class 1 50%EKV 80 Class 1 Expected % of eligible employees accepting early retirement (a) not applicable (a) not applicable (a) 40% of the eligible population (employees entitled to early retirement, as stated in the Collective Labour Agreement: 37 years of service with at least 61 years of age or 40 years of service at any age). (b) 11.50% in the first year, decreasing to 7% in 10 years. (c) 11.51% in the first year, decreasing to 6.55% in 10 years. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 353 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The number of participants covered by the Medical and other benefits plans is as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Portugal Brazil Portugal Brazil Number of participants Retirees and pensioners 17,782 2,459 17,973 2,397 Current employees 6,638 1,091 5,178 1,081 24,420 3,550 23,151 3,478 The evolution of the present value of the liability for Medical and other benefits for the Group is as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Provision for medical care Liability at the end of the period 940,046 949,982 974,179 994,026 819,215 Provision at the end of the period 940,046 949,982 974,179 994,026 819,215 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what really occurred) for the Portugal Medical Care Liabilities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustments for the Medical Plan liabilities 1,087 5,828 48,685 36,991 35,051 1,087 5,828 48,685 36,991 35,051 The experience adjustments (effects of the differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what really occurred) for the Brazil Medical Care Liabilities are analysed as follows: Thousands of Euros 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Experience adjustments for the Medical Plan liabilities -24,833 44,054 -42,551 -39,238 -2,469 -24,833 44,054 -42,551 -39,238 -2,469 The change of the consolidated past service liability for medical and other benefits for the Group is as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Brazil Group Portugal Brazil Group Evolution of the liability Liability at the beginning of the period 841,407 108,575 949,982 834,708 139,471 974,179 Current service cost 10,391 525 10,916 7,564 844 8,408 Net interest on the net medical liabilities and other benefits 15,833 11,355 27,188 22,264 16,823 39,087 Benefits paid -37,174 -7,793 -44,967 -37,327 -7,534 -44,861 Past service cost (Curtailment/ Plan amendments) -91,766 -91,766 Actuarial gains and losses -1,088 27,278 26,190 102,201 -40,303 61,898 Currency fluctuation -31,935 -31,935 -726 -726 Other and mútua 2,672 2,672 3,763 3,763 Liability at end of the period 832,041 108,005 940,046 841,407 108,575 949,982 Provision at end of the period 832,041 108,005 940,046 841,407 108,575 949,982 The Medical Plan liability is recognised in the Group’s accounts through provisions that fully cover the liability. The components of the consolidated net cost of this medical and other benefits plans recognised during the period are as follows: Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Portugal Brazil Group Portugal Brazil Group Current service cost 10,391 525 10,916 7,564 844 8,408 Past service cost (Curtailment/Plan amendments) -91,766 -91,766 Operational component (see note 9) 10,391 525 10,916 -84,202 844 -83,358 Net interest on the net medical liabilities and other benefits 15,833 11,355 27,188 22,264 16,823 39,087 Financial component (see note 13) 15,833 11,355 27,188 22,264 16,823 39,087 Net cost for the period 26,224 11,880 38,104 -61,938 17,667 -44,271 ANNUAL REPORT 354 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The sensitivity analysis for the Medical Care Plan in Portugal is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the period Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -59,298 66,709 Health care cost trend (0.5% movement) 20,574 -18,649 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 19,055 The sensitivity analysis for the Medical Care Plan in Brazil is analysed as follows: Liabilities at the end of the period Thousands of Euros Increase Decrease Discount rate (0.5% movement) -5,709 6,272 Mortality (increase of 1 year in expected lifetime of plan participants) 3,184 37. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Provisions for liabilities and charges are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Provision for legal and labour matters and other contingencies 75,991 69,817 Provision for customer guarantees under current operations 3,295 3,837 Provision for dismantling and decommissioning 276,072 240,630 Provision for other liabilities and charges 150,714 171,255 13,469 22,811 506,072 485,539 13,469 22,811 This caption is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Non-Current 481,439 463,975 12,207 22,540 Current 24,633 21,564 1,262 271 506,072 485,539 13,469 22,811 The changes in the Provisions for legal and labour matters and other contingencies are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 69,817 62,415 Charge for the period 25,872 23,012 Reversals -10,100 -11,819 Charge-off for the period -10,976 -11,598 Other and exchange differences 1,378 7,807 Balance at the end of the period 75,991 69,817 EDP and its subsidiaries' boards, based on the information provided by legal advisors and on the analysis of pending law suits, booked provisions to cover the losses estimated as probable, related with litigations in progress. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 355 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Provision for legal and labour matters and other contingencies includes provisions for litigation in progress and other labour contingencies, relates essentially to: i) Requests for the refund of tariff increases paid by industrial consumers of the Brazilian subsidiaries Bandeirante and Escelsa in the amount of 9,363 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 10,905 thousands of Euros). These requests result from the application of Administrative Orders DNAEE no. 38 of 27 February 1986 and no. 45 of 4 March 1986 Plano Cruzado, effective from March to November 1986; ii) In 2012, following the decision by the arbitration court, which partially accepted Terriminas' claim, and condemned EDP Produção to pay the amount of 1,329 thousands of Euros regarding the price differential for 1985 and 1986, EDP Group has booked a provision to cover this contingency. Therefore, at 31 December 2015, the estimated liability amounts to 5,608 thousands of Euros, corresponding to the initial amount updated to current prices. This process is in a foreclosure stage and an appeal was filled by EDP Produção; iii) During April 2015, ERSE has notified EDP Comercial on its decision regarding the opening of an administrative infraction proceedings, within the framework of the Energy Sector Sanctions Regime (RSSE) requesting various information. In July 2015, ERSE sent a statement of objections to EDP Comercial whose response with defense arguments was prepared and submitted within the deadlines set by law. On 10 December 2015, ERSE issued a decision condemning EDP Comercial to a fine of 7,500 thousands of Euros. It was decided to appeal the decision within the legal deadline set for this purpose, has been booked a provision in the amount concerned; and iv) The remaining legal litigations correspond mainly to indemnities for fires, interruption of electricity supply, electrocution, as well as for other damages caused. In accordance with IFRS 3, in the course of an acquisition, the acquiring company must recognise, at the acquisition date, a contingent liability for the present obligations resulting from past events which fair value can be reliably measured. In the acquisition of control of Porto do Pecém, the Board identified a contingency under these circumstances which estimated responsibility amounts to 5,043 thousands of Euros (21,745 thousands of Reais) as at 31 December 2015 (see note 53). The movement in Provision for customer guarantees under current operations is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 3,837 12,679 Reversals -66 Charge-off for the period -2,214 -3,380 Other and exchange differences 1,672 -5,396 Balance at the end of the period 3,295 3,837 Provisions for customer guarantees under current operations include essentially provisions for commercial losses. The movement in Provision for dismantling and decommissioning is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 240,630 164,141 Changes in the perimeter 8,946 Unwinding 7,145 8,233 Charge for the period 290 Increase of the responsibility 15,973 67,939 Decrease of the responsibility -7 -312 Reversals -1,746 -1,018 Other and exchange differences 4,841 1,647 Balance at the end of the period 276,072 240,630 ANNUAL REPORT 356 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As at 31 December 2015, Provision for dismantling and decommissioning includes the following situations: i) The Group holds a provision of 35,471 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 34,682 thousands of Euros) to cover the cost of dismantling the Trillo Nuclear Plant from the final close down until its transfer to Enresa, the company that will dismantle it. The assumptions used in the calculation of the provision include an inflation rate of 1.80% and a discount rate of 2.25%.Enresa has the responsibility of decommissioning nuclear power plants, as well as of treating and accommodating radioactive waste, within three years after the conclusion of the operational activity of nuclear power plants; ii) Provisions for dismantling of wind farms of 117,228 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 96,676 thousands of Euros) to cover the costs of returning the sites to their original state, of which 60,114 thousands of Euros refer to the wind farms of the EDPR NA Group, 56,351 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR EU Group, 484 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR Brasil Group and 279 thousands of Euros to the wind farms of the EDPR Canada Group.The assumptions used when computing these provisions consider: (i) an average per MW cost of decommissioning of 14,000 Euros in Europe and 22,045 Euros in the U.S.A. (31 December 2014: 19,768 Euros); (ii) a salvage value of 41,000 Euros in Europe and 32,148 Euros in the U.S.A. (31 December 2014: 28,828 Euros); (iii) a discount rate between 1.90% and 2.50% in Europe and between 3.85% and 5% in the U.S.A.; (iv) an inflation rate of 1.75% and 1.85% in Europe and 2.5% in the U.S.A., and (v) an original capitalization period of 25 years; and iii) Under the current and future social/economical trends and the practices followed by the EDP Group in matters of sustainability and environment, the Group accounts for provisions to cover the costs with the decommissioning, dismantlement and environmental rehabilitation of electric power plants. As at 31 December 2015, the provision amounts 79,455 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 68,015 thousands of Euros) and 42,100 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 41,258 thousands of Euros) for the electric power plants located in Portugal and Spain, respectively. According to accounting policy referred in note 2 o), these provisions are calculated at the present value of the future liability and are accounted against an increase in property, plant and equipment and are depreciated on a straight line basis over the average useful life of the assets. The calculation of these provisions was based on an inflation rate between 1.75% and 1.85% and discount rates between 0.11% and 2.5%. The movement in Provision for other liabilities and charges for is analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period 171,255 142,435 22,811 22,150 Charge for the period 23,935 47,433 2,207 1,870 Reversals -22,195 -5,448 -12,088 -888 Charge-off for the period -8,234 -19,551 -414 -1,339 Other and exchange differences -14,047 6,386 953 1,018 Balance at the end of the period 150,714 171,255 13,469 22,811 As part of the institutional collaboration between EDM Eletricidade de Moçambique E.P and EDP, was agreed in 2012 the rehabilitation and the conversion of 2 gas turbines of 16 MW decommissioned from Tunes Thermoelectric plant to be installed in Chokwé Mozambique in open cycle mode. In 2014, EDM requested the transfer of the project to the Nacala area, passing the turbines working on diesel. It is estimated that from this conversion may result a negative impact of 8,006 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 4,561 thousands of Euros). In the course of its normal activity, EDP Group subsidiaries are involved in several litigations and contingencies (of possible risk) of administrative, civil, tax, labour and other natures. These legal, arbitration or other actions, involve customers, suppliers, employees, administrative, central, municipal, tax, environmental or other authorities. In EDP Group's opinion and its legal advisors the risk of a loss in these actions is not probable and the outcome will not affect on a material way its consolidated financial position. The processes whose losses were considered as possible, do not require the recognition of provisions and are periodically reassessed. The detail of possible contingencies is analised as follows: Dec 2015 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries based in based in based in Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Total Administrative and Civil 53,881 3,954 191,700 249,535 Fiscal 93,020 1,413 249,838 344,271 Others 15,905 314 22,464 38,683 162,806 5,681 464,002 632,489 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 357 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Dec 2014 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries based in based in based in Thousands of Euros Portugal Spain Brazil Total Administrative and Civil 8,670 9,566 138,418 156,654 Fiscal 104,302 4,408 260,348 369,058 Others 7,588 105 27,387 35,080 120,560 14,079 426,153 560,792 The possible contingencies more relevant in Portugal, are as follows: i) EDP Produção has several judicial claims arising from an alleged incorrect application of social security contribution rates below the maximum for employees covered by pre-retirement agreements, in the amount of 4,194 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 4,192 thousands of Euros); ii) EDP Produção, EDP Distribuição and EDP Serviço Universal have several lawsuits of civil nature associated with claims for property and non-property damage in the amount of 11,586 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 3,000 thousands of Euros); iii) Within EDP Distribuição there is a contingency regarding the liability for the costs of the works for the installation and supply of electricity distribution grids, including public illumination, with respect to the urbanistic reconversion and intervention area in Parque Expo 98. In this context, Parque Expo 98 argues that, between 1996 and 2014, it has supported the costs, in the amount of 26,519 thousands of Euros, being such responsibility of EDP Distribuição. In November 2015, Parque Expo 98 addressed EDP Distribuição a separate judicial notice, in order to interrupt the limitation period (which would occur 20 years from the date of the referred agreement); iv) There is a civil judicial proceeding in Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana resulting from inconsistencies of interpretation of the exploration agreement of hydroelectric plant of Alqueva and Pedrógão, entered into with EDIA. In particular, regarding the determining of the investment made with the construction of power increase of Alqueva for the effects of adjustment of the annual financial compensation foreseen in the agreement. As at 31 December 2015, the contingency amounts approximately to 7,000 thousands of Euros; v) There is a tax judicial process, in EDP S.A., resulting from an external inspection work done by the Tax Authority for 2003, which proposed a number of corrections to taxable income of companies included in the EDP S.A. tax group. EDP S.A. does not agree with most of the proposed corrections and, as a parent company of the companies' Group taxed under the Special Taxation of Corporate Groups Scheme (RETGS), presented a legal appeal contesting several corrections, being the most relevant concerning with the incorrect attribution of profits of a subsidiary to EDP International SGPS. As at 31 December 2015, the tax contingency associated with this adjustment, classified as possible, amounts to 45,154 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 43,289 thousands of Euros); vi) EDP S.A., EDP Distribuição and EDP Produção have a tax judicial process resulting from an external inspection work done by the Tax Authority for 2001, which proposed a number of corrections to the taxable income of these companies. EDP S.A. does not agree with most of the proposed corrections and, as a parent company of the companies' Group taxed under the RETGS, presented a legal appeal contesting several corrections, being the most relevant correction associated with the classification of the costs incurred with medical care as socially useful procedures. As at 31 December 2015, the tax contingency associated with this adjustment, classified as possible, amounts to 10,440 thousands of Euros; and vii) During April 2015, ERSE has notified EDP Distribuição about the resolution regarding the opening of the administrative infraction proceedings, within the framework of the Energy Sector Sanctions Regime (RSSE) requesting several information (without further developments until the present moment). As at 31 December 2015, legal advisers and the Board recognise that this contingency seems to be possible, notwithstanding, in view of the investigation phase of the proceedings and the lack of case law in this matter, at this date the respective risk value is uncertain. ANNUAL REPORT 358 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The possible contingencies more relevant in Brazil, are as follows: i) Bandeirante is involved in a lawsuit with the client White Martins, S.A. in the amount of 30,020 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 33,495 thousands of Euros), on the alleged existence of reflex effects of the Administrative Order 38/86 and 45/86 of the extinguished DNAEE, in the electricity tariff charged between 1986 and 2000. EDP Group classifies the risk of loss of this lawsuit as possible, considering that the customer complaint has no legal basis, in accordance with existing jurisprudence with regard to such complaints. In June 2015, the decision was favorable to Bandeirante. As White Martins, SA is still entitled to appeal against this decision, this contingency has been maintained as possible; ii) Investco is involved in a legal action of a civil nature mostly related with indemnity claims resulting from the filling of the hydroelectric reservoir, in the amount of 26,093 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 28,944 thousands of Euros); iii) Escelsa is involved in several legal action of a labour nature mostly related with overtime payment, life-threatening and reintegration in the amount of 11,331 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 14,545 thousands of Euros); iv) There is a public civil action filed against Bandeirante and Escelsa by ADIC – Associação de Defesa dos Interesses Colectivos, claiming a compensation arising from a tariff readjustment on part A from 43 concessionaires. The estimated value attributable to Bandeirante and Escelsa amounts to 28,981 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 31,060 thousands of Euros); v) Bandeirante is a party to a lawsuit related to the COFINS (Contribution for social security financing) from 1993 to 1995 in joinder with AES Eletropaulo, where is discussed the application of the tax amnesty introduced by the Provisional Measures paragraphs 1858nd 6 and 1858-8, granted to taxpayers who did not collect COFINS, considering it improper. In the trial of 2 Instance, was partially confirmed the right to amnesty, and applied the Decree-Law 1,025/69, which established the payment of procedural costs in favor of the National Treasury. From that decision, was presented an appeal which holds trial. The adjusted amount as at 31 December 2015 is 16,355 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 21,269 thousands of Euros). The reduction of the contingency is due to the revision of the current interest values; vi) Bandeirante and Escelsa have administrative and judicial tax actions regarding compensations which were not approved by the Brazilian Tax Authorities,which: (i) are supported by judicially recognised credits (IRPJ Corporate tax income and CSLL Social Contribution on net profits) and (ii) resulted of tax contributions in 2001 of IRPJ, CSLL, PIS ( Social integration programme) and COFINS considered excessive as a consequence of the application of Parecer COSIT 26/2002 (Extraordinary Tariff Adjustment RTE) published by the brazilian fiscal authorities. According with this opinion, the updating of rates derived from the RTE should be recognised since 2002. As at 31 December 2015, the estimated value amounts to 69,717 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 90,070 thousands of Euros); vii) Lajeado has a judicial tax action initiated by the Brazilian Tax Authorities in 2014 aimed at collecting tax contributions (IRPJ and CSLL) resulting from the disallowance of expenses regarding goodwill arising from a business combination (acquisition). As at 31 December 2015, this contingency amounts to 19,064 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 24,345 thousands of Euros); and viii) During 2015, Porto do Pecém was subject to a tax execution procedure in the amount of 16,237 thousands of Euros, related to an alleged non-taxation under Corporate Income Tax (CIT) and Socia Contribution on Net Profits (CSLL) of prior years’ financial income and exchange rate gains. Finally, it should identify relevant litigation and contingencies that although the EDP Group classify their risk as remote, namely: On 27 October 2009 and 5 January 2010, the EDP Group received two tax assessments regarding 2005 and 2006 taxable income for the EDP tax Group, which included an adjustment of 591 millions of Euros regarding its subsidiary, EDP Internacional SGPS, related to the tax treatment considered by the EDP Group in relation to a capital loss generated with the liquidation of a subsidiary, whose main assets consisted of investments in operating subsidiaries in Brazil, namely Escelsa and Enersul. As at 31 December 2015, the amount of this tax contingency totals 255 millions of Euros (31 December 2014: 245 millions of Euros). Considering the analysis made, the technical advice received and a favourable binding opinion obtained from the tax authorities in relation to the nature of the transaction occurred in the year of the assessment, the EDP Group considers as remote the risk associated with this matter. Under this analysis, the capital loss is tax deductible for income tax purposes as established in article 75 number 2 of the Corporate Income Tax Code ( Código do IRC ) based on the wording of the law in force at that date (actual article 81). Bearing the above in mind, and given that the EDP Group’s tax procedures comply with applicable Portuguese tax legislation at the date of the events, the Group is currently using all available legal means to contest these additional assessments. As a result of the administrative appeal dismissal, EDP presented a judicial claim, on 6 June 2012, which is still being analysed. Additionally, Bandeirante through the Union of Power Industry of the State of São Paulo SindiEnergia, filed two claims against the Department of Finance of the State of São Paulo, seeking the suspension of the effects of Decrees 55,421/2010 and 55,867/2010. Both claims are concerned with VAT incidence on energy technical losses (theft, deviation or fraud) and obtained a favourable decision which was confirmed by the Court of Justice of the State of São Paulo. These decisions are still subject of appeal to higher courts, however, given that the higher courts jurisprudence supports the thesis discussed in this process, the EDP Group classifies as remote the risk of losing this action. The estimated value at 31 December 2015 amounts to 72,300 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 69,479 thousands of Euros). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 359 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 38. INSTITUTIONAL PARTNERSHIPS IN USA The caption Institutional partnership in USA is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Deferred income related to benefits provided 791,444 735,260 Liabilities arising from institutional partnerships in USA 1,164,773 1,066,703 1,956,217 1,801,963 EDPR North America books the receipts of institutional investors associated with wind and solar projects. This liability is reduced by the amount of tax benefits provided and payments made to the institutional investors during the period. The amount of tax benefits provided is booked as a non-current deferred income, recognised over the useful life of 25 years of the related projects (see note 7). Additionally this liability is increased by the estimated interest based on the liability outstanding and the expected return rate of the institutional investors (see note 13). During 2015 EDPR Group, through its subsidiary EDPR NA, has secured 233 millions of US Dollar (approximately 210 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from MUFG Union Bank N.A. and another institutional investor in exchange for an interest in the Vento XIII portfolio. Additionally, the Group received proceeds amounting 43 millions of US Dollars (approximately 39 millions of Euros) corresponding to the last tranche of institutional equity financing from MUFG Union Bank N.A secured in 2014 in exchange for an interest in the Vento XII portfolio. Finally, EDPR Group has secured 238 millions of US Dollars (approximately 215 millions of Euros) of institutional equity financing from an affiliate of Google Inc. in exchange for an interest in the Vento XIV portfolio, which proceeds have been received in 2016. 39. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES FROM COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES Trade and other payables from commercial activities Non-Current, are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Government grants for investment in fixed assets 612,438 610,561 Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 18,269 15,409 Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil 6,447 Energy sales contracts EDPR NA 24,223 30,827 Deferred income CMEC 260,233 306,153 Amounts payable for concessions 208,823 226,832 Other creditors and sundry operations 106,841 79,694 1,237,274 1,269,476 Trade and other payables from commercial activities Current, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Suppliers 979,482 1,123,667 263,102 343,696 Accrued costs related with supplies 451,891 405,260 252,424 241,880 Property, plant and equipment suppliers and accruals 768,159 689,946 2,489 5,630 Holiday pay, bonus and other charges with employees 165,133 154,522 27,198 15,897 CO2 emission licences 124,354 100,688 Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal 196,662 214,227 Deferred income CMEC 45,921 45,669 Other creditors and sundry operations 648,756 448,276 5,403 31,717 3,380,358 3,182,255 550,616 638,820 ANNUAL REPORT 360 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The movement for the period in Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Portugal (Current and Non-current) is analysed as follows: NonThousands of Euros Current Current Balance as at 1 January 2014 285,274 Payment through the electricity tariff -285,518 Tariff adjustment of 2013 106 Tariff adjustment of the period 212,727 15,409 Interest expense 2,101 Transfer to/from tariff adjustment receivable -463 Balance as at 31 December 2014 214,227 15,409 Payment through the electricity tariff -216,971 Tariff adjustment of 2014 1,023 Tariff adjustment of the period 176,662 18,268 Interest expense 1,919 Transfer to/from tariff adjustment receivable 4,394 Transfer from Non-Current to Current 15,408 -15,408 Balance as at 31 December 2015 196,662 18,269 The caption Amounts payable for tariff adjustments Electricity Brazil, refers to tariff adjustments booked in Bandeirante in the accumulated amount of 6,447 thousands of Euros. The variation occurred includes the tariff deficit for the period in the amount of 7,263 thousands of Euros, unwinding in the amount of 252 thousands of Euros and the exchange differences due to depreciation of Brazilian Real with a positive impact of 1,068 thousands of Euros (see note 6). Government grants for investment in fixed assets correspond to the subsidies for the investment of the Group, being depreciated through the recognition of a revenue in the income statement over the useful life of the related assets (see note 12). This caption includes grants received by EDPR NA subgroup under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act promoted by the United States of America Government (ver nota 1). At the moment of the EDPR NA acquisition, the contracts signed between this subsidiary and its customers, determined under the terms of the Purchase Price Allocation, were valued through discounted cash flow models and market assumptions at 190,400 thousands of US Dollars, being booked as a non-current liability under Energy sales contract EDPR NA, which is depreciated over the useful life of the contracts in Other operating income (see note 7). Deferred income CMEC Current and Non-current in the amount of 306,154 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 351,822 thousands of Euros) refers to the initial CMEC amount (833,467 thousands of Euros) net of the amortisation of initial CMEC during the years 2007 to 2015 and including unwinding (see note 13). Amounts payable for concessions Non-current amounts includes the concession rights for the operation of the hydric domain of Alqueva and Pedrógão transferred by EDIA of 144,490 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 146,618 thousands of Euros) and to the financial compensation for the use of the public domain related to concession agreements of Investco, S.A. and Enerpeixe, S.A. in Brazil of 63,513 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 78,305 thousands of Euros). The caption CO2 emission licenses includes the CO2 consumptions made during 2015 in Portugal and Spain, in the amount of 68,487 thousands of Euros and 55,867 thousands of Euros, respectively. These licenses will be returned, in 2015, to regulatory authorities for each country. As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, Other creditors and sundry operations Current includes 14,317 thousands of Euros related to tariff adjustment payable. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 361 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 40. OTHER LIABILITIES AND OTHER PAYABLES Other liabilities and other payables are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Other liabilities and other payables Non-Current Loans from non-controlling interests 208,082 266,026 Put options over non-controlling interest liabilities 27 89 Derivative financial instruments 267,354 197,223 209,096 148,630 Group companies 2,497,923 1,529,974 Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees 15,978 10,707 Lease contract with EDP Pension Fund 29,383 29,383 Other creditors and sundry operations 27,312 43,441 3,313 6,626 548,136 517,486 2,739,715 1,685,230 Other liabilities and other payables Current Loans from non-controlling interests 87,057 77,691 Dividends attributed to related companies 63,422 68,393 Derivative financial instruments 122,131 64,616 260,859 102,710 Group companies 102,603 777,132 Put options over non-controlling interest liabilities 3,690 3,658 Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees 3,557 14,150 Lease contract with EDP Pension Fund 2,484 2,484 Other creditors and sundry operations 29,233 7,287 30,906 33,069 311,574 235,795 396,852 912,911 859,710 753,281 3,136,567 2,598,141 The caption Loans from non-controlling interests includes the EDPR Portugal loan formerly due to EDPR-EU in the second quarter of 2013 in the amount of 110,529 thousands of Euros that, following the sale process of 49% of its shareholding in EDPR Portugal to CTG, shareholder of EDP Group, were acquired by CTG. The maturity date of this loan is December 2022, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.5% and its interest is paid half-yearly. At 31 December 2015 this loan amounts to 81,315 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 90,610 thousands of Euros), from which 9,825 thousands of Euros are classified as current and 71,490 thousands of Euros as non-current (see note 45). This caption also includes loans from Sonatrach to Central Térmica Ciclo Combinado Grupo 4 in the amount of 58,220 thousands of Euros, from which 9,328 thousands of Euros are classified as non-current and 48,892 thousands of Euros as current. Additionally, the caption Loans from non-controlling interests Non-Current includes 76,328 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 93,553 thousands of Euros) of loans payable to Vortex, following the sale of 49% of several interests of EDPR France and the fixed rates used for these loans vary between 3.1% and 7.18%. The Amounts payable for acquisitions and success fees Current and Non-Current comprises the amounts related to the contingent prices of several European (mainly in Poland, Romania and Italy) and Brazilian projects. Additionally, as at September 2015, this caption includes the estimated impact of ENEOP transactions of 49,932 thousands of Euros paid in the fourth quarter of 2015 (see note 53). The caption Group companies Non-Current on a company basis, of 2,497,923 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,529,974 thousands of Euros), corresponds to the financing obtained through EDP Finance BV and granted to EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España, following EDPR NA's acquisition and for the financing of the investment plan of EDP Renováveis Group (see notes 45 and 50). The caption Group companies Current on a company basis includes 36,705 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 777,132 thousands of Euros) related to the debt financing obtained by EDP S.A. Sucursal en España through EDP Finance BV and EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. (see note 50). Additionally, this caption includes the amounts to be paid under the EDP Group's financial system (see note 45). The caption Lease Contract with EDP Pension Fund Current and Non-current corresponds to the lease contract regarding the fractions of Porto headquarts acquired by EDP Pension Fund. Given the substance of this lease contract, the underlying assets corresponding to the building component were booked as an asset of EDP, S.A. in Property, Plant and Equipment Buildings and other constructions at the present value of the minimum lease payments of 31,867 thousands of Euros. The lease contract is for a period of 25 years, with a monthly income of 270 thousands of Euros and an implicit rate of 6.42%. ANNUAL REPORT 362 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 41. CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Current tax liabilities are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Income tax 140,723 40,725 50,753 2,386 Withholding tax 55,860 54,721 1,098 364 Value added tax (VAT) 96,103 105,939 1,558 2,158 Turnover tax (Brazil) 51,185 49,741 Social tax (Brazil) 40,900 25,104 Other taxes 132,609 139,591 809 295 517,380 415,821 54,218 5,203 As at 31 December 2015, for the Group, the caption Other taxes includes essentially taxes regarding HC Energia Group (include NG Energia) of 99,080 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 100,834 thousands of Euros) and EDP Brasil Group of 4,094 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 5,511 thousands of Euros). 42. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES HELD FOR SALE The criteria for classifying assets and liabilities as held for sale and discontinued operations, as well as their presentation in the EDP Group’s consolidated financial statements, are presented under accounting policies note 2 u). This caption is analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Assets held for sale Assets of the business of gas transmission Naturgas 164,402 Assets of the business of electricity generation Pantanal 27,624 Assets of the business of electricity generation Tejo Energia 17,214 Assets of the business of wind energy generation Inch-Cape 40,164 Assets of the business of wind energy generation J&Z 69,527 154,529 164,402 Liabilities held for sale Liabilities of the business of gas transmission Naturgas -11,328 Liabilities of the business of electricity generation Pantanal -2,622 Liabilities of the business of electricity generation J&Z -55,406 -58,028 -11,328 96,501 153,074 On 15 July 2015, EDP – Energias do Brasil S.A. (EDP Brasil), 51% controlled by EDP, signed a sale and purchase agreement with Cachoeira Escura Energética S.A. for the sale of 100% of Pantanal Energética Ltda (Pantanal). The conclusion of the transaction occured in January 2016 after the necessary regulatory approvals (see note 48). As at 31 December 2015 the assets and liabilities related to this transaction were presented as non-current assets and liabilities held for sale, being the major reclassification related to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the amount of 21,923 thousands of Euros (94,525 thousands of Reais). These reclassifications were made only for financial statements presentation purposes, without changing the measurement criteria of these assets and liabilities, as it is expected that the fair value less costs to sell will be higher than the book value of these assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS 5. On 20 July 2015, EDPR UK Limited signed a sale and purchase agreement with Repsol Nuevas Energías S.A. for the sale of 49% of Inch Cape Offshore Limited. The conclusion of the transaction is subject of the approval of the The Crown Estate and other regulatory approvals (see note 48). As at 31 December 2015, the financial interest included in the financial statements accounted by the equity method (14,433 thousands of Euros) and the loans granted (25,731 thousands of Euros) to Inch Cape Offshore Limited were presented as non-current assets held for sale. These reclassifications were made only for financial statements presentation purposes, without changing the measurement criteria of these assets, as it is expected that the fair value less costs to sell will be higher than the book value of these assets in accordance with IFRS 5. In October 2015, EDPR Group committed to a plan to do a cross sale of two wind farms in Poland. EDPR Group would be acquiring remaining 35% in the Company Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O and would sell 60% of Company J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O. Efforts to sell the disposal group have started and the sale is expected to occur during 2016. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 363 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As at 31 December 2015 the assets and liabilities related to this transaction were presented as non-current assets and liabilities held for sale, being the major reclassifications related to: (i) property, plant and equipment in the amount of 61,975 thousands of Euros (264,253 thousands of Zlotys); (ii) loans granted in the amount of 3,738 thousands of Euros (15,939 thousands of Zlotys); (iii) bank loans amounting to 34,388 thousands of Euros (146,627 thousands of Zlotys); and (iv) grants in the amount of 18,554 thousands of Euros (79,113 thousands of Zlotys). These reclassifications were made only for financial statements presentation purposes, without changing the measurement criteria of these assets and liabilities, as it is expected that the fair value less costs to sell will be higher than the book value of these assets and liabilities in accordance with IFRS 5. On 6 November 2015, EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. reached an agreement with Trust Energy, B.V. for the sale of its 11.11% share capital in Tejo Energia, S.A. On 8 January 2016, it has completed the sale of 6.2% to Trust Energy, B.V. The conclusion of the sale of the remaining share capital is subject to preemptive rights of other shareholders, and it should be completed during the first semester of 2016. As at 31 December 2015, the financial interest included in the financial statements accounted as an available for sale investment (17,214 thousands of Euros) was presented as non-current asset held for sale. This reclassification was made only for financial statements presentation purposes, without changing the measurement criteria of the asset, which was revalued considering the transaction price. On 16 December 2014, Naturgas Energía Grupo, S.A. has reached an agreement with Redexis Gas, S.A., a Spanish gas transmission and distribution company held by Goldman Sachs Infrastructure Partners, for the sale of gas distributions assets owned by EDP Group in Murcia and in other regions in Spain. The transaction perimeter comprises essentially gas distribution assets held by Gas Energía Distribucion Murcia as well as in other Spanish regions (mainly in Extremadura and Gerona), which are not contiguous to Naturgas’ existing operations, mostly located in the Basque Country, Cantabria and Asturias regions. The sale of the assets held by Gás Energía Distribución Murcia, S.A. has occurred on the 30 January of 2015 with a sale price of 125,683 thousands of Euros, deducted of 2,925 thousands of Euros of transaction fees (see note 5), generating a gain of 79,091 thousands of Euros (see note 7). In this operation, Redexis also acquired to HC Energy the intercompany debt of 63,722 thousands of Euros. At the transaction date, Gás Energía Distribución Murcia, S.A. held 1,846 thousands of Euros in Cash and cash equivalents. In June 2015 the remaining distribution assets were sold for 51,131 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 9,825 thousands of Euros (see note 7). 43. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In accordance with IAS 39, the Group classifies derivative financial instruments as fair value hedge of a recognised asset or liability (Fair value hedge), as cash flow hedge of recognised liabilities and highly probable future transactions (Cash flow hedge) and as net investment hedge in foreign operations (Net investment hedge). In 2015, the fair value and the maturity of the derivative financial instruments are analysed as follows: Fair value Notional From 1 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Up 1 year to 5 years Over 5 Years Total Net Investment hedge Cross-currency interest rate swaps 14,998 -71,614 93,615 69,985 300,000 463,600 Currency forwards 554 15,812 15,812 15,552 -71,614 109,427 69,985 300,000 479,412 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 96,410 -9,006 850,000 1,600,000 2,450,000 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 171,935 -28,493 423,922 410,314 834,236 268,345 -37,499 1,273,922 2,010,314 3,284,236 Cash flow hedge Commodities swaps 48,858 -40,806 433,475 283,595 717,070 Interest rate swaps -86,464 111,011 509,370 588,407 1,208,788 Currency forwards 8,547 -227 231,889 144,596 376,485 57,405 -127,497 776,375 937,561 588,407 2,302,343 Trading Commodities swaps 92,276 -64,503 973,002 39,771 1,012,773 Interest rate swaps 19,552 -38,070 35,370 669,519 310,655 1,015,544 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,015 -23,710 192,172 192,172 Currency forwards 76,726 -23,501 705,080 35,225 740,305 Commodities forwards 1,459 80,553 17,205 97,758 Options purchased and sold -3,091 192,028 -152,875 1,794,005 953,892 310,655 3,058,552 533,330 -389,485 2,679,807 3,235,360 3,209,376 9,124,543 ANNUAL REPORT 364 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 In 2014, the fair value and the maturity of the derivative financial instruments are analysed as follows: Fair value Notional From 1 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Up 1 year to 5 years Over 5 Years Total Net Investment hedge Cross-currency interest rate swaps 14,699 -27,664 119,968 29,059 300,000 449,027 14,699 -27,664 119,968 29,059 300,000 449,027 Fair value hedge Interest rate swaps 111,241 1,000,000 350,000 1,500,000 2,850,000 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 139,568 -35,640 423,922 410,314 834,236 250,809 -35,640 1,000,000 773,922 1,910,314 3,684,236 Cash flow hedge Commodities swaps 55,409 -27,486 468,461 96,104 564,565 Interest rate swaps 8 -81,507 83,567 167,005 337,892 588,464 Currency forwards 6,188 -19 198,853 3,445 202,298 61,605 -109,012 750,881 266,554 337,892 1,355,327 Trading Commodities swaps 18,084 -61,166 2,374,786 487,007 2,861,793 Interest rate swaps 21,380 -285 470 1,411 600,000 601,881 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2,451 -26,909 138,606 138,606 Currency forwards 7,419 -569 221,016 30,069 251,085 Commodities forwards -2,701 6,417 7,821 14,238 Options purchased and sold -594 46,633 -89,523 2,602,689 664,914 600,000 3,867,603 373,746 -261,839 4,473,538 1,734,449 3,148,206 9,356,193 The fair value of the derivative financial instruments is booked in Other debtors and other assets (see note 27) and Other liabilities and other payables (see note 40), according to its nature. Fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on quotes indicated by external entities, as such, according to IFRS 13 requirements, the fair value of the derivative financial instruments is classified as of Level 2 (see note 46) and no changes of level were made during this period. These entities use generally accepted discounted cash flow techniques and data from public markets. Derivative financial instruments classified as trading are financial hedging instruments contracted for economic hedging at EDP Group level (see note 4), however such instruments are not eligible for hedge accounting under IFRS. The changes in the fair value, including accrued interest, of hedging instruments and risks being hedged are as follows: 2015 2014 Changes in fair value Changes in fair value Thousands of Euros Hedging instrument Hedged risk Instrument Risk Instrument Risk Subsidiaries in PLN, BRL Net investment Cross-curr. int. rate swaps and USD -43,651 36,754 -25,823 35,679 Net investment Currency forwards Subsidiaries in CAD 554 -807 -2,360 2,158 Fair value Interest rate swap Interest rate -23,837 22,494 52,926 -53,660 Fair value Cross-curr. int. rate swaps Exchange and interest rate 39,514 -51,371 101,591 -107,530 Cash flow Interest rate swap Interest rate -4,965 -32,182 Cash flow Currency forwards Exchange rate 2,151 11,692 Cash flow Commodities swaps Commodity prices -19,871 23,896 -50,105 7,070 129,740 -123,353 During 2015 and 2014 the following market inputs were considered for the fair value calculation: Instrument Market input Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, Libor 3M, Libor 6M, Daily Cross-curr. int. rate swaps CDI and Wibor 3M; and exchange rates: EUR/CHF, EUR/GBP, EUR/BRL, EUR/PLN, USD/BRL and EUR/USD. Fair value indexed to the following interest rates: Euribor 3M, Euribor 6M, Wibor 6M, US Libor 6M and Interest rate swaps CAD Libor 3M. Fair value indexed to the following exchange rates: EUR/USD, EUR/RON, EUR/PLN, EUR/GBP, Currency forwards EUR/BRL, USD/JPY and EUR/CAD. Fair value indexed to the market quotes of the following commodities: Brent, NBP Natural Gas, Commodities swaps Electricity, Fuel, Henry Hub, TTF, Coal, Freights, CER and CO2. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 365 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The changes in the fair value reserve related to cash flow hedges in 2015 and 2014 were as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at the beginning of the period -62,953 -74,003 Fair value changes -15,020 8,462 Transfers to results from hedging of financial liabilities and commodity prices -16,571 1,263 Comprehensive Income changes in associates 27,836 -2,360 Changes resulting from acquisitions/sales without control changes -7,158 3,685 Balance at the end of the period -73,866 -62,953 The gains and losses on the financial instruments portfolio, excluding accrued interest, booked in the income statement in 2015 and 2014 are as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Derivatives held for trading 91,583 -22,608 54,862 44,839 Net investment hedge ineffectiveness -7,150 15,533 Fair value hedges: -Derivatives 15,677 154,517 248,495 259,430 -Hedged liabilities -28,877 -161,190 -248,495 -259,430 Cash flow hedges: -Transfer to results from hedging of financial liabilities 11,000 -1,524 -Transfer to results from hedging of commodity prices 5,571 261 -Ineffectiveness -276 87,528 -15,011 54,862 44,839 The effective interest rates of the derivative financial instruments relating to financing operations at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Group Notional Currency EDP Pays EDP Receives Euro'000 Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps 4,490,169 EUR [ 4.45% -0.65% ] [ 4.88% -0.65% ] Interest rate swaps 112,722 USD [ 5.82% 5.79% ] [ 4.11% 3.61% ] Interest rate swaps 50,067 PLN [ 5.41% 2.48% ] [ 1.88% 1.77% ] Interest rate swaps 21,374 CAD 2.59% 0.84% Currency and interest rate contracts CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 730,314 EUR/GBP [ 3.95% 1.55% ] [ 8.63% 6.63% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 76,296 USD/JPY 6.80% 3.11% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 222,142 EUR/PLN [ 2.11% 1.32% ] [ -0.07% -0.13% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 39,939 EUR/BRL [ 13.16% 11.45% ] [ -0.04% -0.13% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 17,395 BRL/USD 15.34% 2.45% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 103,922 EUR/CHF [ 4.18% 4.02% ] 4.01% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 300,000 USD/EUR [ 5.36% 5.33% ] 4.13% The effective interest rates of the derivative financial instruments relating to financing operations at 31 December 2014 were as follows: Group Notional Currency EDP Pays EDP Receives Euro'000 Interest rate contracts Interest rate swaps 3,915,927 EUR [ 4.45% -0.44% ] [ 4.88% -0.44% ] Interest rate swaps 99,077 PLN [ 5.41% 3.30% ] [ 2.06% 2.05% ] Interest rate swaps 25,341 CAD 2.59% 1.30% Currency interest rate CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 730,314 EUR/GBP [ 4.07% 1.80% ] [ 8.63% 6.63% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 68,856 USD/JPY 6.80% 3.11% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 173,374 EUR/PLN [ 2.07% 1.08% ] [ 0.09% 0.08% ] CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 45,403 EUR/BRL [ 9.37% 9.02% ] 0.08% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 103,922 EUR/CHF [ 4.37% 4.21% ] 4.01% CIRS (currency interest rate swaps) 300,000 USD/EUR [ 5.36% 5.33% ] 4.13% ANNUAL REPORT 366 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 44. COMMITMENTS Financial, operating and real guarantees granted by the EDP Group, not included in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, are analysed as follows: Group Company Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Financial guarantees EDP, S.A. 35,970 162,144 35,970 162,144 HC Energia Group 4,005 4,005 EDP Brasil Group 1,209,612 1,096,945 EDP Renováveis Group 12,061 3,706 1,261,648 1,266,800 35,970 162,144 Operating guarantees EDP, S.A. 507,591 492,379 507,591 492,379 HC Energia Group 262,579 267,796 EDP Brasil Group 408,345 317,774 EDP Renováveis Group 2,276,476 1,453,944 Other 7,183 7,491 3,462,174 2,539,384 507,591 492,379 Total 4,723,822 3,806,184 543,561 654,523 Real guarantees 28,521 53,878 The financial guarantees contracted as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, 947,145 thousands of Euros and 437,679 thousands of Euros, respectively, are related with loans obtained by Group companies and already included in the consolidated debt. As at 31 December 2015, the difference between the amount of these guarantees and the relating loans already included in the consolidated debt respects mainly to the guarantees provided by companies in the EDP Group related to financings contracted by Cachoeira Caldeirão and Jari which are icluded in the consolidated financial statements under the equity method under IFRS 11. As at 31 December 2014, the shareholding in Porto do Pecém was included by the equity method. The financial guarantees contracted by EDP S.A. as at 31 December 2014 included an amount of 114,792 thousands of Euros related with contracted bank loans, which were reimbursed during 2015. The operating guarantees contracted as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 include, 552,146 thousands of Euros and 142,867 thousands of Euros, respectively, which refer to corporate guarantees provided by EDP Renováveis relating to EDPR Renováveis Group commercial commitments already reflected in the Statement of Financial Position. EDP and its subsidiaries are required to provide bank or corporate guarantees for the current generation and distribution activities. The total guarantees outstanding include, at 31 December 2015 and 2014, 299,982 thousands of Euros and 316,722 thousands of Euros, respectively, of guarantees provided to market operators to enable EDP and its subsidiaries to participate in the energy markets. Additionally to the information disclosed above: i) The Group also has project finance loans with the usual guarantees for such loans, namely pledges or promissory pledges over shares, bank accounts and assets relating to the projects. As at 31 December 2015 and 2014 these loans amounted to 1,609,375 thousands of Euros (including 516,569 thousands of Euros of nominal debt of Porto do Pecém, for which exists financial guarantees already identified in the table above, and 240,702 thousands of Euros of nominal debt of wind farms of ENEOP consortium) and 993,409 thousands of Euros, respectively (see note 35). ii) EDPR NA is providing its tax equity investors with standard corporate guarantees typical of these agreements to indemnify them against costs they may incur as a result of fraud, wilful misconduct or a breach of EDPR NA of any operational obligation under the tax equity agreements. As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, EDPR's obligations under the tax equity agreements, in the amount of 1,165,270 thousands of Euros and 948,216 thousands of Euros, respectively, are reflected under the Institutional Partnerships in USA; iii) As at 31 December 2014, EDP has constituted an escrow deposit in the amount of 334,497 thousands of Euros (311,990 thousands of Euros non-current and 22,507 thousands of Euros current), as presented in note 35, associated with several loans contracted with the EIB. In October 2015, after further negotiations, BEI allowed the full release of this escrow deposit. As at 31 December 2015, the Group has 79,915 thousands of Euros (66,855 thousands of Euros non-current and 13,060 thousands of Euros current) of other deposits constituted as collateral for financial guarantee. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 367 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The commitments relating to future lease payments under operating leases, purchase obligations and other long term commitments are disclosed, by maturity, as follows: Dec 2015 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Operating lease commitments 1,128,896 52,282 97,521 90,268 888,825 Purchase obligations 20,445,948 4,231,498 4,540,816 3,282,775 8,390,859 21,574,844 4,283,780 4,638,337 3,373,043 9,279,684 Dec 2014 Capital outstanding by maturity Less From From More than 1 1 to 3 3 to 5 than 5 Thousands of Euros Total year years years years Operating lease commitments 779,398 32,876 62,604 63,812 620,106 Purchase obligations 21,784,070 4,387,274 5,189,739 3,256,461 8,950,596 Other long term commitments 1,291 939 352 22,564,759 4,421,089 5,252,695 3,320,273 9,570,702 The Group’s contractual commitments shown above relate essentially to agreements and commitments required for current business activities. Specifically, the majority of the commitments are established to guarantee adequate supply of fuel and energy to its customers in the Europe, United States of America and Brazil and to comply with medium and long term investment objectives of the Group. Purchase obligations include 11,893,858 thousands of Euros essentially related with very long-term contracts for energy acquisition in the brazilian market (by regulatory imposition) which are updated with the respective projected rates and discounted at present value by a rate of 8.90% that represents the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of the EDP Brasil Group, as follows: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Purchase obligation Present value 11,893,858 12,335,667 Purchase obligation Notional value 16,690,140 23,512,536 The decrease of purchase obligations results mainly from the depreciation of Brazilian Real (BRL) against the Euro during 2015. Purchase obligations include essentially obligations of long term contracts relating to the supply of products and services in the normal course of the Group’s operations. Prices defined under forward contracts are used in estimating the amount of contractual commitments. The nature of this type of commitments is related with: Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Fuel acquisitions 5,224,697 6,455,474 Electricity acquisition 11,235,011 11,841,454 O&M contracts 1,274,937 764,144 Fixed assets, equipment and miscellaneous materials acquisition 1,705,345 1,723,301 Work contracts 547,057 685,383 Other supplies and services 458,901 314,314 20,445,948 21,784,070 As at 31 December 2015, the commitments for fuels and electricity acquisition are disclosed, by maturity, as follows: Fuel Electricity Thousands of Euros acquisitions acquisition Less than 1 year 1,043,572 1,087,575 From 1 to 3 years 1,393,116 1,965,927 From 3 to 5 years 1,306,895 1,714,876 More than 5 years 1,481,114 6,466,633 5,224,697 11,235,011 The purchase obligations of fixed assets, equipment and miscellaneous materials acquisition corresponds essentially to Property, plant and equipment. The commitments relating to future lease payments under finance leases and to short and medium-long term financial debt are disclosed in the notes 16 and 35, respectively. The commitemens relating to pension and medical plans and other benefits are disclosed in the note 36. The commitments of the joint ventures are disclosed in the note 20. ANNUAL REPORT 368 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As at 31 December 2015, the EDP Group has the following liabilities/rights arising from call and put options on investments: EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option over the remaining shareholders of Re Plus (WPG, Galilea and Grant Partners) for 10% of its share capital. The price of exercising this option is 7,500 thousands of Euros. The option can be exercised: (i) if a change occur in the shareholding structure of the remaining shareholders of Re Plus or (ii) always before the last project starts in operation; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a put option of 15% of the share capital of Rowy, over the other shareholders. The exercise price is 80% of equity value with a cap of 5,000 thousands of Euros. The exercise period is the earlier of: (i) two years following the beginning of construction date or (ii) 31 December 2019; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A., a call option of 2.67% of the share capital of Greenvouga and their supplementary capital on Martifer Renewables, S.A. exercisable at any time. Moreover, Martifer Renewables, S.A., holds a put option of 2.67% of the share capital of Greenvouga and their supplementary capital on EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A., that can only be exercised within one year from the date of issuance of the license of Ribeiradio-Ermida hydroelectric plants. The stock price and the price of supplementary capital, in the event of exercise of the options listed, corresponds to their nominal value plus an equity component possible in the amount of 1,750 thousands of Euros. In January 2016, this option was exercised; EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option of the remaining 40% of the share capital of J&Z Wind Farms SP. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised between 3 and 5 years after the start of construction works of the first wind farm; and EDP holds, through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., a call option of the remaining 35% of the share capital of Molen Wind II, S.P. ZO.O., whose exercise price corresponds to 90% of the market value of this participation. This option can be exercised up to 2 years after the maturity of the financial debt for the wind farm construction. Some of the disposal of non-controlling interests transactions retaining control carried out in 2015 and in previous years, namely the disposal of 49% of EDPR Portugal and disposal of 49% of certain subsidiaries of EDPR Brasil, incorporate contingent assets and liabilities according to the terms of the corresponding agreements. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 369 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 45. RELATED PARTIES Shares held by company officers The number of shares of EDP S.A. held or attributable to company officers as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 are as follows: 2015 2014 Nr. of Nr. of shares shares General and Supervisory Board China Three Gorges Corporation (represented by Dingming Zhang 1) 780,633,782 China Three Gorges Corporation (represented by Eduardo de Almeida Catroga 2) 780,633,782 China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. (represented by Shengliang Wu 1) 780,633,782 China Three Gorges (Europe), S.A. (represented by Dingming Zhang 2) 780,633,782 Fernando Maria Masaveu Herrero 264,709,056 264,709,056 José de Mello Energia, S.A. (represented by Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira 3) 73,285,710 Luís Filipe da Conceição Pereira 3 4,233 Senfora B.V. (exSenfora S.A.R.L., represented by Mohamed Al Fahim) 148,431,999 148,431,999 Sonatrach (represented by Harkat Abderezak 1) 87,007,433 Sonatrach (represented by Ferhat Ounoughi 2) 87,007,433 Alberto João Coraceiro de Castro 3 6,917 Rui Eduardo Ferreira Rodrigues Pena 3 4,541 Vasco Joaquim Rocha Vieira 3,203 3,203 Banco Comercial Português, S.A. 4 (represented by Nuno Manuel da Silva Amado) 89,139,594 João Carvalho das Neves 4 7,429 Executive Board of Directors António Manuel Barreto Pita de Abreu 3 34,549 António Luís Guerra Nunes Mexia 41,000 41,000 António Fernando Melo Martins da Costa 34,299 34,299 João Manuel Manso Neto 1,268 1,268 João Manuel Veríssimo Marques da Cruz 3,878 3,878 Nuno Maria Pestana de Almeida Alves 125,000 125,000 Miguel Nuno Simões Nunes Ferreira Setas 4 7,382 Miguel Stilwell de Andrade 126,576 126,576 Rui Manuel Rodrigues Lopes Teixeira 4 5,843 1 Representative until 21 April 2015 therefore no information was reported related to 2015. 2 Representative after 21 April 2015 therefore no information was reported related to 2014. 3 Ceased functions on 21 April 2015 therefore no information was reported related to 2015. 4 Started functions on 21 April 2015 therefore no information was reported related to 2014. The EDP, S.A bonds and the number of shares of other EDP group compnaies held or attributable to company officers are disclosed in part I Ownership structure of chapter 4 Corporate governance. Remuneration of company officers In accordance with the Company's by-laws, the remuneration of company officers is set by a Remunerations Committee appointed by the Shareholders’ General Meeting, except for the remuneration of the members of the Executive Board of Directors (EBD), which is set by a Remunerations Committee appointed by the General and Supervisory Board (GSB). Short-term employee benefits Durante 2015, the annual fixed and variable remuneration cost accounted for the members of the EBD and the fixed remuneration of the GSB, was as follows: Thousands of Euros EBD GSB President 1,627 491 Members 5,969 1,184 7,596 1,675 The remuneration costs accounted with the EBD includes the amount of 2,874 thousands of Euros related to the annual variable remuneration. This amount was calculated considering the best estimation of the variable remuneration for the year of 2015, in accordance with Remunerations Committee policy of the GSB, deducted from the correction of the accrual from the previous year compared with the amount paid. Additionally, the Remunerations Committee policy of the GSB foresees, in certain circumstances, a variable multi-annual remuneration to the EBD members, corresponding to the mandate (2012-2014) and to the current mandate (2015-2017). On this basis, an estimated amount of 11,050 thousands of Euros was accrued (31 December 2014: 10,814 thousands of Euros). In 2015, has paid 2,677 thousands of Euros regarding to the year 2012. ANNUAL REPORT 370 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 During 2015, the remuneration costs of the members of the Remunerations Committee of the General Assembly amounted to 35,000 Euros. Post-employment benefits EDP has no specific retirement benefits system in place for its directors. The remuneration fixed by the Remuneration Committee of the General and Supervisory Board provides for a retirement savings plan-type standard financial product for the members of the Executive Board of Directors, who contribute 10% (ten percent) of their net fixed annual remuneration. It was granted by decision of the General Meeting of 21 April 2015 as part of the remuneration policy statement. This financial product does not entail any cost to EDP in the future, as it is merely a subscription to a financial product while the members of the managing body hold their positions and is not covered by Article 402 (1) of the Company Code. Audit and non audit fees In 2015, KPMG fees relating to external audit and statutory audit of all subsidiaries of EDP Group, except Group EDP Brasil, amounted to 5,801,813 Euros. Additionally, the total fees charged by KPMG for other assurance services, tax advisory services and other non audit services amounted to 1,157,362 Euros, 1,349,510 Euros and 434,995 Euros, respectively. In 2015, KPMG Portugal fees relating to external audit and statutory audit of all subsidiaries of EDP Group in Portugal, amounted to 1,859,405 Euros. This amount includes 180,000 Euros for the fees of the Statutory auditor of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Additionally, the total fees charged by KPMG Portugal for other assurance services, tax advisory services and other non audit services amounted to 573,940 Euros, 844,859 Euros and 140,260 Euros, respectively. Business operations between the Company and the members of the Executive Board of Directors and General and Supervisory Board with qualifying holdings and companies in the group or control relationship with EDP In the course of its activity and regardless their relevance, EDP concludes business and operations under normal market conditions for similar transactions with different entities, namely financial institutions, including holders of qualified shareholdings in EDP's share capital and those related parties. On 11 May 2012, after the strategic partnership agreement concluded with China Three Gorges Corporation (CTG) came into effect in December 2011, this company (and three other group companies) became part of EDP's General and Supervisory Board. Under the strategic partnership with China Three Gorges Corporation, on 28 June 2013 EDP Renováveis, S.A. sold for a total final price of 368 millions of Euros to a CTG Group company (CITIC CWEI Renewables S.C.A.) a 49% shareholding in EDP Renováveis Portugal and 25% of the shareholder loans capital and supplementary capital contributions under the applicable rules for additional contributions granted to this company. Also under this partnership, on 6 December 2013, EDP Brasil signed a memorandum of understanding with CWE Investment Corporation (CWEI), currently designated as China Three Gorges Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of CTG, setting out the main guidelines for a future partnership in joint investments between EDP Brasil and CWEI and that governs parties' participation in joint projects in Brazil. These investments by CWEI Brasil will be considered for purposes of fulfilment of the strategic partnership agreement in relation to the total investment of 2 billions of Euros to be made by CTG up to 2015 (including co-funding of operating investments) in ready-to-build and operational renewable energy generation projects. Balances and transactions with companies of China Three Gorges Group In June 2013, in accordance with the EDP/CTG strategic partnership, EDP Renováveis Group has completed the sale, without loss of control of 49% equity shareholding in EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. As a result, the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 111,231 thousands of Euros and an impact in reserves attributable to Group of 112,566 thousands of Euros. Following the conclusion of the sale, CTG holds a loan over EDPR Group in the amount of 111 millions of Euros. The maturity date of this loan is December 2022, bearing interest at a fixed rate of 5.5% and the interests are paid half-yearly. At 31 December 2015, this loan amounts to 81,315 thousands of Euros (see note 40). On 27 June 2014, EDP Energias do Brasil concluded the sale to China Three Gorges of 50% of the stake held in Jari (CEJA) and Cachoeira Caldeirão hydro power plant projects, with the consequent loss of control. The total amount of the transaction, paid by CWEI, subsidiary controlled by CTG, to EDP Brasil was 420,646 thousands of Reais, generating a gain in the amount of 130,676 thousands of Euros (407,926 thousands of Reais), recognised in the income statement (see note 7). On 11 November 2014, EDP Energias do Brasil concluded the sale to China Three Gorges, through CWEI (Brasil) Participações Ltda. (CWEI), of 50% of its 66.67% stake in the company holding the rights to develop the São Manoel hydro power plant project, with the consequent loss of control. CWEI becomes São Manoel’s shareholder together with EDP Brasil and Companhia Furnas Centrais Elétricas S.A. (Furnas), with resulting ownerships of 33.334%, 33.333% and 33.333%, respectively, of São Manoel’s social capital. Empresa de Energia São Manoel S.A. holds the construction and exploration concession of São Manoel hydro power plant, with installed capacity of 700MW, which is to be built on the frontier between Mato Grosso and Pará States, in Teles Pires River. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 371 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 On 30 December 2014, EDP concluded the sale to China Three Gorges of 50% of the stake held in EDP Ásia Investimento e Consultoria, Limitada (EDP Ásia), with the consequent loss of control. The total amount of the transaction, paid by ACE Asia (company holded by CWEI Hong Kong Company Limited, currently designated China Three Gorges Hong Kong, a subsidiary of China Three Gorges) to EDP Group was 94,222 thousands of Euros, generating a gain in the amount of 117,978 thousands of Euros, recognised in the consolidated income statement (see note 13). On 19 May 2015, EDP Renováveis, S.A. has completed the sale to CTG, of a 49% equity shareholding in selected wind farms in Brazil. This transaction was recognised as a sale without loss of control, having the Group recognised non-controlling interests of 50,943 thousands of Euros and an impact in reserves attributable to the Group of 10,337 thousands of Euros (see note 5). Balances with EDP Pension Fund In December 2015, EDP, S.A. signed a lease contract related with the fractions of the Porto headquarters (sold to the EDP Pension Fund in late December) for a period of 25 years with an implicit rate of 6.42%. The present value of the contract amounts to 31,867 thousands of Euros, which given the nature of it, was booked as Property, Plant and Equipment against Other creditors and other liabilities (see notes 16 and 40). Balances and transactions with subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates In the normal course of its business, EDP Group companies established commercial transactions and operations with other Group companies, whose terms reflect normal market conditions. The credits and debits over subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, at Company level, are analysed as follows: Credits held December 2015 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. receivable Credits Total Balwerk 854 206,193 917 207,964 EDP Comercial 43,934 75,457 207,930 327,321 EDP Distribuição 244,016 2,297,781 125,055 2,666,852 EDP Finance BV 132,760 132,760 EDP Produção 470,701 4,295,300 120,781 4,886,782 EDP Imobiliária e Participações 105,535 376 105,911 EDP Renováveis 597,504 597,504 EDP Servicios Financieros (España) 893,616 7 893,623 Others 13,125 43,652 323,464 380,241 772,630 7,917,534 1,508,794 10,198,958 December 2014 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. receivable Credits Total Balwerk 210,000 24 210,024 EDP Comercial 24,777 45,471 194,828 265,076 EDP Distribuição 4,711 2,847,897 29,352 2,881,960 EDP Finance BV 59,975 59,975 EDP Produção 334,618 4,332,139 206,128 4,872,885 EDP Imobiliária e Participações 383 120,741 82 121,206 EDP Renováveis 350,446 350,446 Others 14,796 45,181 174,593 234,570 379,285 7,601,429 1,015,428 8,996,142 ANNUAL REPORT 372 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Debits held December 2015 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. payable Debits Total EDP Finance BV 11,618,920 111,774 11,730,694 EDP Produção 330,002 330,002 EDP Soluções Comerciais 31,508 1,233 32,741 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico 7 34,270 34,277 Pebble Hydro 64,014 1,575 65,589 Naturgas Comercializadora 114,844 114,844 Others 34,383 88,180 122,563 65,891 11,682,941 681,878 12,430,710 The amount of 11,618,920 thousands of Euros includes 5 intragroup bonds issuance by EDP Finance BV to EDP SA as at 31 December 2015, in the total amount of 7,933,212 thousands of Euros, of variable rate at medium-long term (5, 7 and 10 years). December 2014 Intra-Group Loans and Financial Interests Other Thousands of Euros Mov. payable Debits Total EDP Finance BV 10,668,797 91,815 10,760,612 EDP Produção 420,542 420,542 EDP Serviço Universal 99,641 99,641 Pebble Hydro 78,038 927 78,965 Naturgas Comercializadora 37,093 37,093 Others 81,982 24,704 153,652 260,338 81,982 10,771,539 803,670 11,657,191 Expenses and income related to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, at Company level, are analysed as follows: Expenses December 2015 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Obtained Losses Total EDP Finance BV -368,476 -87,076 -455,552 EDP Produção -1,203,573 -1,203,573 Naturgas Comercializadora -94,939 -94,939 Others -994 -439 -177,190 -178,623 -994 -368,915 -1,562,778 -1,932,687 December 2014 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Obtained Losses Total EDP Finance BV -386,909 -114,000 -500,909 EDP Produção -303 -1,138,019 -1,138,322 Naturgas Comercializadora -76,004 -76,004 Others -148 -2,009 -155,982 -158,139 -451 -388,918 -1,484,005 -1,873,374 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 373 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Income December 2015 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Granted Gains Total EDP Comercial 271 1,536 1,003,638 1,005,445 EDP Distribuição 2,214 172,829 156,099 331,142 EDP Gás.Com 62 139,987 140,049 EDP Produção 2,718 226,602 465,197 694,517 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico 414,361 414,361 Others 552 14,267 456,524 471,343 5,817 415,234 2,635,806 3,056,857 December 2014 Interest on Intra-Group Interest Financial on Loans Other Thousands of Euros Mov. Granted Gains Total EDP Comercial 813 812 898,275 899,900 EDP Distribuição 9,757 169,354 46,262 225,373 EDP Gás.Com 196 149,812 150,008 EDP Produção 3,589 302,763 450,168 756,520 Others 3,509 23,728 400,020 427,257 17,864 496,657 1,944,537 2,459,058 Assets, liabilities and transactions with related companies, for the Group, are analysed as follows: Assets and Liabilities December 2015 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net Value Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 15,357 4,910 10,447 Cide HC Energía 9,185 2,290 6,895 HC Tudela Cogeneración 3,645 2,221 1,424 Others 31,195 3,451 27,744 59,382 12,872 46,510 Associates MABE Construção e Administração de Projectos, Ltda. 3,582 2,231 1,351 Inch Cape Offshore Limited 25,731 25,731 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 12,787 12,787 Others 6,911 525 6,386 49,011 2,756 46,255 108,393 15,628 92,765 December 2014 Thousands of Euros Assets Liabilities Net Value Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 15,204 5,055 10,149 Cide HC Energía 4,254 1,310 2,944 Porto do Pecém 141,545 2,260 139,285 Others 8,577 7,549 1,028 169,580 16,174 153,406 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 393,463 393,463 Inch Cape Offshore Limited 21,541 21,541 Setgás 9,032 9,032 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 14,198 14,198 Others 14,675 531 14,144 452,909 531 452,378 622,489 16,705 605,784 ANNUAL REPORT 374 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Transactions December 2015 Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros Income Income Expenses Expenses Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 1,847 239 -49,248 Cide HC Energía 94,954 29 -742 HC Tudela Cogeneración 73 118 -4,541 -5 Porto do Pecém 18,393 2,243 Others 5,339 599 -1,365 120,606 3,228 -55,896 -5 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 1,196 16,353 Korsokuntza, AIE 4,564 Setgás 468 -4,533 Others 2,883 1,235 -1,194 -2 8,643 18,056 -5,727 -2 129,249 21,284 -61,623 -7 December 2014 Operating Financial Operating Financial Thousands of Euros Income Income Expenses Expenses Joint Ventures EDP Produção Bioeléctrica 1,883 293 -49,465 Cide HC Energía 85,930 23 -81 Porto do Pecém 82,686 6,092 -14,977 Others 2,727 45 -24,865 -1 173,226 6,453 -89,388 -1 Associates ENEOP Eólicas de Portugal 20,852 Inch Cape Offshore Limited Setgás 283 504 -269 Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero 12 519 Others 7,834 902 -843 -3 8,129 22,777 -1,112 -3 181,355 29,230 -90,500 -4 46. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Fair value of financial instruments is based, whenever available, on listed market prices. Otherwise, fair value is determined through internal models, which are based on cash flow discounting techniques and option valuation models or through quotations supplied by third parties. These models are developed considering the market variables which affect the financial instruments, namely yield curves, exchange rates and volatility factors. Market data is obtained from stock exchange and suppliers of financial data (Bloomberg). As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, the following table presents the interest rate curves of the major currencies to which the Group is exposed used for cash flow discount: 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Currency Currency EUR USD EUR USD 3 months -0.13% 0.61% 0.08% 0.26% 6 months -0.04% 0.85% 0.17% 0.36% 1 year 0.06% 1.18% 0.33% 0.63% 2 years -0.03% 1.18% 0.18% 0.90% 3 years 0.06% 1.42% 0.22% 1.30% 4 years 0.19% 1.59% 0.28% 1.58% 5 years 0.33% 1.74% 0.36% 1.78% 6 years 0.48% 1.85% 0.44% 1.93% 7 years 0.62% 1.95% 0.53% 2.05% 8 years 0.76% 2.04% 0.62% 2.14% 9 years 0.89% 2.12% 0.72% 2.21% 10 years 1.00% 2.19% 0.81% 2.28% ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 375 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The fair value of financial assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2015 and 2014, is analysed as follows: Group Dec 2015 Group Dec 2014 Carrying Carrying Fair value Difference Fair value Difference Thousands of Euros amount amount Financial assets Available for sale investments 200,206 200,206 224,457 224,457 Trade receivables 1,996,604 1,996,604 2,119,694 2,119,694 Debtors/other assets from commercial activities 4,784,614 4,784,614 4,786,268 4,786,268 Other debtors and other assets 354,045 354,045 725,979 725,979 Derivative financial instruments 533,330 533,330 373,746 373,746 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 9,288 9,288 10,665 10,665 Collateral deposits/financial debt 79,915 79,915 429,170 429,170 Cash and cash equivalents 1,245,449 1,245,449 2,613,995 2,613,995 9,203,451 9,203,451 11,283,974 11,283,974 Financial liabilities Financial debt 19,270,540 19,688,886 418,346 20,298,183 21,191,600 893,417 Suppliers and accruals 1,747,641 1,747,641 1,813,613 1,813,613 Institutional partnerships in USA 1,956,217 1,956,217 1,801,963 1,801,963 Trade/other payables from commercial activities 2,257,553 2,257,553 2,027,557 2,027,557 Other liabilities and other payables 470,225 470,225 491,442 491,442 Derivative financial instruments 389,485 389,485 261,839 261,839 26,091,661 26,510,007 418,346 26,694,597 27,588,014 893,417 Considering the EDP Group’s structure of financial assets and liabilities booked at amortised cost has essentially a short term nature and level 2, the effect of changes in the fair value has not been considered. Fair value of EDP Group’s loans was determined considering current market interest rates. The market value of loans is calculated based on the discounted cash flows at market interest rates at the balance sheet date, increased by the best estimate, at the same date, of market conditions applicable to Group's debt, based on its average term. According to IFRS 13 requirements, EDP Group established the way it obtains the fair value of its financial assets and liabilities. The levels used are defined as follows: ● Level 1 – Fair value based on the available listed price (not adjusted) in the identified active markets for assets and liabilities; ● Level 2 – Fair value based in market inputs not included in level 1, but observable in the market for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and ● Level 3 – Fair value of the assets and liabilities calculated with inputs that are not based on observable market information. 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Thousands of Euros Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Available for sale investments 105,196 61,277 33,733 116,383 59,584 48,490 Derivative financial instruments 533,330 373,746 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 9,288 10,665 105,196 594,607 43,021 116,383 433,330 59,155 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 389,485 261,839 389,485 261,839 As at 31 December 2015 and 2014, the movement in financial assets and liabilities included in Level 3 is analysed as follows: Financial assets at fair Available for sale value through profit investments or loss Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Balance at beginning of period 48,490 47,729 10,665 4,217 Change in fair value 2,175 -206 Acquisitions 1,231 1,451 2,898 9,068 Disposals -905 -168 Impairment -9 -118 Other changes -17,249 -198 -4,275 -2,620 Balance at the end of the period 33,733 48,490 9,288 10,665 The assumptions used in the determination of Available for sale investments fair value are described in note 21, as stated in IFRS 13. ANNUAL REPORT 376 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 47. CO2 LICENCES The movements in the portfolio of CO2 licences held for trading and classified as inventories are analysed as follows: Group CO2 (Ton) Dec 2015 Dec 2014 CO2 licences held for trading on 1 January 3,518,479 4,939,052 Licences acquired in the market 10,534,000 6,976,000 Emission licences transferred from intangibles to the trading portfolio 4,103,253 Emission licences transferred from trading portfolio to intangibles -1,925,000 Licences sold -16,230,732 -8,396,573 CO2 licences held for trading on 31 December 3,518,479 CO2 licences for trading on 31 December (in thousands of Euros) 23,360 Purchases and sales of licences are booked based on the listed price on the transaction date. Emission licences transferred to the trading portfolios are classified as Inventories (see note 24), in accordance with Accounting policy note 2 y). Fair value corresponds to the spot price (closing price) at the end of December in each period. 48. RELEVANT OR SUBSEQUENT EVENTS EDPR informs about wind offshore projects in the UK On 21 July 2015, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR) announced that has reached agreements with Repsol Nuevas Energías S.A. (Repsol) by which, under the terms of the contracts, EDPR agreed to buy from Repsol 33% equity interest in Moray offshore project, and to sell to Repsol 49% equity interest in Inch Cape offshore project. With the conclusion of these transactions EDPR will fully own the Moray offshore project, while Repsol will fully own the Inch Cape offshore project. Both projects are located in the UK and the completion of these transactions are subject to approval by The Crown Estate and other customary regulatory approvals. EDP Renováveis signs agreement to acquire licenses for 216 MW of wind energy in Portugal On 7 October 2015, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR), 77.5% controlled by EDP, informed that it has reached an agreement with Ventinveste S.A. (Ventinveste), a consortium led by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and Martifer, SGPS, S.A., for the acquisition of a group of special purpose vehicles (SPVs) that hold licenses and interconnection rights corresponding to a total of 216.4 MW of wind energy capacity in Portugal, for a reference price of approximaly 17 millions of Euros. This wind energy capacity was awarded with a long-term feed-in tariff in 2007, under the Phase B of a tender launched by the Portuguese Government. Following the agreement reached between the Portuguese Government and several operators in the wind energy sector in September 2012, the 216.4 MW will be remunerated according to a feed in-tariff for a 20-year period (or a maximum of 44 GWh/MW). With this transaction EDPR intends to maximize the value created from projects since the early stages of development by applying its distinctive technical and wind assessment know-how. The commissioning and beginning of operations of EDPR’s new wind farms is expected to occur until 2018. EDP acquires 25.3% stake in Portgás On 6 November 2015, EDP, through its subsidiary EDP Gás – SGPS, S.A., has agreed with GDF International and S.E.S. – Suez Energy Services, both subsidiaries of Engie (Engie Subsidiaries) the acquisition of a 25.3% stake in Portgás – Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. (Portgás) valued at 42 millions of Euros, as well as the reimbursement to Engie Subsidiaries of shareholder loans in the amount of 13 millions of Euros at December 2015. Portgás has the concession for the development of the natural gas distribution network in 29 Municipalities in Portugal, namely for the Districts of Porto, Braga and Viana do Castelo. In 2014, it distributed 6,853 GWh of natural gas to 314 thousand points of supply. This transaction will increase EDP Gas – SGPS, S.A.’s stake in Portgás from 72% to 97.3%. The execution of the transaction is subject to the customary regulatory approvals. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 377 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 EDPR announces the sale of minority stakes in Poland and Italy On 28 December 2015, EDP Renováveis S.A. (EDPR), through its subsidiary EDP Renewables Europe, S.L., entered into an agreement with ACE Poland S.A.R.L. and ACE Italy S.A.R.L., both of which 100% owned by ACE Investment Fund LP – an entity participated of China Three Gorges Hong Kong Ltd, a fully-owned subsidiary of China Three Gorges (CTG) – to sell 49% of equity shareholding and shareholder loans in a portfolio of wind assets with 598 MW of capacity in Poland and Italy, for a total consideration of 392 millions of Euros. The transaction scope covers 392 MW in operation in Poland and 100 MW in Italy, with an average age of 4 years, as well as 107 MW under construction in Poland and in Italy. The transaction is subject to the customary regulatory and other approvals and is expected to be completed within the first half of 2016. The agreement is made in the context of the 2.000 millions of Euros strategic partnership established in December of 2011 between EDPR’s principal shareholder, EDP – Energias de Portugal, S.A., and CTG. EDPR executes a new asset rotation transaction in the US During the last quarter of 2015, EDP Renovaveis S.A., reached an agreement with a consortium of investors led by Axium Infrastructure (Axium), to sell a minority cash equity interest representing 340 MW in a US wind portfolio with a total production capacity of 1,002 MW. This is the third asset rotation transaction announced by EDPR with Axium, further strengthening the existing partnership. The portfolio is comprised of 6 operating wind farms. All of the wind farms have long-term offtake agreements in place. Based on the i) the transaction price and ii) the outstanding and expected tax equity liabilities of the projects, the total enterprise value on the 340 MW portfolio amounts to 590 millions of US Dollars translating to 1.7 millions of US Dollars/MW. Fiera Axium funded 307.5 millions of US Dollars in January 2016 after all assets involved had achieved commercial operations. EDP Renováveis awarded with 93 MW in the Spanish renewable energy auction On 14 January 2016, EDP Renováveis, S.A. was awarded with rights for the pre-registry of 93 MW of wind energy capacity in Spain. Following the outcome of the auction, the awarded capacity will be remunerated according with the Spanish wholesale market and could be installed until 2020. EDPR has already identified, within its pipeline, specific competitive projects with high load factors that could be allocated to this awarded capacity. EDP acquires gas distribution assets from Repsol in the north of Spain On 25 January 2016, EDP, through its subsidiary for the gas business in Spain, Naturgas Energía Grupo, S.A. (Naturgas) has reached an agreement with Repsol, S.A. (Repsol), for the acquisition of gas distribution assets in the north of Spain. The assets acquired comprise approximately 82,000 supply points of liquefied propane gas (LPG), in Naturgas incumbent areas (Basque Country, Cantabria and Asturias regions). The agreed transaction price represents an enterprise value of 116 millions of Euros, with an expected incremental annual EBITDA of 13 millions of Euros. The completion of the transaction, subject to due diligence and other conditions including authorizations by the competition authority and relevant regulatory authorities, is expected to occur in the second half of 2016. The transaction will allow EDP to increase its gas distribution network in Spain by 9%, to approximately to 1 million of gas supply points, strengthening its strategic position as a leading player for gas distribution and supply in the Iberian market. EDP sells tariff deficit in Portugal On 29 January 2016, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A., the last resort supplier of the Portuguese electricity system, 100% owned by EDP Group, agreed the sale of 94 millions of Euros of the 2014 tariff deficit related with overcost special regime generation. This tariff deficit resulted from the 5-year deferral of the recovery of the 2014 overcost with the acquisition of energy from special regime generation (including adjustments for 2012 and 2013). Conclusion of sale by EDP Brasil of two mini-hydro plants On 29 January 2016, following the information released to the market on 15 July 2015, EDP – Energias do Brasil S.A., 51% controlled by EDP, has completed the sale to Cachoeira Escura Energética S.A. of 100% of Pantanal Energética Ltda for 390 millions of Reais, of which 355 millions of Reais paid on that date, while the remaining 35 millions of Reais shall be paid until July 2017, upon the fulfilment of pending contractual obligations. ANNUAL REPORT 378 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Moody's affirms EDP at Baa3 and outlook at stable On 15 February 2016, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) affirmed its Baa3 / Prime-3 senior unsecured ratings of EDP, its finance subsidiary EDP Finance B.V. and its Spanish subsidiary, Hidroelectrica del Cantabrico. The outlook on all ratings is stable. 49. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED Standards, amendments and interpretations issued effective for the Group The new interpretation that has been issued and is already effective and applied by EDP Group on its financial statements is the following: ● IFRIC 21 Levies The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in May 2013, IFRIC 21 Levies, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 17 June 2014, being allowed its early adoption. This interpretation clarifies that: a levy is an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that is imposed by governments on entities, in accordance with legislation; and, the recognition of the liability corresponds to the payment of a levy that results from the activity that triggers the payment of the levy, as identified by the legislation (obligating event). The adoption of this interpretation does not impact the amounts presented on the annual consolidated financial statements, but only the amounts that were presented on the condensed consolidated financial statements of 2015 (interim basis). The new standards and interpretations that have been issued and are already effective and that the Group has applied on its consolidated financial statements with no significant impact are the following: ● Annual Improvement Project (2011-2013). Standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group The standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group, which impact is being evaluated, are the following: ● IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in November 2009, IFRS 9 Financial instruments part I: Classification and measurement, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, being allowed its early adoption. This standard, changed in July 2014, has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This standard is included in the IASB's comprehensive project to replace IAS 39 and relates to issues of classification and measurement of financial instruments. The main issues considered are as follows: the financial assets can be classified in two categories: at amortised cost or at fair value. This decision will be made upon the initial recognition of the financial assets. Its classification depends on how the entity presents these financial assets and the contractual cash flows associated to each financial asset in the business; debt instruments can only be measured at amortised cost when the contractual cash-flows represent only principal and interest payments, which means that it contains only basic loan features, and for which an entity holds the asset to collect the contractual cash flows. All the other debt instruments are recognised at fair value; equity instruments issued by third parties are recognised at fair value with subsequent changes recognised in the profit and loss. However, an entity can irrevocably select equity instruments at initial recognition for which fair value changes and the realised gains or losses are recognised in fair value reserves. Gains and losses recognised in fair value reserves can not be recycled to profit and loss. This is a discretionary decision, and does not imply that all the equity instruments should be treated on this basis. The dividends received are recognised as income for the period; the exemption that allows unquoted equity investments and related derivatives to be measured at cost, under IAS 39, is not allowed under IFRS 9; and changes in fair value attributable to own credit risk of financial liabilities classified as fair value through profit or loss, shall be recognised in Other comprehensive income. The remaining fair value changes related to these financial liabilities shall be recognised through profit or loss. The amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income shall not be reclassified/transferred to profit and loss. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 379 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 ● IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in May 2014, IFRS 11 (Amended) Accounting for acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment introduces guidance on accounting that should be made in the acquisition of participation in joint operations that qualifies as a business, by applying the principles of IFRS 3 Business Combinations. ● IFRS 15 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from the Contracts with Customers, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, being allowed its early adoption. This standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This new standard presents the principles that shall be applied by an entity in order to provide more useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, term and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a client. The core principle of IFRS 15 is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services, as provided in the 5 steps methodology. The 5 steps methodology consists in the following steps: (i) identify the contract with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to performance obligations; and (v) recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. ● IFRS 16 Leases The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in January 2016, IFRS 16 Leases, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with earlier adoption permitted for entities that have also adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases, and supersedes IAS 17 Leases and its associated interpretative guidance. The objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information to the users of financial statements, namely about the effect that leases have on the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the entity. The main issues considered are as follows: inclusion of some considerations in order to distinguish leases from service contracts, based on the existence of control of the underlying asset at the time that it is available for use by the lessee; and introduction of a single lessee accounting model that requires a lessee to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value. A lessee is required to recognise a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying leased asset and a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments. As a consequence, a lessee recognises depreciation costs and interest costs separately. ● IAS 1 (Amended) Disclosure Initiative The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in December 2014, amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. The following narrow scope amendments have been made to IAS1: Materiality and aggregation: clarifies that an entity should not hide useful information by aggregating our disaggregating information; and that materiality considerations apply to the primary statements, notes and any specific disclosure requirements in IFRSs, i.e. disclosures specifically required by IFRSs need to be provided only if the information is material; Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income: clarifies that the list of line items specifid by IAS 1 for these statements can be disaggregated as relevant. Additional guidance has been on the presentation of subtotals in these statements; Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income ( OCI ): clarifies that an entity's share of OCI of equity-accounted a in associates and joint ventures shoul be presented in aggregate as single line items based on whether or not it will subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss; and Notes: clarifies that entities have the flexibility when designing the structure of the notes and provides guidance on how to determine a systematic order of the notes. ANNUAL REPORT 380 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 ● IAS 7 (Amended) Disclosure Initiative The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in January 2016, amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017, being allowed its early adoption. This standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. These amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, such as: Changes from financing cash flows; Changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses; The effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; or Changes in fair values. These disclosures may be presented by providing a reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from financing activities. ● IAS 19 (Amended) Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans Employee Contributions The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), issued in November 2013, IAS 19 (Amended) Employee Benefits: Defined Benefit Plans Employee Contributions, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 February 2015, being allowed its early adoption. This amendment allows for: contributions that are independent of the number of years of service to be recognised as a reduction in the service cost in the period in which the service is rendered, instead of allocating the contributions to periods of service; and other contributions made by employees or third parties to be attributed to periods of service either using the plan's contribution formula or on a straight-line basis. ● IAS 27 (Amended) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) issued, in August 2014, IAS 27 (Amended) Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, with effective date of mandatory application for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016, being allowed its early adoption. The amendment reinstate the equity method as an accounting option for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates in an entity's separate financial statements. The standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not yet effective for the Group with no significant impact are the following: ● IFRS 10 (Amended), IFRS 12 (Amended) and IAS 28 (Amended) Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception; ● IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts; ● IAS 12 (Amended) Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses; ● IAS 16 (Amended) and IAS 38 (Amended) Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation; ● Annual Improvement Project (2010-2012); and ● Annual Improvement Project (2012-2014). 50. EDP BRANCH IN SPAIN The aim of EDP Energias de Portugal Sociedade Anónima, Sucursal en España is to manage and coordinate the energy interests of subsidiaries depending from EDP Group in Spain, organised through managing and monitoring structures, in order to ensure the maximum synergy and value creation in the operations and activities in Spain, also assuming itself as an organizational platform to lead the Iberian integration of shared and support services (back and middle offices). On this basis, the majority interests in EDP Renováveis, S.A., EDP Servicios Financieros (España), S.A. and HC Energia (Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico S.A.), as well as the indirect majority interest in NG Energia (Naturgás Energia Grupo S.A.), are directly allocated to the assets of EDP Sucursal. The Spanish branch of EDP has offices in Madrid and Oviedo. From a formal and legal point of view, the representation of the Spanish branch of EDP before third parties is ensured through the permanent representatives, which are members of the Executive Board of Directors of EDP, mandated for that purpose. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 381 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The structure of direction, coordination, management and representation of the Spanish branch of EDP is composed of an Executive Committee, a Management Committee and direct representation on iberian ambit EDP Management Committee. The Executive Committee is composed essentially of five permanent representatives, a Corporate General Director (Group Controller for the activities in Spain) and by first line directors of the business units in Spain, which constitute the main direction and coordination body of the Branch, being responsible for the coordination of the activities of the permanent representatives and of the Management Committee. The Management Committee is chaired by the Corporate General Director and is composed by the natural extension of the Departments of the Corporate Centre of EDP in Spain, namely the Department of M&A ( Direção de Análise de Negócios ), Department of Legal Affairs ( Direção de Assessoria Jurídica ), Department of Internal Audit ( Direção de Auditoria ), Department of Administration and Finance ( Direção de Administração e Finanças ), Department of Human Resources ( Direção de Recursos Humanos ), Department of Commercial Shared Services ( Direção de Serviços Partilhados Comerciais ), Department of EDP Spain Foundation ( Direção da Fundação EDP Espanha ) and IT Department ( Direção de Sistemas de Informação ) ensuring in a homogeneous way the functions of these departments transversally to the Spanish territory, being provided with 163 human resources as at 31 December 2015, including 85 in its own payroll. Lastly, the Spanish branch of EDP has direct representation on iberian ambit EDP Management Committee particularly the Energy Planning Committees, Price and Volume, Markets, Distribution Networks, Commercial and Production. The condensed statement of financial position of the Branch is analysed as follows: EDP Branch Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Investments in subsidiaries: EDP Renováveis, S.A. (see note 19) 3,854,811 2,939,889 Hidroeléctrica del Cantábrico, S.A. (HC Energia) 2,105,002 2,093,601 EDP Servicios Financieros (España), S.A. 482,695 482,695 EDP International Investments and Services, S.L. 281,854 281,854 Deferred tax assets 45,305 21,599 Other debtors and others assets (see note 27) 1,337,506 130,772 Total Non-Current Assets 8,107,173 5,950,410 Trade receivables 5,898 7,892 Debtors and other assets 185,802 268,288 Tax receivable 27,300 85,350 Cash and cash equivalents 1,494 1,391 Total Current Assets 220,494 362,921 Total Assets 8,327,667 6,313,331 Equity 5,734,304 3,948,525 Employee benefits 1,558 1,346 Trade and other payables (see note 40) 2,497,923 1,529,974 Provisions 5,820 4,791 Total Non-Current Liabilities 2,505,301 1,536,111 Trade and other payables 86,110 826,283 Tax payable 1,952 2,412 Total Current Liabilities 88,062 828,695 Total Liabilities 2,593,363 2,364,806 Total Equity and Liabilities 8,327,667 6,313,331 51. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Expenses of an environmental nature are those identified and incurred to avoid, reduce or repair damage of an environmental nature resulting from the company's normal activity. Expenses of an environmental nature are booked as expenses for the period, except if they qualify to be recognised as na asset according with IAS 16. ANNUAL REPORT 382 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Investments of an environmental nature booked as Property, plant and equipment assets during 2015 and 2014, in the Group, are Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Air and climate protection 31,479 4,096 Water management 345 276 Waste management 477 206 Soil, subterranean and surface water protection 1,523 4,717 Noise and vibration reduction 408 346 Biodiversity protection 6,469 9,271 Landscape protection 5,441 7,344 Energetic efficiency 1,694 1,667 Research and development in the environmental area 14 61 Other environmental management and protection activities 6,051 11,041 53,901 39,025 Investments recognised in Air and climate protection as Property, plant and equipment in 2015 include: (i) costs incurred by HC Energia in the construction of a denitrification system in Aboño and Soto plants to start operations in 2016 and 2017 in the amount of 29,287 thousands of Euros; and (ii) costs incurred by EDP Produção of 2,155 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,344 thousands of Euros) in the revitalization of the gas desulphurisation and denitrification equipments in Sines thermoelectric plant. During the period, the Group recognised expenses that are analysed as follows: Group Thousands of Euros Dec 2015 Dec 2014 Air and climate protection 9,872 6,852 Water management 10,546 8,500 Waste management 12,162 11,602 Soil, subterranean and surface water protection 3,126 3,296 Noise and vibration reduction 79 80 Biodiversity protection 3,794 2,895 Landscape protection 8 10 Energetic efficiency 951 1,500 Radiations management 9 53 Research and development in the environmental area 949 888 Other environmental management and protection activities 9,223 8,969 50,719 44,645 Under current and future socioeconomic trends and practices followed by the EDP Group regarding to sustainability and environment, the group accounts for provisions to cover the costs of dismantling, decommissioning, restoring and decontaminating land where electric power plants are located, of 79,455 thousands of Euros and 42,100 thousands of Euros for thermoelectric power plants located in Portugal and Spain, respectively. Regarding the liability to dismantle and restore the land where wind farms are located to its original condition, as at 31 December 2015, the provisions amount to 117,228 thousands of Euros. Additionally, the provision to dismantle the Trillo nuclear power plant amounts to 35,471 thousands of Euros (see notes 2 o) and 37). During 2015, the EDP Group incurred in fines and other penalties for breaching environmental regulations and indemnities to third parties related to damages caused in the past with pollution of 35 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 78 thousands of Euros). Environmental income recognised in 2015 relates to the sale of by-products of 2,047 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,761 thousands of Euros) and the sale of environmental waste of 2,012 thousands of Euros (31 December 2014: 1,676 thousands of Euros). 52. TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS As mentioned in note 3, in Portugal, Decree Law 237-B/2006 of 19 December 2006 and Decree Law 165/2008 of 21 August, refer to the transfer to third parties of the right to receive tariff adjustments (deviations and deficits) of the National Electricity System, through which the EDP Group has made, since 2008, a number of transfer operations of financial assets. For the following operations, assets were transferred to securitisation companies, that financed their purchases trough debt securities registered in the Securities Commission (CMVM): • In March 2009, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus Sociedade de Titularização de créditos, S.A. (Tagus), the right to receive the non-regular tariff adjustments (tariff deficit) related to 2007 and 2008 of 1,225,376 thousands of Euros. With the sale of those rights, EDP Group received 1,204,422 thousands of Euros, generating a loss of 22,969 thousands of Euros (including financial expenses incurred); • In December 2009, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive the non-regular tariff adjustments (tariff deficit) related to the estimated special regime overcost related to 2009 of 447,469 thousands of Euros. The transaction totalised 434,720 thousands of Euros, net of expenses, and generated a loss of 12,749 thousands of Euros; ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 383 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 • In May 2013, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2012 overcost of the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime production, in the amount of 422,692 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 450,000 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 22,510 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Serviço Universal of Service of Class R Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 400 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 4,695 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2017. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a settlement account and a reserve for administrative expenses and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 1,556 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2015; • In April 2014, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive part of the electricity adjustment related to the 2013 overcost of the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime production, in the amount of 694,857 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 750,000 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 50,141 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Serviço Universal Service of Class R Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 473 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 5,588 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2018. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a settlement account and a reserve for administrative expenses and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 3,275 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2015; • In December 2014, EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A., sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to recover part of the 2012 CMEC compensation adjustment in the amount of 228,826 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 239,832 thousands of Euros generating a gain of 10,711 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Distribuição of Expense Reserve Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 317 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 2,690 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2019. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a reserve for administrative expenses and a liquidity reserve account and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 1,962 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2015; and • In March 2015, EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. sold without recourse to Tagus, the right to receive part of the tariff adjustment related to the 2014 overcost of the acquisition of electricity activity from special regime production, in the amount of 465,418 thousands of Euros. The transaction was performed by the amount of 499,461 thousands of Euros, generating a gain of 31,737 thousands of Euros, net of expenses. This transaction also involved the acquisition by EDP Serviço Universal of Class R Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 410 thousands of Euros and Liquidity Notes issued by Tagus at par value in the amount of 2,488 thousands of Euros, both maturing in 2019. These Notes are instruments that aim to establish a settlement account and a reserve for administrative expenses and are booked under financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, by the net amount of 2,495 thousands of Euros, as at 31 December 2015. Under IAS 39, the assets (tariff adjustments) transferred in these operations were derecognised from the Statement of Financial Position of EDP Group. 53. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Porto do Pecém acquisition On 9 December 2014, EDP Energias do Brasil signed a contract for the acquisition of 50% of Porto do Pecém share capital owned by Eneva, for an amount of 300 millions of Reais. According to the terms of the contract, this acquisition comprised 2 stages: • a share capital increase from Eneva in Porto do Pecém through the conversion of Eneva's shareholders loans and amounts payable for coal and energy acquisitions, in the amount of 399 millions of Reais, this way diluting EDP's 50% stake to 41.27% and holding Eneva a stake of 58.73%; and • acquisition, for an amount of 300 millions of Reais, of Eneva's 58.73% stake in Porto do Pecém. This operation was subject to the approval and authorisation of the competition authority, of ANEEL, of the funding banks (BNDES and BID) of Porto do Pecém and Eneva, as well as other creditors of Eneva. The closing of the operation occurred on the 15 May 2015, so from this date on EDP Brasil has become the owner of 100% of Porto do Pecém share capital and voting rights. Consequently, under IFRS, from this date on, EDP Group has begun to consolidate Porto do Pecém financial statements in its consolidated financial statements. Since the date of acquisition of full control over this subsidiary, Porto do Pecém has contributed for the consolidated financial statements with Revenues from energy sales in the amount of 204,859 thousands of Euros and with a Net profit for the period (attributable to Equity holders of EDP) in the amount of 20,961 thousands of Euros. If this acquisition had occurred in the beginning of the period, Porto do Pecém would have contributed for the consolidated financial statements with Revenues from energy sales in the amount of 327,798 thousands of Euros and with a net profit for the period of 2015 (attributable to Equity holders of EDP) in the amount of 1,300 thousands of Euros. Until the date of acquisition of the remaining 50% share, the shareholding previously held was being consolidated under the equity method, therefore Porto do Pecém losses were incorporated under this method until this date. ANNUAL REPORT 384 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 At the acquisition date, EDP Group has determined the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on a valuation performed by an independent third party. This valuation, which was based on the discounted cashflow method, came to a fair value of Porto do Pecém in the amount of 1,610 millions of Reais. Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date, 15 May 2015, is presented as follows: Book value at Fair value Fair value at Thousands of Reais acquisition date adjustment acquisition date Assets Property, plant and equipment 3,358,535 560,275 3,918,810 Intangible assets 2,632 107,933 110,565 Deferred tax assets 550,953 -223,812 327,141 Inventories 111,041 -44,192 66,849 Other debtors and other assets 455,553 56,000 511,553 Cash and cash equivalents 6,274 6,274 Total Assets 4,484,988 456,204 4,941,192 Liabilities Financial Debt 2,209,329 2,209,329 Provisions 5,107 21,745 26,852 Other liabilities and other payables 1,094,762 1,094,762 Total liabilities 3,309,198 21,745 3,330,943 Net Assets 1,175,790 434,459 1,610,249 Previously held investment 485,210 179,287 664,496 Acquisition of Eneva's stake 690,580 255,172 945,753 Net assets acquired 1,175,790 434,459 1,610,249 Acquisition cost of the remaining investment -300,000 Gain with a bargain purchase 645,753 Gain with the remeasurement to fair value of the previously held investment 147,910 Dilution gain 91,034 Acquisition gain at EDP Brasil level 884,697 Acquisition gain at EDP Brasil level thousands of Euros 267,325 Exchange impact on the historical conversion of equity of Porto do Pecém at EDP Group level thousands of Euros 27,613 Acquisition gain at EDP Group level thousands of Euros (see note 7) 294,938 Acquisition cashflow: Cash and cash equivalents of Porto do Pecém 6,274 Net assets acquired -300,000 Net cash outflow -293,726 Porto do Pecém valuation has determined a fair value for Property, plant and equipment in the amount 3,918,810 thousands of Reais, based on the replacement cost, generating a fair value adjustment of 560,275 thousands of Reais. In the process of identifying intangible assets, an amount of 106,855 thousands of Reais was recognised as the concession contract which authorises the generation of energy in Porto do Pecém's facility (concession right). In inventories, an impairment loss in the amount of 44,192 thousands of Reais was recognised regarding a broken generator for which the company expects to receive an insurance indemnity. This indemnity fair value has also been identified under Other debtors and other assets, in the amount of 56,000 thousands of Reais. According to IFRS 3, a contingent liability in the estimated amount of 21,745 thousands of Reais was recognised under Provisions resulting from a litigation set up by a service supplier claiming contractual default in the construction of the facility. This process is in evaluation phase in order to identify service supply breaches and its respective financial impacts, so the fair value is the best estimated potential future outflow. The tax impact of all identified assets and liabilities’ fair value adjustments is recorded under Deferred tax assets. This acquisition resulted in a gain with a bargain purchase in the amount of 195,125 thousands of Euros (645,753 thousands of Reais). This gain with a bargain purchase arises from certain circumstances that created this business opportunity, which can be resumed as follows: i) fragile financial situation of the seller, which was in risk of default of its financial obligations and of other creditors under the impendence of a recovery legal process, which, altogether, have forced the sale; ii) EDP Energias do Brasil had the ability to solve the situation in time and had also preferential conditions to buy the company under these special conditions, as it was the seller’s partner in this Porto do Pecém project and it is a solid market player with recognised experience in energy generation, so it would be the natural buyer according to the creditors banks. ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 385 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 As EDP Energias do Brasil had already a 50% stake in Porto do Pecém, this transaction was treated as a step acquisition under IFRS 3. Consequently, the previously held investment in Porto do Pecém was remeasured to fair value, and the corresponding difference for its book value, in the amount of 147,910 thousands of Reais, was recorded under Other income. Additionally, following a share capital increase only subscribed by Eneva, EDP Energias do Brasil has recorded a gain with the dilution of its share in Porto do Pecém’s share capital from 50% to 41.27%, in the amount of 91,034 thousands of Reais. These gains include the derecognition of concession rights in the amount of 3,302 thousands of Reais and the transfer to results of cashflow hedge reserves previously recognised under Other comprehensive income at EDP Energias do Brasil level, in the amount of 34,015 thousands of Reais. In summary, EDP Energias do Brasil has recorded a total gain with the control acquisition of Porto do Pecém in the amount of 884,697 thousands of Reais. Given the control acquisition, at EDP Group level, previously recognised reserves (cash flow hedge and exchange differences arising on consolidation) related to the previously held investment in Porto do Pecém, in the amount of 27,613 thousands of Euros, were transferred to results. Consequently, this transaction originated a total gain at EDP Group level of 294,938 thousands of Euros (884,697 thousands of Reais at EDP Energias do Brasil level), which is recorded under Other income (note 7). To be noted that, under the applicable Brazilian tax rules, EDP Energias do Brasil has recognised a tax effect associated with this gain in the amount of 36,293 thousands of Euros (120,109 thousands of Reais). Acquisition-related costs were recognised under Supplies and services, in the amount of 3,543 thousands of Reais (1,071 thousands of Euros). Asset Split ENEOP In 2006, EDP Group (through its subsidiary EDP Renováveis Portugal) entered into a joint business with Generg, Finerge (together with EDP the Wind Promoters ) and Enercon to develop 1,200 MW of renewable energy in Portugal. At that moment it was agreed that once all assets under construction entered into production, the Consortium (ENEOP) would be splitted following the respective competition authority's approval it. The consortium (ENEOP), through two different subsidiaries fully held by ENEOP, carried the following two activities connected with the industrial and wind farm project: ENEOP 2: construction, maintenance and exploitation of the wind farms; ENEOP 3: construction and exploitation of the industrial part of the project. It has been agreed that the split will be performed on three steps: • Merger of ENEOP 2 and ENEOP; • Demerger of ENEOP, with its dissolution, and incorporation of 4 NewCos (that issue shares to all the shareholders of ENEOP on a proportional basis), to which each one of the respective portfolios of wind farm SPVs and ENEOP 3 are transferred; and • Cross-sell disposal of the investment in the NewCos between the wind promoters and Enercon, such that each owns 100% of the respective portfolio of wind farm SPVs (in respect to the WPs) and ENEOP 3 (regarding Enercon). On 19 September, even though the above transactions have not yet been legally performed, all the conditions needed for the asset split to be performed were obtained, namely the decision of non-opposition from the competition authority (AdC), Direção Geral de Energia e Geologia (DGEG) and banks (EIB and other commercial banks). This, together with the shareholders agreement signed between the wind promoters and the change of the corporate bodies of the SPVs, gave EDP the effective control over the agreed portfolio, as the pending issues to be closed for the legal Asset Split to take place are merely administrative procedures, and therefore not relevant in terms of control assesment. For simplification purposes, and considering this does not have a material effect, the Group used the financial statements as at 31 August 2015, of the twelve companies, to determine pre-acquisition results and, consequently, these companies have been fully consolidated from the 1 September 2015. Until 31 December 2015 all of the above-mentioned steps have been legally performed, so the Asset Split process is legally finished at this date. Since the date of acquisition of full control over this portfolio, it has contributed to the consolidated financial statements with Revenues from energy sales in the amount of 33,917 thousands of Euros and with a net profit for the period (attributable to Equity holders of EDP) in the amount of 3,216 thousands of Euros. If this acquisition had occurred in the beginning of the period, it would have contributed to the consolidated financial statements with Revenues from energy sales in the amount of 102,698 thousands of Euros and with a Net profit for the period (attributable to Equity holders of EDP) in the amount of 9,131 thousands of Euros. Until the date of the took of control, the shareholding previously held was being consolidated under the equity method, therefore the result was incorporated under this method until this date in the amount of 5,986 thousands of Euros. ANNUAL REPORT 386 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 At the acquisition date, EDP Group has determined the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on a valuation performed by an independent third party. This valuation, which was based on the discounted cashflow method, came to an equity fair value of the portfolio in which EDP Group takes control in the amount of 230,791 thousands of Euros (preliminary version as at 30 September 2015: 208,474 thousands of Euros). Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities at the acquisition date is presented as follows: Book value at Fair value Fair value at Thousands of Euros acquisition date adjustment acquisition date Assets Property, plant and equipment 594,492 249,671 844,163 Intangible assets 22,436 22,436 Deferred tax assets 2,621 2,621 Inventories 299 299 Other debtors and other assets 31,608 31,608 Cash and cash equivalents 99,147 99,147 Total Assets 750,603 249,671 1,000,274 Liabilities Financial Debt 250,805 250,805 Provisions 7,361 7,361 Other liabilities and other payables 455,798 55,519 511,317 Total liabilities 713,964 55,519 769,483 Net Assets 36,639 194,152 230,791 Gain with the remeasurement to fair value of the previously held investment 124,750 Control acquisition gain at EDP Group level thousands of Euros (see note 7) 124,750 Acquisition cashflow: Cash and cash equivalents of incorporated wind farms 99,147 Acquisition payment (*) -50,497 Net cash outflow 48,650 (*) The cash compensation paid at the legal asset split date amounted to 50.497 thousands of Euros (estimated amount of 49,932 thousands of Euros as at 30 September 2015) (see note 40). The above-mentioned Eneop's valuation has determined a fair value for Property, plant and equipment in the amount of 844,163 thousands of Euros (preliminary valuation as at 30 September 2015: 818,525 thousands of Euros), based on discounted cash-flows method, generating a fair value adjustment of 249,671 thousands of Euros (preliminary valuation as at 30 September 2015: 224,018 thousands of Euros) and a corresponding deferred tax liability in the amount of 55,519 thousands of Euros (preliminary valuation as at 30 September 2015: 49,840 thousands of Euros) (see note 23). As EDPR Group had already a 35.96% stake in ENEOP, this transaction was treated as a step acquisition under IFRS 3. Consequently, the previously held investment in ENEOP was remeasured to fair value, and the corresponding difference for its book value, in the amount of 124,750 thousands of Euros (preliminary valuation as at 30 September 2015: 102,479 thousands of Euros) was booked under Other income (see note 7). The total impact of the transaction gain also include the transfer to results of cashflow hedge reserves previously recognised under Other comprehensive income at EDPR level, in the amount of 11,955 thousands of Euros. Acquisition-related costs were expensed and are recognised under Supplies and services, in the amount of 837 thousands of Euros (estimated amount of 420 thousands of Euros as at 30 September 2015). 54. OPERATING SEGMENTS REPORT In accordance with IFRS 8, an operating segment is a Group component: (i) that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses; (ii) whose operating results are reviewed regularly by the Group's chief operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance; and (iii) for which discrete financial information is available. The Group develops a set of regulated and liberalised activities in the energy sector, with special emphasis in generation, distribution and supply of electricity and gas. The Group manages its activities based on several business segments, which includes the activities in Iberia. Moreover, the EDP Group also makes a separate analysis of the electricity generation business through renewable power sources, which is achieved in a specific segment (EDP Renováveis). Finally, taking into consideration the specificity of the Brazilian market, the Group also makes a separate analysis of the electricity generation, distribution and supply businesses in Brazil (EDP Brasil). ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 387 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The Executive Board of Directors regularly reviews segmental reports, using Operating Profit to assess and release each business operating performance, as well as to allocate resources. The management of financial activities of all EDP Group entities (except Brazil) is undertaken centrally by the Financial Department at holding level, in accordance with policies approved by the Executive Board of Directors. As a result of this management, all financial operations and financial results are disclosed only at Group level. The segments defined by the Group are the following: • Long Term Contracted Generation in Iberia; • Liberalised Activities in Iberia; • Regulated Networks in Iberia; • EDP Renováveis; and • EDP Brasil. The Long Term Contracted Generation in Iberia segment corresponds to the activity of electricity generation of plants with CMEC and SRP plants in Portugal and Spain. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. (CMEC and SRP generation); • Fisigen Empresa de Cogeração, S.A.; and • Pebble-Hydro – Consultoria, Investimentos e Serviços, Lda. The Liberalised Activities segment in Iberia corresponds to the activity of unregulated generation and supply of electricity and gas in Portugal and Spain. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. (liberalised generation); • Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana, S.A.; • Hidroeléctrica Del Cantábrico, S.A.U.; • Central Térmica Ciclo Combinado Grupo 4, S.A.; • EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A.; • Hidrocantábrico Energia, S.A.U.; • Naturgás Comercializadora, S.A; • EDP Gás.Com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A.; • Greenvouga Sociedade Gestora do Aproveitamento Hidroeléctrico do Ribeiradio-Ermida, S.A.; and • EDP Energía Gás S.L. Additionally, this segment includes the Iberian energy management business unit (UNGE) as well as the elimination of transactions between companies identified above. UNGE is the EDP Group unit responsible for the management of purchases and sales of energy in the Iberian market, and also for the related hedging transactions. The Regulated Networks segment in Iberia corresponds to the activities of electricity and gas distribution in Portugal and Spain and last resort supplier. This segment includes, namely, the following companies: • EDP Distribuição Energia, S.A.; • EDP Serviço Universal, S.A.; • Electra de Llobregat Energía, S.L.; • Hidrocantábrico Distribucion Eléctrica, S.A.U.; • Portgás Soc. de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A.; • EDP Gás Serviço Universal, S.A.; and • Naturgás Energia Distribución, S.A.U. The EDP Renováveis segment corresponds to the power generation activity through renewable energy resources and includes all the companies of EDPR Europe, EDPR North America and EDPR Brasil subgroups. This segment also includes the holding company EDP Renováveis, S.A., and all the adjustments between the companies composing this segment, including consolidation adjustments. The EDP Brasil segment includes the activities of electricity generation, distribution and supply in Brazil, and is composed by the holding EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. and all its subsidiaries, with the exception of EDP Renováveis Brasil which is included in the EDP Renováveis segment. As in the EDP Renováveis segment, this segment includes all the adjustments for the companies composing this segment, including consolidation adjustments. Segment Definition The amounts reported in each operating segment result from the aggregation of the subsidiaries and business units defined in each segment perimeter and the elimination of transactions between companies of the same segment. The statement of financial position captions of each subsidiary and business unit are determined based on the amounts booked directly in the companies that compose the segment, including the elimination of balances between companies of the same segment, and excluding the allocation in the segments of the adjustments between segments. ANNUAL REPORT 388 2015 EDP ‐ Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The income statement captions for each operating segment are based in the amounts booked directly in the companies financial statements and related business units, adjusted by the elimination of transactions between companies of the same segment. Nevertheless, since EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A.’s assets belong to more than one business segment, namely the CMEC and SRP generation plants allocated to the Long Term Contracted Generation and the liberalised generation plants allocated to the Liberalised Activities, it was necessary to allocate all its gains, costs, assets and liabilities to those power plants. Preferentially, it was used analytical accounting reports to allocate gains, costs, assets and liabilities by plant. For the remaining information, since those reports don’t comprise all the costs namely the shared costs in the Supplies and Services and Personnel Costs captions, and since the applicability of the previous criterion it's not possible, the shared costs were allocated in the proportion of costs directly allocated to each plant in the total costs and the remaining assets and liabilities were allocated following the proportion of each plant net assets in the total assets. In each business segment, Assets include the Property, Plant and Equipment, Intangible Assets, Goodwill, Trade Receivables and Inventories captions. The captions Debtors and other assets are allocated to each segment according to its nature. The remaining assets are presented in the Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements . In each business segment, Liabilities include the Provisions and Employee benefits captions. The captions Trade and other payables are allocated to each segment according to its nature. The remaining liabilities are presented in the Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements . Under IFRS 8, the EDP Group discloses as Operating investment, additions in non-current assets, except for financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets. Therefore, in each business segment, the Operating Investment caption includes increases in Property, Plant and Equipment and in Intangible Assets, excluding CO2 licenses and Green certificates, net of increases in Government grants, customers contributions for investment and sales of properties in the period. Goodwill is disclosed in the note 18. The EDP Group by operating segment report is presented in Annex II. Geographic information The Group manages its activity based on business segments mentioned above, however has business in several geographical locations, being its main office located in Portugal. Revenues from energy sales and services and other by geographic market, for EDP Group, are presented in note 6. Additionally, the geographical information bellow, details the Non-current assets excluding Financial instruments, Deferred tax assets and Employee benefits. In the disclosure of this information, the Revenues from energy sales and services and other, as well as the Non-current assets, are based on companies’ geographical location were the Assets are booked. Non-current assets by geographical market for the Group EDP, are as follows: Dec 2015 Thousands of Euros Iberia Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Property, plant and equipment 12,175,725 1,938,542 6,430,335 2,229,114 22,773,716 Intangible assets 4,498,527 892,393 87,771 45,943 5,524,634 Goodwill 2,487,974 46,971 724,813 128,830 3,388,588 19,162,226 2,877,906 7,242,919 2,403,887 31,686,938 Dec 2014 Thousands of Euros Iberia Brazil U.S.A. Other Group Property, plant and equipment 11,435,497 1,378,488 5,476,028 2,233,087 20,523,100 Intangible assets 4,562,052 1,142,448 81,198 27,328 5,813,026 Goodwill 2,489,177 54,223 651,264 126,622 3,321,286 18,486,726 2,575,159 6,208,490 2,387,037 29,657,412 55. EXPLANATION ADDED FOR TRANSLATION These financial statements are a free translation of the financial statements originally issued in Portuguese in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. In the event of discrepancies, the Portuguese language version prevails. ENERGY WITH EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. INTELLIGENCE 389 Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 ANNEX I. COMPANIES IN THE CONSOLIDATION PERIMETER The subsidiary companies where the Group exercises control as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Group's parent holding company and Related Activities: Portugal: EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. (EDP Group Parent Company) Lisbon 3,656,537,715 EUR 22,437,509 15,137,874 7,299,635 4,990,124 802,446 100.00% Balwerk Consultadoria Económica e Participações, Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. Lisbon 5,000 EUR 222,190 207,992 14,199 11,269 292 100.00% 100.00% CEO Comp Energia Oceânica,S.A. Póvoa do Varzim 65,435 EUR 3,927 2,271 1,655 1,423 -2 52.07% EDP Estudos e Consultoria, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 14,552 10,050 4,502 34,069 1,267 100.00% 100.00% EDP Gás SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 73,200,000 EUR 280,014 141,278 138,736 12,038 1,784 100.00% 100.00% EDP Imobiliária e Participações, S.A. Lisbon 10,000,000 EUR 140,273 110,205 30,068 5,436 -17,181 100.00% 100.00% EDP Inovação, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 28,089 26,708 1,382 5,870 -557 100.00% 100.00% EDP Internacional, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 30,436 31,237 -802 13,223 -2,318 100.00% 100.00% EDP Ventures, SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 22,828 15,172 7,656 710 -73 100.00% ENAGÁS SGPS, S.A. Lisbon 299,400 EUR 32,016 18 31,998 31,433 29,988 60.00% Labelec Estudos, Desenvolvimento e Actividades Laboratoriais, S.A. Sacavem 2,200,000 EUR 19,256 14,223 5,033 14,626 938 100.00% 100.00% Sãvida Medicina Apoiada, S.A. Lisbon 450,000 EUR 25,223 17,248 7,975 31,952 3,857 100.00% 100.00% SCS Serviços Complementares de Saúde, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 370 155 215 181 -4 100.00% Other Countries: EDP Ásia Soluções Energéticas Limitada Macao 1,500,000 MOP 2,140 8 2,132 781 73 100.00% EDP Finance, B.V. Amsterdam 2,000,000 EUR 14,970,148 14,871,931 98,217 853,379 -45,891 100.00% 100.00% EDP International Investments and Services, S.L. Oviedo 4,702 EUR 475,722 136,672 339,049 24,840 17,804 100.00% 36.07% EDP Servicios Financieros España, S.A. Oviedo 10,300,058 EUR 2,233,675 1,721,509 512,166 210,489 14,101 100.00% 100.00% Energia RE Sociedade Cativa de Resseguro Luxembourg 3,000,000 EUR 100,400 55,874 44,526 13,820 3,088 100.00% 100.00% Electricity and Gas Activity Portugal: Electricity Generation: EDP Gestão da Produção de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 1,263,285,505 EUR 8,308,719 6,256,448 2,052,271 1,625,477 203,553 100.00% 100.00% EDP Small Hydro, S.A. Lisbon 6,950,786 EUR 87,408 5,991 81,417 2,520 548 100.00% Empresa Hidroeléctrica do Guadiana, S.A. Lisbon 48,750,000 EUR 487,828 453,517 34,312 69,941 -16,495 100.00% Energin Azóia, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 1,285 10,931 -9,646 62 -98 65.00% FISIGEN Empresa de Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 26,693 30,938 -4,245 24,952 510 51.00% Greenvouga Soc. Gest. do Aproveit. Hidroel. de Ribeiradio-Ermida, S.A. Lisbon 1,000,000 EUR 258,629 185,175 73,454 6,335 -3,631 97.33% O&M Serviços Operação e Manutenção Industrial, S.A. Mortagua 500,000 EUR 10,137 9,663 474 3,052 -243 100.00% 100.00% Pebble Hydro Consultoria, Invest. e Serv., Lda Lisbon 5,100 EUR 123,656 118,904 4,751 17,816 5,434 100.00% Tergen Operação e Manutenção de Centrais Termoeléctricas, S.A. Carregado 250,000 EUR 8,432 7,655 777 6,987 -343 100.00% Electricity Distribution: EDP Distribuição de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 200,000,000 EUR 5,166,099 4,402,158 763,941 2,998,772 249,559 100.00% 100.00% EDP MOP Operação de Pontos de Carregamento de Mobilidade Eléctrica, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 1,044 981 64 42 -394 100.00% Electricity Supply: EDP Comercial Comercialização de Energia, S.A. Lisbon 20,824,695 EUR 605,010 559,990 45,020 2,977,207 2,464 100.00% 100.00% EDP Serviço Universal, S.A. Lisbon 10,100,000 EUR 2,413,874 2,262,880 150,994 2,699,739 36,597 100.00% Gas Distribution: EDP Gás Serviço Universal, S.A. Oporto 1,049,996 EUR 29,799 18,820 10,979 27,674 -1,733 71.97% PORTGÁS Soc. de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Oporto 7,909,150 EUR 430,975 235,666 195,308 102,384 17,935 71.97% Gas Supply: EDP Gás GPL Comércio de Gás de Petróleo Liquefeito, S.A. Oporto 549,998 EUR 7,722 1,147 6,575 3,525 793 71.97% EDP GÁS.Com Comércio de Gás Natural, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 55,651 57,772 -2,121 213,042 2,426 100.00% 100.00% Shared Services: EDP Soluções Comerciais, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 104,470 100,450 4,020 154,103 2,490 100.00% 100.00% EDP Valor Gestão Integrada de Serviços, S.A. Lisbon 4,550,000 EUR 80,916 70,947 9,968 56,901 3,598 100.00% 100.00% Other Activities: CNET Centre for New Energy Technologies, S.A. Sacavem 300,000 EUR 348 66 283 109 -13 60.00% EDP Mediadora, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR 3,277 2,935 342 1,100 446 100.00% SGORME SGO Rede Mobilidade Eléctrica, S.A. Lisbon 500,000 EUR 164 802 -638 -144 91.00% Electricity and Gas Activity Spain: Electricity Generation: Central Termica Ciclo Combinado Grupo 4, S.L. Oviedo 2,117,000 EUR 160,849 287,263 -126,414 27,155 -20,364 75.00% Cogeración Montjuic, S.L.U. Bilbao 1,250,000 EUR 2,694 2 2,692 4 100.00% EDP Cogeneracion, S.L. Oviedo 60,300 EUR 27,362 26,757 605 26,794 -1,314 100.00% EDP Gas Iberia, S.L. Bilbao 130,260,000 EUR 1,980,229 1,244,619 735,610 64,049 40,765 100.00% Hidroeléctrica Del Cantábrico, S.L. Oviedo 421,739,790 EUR 3,804,382 1,395,842 2,408,540 2,369,462 472,768 100.00% 100.00% Iberenergia, S.A. Oviedo 60,200 EUR 221,352 190,719 30,633 62,664 -3,033 100.00% Electricity Distribution: Electra de Llobregat Energía, S.L. Barcelona 300,000 EUR 5,285 5,546 -261 225 -121 75.00% Electricity Supply: EDP Comercializadora de Ultimo Recurso, S.A. Oviedo 120,000 EUR 35,536 23,765 11,771 120,302 563 97.50% EDP Empresa de Servicios Energeticos, S.L. Oviedo 90,000 EUR 4,465 4,229 236 6,147 -400 97.50% EDP Energia Ibérica, S.A. Madrid 60,200 EUR 16 12,609 -12,592 767 767 100.00% Hidrocantábrico Distribucion Eléctrica, S.A.U. Oviedo 44,002,000 EUR 899,329 553,655 345,675 212,832 49,158 100.00% Hidrocantabrico Energia, S.A.U. Oviedo 1,000,000 EUR 313,840 299,361 14,479 1,556,935 3,563 100.00% Gas Distribution: Naturgas Energia Grupo, S.A. (NG Energia Subgroup Parent Company) Bilbao 296,385,957 EUR 2,105,220 945,372 1,159,848 282,682 71,265 95.00% HC Energia Gas, S.L. Oviedo 214,293,400 EUR 1,149,808 24,032 1,125,776 297,836 9,647 100.00% ANNUAL REPORT 390 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Electricity and Gas Activity Spain: Gas Distribution: Naturgas Energia Distribución, S.A.U. Bilbao 100,000,000 EUR 2,152,180 390,730 1,761,450 334,886 213,434 95.00% Naturgas Energía Servicios, S.A. Bilbao 60,200 EUR 7,677 8,104 -428 9,382 -675 95.00% Gas Supply: Naturgas Energia Comercializadora, S.A. Bilbao 1,487,895 EUR 370,398 351,126 19,272 1,119,951 -899 95.00% Shared Services: EDP Soluciones Comerciales, S.A. Oviedo 90,452 EUR 15,007 14,594 413 55,576 319 97.50% Electricity Activity Brazil: Parent company and Related Activities: EDP Energias do Brasil, S.A. (EDP Brasil Subgroup Parent Company) Sao Paulo 3,182,715,954 BRL 1,868,512 505,602 1,362,911 475,462 291,974 51.09% EDP Grid Gestão de Redes Inteligentes de Distribuição, S.A. Espirito Santo 9,342,530 BRL 18,262 14,273 3,989 4,589 2,409 51.09% Electricity Generation: Costa Rica Energética, Ltda Sao Paulo 14,318,185 BRL 6,901 812 6,088 7,403 4,048 26.06% EDP Pequenas Centrais Hidroelectricas, S.A. Sao Paulo BRL 51.09% Enercouto, S.A. Sao Paulo 6,016,118 BRL 22 27 -5 -21 51.09% Energest, S.A. Sao Paulo 284,737,498 BRL 139,087 49,293 89,794 88,206 19,381 51.09% Enerpeixe, S.A. Sao Paulo 882,627,748 BRL 418,875 93,434 325,441 120,743 39,490 30.65% Investco, S.A. Tocantins 804,458,842 BRL 301,647 51,378 250,269 60,633 18,034 20.83% Lajeado Energia, S.A. Sao Paulo 306,867,541 BRL 376,222 162,927 213,295 152,516 23,054 28.54% Pantanal Energética, Ltda Sao Paulo 45,390,369 BRL 26,153 2,622 23,531 15,521 6,746 51.09% Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia, S.A. Ceara 2,286,193,208 BRL 1,105,668 792,780 312,888 283,292 38,149 51.09% Resende Engenharia e Assessoria, Ltda Sao Paulo 21,513,319 BRL 4,920 4,920 -3 51.09% Santa-Fé Energia, S.A. Espirito Santo 86,371,000 BRL 40,056 12,364 27,692 8,057 2,122 51.09% Electricity Distribution: Bandeirante Energia, S.A. Sao Paulo 596,669,107 BRL 780,376 510,344 270,032 1,108,316 61,077 51.09% Escelsa Espírito Santo Centrais Eléctricas, S.A. Espirito Santo 650,572,403 BRL 738,773 509,241 229,532 844,532 30,238 51.09% Electricity Supply: APS Soluções em Energia, S. A. Porto Alegre 14,342,773 BRL 7,135 5,482 1,653 1,772 118 51.09% EDP Comercialização e Serviços de Energia, S.A. Sao Paulo 26,217,026 BRL 117,747 93,732 24,015 559,015 4,683 51.09% Renewable Energy Activity: Parent company and Related Activities: EDP Renováveis, S.A. (EDP Renováveis Subgroup Parent Company) Oviedo 4,361,540,810 EUR 6,723,696 1,316,700 5,406,996 582,889 31,597 77.53% 77.53% EDP Renováveis Servicios Financieros, S.L. Oviedo 84,691,368 EUR 3,513,307 3,093,509 419,798 307,293 19,327 77.53% Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: EDP Renewables Europe, S.L. (EDPR EU Subgroup Parent Company) Oviedo 249,498,800 EUR 3,857,363 1,413,325 2,444,039 223,620 88,606 77.53% Acampo Arias, S.L. Zaragoza 3,314,300 EUR 18,724 14,518 4,206 3,563 740 77.53% Aplicaciones Industriales de Energías Limpias, S.L. Zaragoza 131,288 EUR 1,367 1,367 47.68% Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de la Terra Alta, S.A. Barcelona 1,994,350 EUR 200 51 148 174 -754 47.01% Bon Vent de Corbera, S.L. Barcelona 7,255,000 EUR 60,904 40,140 20,763 11,393 1,606 77.53% Bon Vent de L'Ebre, S.L. Barcelona 12,600,000 EUR 62,243 45,401 16,841 11,952 2,012 77.53% Bon Vent de Vilalba, S.L. Barcelona 3,600,000 EUR 54,357 49,129 5,227 11,075 1,286 77.53% Compañía Eólica Campo de Borja, S.A. Zaragoza 857,945 EUR 1,299 90 1,209 304 46 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Almarchal, S.A.U. Cadiz 2,061,190 EUR 14,793 8,875 5,918 2,479 228 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Buenavista, S.A.U. Cadiz 1,712,369 EUR 7,274 2,939 4,335 1,670 116 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Corme, S.A. La Coruna 3,666,100 EUR 8,900 787 8,113 2,310 230 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Lugo, S.A.U. Lugo 7,761,000 EUR 53,933 29,881 24,052 10,941 2,882 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico de Tarifa, S.A.U. Cadiz 5,799,650 EUR 10,728 712 10,015 2,820 396 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Dumbria, S.A.U. La Coruna 61,000 EUR 62,971 46,558 16,413 12,842 2,855 77.53% Desarrollo Eólico Rabosera, S.A. Huesca 7,560,950 EUR 27,141 11,641 15,500 5,071 1,339 77.53% Desarrollos Catalanes Del Viento, S.L. Barcelona 10,992,600 EUR 91,472 61,116 30,357 1,706 -360 77.53% Desarrollos Eolicos de Galicia, S.A. La Coruna 6,130,200 EUR 12,143 1,526 10,617 2,633 89 77.53% Desarrollos Eólicos de Teruel, S.L. Zaragoza 60,100 EUR 439 379 60 22 39.54% EDP Renovables España, S.L. Madrid 36,861,000 EUR 911,103 226,268 684,835 31,883 13,381 77.53% EDP Renováveis Cantábria, S.L. Madrid 300,000 EUR 383 1,498 -1,114 -1,360 77.53% EDPR Yield Spain Services, S.L.U. Madrid 3,000 EUR 6 58 -52 -55 77.53% EDPR Yield, S.A.U. Oviedo 116,641,203 EUR 1,127,859 91 1,127,768 14,186 -35,720 77.53% Energias Eólicas de la Manchuela, S.L.U. Madrid 1,141,900 EUR 15,327 13,166 2,161 2,364 -98 77.53% Eólica Arlanzón, S.A. Madrid 4,508,980 EUR 17,430 6,294 11,136 3,349 413 60.08% Eólica Campollano, S.A. Madrid 6,559,994 EUR 69,909 47,197 22,712 11,236 537 58.15% Eólica Curiscao Pumar, S.A. Madrid 60,200 EUR 68,274 65,288 2,986 13,039 2,879 77.53% Eólica de Radona, S.L. Madrid 22,088,000 EUR 54,267 31,307 22,961 8,483 966 77.53% Eólica del Alfoz, S.L. Madrid 8,480,000 EUR 143,086 111,966 31,120 26,919 5,638 77.53% Eólica Don Quijote, S.L. Albacete 3,006 EUR 37,034 35,614 1,420 7,950 1,328 77.53% Eólica Dulcinea, S.L. Albacete 10,000 EUR 24,517 23,397 1,120 5,206 938 77.53% Eólica Fontesilva, S.L. La Coruna 6,860,000 EUR 39,906 27,353 12,552 6,727 1,114 77.53% Eólica Garcimuñoz, S.L. Madrid 4,060,000 EUR 42,303 28,360 13,943 4,799 -682 77.53% Eólica Guadalteba, S.L. Seville 1,460,000 EUR 162,430 145,803 16,627 34,506 9,169 77.53% Eólica La Brújula, S.A. Madrid 3,294,000 EUR 49,792 31,947 17,845 9,031 1,731 65.82% Eólica La Janda, S.L. Madrid 4,525,000 EUR 178,584 155,323 23,261 35,116 8,053 77.53% Eólica La Navica, S.L. Madrid 10,000 EUR 28,279 25,458 2,821 6,479 1,464 77.53% Eólica Muxía, S.L. La Coruna 23,480,000 EUR 24,462 933 23,529 54 39 77.53% Eólica Sierra de Avila, S.L. Madrid 12,977,466 EUR 102,068 69,098 32,970 14,557 -179 77.53% Iberia Aprovechamientos Eólicos, S.A.U. Zaragoza 1,918,728 EUR 21,745 19,141 2,603 4,412 425 72.88% Investigación y Desarrollo de Energías Renovables, S.L. Leon 29,450,970 EUR 128,563 100,058 28,506 22,962 2,690 77.53% Molino de Caragüeyes, S.L. Zaragoza 180,300 EUR 297 30 267 103 38 77.53% NEO Energia Aragon, S.L. Madrid 10,000 EUR 6 6 -1 77.53% Parc Eólic de Coll de la Garganta, S.L. Barcelona 6,018,010 EUR 36,169 20,523 15,646 4,030 -1,228 77.53% Parc Eólic de Coll de Moro, S.L. Barcelona 7,808,920 EUR 91,644 85,621 6,023 10,802 -777 77.53% ENERGY WITH EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. INTELLIGENCE 391 Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: Europe Geography / Platform: Spain: Parc Eòlic de Torre Madrina, S.L. Barcelona 7,754,897 EUR 83,958 73,691 10,266 11,589 -254 77.53% Parc Eòlic de Vilalba dels Arcs, S.L. Barcelona 3,065,739 EUR 39,047 32,739 6,308 6,146 346 77.53% Parc Eòlic Serra Voltorera, S.L. Barcelona 3,458,010 EUR 23,771 13,830 9,941 3,581 2 77.53% Parque Eólico Altos del Voltoya, S.A. Madrid 6,434,349 EUR 24,294 1,788 22,507 5,130 45 71.71% Parque Eólico Belchite, S.L. Zaragoza 3,600,000 EUR 33,490 26,813 6,677 6,636 303 77.53% Parque Eólico la Sotonera, S.L. Zaragoza 2,000,000 EUR 13,753 6,187 7,566 2,679 322 54.14% Parque Eólico Los Cantales, S.L.U. Zaragoza 1,963,050 EUR 19,352 15,109 4,243 4,783 1,075 77.53% Parque Eólico Santa Quiteria, S.L. Huesca 63,006 EUR 18,757 890 17,867 3,746 743 65.09% Parques de Generación Eólica, S.L Burgos 1,924,000 EUR 30,598 28,696 1,901 5,643 824 77.53% Parques Eólicos del Cantábrico, S.A. Oviedo 9,079,680 EUR 42,061 10,995 31,066 6,565 -1,266 77.53% Renovables Castilla la Mancha, S.A. Albacete 60,102 EUR 27,725 25,994 1,730 5,398 745 69.78% South África Wind & Solar Power, S.L. Oviedo 385,500 EUR 1,047 1 1,046 5 -3,818 77.53% Portugal: EDP Renováveis Portugal, S.A. Oporto 7,500,000 EUR 518,265 430,980 87,284 143,532 50,593 39.54% EDP Renewables, SGPS, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 540,021 385,600 154,421 147,289 124,008 77.53% EDPR PT Parques Eólicos, S.A. Oporto 9,079,010 EUR 360,156 330,948 29,208 23,485 -2 77.53% EDPR PT Promoção e Operação, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 15,960 16,293 -333 9,382 -540 77.53% EDPR Yield Portugal Services, Unip. Lda. Oporto 5,000 EUR 5 16 -11 -16 77.53% Eólica Alto da Teixosa, S.A. Cinfães 50,000 EUR 29,497 27,398 2,099 4,791 251 77.53% Eólica da Alagoa, S.A. Arcos de Valdevez 50,000 EUR 8,689 4,185 4,504 3,603 1,934 23.72% Eólica da Coutada, S.A. Vila Pouca de 50,000 EUR 171,628 156,786 14,843 26,673 3,283 77.53% Aguiar Eólica da Lajeira, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 66,594 65,209 1,385 9,193 752 77.53% Eólica da Serra das Alturas, S.A. Boticas 50,000 EUR 13,027 7,958 5,068 2,930 1,126 19.81% Eólica da Serra das Beiras, S.A. Arganil 50,000 EUR 106,214 98,150 8,065 18,292 2,426 77.53% Eólica da Terra do Mato, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 48,720 47,189 1,531 7,606 301 77.53% Eólica de Montenegrelo, S.A. Vila Pouca de 50,000 EUR 22,061 12,899 9,162 5,383 2,134 19.81% Aguiar Eólica do Alto da Lagoa, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 24,644 20,656 3,988 5,034 935 77.53% Eólica do Alto do Mourisco, S.A. Boticas 50,000 EUR 25,946 23,708 2,239 4,289 508 77.53% Eólica do Cachopo, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 65,151 60,744 4,407 10,239 969 77.53% Eólica do Castelo, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 38,196 36,802 1,394 4,765 174 77.53% Eólica do Espigão, S.A. Miranda do Corvo 50,000 EUR 30,691 23,504 7,187 6,416 1,448 77.53% Eólica do Velão, S.A. Oporto 50,000 EUR 42,603 40,685 1,918 6,056 733 77.53% Eólica dos Altos dos Salgueiros-Guilhado, S.A. Vila Pouca de 50,000 EUR 12,993 12,141 852 2,140 94 77.53% Aguiar Gravitangle Fotovoltaica Unipessoal, Lda Oporto 5,000 EUR 4,534 2,525 2,008 898 453 77.53% Malhadizes Energia Eólica, S.A Oporto 50,000 EUR 18,385 15,580 2,805 5,259 1,622 39.54% Stirlingpower Unipessoal, Lda 2,500 EUR 3 2 1 -1 77.53% France: EDP Renewables France, S.A.S. Paris 151,703,747 EUR 225,016 101,101 123,915 30,475 2,317 39.54% Bourbriac II, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 81 83 -2 -3 77.53% Centrale Eolienne Canet-Pont de Salars, S.A.S. Paris 125,000 EUR 13,198 11,878 1,320 2,560 469 20.15% Centrale Eolienne Gueltas Noyal-Pontivy, S.A.S. Paris 761,000 EUR 7,223 3,061 4,162 1,734 557 20.16% Centrale Eolienne Neo Truc L'Homme, S.A.S. Paris 3,830,700 EUR 16,654 13,395 3,258 1,670 -369 39.54% Centrale Eolienne Patay, S.A.S. Paris 140,000 EUR 15,449 9,670 5,779 3,222 1,107 20.17% Centrale Eolienne Saint Barnabé, S.A.S. Paris 100,000 EUR 13,041 9,730 3,311 2,720 759 20.17% Centrale Eolienne Segur, S.A.S. Paris 115,000 EUR 13,334 9,705 3,629 2,883 689 20.16% EDPR France Holding, S.A.S. Paris 8,500,000 EUR 13,092 15,341 -2,249 6,602 -5,254 77.53% EDPR Yield France Services, S.A.S. Paris 1 EUR 10 10 77.53% Eolienne de Callengeville, S.A.S. Paris 37,004 EUR 16 16 -2 77.53% Eolienne de Saugueuse, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 10,620 9,634 986 2,082 492 20.17% Eolienne D'Etalondes, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 14 58 -43 5 -3 77.53% Monts de la Madeleine Energie, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 857 829 28 43 -4 77.53% Monts du Forez Energie, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 664 641 22 57 -5 77.53% Neo Plouvien, S.A.S. Paris 5,040,000 EUR 9,592 7,431 2,161 1,823 190 39.54% Parc Éolien de Boqueho-Pouagat, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 314 315 -1 126 -1 77.53% Parc Éolien de Dammarie, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 13,314 13,530 -216 -7 -53 77.53% Parc Éolien de Francourville, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 12,632 12,671 -40 36 -40 77.53% Parc Eolien de La Hetroye, S.A.S. Paris 37,004 EUR 22 27 -5 -3 77.53% Parc Eolien de Mancheville, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 55 107 -53 -3 77.53% Parc Eolien de Montagne Fayel, S.A.S. Paris 37,000 EUR 18,238 17,932 306 745 367 77.53% Parc Éolien de Preuseville, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 11,106 10,859 247 1,167 439 77.53% Parc Eolien de Roman, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 9,975 9,760 216 2,076 808 39.54% Parc Éolien de Tarzy, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,504,692 EUR 13,553 11,460 2,093 1,862 360 39.54% Parc Eolien de Varimpre, S.A.S. Paris 37,003 EUR 11,543 12,571 -1,028 2,799 573 20.16% Parc Eolien des Longs Champs, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 184 266 -82 34 -4 77.53% Parc Eolien des Vatines, S.A.S. Paris 841,014 EUR 11,356 12,757 -1,401 2,640 526 20.17% Parc Eolien d'Escardes, S.A.S. Paris 1,000 EUR 17,620 17,666 -47 93 -47 77.53% Parc Eolien du Clos Bataille, S.A.S. Paris 410,096 EUR 9,520 10,842 -1,322 1,969 300 20.17% SOCPE de la Mardelle, S.A.R.L. Paris 3,001,000 EUR 7,407 4,615 2,792 1,297 203 39.54% SOCPE de la Vallée du Moulin, S.A.R.L. Paris 8,001,000 EUR 15,900 7,853 8,047 2,589 465 39.54% SOCPE de Sauvageons, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 7,747 7,720 27 1,332 175 58.91% SOCPE des Quinze Mines, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 15,327 17,818 -2,491 2,640 -369 58.91% SOCPE Le Mee, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 12,010 11,837 173 1,863 165 58.91% SOCPE Petite Piece, S.A.R.L. Paris 1,000 EUR 3,608 3,482 126 593 42 58.91% Poland: EDP Renewables Polska, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 772,993,180 PLN 297,621 137,315 160,306 20,147 -14,372 77.53% Brent Investments, S.A. Warsaw 100,000 PLN 23 23 77.53% Elektrownia Wiatrowa Kresy I, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 70,000 PLN 125,167 108,232 16,935 1,738 -749 77.53% Farma Wiatrowa Starozreby, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 465,500 PLN 4,386 214 4,172 64 -15 77.53% J&Z Wind Farms, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 14,520,000 PLN 69,579 59,240 10,339 9,003 532 46.52% Korsze Wind Farm, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 38,855,000 PLN 89,352 73,217 16,135 18,900 6,883 77.53% Masovia Wind Farm I, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 1,257,500 PLN 14,181 530 13,651 155 18 77.53% ANNUAL REPORT 392 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: Europe Geography / Platform: Poland: Molen Wind II, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 14,600 PLN 83,178 74,272 8,906 13,247 45 50.45% Morska Farma Wiatrowa Gryf, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 220,000 PLN 16 16 -3 77.53% Morska Farma Wiatrowa Neptun, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 220,000 PLN 15 15 -3 77.53% Morska Farma Wiatrowa Pomorze, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 220,000 PLN 16 16 -3 77.53% Radziejów Wind Farm, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 27,605,000 PLN 38,088 32,266 5,822 3,652 -510 77.53% Relax Wind Park I, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 46,540,000 PLN 195,359 187,197 8,162 30,619 5,631 77.53% Relax Wind Park II, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 3,490,000 PLN 160 160 3 -16 77.53% Relax Wind Park III, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 59,602,500 PLN 148,845 145,037 3,808 13,930 -3,182 77.53% Relax Wind Park IV, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 4,490,000 PLN 111 1 110 32 1 77.53% Rowy Karpacka Mala Energetyka, Sp. z o.o. Warsaw 50,000 PLN 93 368 -275 -27 77.53% Romania: EDP Renewables Romania, S.R.L. Bucharest 200 RON 60,624 69,542 -8,918 12,144 -5,126 65.90% Cernavoda Power, S.R.L. Bucharest 335,692,400 RON 193,087 135,316 57,771 19,708 676 65.90% Cujmir Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 41,806,000 RON 19,431 6,552 12,878 3,355 1,194 77.53% EDPR RO PV, S.R.L. Bucharest 225,000,000 RON 51,099 3,889 47,210 339 -539 77.53% EDPR RO Trading, S.R.L. Bucharest 6,750,000 RON 1,469 2 1,467 64 -20 77.53% Foton Delta, S.R.L. Bucharest 14,304,000 RON 6,825 2,186 4,640 1,160 257 77.53% Foton Epsilon, S.R.L. Bucharest 17,304,840 RON 10,985 3,822 7,163 1,942 684 77.53% Pestera Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest 269,955,070 RON 112,479 74,500 37,979 13,015 -124 65.90% Potelu Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 30,468,040 RON 13,600 4,046 9,554 2,106 812 77.53% S.C. Ialomita Power, S.R.L. Bucharest 769,179,700 RON 242,008 76,174 165,834 18,836 -1,618 77.53% Sibioara Wind Farm, S.R.L. Bucharest 81,900,600 RON 50,979 43,314 7,665 4,967 -7,592 65.90% Studina Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 32,130,000 RON 15,844 5,569 10,276 2,734 888 77.53% Vanju Mare Solar, S.R.L. Bucharest 38,660,000 RON 15,744 5,041 10,703 2,573 842 77.53% VS Wind Farm, S.A. Bucharest 20,103,000 RON 89,730 92,237 -2,507 6,311 -5,107 65.90% Great Britain: EDPR UK Limited Cardiff 5,678,629 GBP 102,525 39,946 62,579 6,024 -2,452 77.53% MacColl Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Moray Offshore Renewables Limited Cardiff 8,819,909 GBP 86,599 80,823 5,776 3,385 -5,401 51.66% Stevenson Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Telford Offshore Windfarm Limited Cardiff 1 GBP 51.66% Other Countries: EDP Renewables Italia, S.R.L. Milan 34,439,343 EUR 203,667 171,955 31,711 15,444 -3,697 77.53% Castellaneta Wind, S.R.L. Milan 16,014 EUR 23 23 -1 -4 77.53% EDP Renewables Belgium, S.A. Brussels 61,500 EUR 733 1,500 -767 340 -105 77.53% EDP Renewables Italia Holding, S.R.L. Milan 347,000 EUR 15,482 19,137 -3,656 2,907 -4,104 77.53% Greenwind, S.A. Louvain-la-Neuve 24,924,000 EUR 92,134 49,446 42,688 16,553 6,182 77.53% Laterza Wind, S.R.L. Milan 16,665 EUR 23 24 -1 -4 77.53% Pietragalla Eolico, S.R.L. Milan 15,218 EUR 28,519 22,400 6,119 6,386 1,899 77.53% Re Plus, S.R.L Milan 100,000 EUR 827 3,933 -3,106 -2,784 -2,970 62.02% TACA Wind, S.r.l. Milan 1,160,000 EUR 1,260 113 1,147 1,254 -13 77.53% Tarcan, BV Amsterdam 20,000 EUR 19,822 67 19,755 5,256 5,088 77.53% Villa Castelli Wind, S.R.L. Milan 100,000 EUR 32,269 19,468 12,801 6,917 2,406 77.53% WinCap, S.R.L. Milan 2,550,000 EUR 4,689 943 3,747 343 -38 77.53% North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: EDP Renewables North America, L.L.C. (EUA Subgroup Parent Company) Texas 4,030,573,714 USD 3,713,919 179,379 3,534,541 64,155 -87,920 77.53% 17th Star Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio USD 77.53% 2007 Vento I, L.L.C. Texas 785,535,071 USD 739,308 1,583 737,725 6,776 3,666 77.53% 2007 Vento II, L.L.C. Texas 685,637,905 USD 625,908 392 625,516 -170 39.54% 2008 Vento III, L.L.C. Texas 783,824,686 USD 715,192 72 715,120 -558 58.15% 2009 Vento IV, L.L.C. Texas 217,014,965 USD 198,547 198,547 -128 77.53% 2009 Vento V, L.L.C. Texas 101,595,114 USD 92,536 92,536 -128 39.54% 2009 Vento VI, L.L.C. Texas 164,710,454 USD 150,654 150,654 -114 77.53% 2010 Vento VII, L.L.C. Texas 177,170,884 USD 162,175 162,175 -113 77.53% 2010 Vento VIII, L.L.C. Texas 184,846,819 USD 169,060 169,060 -113 77.53% 2011 Vento IX, L.L.C. Texas 147,262,866 USD 134,784 134,784 -112 39.54% 2011 Vento X, L.L.C. Texas 136,244,667 USD 124,703 124,703 -112 77.53% 2014 Sol I, L.L.C. Texas 84,623,593 USD 77,630 77,630 -74 39.54% 2014 Vento XI, L.L.C. Texas 338,009,183 USD 310,457 310,457 -14 39.54% 2014 Vento XII, L.L.C. Texas 182,563,794 USD 167,676 1 167,675 -15 39.54% 2015 Vento XIII, L.L.C. Texas 228,836,507 USD 209,963 209,963 -230 77.53% 2015 Vento XIV, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Alabama Ledge Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Antelope Ridge Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 12,816,859 USD 2 -2 -11,669 77.53% Arbuckle Mountain Wind Farm, L.L.C. Oklahoma 70,203,868 USD 173,579 108,787 64,792 1,299 318 77.53% Arkwright Summit Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York 13,407,317 USD 12,885 580 12,306 -9 77.53% Arlington Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 124,790,335 USD 133,965 8,057 125,907 13,114 -441 58.15% Aroostook Wind Energy, L.L.C. Maine 31,533,053 USD 30,142 1,514 28,628 -197 77.53% Ashford Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project II, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Athena-Weston Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% AZ Solar, L.L.C. Arizona USD 77.53% BC2 Maple Ridge Holdings, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% BC2 Maple Ridge Wind, L.L.C. Texas 283,460,963 USD 260,427 260,427 -4,503 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Black Prairie Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 6,401,358 USD 5,879 2 5,877 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois 264,546,690 USD 325,971 91,416 234,555 26,919 3,555 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois 6,232,710 USD 26 -26 -5,634 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blackstone Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% ENERGY WITH EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. INTELLIGENCE 393 Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: Blackstone Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 122,397,200 USD 151,244 41,845 109,399 12,080 424 77.53% Blue Canyon Wind Power VII, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower II, L.L.C. Oklahoma 119,389,624 USD 137,785 3,441 134,344 15,314 930 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower IV, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Blue Canyon Windpower V, L.L.C. Oklahoma 98,687,591 USD 139,808 4,489 135,320 16,580 3,849 39.54% Blue Canyon Windpower VI, L.L.C. Oklahoma 134,582,191 USD 131,397 1,891 129,506 10,683 602 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Broadlands Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Buffalo Bluff Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Chateaugay River Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Clinton County Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York 275,767,109 USD 253,292 253,292 77.53% Cloud County Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas 239,908,887 USD 239,342 4,462 234,880 21,793 2,230 58.15% Cloud West Wind Project, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Coos Curry Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Cropsey Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Crossing Trails Wind, Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado USD 77.53% Dairy Hills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Diamond Power Partners, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% East Klickitat Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Eastern Nebraska Wind Farm, L.L.C. Nebraska USD 77.53% EDPR Solar Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas 53,694,189 USD 81,203 31,853 49,350 683 75 39.54% EDPR Vento I Holding, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% EDPR WF, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures X, L.L.C. Texas 65,914,076 USD 125,144 48,039 77,106 5,317 2,587 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures XI, L.L.C. Texas 147,035,177 USD 310,470 173,045 137,425 13,800 2,302 39.54% EDPR Wind Ventures XII, L.L.C. Texas 74,431,614 USD 167,690 101,511 66,179 4,604 -2,188 39.54% EDPR Wind Ventures XIII, L.L.C. Texas USD 210,229 210,564 -335 4,129 -335 77.53% EDPR Wind Ventures XIV, L.L.C. Texas 2,029,066 USD -1,864 1,864 77.53% Five-Spot, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Ford Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% Franklin Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Green Country Wind Farm, L.L.C. Oklahoma USD 77.53% Green Power Offsets, L.L.C. Texas 12,674 USD 1 1 1 -2 77.53% Gulf Coast Windpower Management Company, L.L.C. Indiana USD 77.53% Headwaters Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana 334,249,685 USD 341,645 25,108 316,537 25,227 8,272 39.54% Hidalgo Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas 10,147,118 USD 20,397 11,091 9,306 77.53% High Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Minnesota 104,312,401 USD 118,684 11,718 106,965 14,666 3,467 39.54% High Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 258,470,142 USD 286,286 6,876 279,410 33,799 9,121 77.53% Horizon Wind Chocolate Bayou I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Midwest IX, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest I, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest IV, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest VII, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest X, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Northwest XI, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Panhandle I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest I, L.L.C. New Mexico USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest II, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest III, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Southwest IV, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Energy Valley I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind MREC Iowa Partners, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures I, L.L.C. Texas 502,943,949 USD 1,250,264 370,438 879,826 61,450 48,311 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures IB, L.L.C. Texas 101,916,924 USD 629,777 369,566 260,210 40,131 27,571 39.54% Horizon Wind Ventures IC, L.L.C. Texas 376,176,571 USD 719,964 285,442 434,522 48,751 31,657 58.15% Horizon Wind Ventures II, L.L.C. Texas 139,165,135 USD 199,334 62,023 137,311 3,517 2,787 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures III, L.L.C. Texas 42,904,376 USD 93,318 36,509 56,809 5,466 3,554 39.54% Horizon Wind Ventures IX, L.L.C. Texas 52,411,826 USD 135,265 94,985 40,279 1,814 -849 39.54% Horizon Wind Ventures VI, L.L.C. Texas 107,790,374 USD 151,750 52,218 99,532 1,472 1,211 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures VII, L.L.C. Texas 106,623,879 USD 162,736 62,100 100,636 1,806 835 77.53% Horizon Wind Ventures VIII, L.L.C. Texas 112,861,489 USD 169,787 64,327 105,460 2,919 1,635 77.53% Horizon Wind, Freeport Windpower I, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Horizon Wyoming Transmission, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Jericho Rise Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York 9,397,246 USD 8,993 404 8,589 -1 77.53% Juniper Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Illinois 600,283 USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm III LLC Illinois USD 77.53% Lexington Chenoa Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 11,884,325 USD 10,904 26 10,878 77.53% Lone Valley Sollar Park I, L.L.C. California 29,809,488 USD 28,706 525 28,181 2,209 518 39.54% Lone Valley Sollar Park II, L.L.C. California 54,430,952 USD 53,195 1,009 52,186 4,544 1,551 39.54% Lost Lakes Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa 163,718,794 USD 144,204 3,920 140,284 14,970 81 77.53% Machias Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Madison Windpower, L.L.C. New York 13,734,676 USD 5,349 410 4,939 621 -1,012 77.53% Marble River, L.L.C. New York 275,759,354 USD 377,166 102,615 274,551 29,571 5,115 77.53% Martinsdale Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado 3,475,797 USD 3,193 29 3,164 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Indiana 175,333,891 USD 150,622 3,150 147,472 9,967 -1,966 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Indiana 114,983,425 USD 137,080 37,684 99,396 9,018 -1,440 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Indiana 4,112,354 USD 3,840 72 3,768 77.53% Meadow Lake Wind Farm, L.L.C. Indiana 245,152,978 USD 295,617 83,080 212,538 23,555 465 77.53% Meadow Lake Windfarm III, L.L.C. Indiana 130,000,809 USD 162,050 45,295 116,755 11,410 672 77.53% ANNUAL REPORT 394 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Total Net Assets Liabilities Equity Income Profit/(Loss) Head Share capital % % Subsidiaries 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 Office / Currency Group Company Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Euro'000 Renewable Energy Activity: North America Geography / Platform: United States of America: Mesquite Wind, L.L.C. Texas 170,789,881 USD 227,870 14,439 213,432 22,437 3,042 77.53% New Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois USD 77.53% North Slope Wind Farm, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Number Nine Wind Farm, L.L.C. Maine USD 77.53% Old Trail Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 281,594,700 USD 293,971 5,205 288,766 35,365 10,253 39.54% OPQ Property, L.L.C. Illinois USD 160 160 77.53% Pacific Southwest Wind Farm, L.L.C. Arizona USD 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Ohio 144,278,827 USD 159,895 3,880 156,014 17,926 4,305 39.54% Paulding Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Ohio 21,067,400 USD 19,414 354 19,059 -70 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm IV, L.L.C Ohio USD 77.53% Paulding Wind Farm, L.L.C. Ohio 3,510 USD 12 15 -3 77.53% Peterson Power Partners, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Pioneer Prairie Interconnection, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm I, L.L.C. Iowa 400,993,690 USD 430,742 11,749 418,994 57,915 15,382 58.15% Pioneer Prairie Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Post Oak Wind, L.L.C. Texas 203,396,229 USD 255,230 6,510 248,720 26,550 5,054 39.54% Quilt Block Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wisconsin 7,189,417 USD 6,671 85 6,586 77.53% Rail Splitter Wind Farm, L.L.C. Illinois 214,997,434 USD 168,457 5,634 162,823 8,385 -5,123 77.53% Rio Blanco Wind Farm, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Rising Tree Wind Farm II, L.L.C. California 34,647,501 USD 34,731 2,897 31,834 2,199 17 39.54% Rising Tree Wind Farm III, L.L.C. California 156,422,213 USD 210,248 63,581 146,666 8,082 3,007 77.53% Rising Tree Wind Farm, L.L.C. California 144,831,098 USD 159,736 23,513 136,223 11,811 3,218 39.54% Rush County Wind Farm, L.L.C Kansas USD 77.53% Saddleback Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Washington 2,375,454 USD 1,803 16 1,788 -1 77.53% Sagebrush Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington 183,426,766 USD 143,635 3,150 140,484 14,451 1,553 77.53% Sardinia Windpower, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Signal Hill Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado 4,502 USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm II, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm III, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm IV, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm V, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Simpson Ridge Wind Farm, L.L.C. Wyoming USD 77.53% Stinson Mills Wind Farm, L.L.C. Colorado 3,954,966 USD 3,547 5 3,541 77.53% Stone Wind Power, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Sustaining Power Solutions, L.L.C. Texas 4,352,043 USD 450 1,000 -550 7,679 -3,396 77.53% Telocaset Wind Power Partners, L.L.C. Oregon 81,021,271 USD 127,294 10,176 117,118 16,754 3,986 39.54% The Nook Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon USD 77.53% Tug Hill Windpower, L.L.C. New York USD 77.53% Tumbleweed Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Colorado 4,003 USD 77.53% Turtle Creek Wind Farm, L.L.C. Iowa USD 77.53% Verde Wind Power, L.L.C. Texas USD 77.53% Waverly Wind Farm, L.L.C. Kansas 85,389,125 USD 271,148 192,434 78,714 329 330 77.53% Western Trail Wind Project I, L.L.C. Kansas USD 77.53% Wheatfield Holding, L.L.C. Oregon 47,859,073 USD 43,932 43,932 -14 39.54% Wheatfield Wind Power Project, L.L.C. Oregon 47,828,923 USD 116,104 34,148 81,956 14,453 3,947 39.54% Whiskey Ridge Power Partners, L.L.C. Washington USD 77.53% Whistling Wind WI Energy Center, L.L.C. Wisconsin USD 77.53% Whitestone Wind Purchasing, L.L.C. Illinois 2,735,832 USD 1,490 52 1,438 57 41 77.53% Wilson Creek Power Partners, L.L.C. Nevada USD 77.53% Wind Turbine Prometheus, L.P. California 5,990 USD 77.53% WTP Management Company, L.L.C. California USD 77.53% Canada: EDP Renewables Canada, Ltd. (Canada Subgroup Parent Company) Ontario 27,550,000 CAD 14,048 300 13,748 1 -998 77.53% EDP Renewables Canada LP Holdings, Ltd. Ontario 11,609,901 CAD 23,456 1,169 22,287 -634 77.53% EDP Renewables Sharp Hills Project GP, Ltd. Alberta CAD 77.53% EDP Renewables Sharp Hills Project LP Alberta CAD 336 346 -10 -10 77.53% Nation Rise Wind Farm GP, Inc. Bristish Columbia CAD 77.53% Nation Rise Wind Farm LP Ontario CAD 1,846 1,847 -1 -1 77.53% SBWFI GP, Inc. Ontario 1,354 CAD 2 2 39.54% South Branch Wind Farm II GP, Inc. Bristish Columbia CAD 77.53% South Branch Wind Farm II GP, LP Ontario CAD 699 700 -2 -2 77.53% South Dundas Wind Farm LP Ontario 32,274,855 CAD 55,377 30,015 25,362 8,083 2,583 39.54% Mexico: EDPR Servicios de México, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City 9,015,288 MXN 439 406 33 1 -444 77.53% Vientos de Coahuila, S.A. de C.V. Mexico City 3,310 USD 555 544 11 9 8 77.53% South America Geography / Platform: Brazil: EDP Renovaveis Brasil, SA (EDPR BR Subgroup Parent Company) Sao Paulo 370,274,548 BRL 101,625 13,286 88,339 13,182 6,327 77.53% Central Eólica Aventura I, S.A. Natal 1,000 BRL 44 -43 -44 39.53% Central Eólica Aventura II, S.A. Natal 119,500 BRL 23 23 77.53% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao I, S.A. Natal 29,816,713 BRL 26,582 19,801 6,781 1,797 24 39.54% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao II, S.A. Natal 38,051,200 BRL 25,613 16,701 8,912 1,505 202 39.54% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao III, S.A. Natal 54,516,713 BRL 33,153 20,394 12,759 1,932 241 39.54% Central Eólica Baixa do Feijao IV, S.A. Natal 38,733,110 BRL 25,438 16,449 8,989 1,368 133 39.54% Central Eólica Jau, S.A. Natal 31,354,085 BRL 8,066 617 7,449 443 101 39.54% Central Nacional de Energia Eólica, S.A. Santa Catarina 12,396,000 BRL 6,717 2,994 3,723 2,550 585 39.54% Elebras Projetos, Ltda Rio Grande do Sul 103,779,268 BRL 69,273 34,906 34,367 21,044 7,815 39.54% South Africa Geography / Platform: South Africa: Dejann Trading and Investments Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town 200 ZAR 973 -973 -176 77.53% EDP Renewables South Africa, Proprietary, Ltd Cape Town 56,617,650 ZAR 2,781 3 2,778 79 -388 77.53% Jouren Trading and Investments Pty, Ltd Cape Town 120 ZAR 1,261 -1,261 -11 77.53% ENERGY WITH EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. INTELLIGENCE 395 Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 The companies main financial data of joint ventures as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Share Capital % % Jointly controled entities * Head Activity / Currency Group Company Office Arquiled Group Lisbon 168,700 EUR Other activities 46.15% Bioastur, AIE Sérin 60,101 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Bioeléctrica Group Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% 40.00% Ceprastur, A.I.E. Oviedo 360,607 EUR Electricity generation 44.01% CHC Comercializador de Referencia, S.L. Madrid 60,000 EUR Gas Supply 50.00% CIDE HC Energía, S.A. Madrid 500,000 EUR Gas Supply 50.00% Cogeración Bergara, A.I.E. Bergara 450,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Cogneracion y Matenimiento, A.I.E. Oviedo 1,208,010 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. Zaragoza 6,701,165 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios, S.A. Las Palmas 15,025 EUR Gas Distribution 38.69% EDP Asia Group Macao 200,000 MOP Other activities 50.00% 49.00% EME2 Engenharia, Manutenção e Serviços, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 60.00% Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. MEP Amapá 627,600,500 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Empresa de Energia São Manoel, S.A. Rio de Janeiro 317,000,100 BRL Electricity generation 17.03% Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City 114,443 USD Renewable energies 77.50% Evolución 2000, S.L. Albacete 117,994 EUR Renewable energies 38.11% Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. New York 207,447,187 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. New York 528,626,287 USD Renewable energies 38.76% HC Tudela Cogeneración, S.L. Oviedo 306,030 EUR Electricity generation 50.10% Hydro Global Investment, Ltd Hong Kong 4,000,000 USD Other activities 50.00% JARI Group Sao Paulo 525,623,746 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Pecém Operação e Manutenção de Unidades de Geração Eletrica, S.A. Ceara 1,527,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Pecém Transportadora de Minérios, S.A. Ceara 1,201,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Sino Portuguese Centre for New Technologies (Shangai) CO., Ltd Shanghai 3,000,000 EUR Other activities 40.00% Tébar Eólica, S.A. Cuenca 4,720,400 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% The companies main financial data of joint ventures as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Head Share capital % % Jointly controled entities * Activity Office / Currency Group Company Flat Rock Windpower II, L.L.C. New York 207,447,187 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Flat Rock Windpower, L.L.C. New York 528,626,287 USD Renewable energies 38.76% Bioastur, AIE Sérin 60,101 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Bioeléctrica Group Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% 40.00% Compañía Eólica Aragonesa, S.A. Zaragoza 6,701,165 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Cogneracion y Matenimiento, A.I.E. Oviedo 1,208,010 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% Desarrollos Energeticos Canarios, S.A. Las Palmas 15,025 EUR Gas Distribution 38.69% EME2 Engenharia, Manutenção e Serviços, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 60.00% Evolución 2000, S.L. Albacete 117,994 EUR Renewable energies 38.11% Porto do Pecém Geração de Energia S.A. Ceara 1,886,872,262 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Pecém Operação e Manutenção de Unidades de Geração Eletrica, S.A. Ceara 1,527,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Porto do Pecém Transportadora de Minérios, S.A. Ceara 1,201,000 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Tébar Eólica, S.A. Cuenca 4,720,400 EUR Renewable energies 38.76% Arquiled Group Lisbon 168,700 EUR Other activities 46.15% Empresa de Energia Cachoeira Caldeirão S.A. Amapá 360,600,500 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Eólica de Coahuila, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico City 114,443 USD Renewable energies 77.50% Companhia Energética do JARI Sao Paulo 525,623,746 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% ECE Participações, S.A. Sao Paulo 473,275,545 BRL Electricity generation 25.55% Empresa de Energia São Manoel, S.A. Rio de Janeiro 100 BRL Electricity generation 17.06% Ceprastur, A.I.E. Oviedo 360,607 EUR Electricity generation 44.01% CIDE HC Energía, S.A. Madrid 500,000 EUR Gas Supply 50.00% Cogeración Bergara, A.I.E. Bergara 450,000 EUR Electricity generation 50.00% HC Tudela Cogeneración Oviedo 306,030 EUR Electricity generation 50.10% EDP Asia Group Macao 200,000 MOP Other activities 50.00% 49.00% * The companies financial data of joint ventures are disclosed in note 20 The companies where the Group has significant influence as at 31 December 2015 are as follows: Head Share capital % % Associated companies Activity Office / Currency Group Company AMBERTREE Tecnologia para Redes de Energia Electrica, Lda Lisbon 5,000 EUR Electricity supply 26.00% Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. Barcelona 3,869,020 EUR Renewable energies 18.31% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. Huesca 454,896 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Blue Canyon Wind Power I, L.L.C. Oklahoma 42,316,480 USD Renewable energies 25.00% Carriço Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 35.00% Couto Magalhães, S.A. Sao Paulo 2,593,963 BRL Electricity generation 25.03% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A Burgos 300,000 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. Gran Canaria 2,391,900 EUR Renewable energies 34.69% EDERG Produção Hidroeléctrica, Lda Lisbon 400,000 EUR Electricity generation 25.00% EIDT-Engenharia, Inovação e Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, S.A. Alcobaça 150,000 EUR Other activities 30.00% ANNUAL REPORT 396 2015 EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements for the periods ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 Head Share capital % % Associated companies Activity Office / Currency Group Company Eoliennes en Mer Dieppe Le Tréport, S.A.S. Bois Guillaume 14,471,028 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% IME IE Mobile Elétrica, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 20.00% Inch Cape Offshore Limited Edinburgh 1,621,800 GBP Renewable energies 37.99% Inkolan, A.I.E. Bilbao EUR Gas Distribution 11.88% Kosorkuntza, A.I.E. Bilbao EUR Electricity generation 23.75% Les Eoliennes en Mer Iles d'Yeu et Noirmoutier, S.A.S. Nantes 17,187,000 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% Mabe Construções e Administração de Projetos, Lda. Ceara 520,459,000 BRL Other activities 25.55% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. Cape Town 1,000 ZAR Renewable energies 32.95% Parque Eólico de Belmonte, S.A. Asturias 120,400 EUR Renewable energies 23.18% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. Soria 7,194,021 EUR Renewable energies 32.56% Portsines Terminal Multipurpose de Sines, S.A. Sines 4,200,000 EUR Other activities 39.60% Principle Power, Inc Seattle 18,302 USD Other activities 26.00% Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. Ciudad Real 80,000 EUR Electricity generation 19.38% Tolosa Gasa, S.A. Tolosa EUR Gas Distribution 38.00% WindPlus, S.A. Lisbon 1,250,000 EUR Renewable energies 15.35% The companies where the Group has significant influence as at 31 December 2014 are as follows: Head Share capital % % Associated companies Activity Office / Currency Group Company Aprofitament D'Energies Renovables de L'Ebre, S.A. Barcelona 3,869,020 EUR Renewable energies 14.71% Biomasas del Pirineo, S.A. Huesca 454,896 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Blue Canyon Wind Power I, L.L.C. Oklahoma 47,835,419 USD Renewable energies 25.00% Carriço Cogeração, S.A. Lisbon 50,000 EUR Electricity generation 35.00% Couto Magalhães, S.A. Sao Paulo 2,593,963 BRL Electricity generation 25.03% Cultivos Energéticos de Castilla, S.A Burgos 300,000 EUR Renewable energies 23.26% Desarollos Eolicos de Canárias, S.A. Gran Canaria 3,191,580 EUR Renewable energies 34.69% EDERG Produção Hidroeléctrica, Lda Lisbon 1,000,000 EUR Electricity generation 25.00% EIDT-Engenharia, Inovação e Desenvolvimento Tecnológico, S.A. Alcobaça 150,000 EUR Other activities 30.00% Grupo ENEOP Lisbon 25,247,525 EUR Renewable energies 27.88% Inkolan, A.I.E. Bilbao 96,162 EUR Gas Distribution 11.88% Inverasturias Fondo Capital Riesgo Madrid 3,005,000 EUR Other activities 20.00% Kosorkuntza, A.I.E. Bilbao 1,502,500 EUR Electricity generation 23.75% Parque Eólico de Belmonte, S.A. Asturias 120,400 EUR Renewable energies 23.18% Parque Eólico Sierra del Madero, S.A. Soria 7,194,021 EUR Renewable energies 32.56% Portsines Terminal Multipurpose de Sines, S.A. Sines 4,200,000 EUR Other activities 39.60% Principle Power, Inc Seattle 11,557 USD Other activities 25.75% Inch Cape Offshore Limited Edinburgh 1 GBP Renewable energies 37.99% SETGAS-Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, SA. Charneca da Caparica 9,000,000 EUR Gas Distribution 19.83% Setgás Comercializadora, S.A. Charneca da Caparica 50,000 EUR Gas Supply 19.83% Solar Siglo XXI, S.A. Ciudad Real 80,000 EUR Electricity generation 19.38% Tolosa Gasa, S.A. Tolosa 651,100 EUR Gas Distribution 38.00% IME IE Mobile Elétrica, ACE Lisbon EUR Electricity supply 20.00% Mabe Construções e Administração de Projetos, Lda. Ceara 520,459,000 BRL Other activities 25.55% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Dieppe Le Tréport, SAS Bois Guillaume 4,367,538 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% Les Eoliennes en Mer de Vendée, SAS Nantes 4,804,914 EUR Renewable energies 33.34% Modderfontein Wind Energy Project, Ltd. Cape Town 1,000 ZAR Renewable energies 32.95% * The companies financial data of associated companies are disclosed in note 20 * As at 31 December 2014, the information related with WindPlus, S.A. was included in the parent company Principle Power, Inc The other companies with interests in share capital equal to or greater than 10% as at 31 December 2015, are as follows: Head Office % % Other companies and Country Group Company EDA, S.A. Azores Portugal 10.00% Parque Eólico Montes de las Navas, S.L. Madrid Spain 17.00% Yedesa Cogeneración, S.A. Almería Spain 10.00% ANNEX II EDP Group Operating Segments Report as at 31 December 2015 Iberia LT Contracted Liberalised Regulated EDP Total Thousands of Euros Generation Activities Networks Renováveis EDP Brasil Segments Receipts from energy sales and services and others 1,136,962 9,025,584 5,405,608 1,371,577 2,733,747 19,673,478 Gross Profit 717,578 879,395 1,674,971 1,349,605 830,520 5,452,069 Other income 7,790 7,266 136,552 359,002 330,033 840,643 Supplies and services -58,237 -218,997 -344,913 -292,728 -147,815 -1,062,690 Personnel costs and employee benefits -63,758 -70,295 -156,240 -84,268 -113,370 -487,931 Other costs -20,642 -233,612 -279,407 -189,316 -42,254 -765,231 Gross Operating Profit 582,731 363,757 1,030,963 1,142,295 857,114 3,976,860 Provisions 290 -11,484 -7,007 172 -9,425 -27,454 Amortisation and impairment -161,261 -200,202 -331,127 -564,629 -126,970 -1,384,189 Operating Profit 421,760 152,071 692,829 577,838 720,719 2,565,217 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 3,028 1,850 308 -1,517 -30,762 -27,093 Assets 4,027,641 9,828,729 10,118,790 14,723,990 3,688,379 42,387,529 Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 128,919 2,362,571 1,163,183 333,800 197,427 4,185,900 Liabilities 830,429 1,459,691 2,510,031 1,304,758 641,577 6,746,486 Operating Investment 28,409 388,211 376,465 901,385 113,548 1,808,018 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 397 ANNUAL REPORT 398 2015 Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements for December 2015 Thousands of Euros Total Receipts from energy sales and services and others of Reported Segments 19,673,478 Receipts from energy sales and services and others from Other Segments 474,772 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -4,631,451 Total Receipts from energy sales and services and others of EDP Group 15,516,799 Total Gross Profit of Reported Segments 5,452,069 Gross Profit from Other Segments 452,100 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -449,463 Total Gross Profit of EDP Group 5,454,706 Total Gross Operating Profit of Reported Segments 3,976,860 Gross Operating Profit from Other Segments -43,310 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -9,592 Total Gross Operating Profit of EDP Group 3,923,958 Total Operating Profit of Reported Segments 2,565,217 Operating Profit from Other Segments -61,273 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -60,565 Total Operating Profit of EDP Group 2,443,379 Total Assets of Reported Segments 42,387,529 Assets Not Allocated 3,552,120 Financial Assets 1,689,387 Taxes Assets 587,366 Other Assets 1,275,367 Assets from Other Segments 11,605,076 Inter-segments assets eliminations* -15,007,760 Total Assets of EDP Group 42,536,965 Total Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates of Reported Segments 4,185,900 Inter-segments assets eliminations* -3,521,889 Total Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 664,011 Total Liabilities of Reported Segments 6,746,486 Liabilities Not Allocated 23,883,488 Financial Liabilities 19,328,566 Institutional partnership in USA 1,956,217 Taxes Liabilities 1,312,363 Other payables 1,274,924 Hydrological correction account 11,418 Liabilities from Other Segments 996,774 Inter-segments Liabilities eliminations* -1,211,276 Total Liabilities of EDP Group 30,415,472 Total Operating Investment of Reported Segments 1,808,018 Operating Investment from Other Segments -20,151 Total Operating Investment of EDP Group 1,787,867 Adjustments and Total of Reported Inter-segments Total of EDP Segments Other Segments eliminations* Group Other income 840,643 37,199 -29,059 848,783 Supplies and services -1,062,690 -301,940 444,022 -920,608 Personnel costs and employee benefits -487,931 -185,239 20,191 -652,979 Other costs -765,231 -45,432 4,719 -805,944 Provisions -27,454 10,999 399 -16,056 Amortisation and impairment -1,384,189 -28,961 -51,373 -1,464,523 Equity method in joint ventures and associates -27,093 -778 3,972 -23,899 * Mainly related with intragroup balances and transactions eliminations EDP Group Operating Segments Report as at 31 December 2014 Iberia LT Contracted Liberalised Regulated EDP Total Thousands of Euros Generation Activities Networks Renováveis EDP Brasil Segments Receipts from energy sales and services and others 1,153,296 8,618,367 6,408,871 1,170,923 2,851,443 20,202,900 Gross Profit 790,467 867,792 1,741,959 1,153,126 812,883 5,366,227 Other income 13,919 17,475 66,032 169,249 140,472 407,147 Supplies and services -68,970 -206,125 -379,340 -256,645 -160,163 -1,071,243 Personnel costs and employee benefits -48,709 -61,456 -98,512 -66,093 -124,199 -398,969 Other costs -15,669 -201,281 -288,464 -96,441 -49,886 -651,741 Gross Operating Profit 671,038 416,405 1,041,675 903,196 619,107 3,651,421 Provisions -7,646 -19,034 -2,036 21 -9,947 -38,684 Amortisation and impairment -166,215 -233,514 -339,629 -480,767 -113,114 -1,333,239 Operating Profit 497,177 163,857 700,010 422,408 496,046 2,279,498 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 2,294 1,880 129 21,756 -22,889 3,170 Assets 4,163,278 9,872,884 10,327,653 12,954,646 3,517,869 40,836,330 Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 128,791 2,351,998 1,163,002 369,791 345,444 4,359,026 Liabilities 860,932 1,410,455 2,595,834 1,183,479 662,920 6,713,620 Operating Investment 35,639 558,503 381,542 710,295 118,666 1,804,645 ENERGY WITH INTELLIGENCE 399 ANNUAL REPORT 400 2015 Reconciliation of information between Operating Segments and Financial Statements for December 2014 Thousands of Euros Total Revenues from energy sales and services and other of Reported Segments 20,202,900 Segments 493,295 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -4,402,312 Total Revenues from energy sales and services and other of EDP Group 16,293,883 Total Gross Profit of Reported Segments 5,366,227 Gross Profit from Other Segments 462,164 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -461,262 Total Gross Profit of EDP Group 5,367,129 Total Gross Operating Profit of Reported Segments 3,651,421 Gross Operating Profit from Other Segments -17,183 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* 8,155 Total Gross Operating Profit of EDP Group 3,642,393 Total Operating Profit of Reported Segments 2,279,498 Operating Profit from Other Segments -55,492 Adjustments and Inter-segments eliminations* -30,946 Total Operating Profit of EDP Group 2,193,060 Total Assets of Reported Segments 40,836,330 Assets Not Allocated 5,448,568 Financial Assets 3,442,689 Taxes Assets 590,400 Other Assets 1,415,479 Assets from Other Segments 11,638,918 Inter-segments assets eliminations* -15,050,799 Total Assets of EDP Group 42,873,017 Total Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates of Reported Segments 4,359,026 Inter-segments assets eliminations* -3,486,052 Total Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and associates 872,974 Total Liabilities of Reported Segments 6,713,620 Liabilities Not Allocated 24,436,208 Financial Liabilities 20,309,511 Institutional partnership in USA 1,801,963 Taxes Liabilities 1,220,565 Other payables 1,103,159 Hydrological correction account 1,010 Liabilities from Other Segments 1,093,707 Inter-segments Liabilities eliminations* -1,339,662 Total Liabilities of EDP Group 30,903,873 Total Operating Investment of Reported Segments 1,804,645 Operating Investment from Other Segments 67,002 Total Operating Investment of EDP Group 1,871,647 Adjustments and Total of Reported Inter-segments Total of EDP Segments Other Segments eliminations* Group Other income 407,147 37,257 -42,126 402,278 Supplies and services -1,071,243 -312,254 486,538 -896,959 Personnel costs and employee benefits -398,969 -176,733 20,264 -555,438 Other costs -651,741 -27,616 4,740 -674,617 Provisions -38,684 -13,012 -399 -52,095 Amortisation and impairment -1,333,239 -25,297 -38,702 -1,397,238 Equity method in joint ventures and associates 3,170 13,269 -1,345 15,094 * Mainly related with intragroup balances and transactions eliminations  ENERGY   WITH  INTELLIGENCE  405                                                        ANNUAL  REPORT  406  2015                                                          ENERGY   WITH  INTELLIGENCE  407                                                                                                                ANNUAL  REPORT  408  2015                                                                                                                                                                                                  ENERGY   WITH  INTELLIGENCE  409                                                                                           ANNUAL  REPORT  410  2015   GEN ER A L EX T ER N A L GLOB A L ST A N D A R D PA GE N U M B ER S R EPO R T OM ISSION S/ A D D IT ION A L IN F OR M A T ION A SSU R A N C EC OM PA C T D ISC LO SU R ES S T R A T E GY A N D A N A LY S IS G4-1 9  L G4-2 52  L O R G A N IZ A T ION A L P R O F ILE G4-3 13  L G4-4 13  L G4-5 13  L G4-6 12-13  L G4-7 13  L G4-8 13  L G4-9 14-15  L G4-10* 13; 127  The number o f individual EDP co ntracto rs is no t material 1 L G4-11* 128  The number o f individual EDP co ntracto rs is no t material 1 L G4-12 114-115  L G4-13 49  L G4-14 Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> co rpo rate go vernance> ethics> co de o f ethics L G4-15 www.edp.pt  www.edp.pt> appro ach to sustainability> principles L G4-16 www.edp.pt  www.edp.pt> appro ach to sustainability> principles L EU1* 74  R EU2* 74  R EU3* 109  R EU4* 78  R EU5* 379  R ID E N T IF IE D M A T E R IA L A S P E C T S A N D B O UN D A R IE S G4-17 306  L G4-18 61-62; A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-19 61-62  L G4-20 61-62; 112-114  L G4-21 61-62; 112-114  L G4-22  The po ssible info rmatio n adjustments are always pro perly marked. L G4-23 51-62; A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  The po ssible info rmatio n adjustments are always pro perly marked. L S T A KE H OLD E R E N G A G E M E N T G4-24 98-99  www.edpt.pt> sustainability> stakeho lders L G4-25 www.edp.pt  www.edpt.pt> sustainability> stakeho lders> dialo g L G4-26 www.edp.pt  www.edpt.pt> sustainability> stakeho lders> dialo g L G4-27 www.edp.pt  www.edpt.pt> sustainability> stakeho lders> dialo g L R E P OR T P R OF ILE G4-28 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-29 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-30 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-31 Last page Co ntacts  L G4-32 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-33 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G OV E R N A N C E G4-34 153-157; 161  L G4-35 161-162  L G4-36 158; 186-187  L G4-37 98-99; 170 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-38 147-150; 161  L G4-39 146-147  L G4-40 241-248  L G4-41 150-151; 160; 218  www.edp.pt> co rpo rate go vernance> independence and inco mpatibilities statement L G4-42 153-157; 159  L G4-43 101-102; 126  L G4-44 211-212  L G4-45 161-162  L G4-46 161-162  L G4-47 162-163  L G4-48 A nnexes Sustainability Repo rt  L G4-49 161-167  L G4-50 83  L G4-51 210-211  L G4-52 210-211  L G4-53 210-211  L EDP determined this indicato r based o n average co mpensatio n and no t with the G4-54 125  median L EDP determined this indicato r based o n average co mpensatio n and no t with the G4-55 125  median L E T H IC S A N D IN T E GR IT Y G4-56 Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> co rpo rate go vernance> ethics> co de o f ethics L G4-57 85; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-58 85; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L E C O N O M IC E C O N O M IC P E R F O R M A N C E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EC1 16; 129  R G4-EC2 90-93; 379  L G4-EC3 309; 349  L G4-EC4 129  R   ENERGY   WITH  INTELLIGENCE  411 GEN ER A L EX T ER N A L GLOB A L ST A N D A R D PA GE N U M B ER S R EPOR T O M ISSION S/ A D D IT ION A L IN F OR M A T ION A SSU R A N C EC O M PA C T D ISC LO SU R ES M A R KE T P R E S E N C E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EC5 103  R G4-EC6 125  L IN D IR E C T E C O N OM IC IM P A C T S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EC7 116-120  L G4-EC8 112-114  L P R O C UR E M E N T P R A C T IC E S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EC9 114-115  R A V A ILA B ILIT Y A N D R E LIA B ILIT Y G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L EU10* 14-15; 38  L D E M A N D S ID E M A N A G E M E N T G4-DM A * 108-111; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L CO2 evitado 17; 122  R R E S E A R C H A N D D E V E LO P M E N T G4-DM A * 86-87; 129; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L P LA N T D E C O M M IS S IO N IN G G4-DM A * 73; 356; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L S Y S T E M E F F IC IE N C Y G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L EU11* 75  L EU12* 78  L E N V IR O N M E N T A L 7; 8 M A T E R IA LS G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN1* www.edp.pt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> enviro nment> enviro nmental management L G4-EN2  Co nsidered no t material co mpared with the amo unt o f materials used by EDP L EN ER GY G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  L G4-EN3 92; 122  R G4-EN4 122  L G4-EN5 122  L G4-EN6 122  L G4-EN7  No t applicable to the secto r L WA T E R G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN8* 94; 122  R G4-EN9 94  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN10  Co nsidered no t material co mpared with the amo unt o f water used by EDP . L B IOD IV E R S IT Y B io diversity Repo rt 2013-2014 and Sustainability M anagement G4-DM A * A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN11 123; B io diversity Repo rt 2013-2014  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns R G4-EN12* 95-97; B io diversity Repo rt 2013-2014  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN13 95-97; B io diversity Repo rt 2013-2014  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L EU13* 95-97; B io diversity Repo rt 2013-2014  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN14 www.edp.pt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> enviro nment> bio diversity> impacts o n bio diversity L E M IS S IO N S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN15* 92-93; 122  R G4-EN16* 92-93; 122  R G4-EN17 92-93; 122  L G4-EN18 122  L G4-EN19 91-93  L G4-EN20  Equipments with these substances have no t already materiality in EDP L G4-EN21* 97; 122  R E F F LUE N T S A N D WA S T E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN22* 94; 122  L G4-EN23* 97-98; 123  R G4-EN24 98  L G4-EN25  In 2015, it weren't expo rt hazardo us waste L G4-EN26 94  There were no significantly affected water bo dies by the wastewater L P R O D UC T S A N D S E R V IC E S G4-DM A  No t applicable L G4-EN27  No t applicable L G4-EN28  No t applicable L C OM P LIA N C E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN29 129  35,555€o f enviro nmental fines R T R A NSP OR T G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  L G4-EN30  No t material fo r EDP L O V E R A LL G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN31 129; 385  R   ANNUAL  REPORT  412  2015  GEN ER A L EX T ER N A L GLOB A L ST A N D A R D PA GE N U M B ER S R EPO R T OM ISSION S/ A D D IT ION A L IN F OR M A T ION A SSU R A N C EC OM PA C T D ISC LO SU R ES S UP P LIE R E N V IR O N M E N T A L A S S E S S M E N T G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN32 112-114  L G4-EN33 112-114  L E N V IR O N M E N T A L GR IE V A N C E M E C H A N IS M S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-EN34 123  L LA B O R P R A C T IC E S A N D D E C E N T WOR K E M P LO Y M E N T 6 G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 1* 100; 125  R EU15* 100  R EU17* 126  The number o f individual EDP co ntracto rs is no t material 1 L EU18* 126  The number o f individual EDP co ntracto rs is no t material 1 L G4-LA 2 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 3 125  L LA B O R / M A N A G E M E N T R E LA T ION S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 4 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L O C C UP A T IO N A L H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 5 126  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 6* 126  R G4-LA 7 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 8 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L T R A IN IN G A N D E D UC A T ION G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 9 126  R G4-LA 10 101-102  R G4-LA 11 103  L D IV E R S IT Y A N D E Q UA L O P P OR T UN IT Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 12 100; 125  R E Q UA L R E M UN E R A T IO N F OR WO M E N A N D M E N G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  L G4-LA 13 103; 126  L S UP P LIE R A S S E S S M E N T F O R LA B OR P R A C T IC E S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 14 112-114  L G4-LA 15 112-114  L LA B O R P R A C T IC E S G R IE V A N C E M E C H A N IS M S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-LA 16 83-84  L H UM A N R IG H T S 1 IN V E S T M E N T G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L 1 G4-HR1 85  L G4-HR2 85; 126  Included in ethics training L N ON D IS C R IM IN A T ION 1; 6 G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR3 83-84  L F R E E D O M O F A S S OC IA T ION A N D C OLLE C T IV E B A R G A IN IN G 1; 3 G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR4 85; 112-114  L C H ILD LA B O R 5 G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Có digo de Ética  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR5 85; 112-114  L F O R C E D O R C O M P ULS OR Y LA B O R 4 G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR6 85; 112-114  L S E C UR IT Y P R A C T IC E S 2 G4-DM A  No t material L G4-HR7  No t material L IN D IG E N O US R IG H T S 1; 2 G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Co de o f Ethics  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR8 119  L A SSESSM EN T G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt; Có digo de Ética  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR9 85-86  L S UP P LIE R H UM A N R IG H T S A S S E S S M E N T G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR10 112-114  L G4-HR11 112-114  L R E C LA M A ÇÕE S D E D IR E IT OS H UM A N O S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-HR12 83  L S O C IE T Y 1 LO C A L C OM M UN IT IE S G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO1 118-120  L G4-SO2 118-120  L EU22* 119  L   ENERGY   WITH  INTELLIGENCE  413 GEN ER A L EX T ER N A L GLOB A L ST A N D A R D PA GE N U M B ER S R EPOR T O M ISSION S/ A D D IT ION A L IN F OR M A T ION A SSU R A N C EC O M PA C T D ISC LO SU R ES A N T IC OR R UP T IO N G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO3 85  L G4-SO4 85; 126  Included in ethics training L G4-SO5 83-84  L P UB LIC P O LIC Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO6 85  L A N T IC OM P E T IT IV E B E H A V IOR 6 G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO7  No t material R C OM P LIA N C E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO8 129  R S UP P LIE R A S S E S S M E N T F O R IM P A C T S ON S O C IE T Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO9 112-114  L G4-SO10 112-114  L G R IE V A N C E M E C H A N IS M S F O R IM P A C T S O N S O C IE T Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-SO11 83  L D IS A S T E R A N D E M E R G E N C Y P LA N N IN G A N D R E S P ON S E G4-DM A * 106; Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L P R O D UC T R E S P O N S IB ILIT Y 1 C US T OM E R H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y G4-DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-P R1 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-P R2  No t material L EU25* 126  L P R O D UC T A N D S E R V IC E LA B E LIN G G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L www.edp.pt/en/sustentabilidade/P ublicaco esRelato rio s/P ages/default_new.aspx; https://energia.edp.pt/particulares/apo io -cliente/o rigem-energia/; G4-P R3 Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edpenergia.es/es/preguntas-frecuentes.html?pro vincia=badajo z; R www.edpsu.pt/pt/o rigemdaenergia/P ages/OrigensdaEnergia.aspx G4-P R4  No t material L G4-P R5 106-107  L M A R KE T IN G C OM M UN IC A T ION S G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-P R6  No t applicable L G4-P R7  No t material L C US T OM E R P R IV A C Y G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-P R8 108; 129  L C OM P LIA N C E G4-DM A Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L G4-P R9 108; 129  R A C C ESS DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L EU26* Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L EU27* 78  L EU28* 77-78  L EU29* 77-78  L EU30* 75  L P R O V IS ION O F IN F O R M A T ION DM A * Sustainability M anagement A ppro ach Repo rt  www.edp.pt> sustainability> publicatio ns L 1 There was a c larification of the c onc ept “ c ontractor” , until 2015 understood as “ supplier” . EDP reports the hours of training in health and safety related with service providers. llllllllll Fully reported R Reasonable Verification llllllllll Partially reported L Limited Verification llllllllll Not reported  Specific indicator for this sector          EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Executive Board of Directors STATEMENT With reference to 2015 financial year, and according to No. 1, item c) of article 245of the Portuguese Securities Code, the signers hereby, acting as members of the Executive Board of Directors, declare that, to the best of their knowledge, the information foreseen in No. 1 item a) of the article mentioned above, was prepared according to the applicable accounting standards, presenting a fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial situation and results of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., and the subsidiaries included in the respective consolidation perimeter, and that the Management Financial Analysis Report clearly discloses the evolution of the business, the performance and position of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., and the subsidiaries included in the respective consolidation perimeter, enclosing a description of the major risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. Lisbon, Antoni j, Chairman Nuno Maria Pestan^ d&Almeida Alves EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Miguel Tiago Perestrelo da Câmara Ribeiro Ferreira Sénior Accounting Officer Corporate Centre STATEMENT With reference to 2015 financial year, and according to No. 1, item c) of article 2455 of the Portuguese Securities Code, I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the information foreseen in No. 1 item a) of article mentioned above, was prepared according to the applicable accounting standards, presenting a fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial situation and results of EDP Energias d e Portugal, S.A. ( EDP ), and the subsidiaries included in the respective consolidation perimeter, and that the Management Financial Analysis Report clearly discloses the evolution of the business, the performance and position of EDP, and the subsidiaries included in the respective consolidation perimeter, enclosing a description of the major risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. Lisbon, 3rd of March 2016 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Telephone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11o 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal (This report is a free transladou to English from the original Portuguesc vcrsion In case of doubt or misinterprctation the Portuguese version will prevail) To EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. 1 As the statutory auditor of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., we present attached the Auditors' Report on the individual and Consolidated financial statements, presented by the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., for the year ended 31 December 2015, including the opinion on the consistency between the Executive Board of Directors report and the financial statements. 2 In the development of our audit functions, and in accordance with article 446° of the Companies Code, our procedures included i) the verification of the regularity of the accounting records and supporting documentation; ii) the verification, when it was thought appropriate and by the way deemed appropriate, of the extension of cash and the existence of any kind of goods or assets belonging to the company or received as collateral, deposit or otherwise; iii) the verification that the financial statements give a true and fair view, in ali material respects of the financial position of the company and its group and the results of its operations, changes in equity and cash flows for the period ended 31 December 2015, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union; iv) the verification of the application of accounting policies and criteria adopted by the company, in material respects, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. 3 Accordingly, we verified that the financial statements, as a whole, that include: i) The statement of financial position, the statement of income, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and the cash flow statement for the year then ended, and the corresponding notes, present adequately the financial position and the results of EDP and its subsidiaries; and ii) The financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report is consistent with the financial statements. 4 We presented timely to the Audit Committee the statements provided in point a) and b) of paragraph 1 of Article 63 of the Statute of Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas, in which we confírm our independence from EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. as well as ali subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures included in its consolidation perimeter and communicate any additional services provided to EDP that were duly reported in the the Report on Corporate Governance prepared by the Executive Board of Directors. Lisbon, 3 March 2016 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.° 189) represented by Vitor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho (ROC n.° 1081) KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória do Contas, S.A., a Portuguese company and a member firm of the Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Colectiva N° PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na PT 502 161 078 KPMG International Cooperativo ( KPMG International ), a Swiss O.R.O.C. N° 189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. N1 entity. 20161489 KPMG & Associados Saciedade de Revisores Telephone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11° 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal AUDITORS' REPORT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (ISSUED BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, A CMVM REGISTERED AUDITOR) (This report is a free translation to English from the original Portuguese version In case of doubt or misinterprctation the Portuguese version will prevail) Introduction 1 In accordance with the applicable legislation, we present our Auditors' Report on the consolidated financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report and in the accompanying consolidated financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2015 of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 (showing total assets of 42,536,965 thousand Euros and shareholders' equity attributable to the equity holders of EDP of 8,669,775 thousand Euros, including a net profit for the year attributable to equity holders of EDP of 912,703 thousand Euros), the consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and the corresponding notes. Responsibilities 2 The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for: a) the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ( IFRS ) that present fairly the consolidated financial position of the group of companies included in the consolidation, the consolidated results of its operations, the consolidated comprehensive income, the consolidated changes in equity and the consolidated cash flows; b) that the historical financial information prepared in accordance with IFRS is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful as required by the Portuguese Securities Market Code ('CVM'); c) the adoption of adequate accounting policies and criteria; d) the maintenance of an appropriate internai control system; and e) the communication of any relevant fact that may have influenced the activity of the companies included in the consolidation, their financial position or results. 3 Our responsibility is to veriíy the consolidated financial information included in the above referred documents, namely as to whether it is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful as required by the CVM in order to issue a professional and independent report based on our audit. KPMG & Associados -Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória do Contas, S.A., a Portuguese company and a member firm of the Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Colectiva N° PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na PT 502 161 078 KPMG International Cooperativo ('KPMG International ), a Swiss O.R.O.C. N° 189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. N° entity. 20161489 Scope 4 We conducted our audit in accordance with the Technical Standards and Guidelines issued by the Portuguese Institute of Statutory Auditors ('Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas'), which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatements. Accordingly our audit included: verification that the financial statements of the companies included in the consolidation have been properly audited and in those significant cases in which they were not, verification, on a sample basis, of the documents underlying the figures and disclosures contained therein, and an assessment of the estimates, based on judgments and criteria defined by the Executive Board of Directors, used in the preparation of the referred financial statements; verification of the consolidation procedures and of the application of the equity method; evaluation of the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and of their disclosure, taking into account the applicable circumstances; assessment of the applicability of the going concern principie; assessment of the appropriateness of the overall presentation of the Consolidated financial statements; and assessment of whether the Consolidated financial information is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful. 5 Our audit also included the verification that the Consolidated financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report is consistent with the financial statements, as well as the verification of the disclosures required by numbers 4 and 5 of the article 451, of the Portuguese Companies Code ( Código das Sociedades Comerciais ). 6 We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Opinion 7 In our opinion, the referred Consolidated financial statements present fairly, in ali material respects, the Consolidated financial position of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., as at 31 December 2015, the Consolidated results of its operations, the Consolidated comprehensive income, the Consolidated cash flows and the Consolidated changes in equity for the year then ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and the information contained therein is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful. Report on other legal requirements 8 It is also our opinion that the Consolidated financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report is consistent with the Consolidated financial statements and that the Report on Corporate Governance includes the information required by the article 245.°A of the Portuguese Securities Market Code ('CVM'). Lisbon, 3 March 2016 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.° 189) represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho (ROC n.° 1081) 2 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Telephone:+351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11° 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal AUDITORS' REPORT (ISSUED BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, A CMVM REGISTERED AUDITOR) (This report is a free transladou to English from thc original Portuguese version In case of doubt or misinterpretation tlie Portuguese version will prevail) Introduction 1 In accordance with the applicable legislation, we present our Auditors' Report on the financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report and in the accompanying financial statements as at and for the year ended 31 December 2015 of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2015 (showing total assets of 22,437,509 thousand Euros and shareholders' equity of 7,299,635 thousand Euros, including a net profit of 802,446 thousand Euros), the statement of income, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of cash flows for the year then ended and the corresponding notes. Responsibilities 2 The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for: a) the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union ( IFRS ) that present fairly the financial position of the company, the results of its operations, the comprehensive income, the changes in equity and the cash flows; b) that the historical financial information prepared in accordance with IFRS is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful as required by the Portuguese Securities Market Code ('CVM'); c) the adoption of adequate accounting policies and criteria; d) the maintenance of an appropriate internai control system; and e) the cominunication of any relevant fact that may have influenced the activity of the company, its financial position or results. 3 Our responsibility is to verify the financial information included in the above referred documents, namely as to whether it is complete, time, current, clear, objective and lawful as required by the CVM in order to issue a professional and independent report based on our audit. KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória do Contas, S.A., a Portuguese company and a member firm of the Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Colectiva N° PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na PT 502 161 078 KPMG International Cooperative ( KPMG International ), a Swiss O.R.O.C. N° 189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. N° entity. 20161489 Scope 4 We conducted our audit in accordance with the Technical Standards and Guidelines issued by the Portuguese Institute of Statutoiy Auditors ('Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas'), which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatements. Accordingly our audit included: • verification, on a sample basis, of the information underlying the figures and disclosures contained therein, and an assessment of the estimates, based on the judgements and criteria defined by the Executive Board of Directors, used in the preparation of the referred financial statements; • evaluation of the appropriateness of the accounting policies used and of their disclosure, taking into account the applicable circumstances; • assessment of the applicability of the going concern principie; • assessment of the appropriateness of the overall presentation of the financial statements; and • assessment of whether the financial information is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful. 5 Our audit also included the verification that the financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report is consistent with the financial statements, as well as the verification of the disclosures required by numbers 4 and 5 of the article 451, of the Portuguese Companies Code ( Código das Sociedades Comerciais ). 6 We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Opinion 7 In our opinion, the referred financial statements present fairly, in ali material respects, the financial position of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A., as at 31 December 2015, the results of its operations, the comprehensive income, the changes in equity and the cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and the information contained therein is complete, true, current, clear, objective and lawful. Report on other legal requirements 8 It is also our opinion that the financial information included in the Executive Board of Directors report is consistent with the financial statements and that the Report on Corporate Governance includes the information required by the article 245.°-A of the Portuguese Securities Market Code ('CVM'). Lisbon, 3 March 2016 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.° 189) represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho (ROC n.° 1081) 2 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Telephone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11° 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT (This Report is a free translation to English from the Portuguese version. In case of doubt or misinterpretation the Portuguese version will prevail.) To the Executive Board of Directors of EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Introduction 1 We have been engaged by the Executive Board of Directors of EDPEnergias de Portugal, S.A ( EDP ) to provide reasonable assurance in respect of the indicators identified in paragraph 4 of the scope paragraph and limited assurance in respect of the sustainability information included in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report ( the Report ) as a whole for the year ended 31 December 2015. Responsibilities 2 The Executive Board of Directors of EDP is responsible for: • The preparation and presentation of the sustainability information included in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4.0) and the Electric Utilities Sector supplement, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report, and the information and assertions contained within it; • Determining EDP's objectives in respect of sustainable development performance and reporting, including the identification of stakeholders and material issues, in accordance with the principies of inclusiveness, materiality and response of AA1000APS (2008); and • Establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internai control systems from which the reported performance information is derived. 3 Our responsibility is to express, based on the work performed: • A reasonable assurance conclusion on whether GRI indicators: Economic Data (G4-EC1, G4-EC4, G4-EC5, G4-EC9), Sector (G4-EU1, G4-EU2, G4-EU3, G4-EU4, G4-EU5, G4-EU15), Environmental (G4-EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN11, G4-EN15 (GHG Scope 1), G4EN16 (GHG Scope 2), G4-EN21, G4-EN23; G4-EN31), Product (G4-PR3), Labour Practices (G4 10, G4-LA1, G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-LA12), Fines and Penalties (G4-EN29, G4-S07, G4-S08, G4-PR9) Absenteeism rate, Billing of Energy Effíciency Services, C02 avoided and Maximum Certified Installed Capacity ISO 14001, are free from material misstatement; and • A limited assurance conclusion on whether the information on the sustainability information included in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report, as a whole, as of and for the year ended 31 December 2015, is not free from material misstatement. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board of the International Federation of Accountants. KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória do Contas, S.A., a Portuguese company and a member firm of the Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Colectiva N° PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na PT 502 161 078 KPMG International Cooperativo ( KPMG International'), a Swiss O.R.O.C. N°189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. N° entity. 20161489 Our work included also a moderate levei of assurance in accordance with the AA1000 Accountability Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS) (Type 2) issued by Accountability, that consists in the verification of the nature and extent of the organization's adherence to the AA1000APS (2008), and the evaluation of the reliability of the performance information as reported in the appendix Sustainability Reporting . These Standards require that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements. Scope 4 The scope of our work was as follows: • Reasonable Assurance: A reasonable assurance engagement with respect to the indicators: Economic Data (G4EC1, G4-EC4, G4-EC5, G4-EC9), Sector (G4-EU1, G4-EU2, G4-EU3, G4-EU4, G4-EU5, G4-EU15), Environmental (G4-EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN11, G4-EN15 (GHG Scope 1), G4EN16 (GHG Scope 2), G4-EN21, G4-EN23; G4-EN31), Product (G4-PR3), Labour Practices (G4 10, G4-LA1, G4-LA6, G4-LA9, G4-LA12), Fines and Penalties (G4-EN29, G4-S07, G4-S08, G4-PR9) Absenteeism rate, Billing of Energy Efficiency Services, C02 avoided and Maximum Certified Installed Capacity ISO 14001, involves performing procedures to obtain sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the indicators disclosed are free from material misstatement whether caused by fraud or error. The procedures performed depend on professional judgment, including the assessment of the risk of material misstatement in the indicators mentioned above, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we considered internai control relevant to EDP in the preparation and presentation of the referred indicators in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. Our engagement also included assessing the suitability of the criteria used by the Board of Directors of EDP in the preparation of the indicators, as explained in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report, in the evaluation of the appropriateness of the quantifícation methods, in the reporting of the policies used and the reasonableness of the estimates made by EDP. Among others, our procedures included: Interviews with relevant responsible persons and relevant staff at operating and corporate levei concerning the identification of the indicators mentioned above; Interviews with relevant responsible persons and relevant staff at operating and corporate levei concerning the preparation of the indicators; Evaluation of the systems used for collection, calculation and reporting of the indicators; Recalculation of the indicators at corporate and operational levei; and Validation of the design and effectiveness of controls. We understand that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate for the expression of our conclusion. • Limited assurance: Our limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information consisted in inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report as a whole for the year ended 31 December 2015, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: 2 Interviews with relevant responsible persons and relevant staff at corporate and operational levei concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business; Interviews with relevant staff at corporate operational levei responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information; Visits to operating sites in Portugal, Spain and Brazil, selected on the basis of a risk analysis including the consideration of both quantitative and qualitative criteria; Comparing the information presented in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the Report for the year ended 31 December 2015 to corresponding information sources to determine whether ali the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Report; Reading the information presented in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of EDP. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement or an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Assurance Engagements, and consequently, does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of ali signifícant matters that might be identifíed in an audit or a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion on the information presented in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of the EDP Annual Report as a whole. 5 Our multidisciplinary team included specialists in AA1000APS, stakeholder dialogue, social, environmental and economic business performance. Conclusion 6 Based on the procedures performed, as described above: • We conclude that the indicators: Economic Data (G4-EC1, G4-EC4, G4-EC5, G4-EC9), Sector (G4-EU1, G4-EU2, G4-EU3, G4-EU4, G4-EU5, G4-EU15), Environmental (G4EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN11, G4-EN15 (GHG Scope 1), G4-EN16 (GHG Scope 2), G4-EN21, G4-EN23; G4-EN31), Product (G4-PR3), Labour Practices (G4 10, G4-LA1, G4-LA6, G4LA9, G4-LA12), Fines and Penalties (G4-EN29, G4-S07, G4-S08, G4-PR9) Absenteeism rate, Billing of Energy Effíciency Services, C02 avoided and Maximum Certified Installed Capacity ISO 14001, are presented in ali material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4.0), of the Global Reporting Initiative (GR1) as described in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of EDP's Annual Report. • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information included in the chapter Performance and appendix Sustainability Reporting of EDP's Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 is not presented fairly, in ali material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4.0) and the Electric Utilities Sector supplement, of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as described in the appendix Sustainability Reporting of EDP's Annual Report. Additionally and also based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that EDP has not applied the principies of inclusivity, inateriality and responsiveness as included in the AA1000 Accountability Principies Standard 2008, as described in the appendix Sustainability Reporting of EDP's Annual Report. 3 Without affecting our conclusions presented above, we present some of the key observations: In relation to the Inclusiveness principie EDP has Consolidated its process of stakeholders' consultation in the different countries where operates, in line with the stakeholder management model defined at the corporate levei. In 2015, EDP initiated the development of a stakeholder management plan in order to ensure better harmonization across the EDP Group. EDP annually performs specific initiatives of relationship with some groups of stakeholders, ensuring inclusion and the review of stakeholder expectations. In relation to the Materiality principie EDP has established a comprehensive process for determining material issues, which consolidates a vision at the corporate and local leveis. The outputs resulting from the identification of material issues reflect the main themes for the energy sector, regions where the group is present and main stakeholder's groups. EDP ensure the enlargement of the materiality process scope to ali geographies where the group operates. The EDP Group is currently developing a redefinition project of the whole process of materiality that aims to ensure better harmonization of this among ali countries. This work aims to determine the materiality per stakeholder's segment. In relation to the Responsiveness principie EDP address the answer of its main stakeholders' expectations by defining a set of goals and targets, however should improve the alignment and communication of its commitments and corporate goals to the most relevant material issues identified by stakeholders. Our assurance report is made solely to EDP in accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to EDP those matters we have been engaged to state in this assurance report and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume responsibility to any third party other than EDP for our work, for this assurance report, or for our conclusions. Lisbon, 3 March 2016 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.° 189) represented by Vitor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho (ROC n.° 1081) AA1000 Licenscd Assurance Providcr 000-91 4 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Telephone: +351 210 110 000 Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Fax: +351 210 110 121 Edifício Monumental Internet: www.kpmg.pt Av. Praia da Vitória, 71 A, 11° 1069-006 Lisboa Portugal Independent Evaluation Report on the Internai Control System Over Financial Reporting of EDP Group (This report is a free translation to English from the original Portugucse version In case of doubt or misinterpretation the Portugucse version will prevail) To the Executive Board of Directors EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Introduction 1 We were engaged by EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. ( EDP or the Company ) to perform a work to assess the internai control system over Consolidated financial reporting ( SCIRF ) of the Company and its subsidiaries ( Group or EDP Group ) as at 31 December 2015, based on the criteria established in the internai control framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO 2013) in relation with global business and control procedures, and with the Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies ( COBIT ) in relation to the general information technologies controls. Responsibilities 2 The Executive Board of Directors is responsible for adopting adequate measures to ensure to a reasonable degree of security the implementation and maintenance of an adequate internai control system over the Consolidated financial reporting and the proper development of improvements to the system. 3 Our responsibility is to assess and express a conclusion, with reasonable assurance, on the effectiveness of the EDP Group's internai control system over Consolidated financial reporting. Scope 4 The internai control system over the Consolidated financial reporting is a process designed, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of Consolidated financial statements for externai purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principies and includes policies and procedures that: • respect to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposals of assets of EDP Group; • provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of Consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principies, and that receipts and expenditures of EDP Group are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Executive Board of Directors and Directors of EDP or Directors and Management of EDP subsidiaries; and • provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention, or timely detection and correction of unauthorized acquisitions, use or disposals of assets of EDP Group that could have a material effect on the Consolidated financial statements. KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de KPMG & Associados S.R.O.C., S.A. Matriculada na Conservatória do Contas, S.A., a Portuguese company and a member firm of the Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with Colectiva N° PT 502 161 078 Inscrito na PT 502 161 078 KPMG International Cooperativo {'KPMG International ), a Swiss O.R.O.C. N° 189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. Nc entity. 20161489 5 Our work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board of the International Federation of Accountants. This standard requires that we plan and perform our work to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Group's internai control over Consolidated financial repoiting system is effective in ali material respects. 6 Our evaluation included obtaining an understanding of the Group's internai control system over the Consolidated financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internai control based on the assessed risk and performing such other procedures as we considered necessaiy in the circumstances. 7 We believe that the work performed provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. 8 Due to the limitations inherent in any fonn of internai control system, there is a possibility that internai control over Consolidated financial reporting may not prevent or detect the errors or irregularities that might arise, whether due to collusion, errors in judgment, human error, fraud or malpractice. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods of the internai control over Consolidated financial reporting are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Conclusion 9 In our opinion, the Group's internai control system over Consolidated financial reporting as at 31 December 2015 is adequate and effective, in ali material aspects, according to the criteria established in the internai control framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO 2013) in relation with global business and control procedures, and with the Control Objectives for Information and related Technologies (COBIT) for general information technologies controls. 10 On 3 March 2016 we issued our audit report on the Consolidated financial statements of the Group as at 31 December 2015, expressing an unqualified opinion. 11 This report has been prepared according to your request in accordance with terms as described in paragraph 1. We do not accept any liability to any third parties other than the intended recipients of this report. Lisbon, 3 March 2016 KPMG & Ass Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (n.° 189) represented by Vítor Manuel da Cunha Ribeirinho (ROC n.° 1081) 2 contacts HEAD OFFICE MEDIA EDP – ENERGIAS DE PORTUGAL DC – COMMUNICATION Av. 24 de Julho, 12 DEPARTMENT 1249-300 Lisboa Av. 24 de Julho, 12 Portugal 1249-300 Lisboa Tel: +351 21 001 25 00 Portugal Fax: +351 21 002 14 03 Tel: +351 21 001 26 80 online: www.edp.pt Fax: +351 21 001 29 10 E-mail: pressedp@edp.pt INVESTORS COMMUNITY DRI – INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT ONG CHANNEL Av. 24 de Julho, 12 E-mail: sustentabilidade@edp.pt 1249-300 Lisboa Portugal Tel: +351 21 001 28 34 FUNDAÇÃO EDP Fax: +351 21 001 28 99 Av. de Brasília, Central Tejo E-mail: ir@edp.pt 1300 – 598 Lisboa Portugal Tel: +351 21 002 81 30 COSTUMERS Fax: +351 21 002 81 04 online: www.fundacaoedp.pt EDP LINES E-mail: fundacaoedp.pt Customer service regulated market: 808 505 505 Customer service liberalised market: 808 53 53 53 ECO – ENERGY EFFICIENCY Meter reading: 808 507 507 Contacto online: www.eco.edp.pt Technical assistance: 808 506 506 E-mail: eficienciaenergetica@edp.pt SUPPLIERS INTITUTIONAL RELATIONS Rua Camilo Castelo Branco, 46 AND STAKEHOLDERS 1050-045 Lisboa Portugal DRIS – INSTITUTIONAL Tel: +351 21 001 53 00 Fax: +351 21 002 81 04 RELATIONS AND E-mail: srm@edp.pt STAKEHOLDERS DEPARTMENT Av. 24 de Julho, 12 HUMAN RESOURCES 1249-300 Lisboa Portugal Tel: +351 21 001 28 54 DRH HUMAN RESOURCES E-mail: stakeholders@edp.pt DEPARTMENT Tel: +351 21 002 25 89 Fax: +351 21 002 29 11 E-mail: rh_edp@edp.pt Printed on paper made with ECF Elementary Chlorine Free cellulose with ISO 9001, Environmental Management ISO 14001 and Forestry FSC® Certification. Paper from forests subjected to a responsible scientific reforestation process. PUBLICATION EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. Direcção de Marca Av. 24 de Julho, 12 1249-300 Lisboa CONCEPT BAR Bomtempo, Anahory, Ralha PAGINATION EDP Energias de Portugal, S.A. PRINTING Gráfica Maiadouro, S.A. PRINT RUN 180 units LEGAL DEPOSIT XXXXXXXX APRIL 2016
