Supporting the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Human rights abuses LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 2 What you’ll f ind in this booklet 4 5 About UK Mail Statement of continued support 6 8 Human Rights Labour Principle 1 and 2 Principle 3 to 6 12 17 Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 7 to 9 Principle 10 Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 3 About us and our services Originating in London in 1971, UK Mail Parcels quickly evolved into a national carrier Choosing the right delivery solution is of paramount and successful market player. In 2004 importance when sending a parcel. That’s why we we made postal history by being the offer an assorted and flexible range of economy and premium parcel services to cater for every delivery co-author of the first ever Downstream requirement. In addition to our nationwide service, Access agreement with Royal Mail, we also deliver by road to Europe and Worldwide by air. effectively ending its 370 year monopoly. Mail Today, we are one of the UK’s leading We offer a versatile range of service options for both integrated postal operators , delivering domestic and international mail. Mail is collected, one in every six letters in the UK and sorted, consolidated and tracked as it moves through handling almost three billion items our network until the point of handover to the local postman for final mile delivery. There is a Business every year. Class two day definite and Economy three day definite delivery option available UK-wide. Our unique Packets We offer mail, packet and parcel delivery product provides a cheaper alternative to Royal Mail’s services around the UK and Worldwide. second class service for non-urgent items weighing up to 2kg. UK Mail has over 4,500 people, 3,000 vehicles and over 50 depots across the imail UK as well as coverage across 34 European Our unique solution for creating, printing and posting countries. In 2015/16 we reported Group mail online enables users to enhance direct mail revenues of £481m. response rates, cut postal costs, enjoy increased ease of use and simultaneously reduce carbon emissions by some 80%. Courier & Logistics We offer cost-effective, tailored and time-critical solutions for urgent same day distribution 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 4 Statement of continued support For the past 45 years, UK Mail has consistently been run in accordance with a set of guiding principles that have allowed us to become the UK’s leading integrated postal services operator. The principles that have guided us replicate those 10 principles that form the basis of the United Nations Global Compact a network of global businesses that adhere to the common principles of respect for and support of fundamental human and labour rights something we were both proud and privileged to join in 2007. In support of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact we have implemented an overarching Human Rights policy that combines combating discrimination, corruption, wastage with those promoting equal opportunities, investment in employees and an employee voice in the direction of our business, as well as the opportunity to contribute to the ethical framework that influences our business decisions These guiding principles still inform and influence our business decisions today and as a result we are continuing to grow and expand. We are proud to unequivocally state our continuing support of the UN Global Compact and its noble ideals. Peter Kane Chairman, UK Mail Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 5 Principle 1 Businesses should support and Human respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Human rights abuses. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 6 Human rights Our Current Practices Our Suppliers UK Mail has always been committed to equality and We work closely with our suppliers to improve their fairness in all aspects of business. We have long environmental standards and we request details about standing policies that reflect the principles enshrined in their environmental practices and accreditation as part the Global Compact to promote equality of opportunity. of the supplier selection process. Our Supplier Code of Conduct defines our minimum standards of business At UK Mail, we have zero tolerance for prejudice, activity and shapes the way we work with our suppliers harassment or discrimination on the basis of race, for mutual gain. religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, socio-economic background or status as a parent. We continually work with suppliers to develop new Our equal opportunities policy is closely monitored products and in the re-engineering of existing products and statistics compiled to ensure that any negative to use more environmentally friendly materials and trends in terms of discriminating against a particular less finite materials such as paper and polymer. group of people can be identified quickly and remedial We are introducing degradable Bagits at a lower action taken. micron thickness which use about 10% less polymer. We use photocopiers which print double-sided, this To ensure we do not abuse human rights, we have a along with the introduction of a driver scanning system robust disciplinary procedure which seeks in the first which will mitigate the need for driver run sheets will instance to resolve potential disciplinary issues. Upon see the amount of copier paper reduce by some 10%. the need for formal escalation, it ensures that this process is conducted in a manner that is entirely fair, We also work with more UK based suppliers who appropriate and proportionate. produce our high volume products in the UK instead of other parts of the world, and this significantly reduces the transportation involved. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 7 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Labour Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 8 Labour At UK Mail, we feel that our people are our most Human Rights Policy valuable asset and we constantly strive to invest in UK Mail’s Dignity at Work policy states that any kind of and protect our employees. We are firmly opposed harassment, bullying, victimisation or discrimination is to any form of discrimination and support its unacceptable, and any such behaviour from employees elimination in all aspects of business life. UK Mail or third parties, regardless of the seniority of those allows its employees to join a trade union should involved, will not be tolerated or condoned. Our policy they wish to and seek representation from them defines bullying as an individual or group of people in a in any formal disciplinary or grievance procedure. position of strength, authority or responsibility, abusing As a UKbased business, we rigidly adhere to the their power by using intimidating, insulting or malicious requirements of the EU Working Time Directive and behaviour which may include persistent, unfounded do not coerce our employees into working above criticism, humiliation, intimidation, ridicule and/ or and beyond its stipulations. If employees actively personal abuse, social exclusion and the imposition of wish to work longer hours they are asked to sign unfair punishments. There is zero tolerance towards a declaration stating that it is their desire to do so. discrimination in any form – whether it be directly or We do not support child labour in any form, not just indirectly undertaken or discrimination by association from a legal obligation but from a firm ethical belief or perception. that such labour is immoral and exploitative. We define harassment as intimidating or offensive behaviours, including language, and does not need to The Employee Communication Group be intended in order to be present; it is not the intention UK Mail established the Employee Communication but the impact of the unwanted conduct that results in Group (ECG) in 2004 to act as a representative body for harassment. This includes unwanted physical, verbal the UK Mail workforce and an outlet for the articulation and non-verbal conduct. We regard victimisation as of employees’ voices. The committee of the ECG is being where an individual is treated badly as a result of drawn from the ranks of UK Mail employees by popular making or supporting a complaint or grievance relating election and frequently meets with the directors in to discriminatory behaviour. order to discuss the direction of the business and any prevailing issues at that time. Under UK Mail policy guidelines, all employees have a personal responsibility to create a working These will have been passed on by ECG environment that is free from discrimination, representatives, also elected by their peers, who are harassment, bullying and victimisation and to not tasked with taking note of any concerns so that they behave in a manner that could have a detrimental can be passed onto the committee. This ensures that impact on another’s ability, well-being and confidence not only are the concerns of the workforce given the to carry out their work. Any employee or manager highest level of attention but also from a director’s found to be breaching the company policy may be perspective, the ECG is able to provide all-important liable to disciplinary action. It is the duty of UK Mail line managers to ensure that this policy is implemented feedback on proposals from UK Mail’s most valuable and observed unequivocally at all times. asset – its people. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 9 Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy For us, inclusion is about ensuring everyone has an Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of equal opportunity to access UK Mail as an employer. fundamental human rights. It takes various forms, We aim to provide the opportunity for everyone to such as slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory gain meaningful work and treat every member of our labour and human trafficking, all of which have in diverse workforce exactly the same. We recognise common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by that diversity within our workforce will enhance the another in order to exploit them for personal or organisation and provide a broader spectrum of commercial gain. We have a zero-tolerance approach opinions, experiences, ability, educational background to modern slavery and we are committed to acting and knowledge which will ultimately benefit our ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings employees, the business and our customers. Catering and relationships and to implementing and enforcing for all our employees’ needs includes providing a effective systems and controls to ensure modern range of flexible working practices for those caring for slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own children or other dependants, as well as the enlistment business or in any of our supply chains. of on-site interpreters to deal with any communication or language issues that may arise amongst our nonWe are also committed to ensuring there is English speaking workforce. transparency in our own business and in our approach to tackling modern slavery throughout our supply Our commitment to diversity means that we chains, consistent with our disclosure obligations acknowledge people’s differences whether they are under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. We expect the visible or non-visible and attempt to promote the same high standards from all of our contractors, differences in a positive way. It means that our policies suppliers and other business partners, and as part and practices are fair, flexible, engaged and responsive of our contracting processes, we include specific to cultural, physical or social difference. In fact we prohibitions against the use of forced, compulsory are proud of our personnel retention rate and actively or trafficked labour, or anyone held in slavery or encourage our employees to maximise their potential. servitude, whether adults or children, and we expect We consistently promote from within with many of our that our suppliers will hold their own suppliers to the senior employees and managers originally starting same high standards. from the ground up. Grievance Procedure Maternity and Paternity benefits UK Mail operates a procedure that allows any At UK Mail, we recognise the importance of a employee in complete confidence to raise a grievance, work-life balance to benefit both our employees safe in the knowledge that it will be both thoroughly and the business, in terms of loyalty and retention. and impartially investigated and resolved discreetly. In view of this, we are committed to developing work practices and human resource policies supporting Equal Opportunities Policy this, with the provision of alternative working patterns UK Mail is committed to the principle of equality and that enable our employees to strike a balance between fairness of opportunity in employment as stated in the paid work and personal life. We offer a comprehensive Equality Act 2010 and fully supports the rights of all range of both maternity and paternity benefits for individuals to seek, obtain and take up employment those employees who already have, or are about to and to develop within their chosen career without start, a family, including financial assistance with fear of discrimination. Diversity is central to UK Mail’s childcare costs and flexible working arrangements, vision, ways of working and long-term business goals, such as working from another location to help with with our workforce being made up from a large number childcare provisions. of employees from differing backgrounds, ages, gender, abilities and disabilities, race and nationalities. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 10 Health & Safety Policy methods. A Health and Safety intranet site contains We fully embrace the legal and moral obligation to readily available information for managers on protect the health, safety and welfare of employees specific procedures and policies such as emergency and others who may be affected by our operations. response, safe systems, risk assessments, accident Robust policies have been developed to ensure investigations, limited quantities of dangerous goods training, risk assessment, safe systems of work and allowed and communications to promote health and accident investigation procedures are carried out safety and to prevent accidents from occurring in throughout the network. the workplace. The Group continues to ensure all the requirements of current and future employment and Health and Safety is discussed at Group Board Health and Safety legislation are met and managers meetings, utilising the monthly Health and Safety are kept up to date with changes in legislation. Last report, which outlines proactive and reactive measures year we opened our new National Hub in Coventry, for discussion and debate. A full Health, Safety and which included implementing an automated sorting Environment audit is carried out each year at all system which has reduced on site vehicle movements operating locations. The average score achieved in which can be a major cause of health and safety risks. the last year was 94.46%. This has been achieved through safety being integrated into the way we work, improved staff awareness and new working Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 11 Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 12 Corporate Responsibility The Environment environment and the Group is committed to reducing UK Mail recognises that it has a responsibility to this impact by the introduction of cost effective reduce its impact on the environment and seeks solutions and changes which result in real benefits to increase the environmental sustainability of its to the environment as a whole. Our key long term operations and those of its suppliers. Whilst we initiatives are to reduce the carbon footprint of our recognise that we have an important role to play in buildings and vehicles, by reducing our energy and delivering goods and mail in the UK, we are acutely fuel consumption, and to reduce the waste we send aware of the impact transport operations have on the for disposal. Our 2016/17 CR Targets We have chosen to drive our CR programme through four long term targets, focused on the year 2013. Our performance against those targets was as follows: Actual Change Variance 2012/13 Target Actual Actual Target against against (Base 2015/16 2015/16 2014/15 2016/17 2014/15 target Year) 1 (a) CO² emissions (tonnes) 49.74k 47.25k 48.71k 47.99k* +1.50% +3.09% 48.47k 1 (b) CO² emissions by item 0.375kg not set 0.289kg 0.280kg* +3.21% n/a 0.288kg 2. Land Diversion (%) 87.88% 95.00% 83.62% 96.40% -12.78% -11.38% 83.20% 3. Waste to landfill (tonnes) 340.15t 323.14t 395.41t 124.06t +218.72% +22.36% 393.43t 4. Total waste (tonnes) 2,806.49t 2,666.17t 2,417.88t 3,449.26t -29.90% -9.31% 2,405.79t 5. Water consumption (m3) 35,840m3 34,048m3 35,802m3 37,860m3 -5.44% +5.15% 35,623m3 6. HSE audit compliance (%) 95.25% 95.00% 94.46% 94.88% -0.42% -0.54% 95.00% 7. Workplace fatalities 0 0 0 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 8. Maintain ISO 14001 corporate site compliance (% of the 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% 41 corporate sites) 9. Staff Turnover (%) 20.17% 20.00% 27.51% 27.70% -0.19% +7.51% 20.00% Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 13 Targets and Achievements all of which can have a negative effect on miles We recently came to the end of our three year strategy per gallon (‘MPG’). which ran from 2013 to 2016. For the next strategy Close management of our telematics devices in all period our focus will remain on health and safety, of our heavy commercial vehicles has significantly reducing our CO2 emission, utilities, waste and our improved driving behaviour and fuel consumption per people. We continue to use 2012/13 as the key journey. We will continue to pro-actively manage our baseline to ensure continuous improvement. drivers to ensure we maximise the MPG by vehicle Since setting the original CO2 reduction targets and and route with the assistance of our in house Driver whilst UK Mail has worked to reduce its CO2 emissions, Assessor/Trainer. Our trial of in cab cameras within it is also experienced significant growth. We have the heavy commercial fleet has yielded some positive therefore introduced a normative metric to assist results in enabling us to monitor driving behaviour and in measuring and reflecting the true success of challenge under performance. our carbon reduction efforts (CO2 per item handled). We continue to use software in our parcel delivery For the 2012/13 period a baseline of 0.375kg per scanners which ensure our drivers take the optimum item was established. In the 2015/16 period, route between parcel collections and deliveries to we have recorded a measurement of 0.288kg per item. significantly reduce the miles driven. This means UK Mail’s normative performance is a carbon reduction of 23.2% from the baseline year. The move to automation during 2015/16 has resulted in a shift to loose loading across a number of our We have again set ourselves challenging emission sites, albeit a number of locations continue to load reduction targets for the next 3 years which we aim to and dispatch freight in the traditional manner using meet by a number of initiatives which includes a new containers. Nevertheless the switch has resulted in a consignment volume target. small reduction in vehicles and journeys. CO2 Emissions We will continue to explore vehicle and journey optimisation opportunities in order to further reduce • 2015/16 Achievement – 3.09% adverse to target vehicle number and journeys. • Next three years target 0.005% reduction per item The relocation to our automated hub has however, handled on 2015/16 significantly reduced the number of items of mobile work equipment (such as fork lift trucks) we operate, Fuel with approximately 100 items removed in total and UK Mail’s total carbon emissions were 48,714 returned to suppliers. tonnes. This is overwhelmingly made up of emissions Objective 2: To reduce the fuel consumption of our from fuel burn (43,135 tonnes). The calculation of vehicles through a review of the vehicle designs used these emissions is based on data from the Department and other effective means. of Environmental Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) Carbon Factors Repository 2015. UK Mail’s two key During the 2014/15 year we replaced a total of 88 objectives remain: tractor units with new Euro 6 tractor units which use the additive adblue to enhance engine output Objective 1: To reduce the distance travelled by our and the fuel economy of the vehicle. All of these vehicle fleet through effective route planning and vehicles comply with the latest diesel engine emission optimisation of vehicle fill. standards. Due to the size of this previous replacement programme no further tractor units were replaced We continue to use sophisticated route planning during the 2015/16 period. software to optimise the mileage travelled by our line haul fleet. During the year we did however, replace 37 semitrailers and 7 double deck trailers for new trailers with Telematics devices are fitted to allow our heavy improved aerodynamic features. We will continue commercial vehicles to provide information on a to review and re-engineer our vehicle and trailer specifications and designs to maximise MPG through number of key factors such as harsh braking, driving the use of aerodynamics and other innovations. outside the ‘green zone’, idling time and speed Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 14 Tyre husbandry remains a key method of ensuring UK Mail was one of 3,966 (out of an estimated 14,000) our tyres run to maximum performance. Lower organisations to notify the Environment Agency of rolling resistance tyres are being fitted as standard their compliance with the ESOS obligations by the 5th to increase fuel efficiency and we continue to work December 2015. closely with our approved supplier to ensure that all commercial vehicle tyres are checked on a regular Health, Safety and Environment (SHE) Compliance basis and maintained effectively. • 2015/16 Achievement – 94.46% Our average CO2 across our company cars has • 2017 Target 95% reduced to an average of 110g/km. Drivers are encouraged to make fewer business journeys The Group fully embraces and endorses the legal by replacing them with conference calls or video and moral obligation to protect the health, safety and conferencing which is available on desktop and laptop welfare of employees and others who may be affected computers as well as dedicated meeting rooms. by our operations. Our Driver Assessor/Trainer is tasked with Robust policies are deployed to ensure training, maximising MPG from our commercial vehicle risk assessment, safe systems of work and accident and company car drivers through identifying and investigations are carried out throughout the Company. challenging poor driving behaviours. Policies are updated on an on-going basis to ensure they reflect the changing environment in which we Energy operate. Health and safety is discussed at Group We have ‘smart’ energy meters in all of our sites. These Board meetings utilising our monthly health and meters provide regular ‘on line’ energy usage readings safety report, which outlines proactive and reactive for both gas and electricity throughout the day, every measures for discussion and debate. day. This information enables us to identify and reduce unusual energy usage, particularly during the periods A full Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) audit is when we are not operational. conducted at each operating location at least annually, with locations receiving a score and an improvement During previous years we have replaced lighting at plan on completion. Locations are challenged to a number of locations including our Birmingham, achieve a “Pass Mark” of 95% and those failing to do Manchester, Thames Valley, Leicester and Docklands so undertake a re-audit within 6 months to ensure that sites with more energy efficient lighting including improvement plan actions have been implemented. movement and light sensors which reduced our lighting energy consumption by around 14%. 2015/16 was a challenging year for the network, dealing with increased volumes, new working practices Our new National Hub and Head Offices at Ryton as a result of the shift towards loose loading and the have energy efficient lighting installed which associated issues those volumes created. incorporate automatic light level and movement detection and should have a positive impact on our A number of managerial changes also impacted energy consumption in relation to lighting at these on the implementation of controls and systems. key locations. As a result there was a slight decrease in the average score to 94.46%. We have continued to investigate ways of reducing energy consumption at various sites where we could The Health, Safety and Environmental Team has reduce our demand on the National Grid. During analysed the results of all audits to identify trends and 2015/16 we identified three such locations and work with the operations team to implement robust reduced the kVa demand by 449kVa from 580kVa to solutions to redress any issues identified. 131kVa. We will continue to investigate opportunities at other locations. Our health and safety intranet site hosts management information which includes specific procedures and The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations policies such as emergency response, safe operating 2014 have now taken effect and qualifying methods, risk assessments, accident investigation organistaions must undertake mandatory energy procedures and the carriage of dangerous goods, as assessments of energy use in their buildings, industrial well as communications to promote health and safety processes and transport to identify cost effective in the workplace. energy saving measures. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 15 ISO 14001 Compliance During the 2015/16 period we experienced a significant change to both our operations and waste • 2015/16 Achievement – Maintained Certification management procedures. The closure of UK Mail’s at all corporate sites 100% Birmingham and Nottingham sites generated a significant amount of waste materials, much of which • 2017 Target – Maintain Certification at all had been accumulated over years of occupation of corporate sites these sites. The switch to loose loading also generated an unexpectedly large volume of waste such as pallets ISO 14001 is the key certification standard and stretch wrap for recycling. for Environmental Management Systems. It sets rigorous demands for the continuous UK Mail continues to backhaul cardboard and stretch improvement of our environmental management wrap waste to regional sites for baling, in order to system provisions and is externally audited and make recycling more efficient. verified by an UKAS accredited certification body on a regular basis. We are pleased to report that we We continue to work with our waste contractor continue to hold ISO14001 certification across all of to manage waste more effectively and to identify our corporate sites. innovative methods for reducing waste and diverting waste from landfill. Waste Management: Water Consumption Landfill Diversion (waste which does not go to landfill but goes instead to • 2015/16 Achievement – 5.15% adverse to target a materials recycling facility, energy recovery facility or transfer stations for sortation prior to recycling) • 2016/17 Target – 35,623m³ • 2015/16 Achievement – decreased to 83.62% Water consumption across the business has increased against target despite a significant reduction in vehicle washing activities during the summer months and improved • 2016/17 Target – 95% water management at our new National Hub and Offices in Ryton. This location includes rain water Waste To Landfill harvesting systems for toilet flushing, timed taps in (waste which goes directly to landfill) the washrooms and a water recycling vehicle wash. • 2015/16 Achievement – 22.36% adverse to target It is suspected that the recorded increase is as a result of reliance on billing data and estimates of usage • 2016/17 Target – 393.43 tonnes rather than actual meter readings. We will be looking to address this. Total Waste (the volume of total waste generated) • 2015/16 Achievement – 9.31% adverse to target • 2016/17 Target – 2,405.79 tonnes Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 16 AntiPrinciple 10 Businesses should work against Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 17 Anti-Corruption Our policies Anti-Bribery • Training employees and instructing all third parties UK Mail is committed to adherence to the highest so that they can recognise and avoid exposure to legal and ethical standards and values its reputation bribery by themselves and others for ethical behaviour and financial integrity. This • Encouraging employees and third parties to be policy has been adopted by UK Mail’s Main Board and vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery via is available to all employees within the business to easily accessible channels of communication ensure commitment to it. The Board applies a zero tolerance to acts of bribery and corruption by any • Rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery employee or third party representative. Any breach of and assisting the police and other appropriate this policy will be regarded as a serious matter and is authorities in any resultant prosecution likely to result in disciplinary action. Bribery is defined as the accepting of gifts, money, hospitality or other • Taking firm and vigorous action against any favours in return for providing something of value to individual(s) involved in bribery. the briber. The purpose of this policy is to set out the rules that must be followed within UK Mail to ensure Ethics Policy that no bribery occurs. UK Mail’s ethics are always dictated by open and fair dealings based on mutual trust. Decisions made are UK Mail prohibits the offering, the giving, the for the good of the business and should be free of any solicitation or the acceptance of any bribe, whether material personal interest that could affect impartiality cash or other inducement to or from any person or or judgement. These ethical considerations pervade company by any individual employee, agent or other every aspect of UK Mail’s operations and have been person or body acting on UK Mail’s behalf, in order incorporated into a coherent policy to guide the to gain any commercial, contractual or personal decisions of UK Mail. advantage. Bribery exposure is minimised through: Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 18 Whistle Blowing Policy Periodic Fraud Audit It is UK Mail’s policy to support, protect and where A formal review of fraud controls takes place every possible preserve the anonymity of any of our six months and is focused on areas of the business employees that report apparently questionable activity, where people are exposed to the resources that may even if their fears subsequently prove to be unfounded. subsidise fraudulent activity. The results of this review Therefore, we have an anonymous and confidential are then reported to the PLC Board. The anti-bribery Crime Hotline that has been successfully utilised over policy’s effective implementation is monitored via the past seven years. The features of the hotline are: periodic audits involving questionnaires being sent to a random selection of customers asking them to • It is totally confidential, independent and anonymous confirm any gifts or hospitality that has been received. • Employees can phone anytime between Any employee who has failed to comply with the 09:00hrs – 17:00hrs policy will be subject to disciplinary action which could include dismissal for gross misconduct. • The call is free anywhere in the UK and is not traceable • They are not asked their name, address or telephone number • They may get a cash reward if their information results in an arrest or charge • Rewards are paid without ever revealing an employee’s identity to anyone • An employee does not have to go to court should a prosecution arise. • All calls made to the hotline are formally investigated and reported to the PLC Board on a monthly basis. Supporting the UN Global Compact / Communication of Progress 2016 19 UKM3299/07.16
