IMI plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Engineering GREAT the IMI WAY Good strategic progress IMI plc Inside this report IMI plc, the specialist engineering company, designs, manufactures and services highly engineered products that control the precise movement of fluids. Its innovative technologies, built around valves and actuators, enable vital processes to operate safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively. The Group works with industrial customers across a range of high growth sectors, including energy, transportation and infrastructure, all of which are benefiting from the impact of long-term global trends including climate change, urbanisation, resource scarcity and an ageing population. IMI employs over 12,000 people, has manufacturing facilities in more than 20 countries and operates a global service network. The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange. Further information is available at www.imiplc.com. Introduction 01-05 Strategic 06-35 Performance 36-43 Review* Review* 01 Highlights Our Chief Executive reviews 2015 and We take a look at our 2015 results, division outlines our strategy and the progress we by division. 02 Group overview are making. 04 Chairman’s statement 08 Chief Executive’s review 38 IMI Critical Engineering 12 Strategic growth priorities and enablers 40 IMI Precision Engineering 15 Business model 42 IMI Hydronic Engineering 16 Strategy in action 26 Corporate responsibility 30 Measurements and targets 32 Principal risks and uncertainties Corporate 44-71 Financial 72-156 See the report on Governance Statements the IMI plc website: We introduce our Board, and explain our governance structure and how it operates. Our financial statements for the year presented in a user-friendly format. www.imiplc.com 46 The Board 74 Introduction 48 Letter from the Chairman 76 Primary statements 49 Corporate Governance Report 84 Section 1 Basis of preparation 54 Audit Committee Report 85 Section 2 Results for the year 57 Nominations Committee Report 96 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 59 Directors’ Remuneration Report 103 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs 127 Section 5 Other notes 133 Directors’ Report 154 Five year summary 156 Shareholder and general information * The Strategic Report on pages 8 to 43 has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on their behalf by Mark Selway, Chief Executive, on 25 February 2016. IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 Front cover photo: IMI Divisional Employees Annual Report and Accounts 2015 1 Introduction Introduction Highlights “2015 was characterised by further implementation of our strategic plan, albeit against a difficult economic backdrop. We remain convinced that the opportunities to improve competitiveness and leverage the Group’s potential are significant and we will continue to invest in building strong operational foundations and improved customer offerings which will deliver future growth. In those respects, it has been a year of good progress.” Strategic Review Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Revenue Adjusted basic earnings per share • Further progress on strategic £1,557m 62.2p initiatives -5% -20% 1 • Given economic backdrop creditable 2000 80 results with revenues reducing 5% and adjusted EPS down 20% 1500 60 • Strong cash generation of £192m Performance Review 1000 40 up 25% 500 20 • Strong balance sheet with Net Debt of £1,686m £1,557m 78.0p 62.2p £237m equating to a Net Debt/EBITDA 2014 2015 2014 2015 ratio of 0.9x • Recommending a 2% increase in Profit before tax Segmental operating margin the full year dividend £218.7m -21% 15.4% -230bps • In 2015 15 new products launched by Hydronic Engineering with further 300 20 launches in Hydronic Engineering and Precision Engineering scheduled 200 15 for 2016 Corporate Governance 10 • Disposed of non-core businesses to 100 5 further increase focus on specialist £278.1m £218.7m 17.7% 15.4% flow control activities 2014 2015 2014 2015 Cash generation2 Total dividend for year £192m +25% 38.4p +2% 200 40 150 30 Financial Statements 100 20 50 10 £154m £192m 37.6p 38.4p 2014 2015 2014 2015 All figures are stated on a reported basis excluding the effect of items reported as exceptional in the income statement. For other statutory measures see Consolidated Income Statement on page 76. 1 O  n an organic basis, after adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, disposals and movements in exchange rates, see Section 2.1.1 on page 86. 2 C  ash generated from the operations after interest and tax as described in the commentary to the cash flow statement on page 83. 2 IMI plc Group overview Our purpose is to deliver great solutions that tackle the most demanding engineering challenges. We help some of the world’s biggest industrial companies operate their processes safely, cleanly, efficiently and cost effectively. We operate through three divisions – IMI Critical Engineering, IMI Precision Engineering and IMI Hydronic Engineering – and employ over 12,000 people in over 50 countries around the world. Revenue Revenue Revenue £631m £662m £264m % of Group revenue % of Group revenue % of Group revenue 41% 42% 17% Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit £93.1m £117.7m £51.8m Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 4,300 5,800 2,000 IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading IMI Precision Engineering specialises IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading provider of critical flow control solutions in developing motion and fluid control global supplier of hydronic distribution that enable vital energy and process technologies for applications where systems which deliver optimal and energy industries to operate safely, cleanly, precision, speed and reliability efficient heating and cooling systems to the reliably and more efficiently. are essential. residential and commercial building sectors. Key brands Key brands Key brands IMI Bopp & Reuther, IMI CCI, IMI Fluid Kinetics, IMI Norgren, IMI Buschjost, IMI FAS, IMI Flow Design, IMI Heimeier, IMI InterAtiva, IMI NH, IMI Orton, IMI Remosa, IMI Herion, IMI Maxseal IMI Pneumatex, IMI TA IMI SSF, IMI STI, IMI TH Jansen, IMI Truflo Marine, IMI Truflo Rona, IMI Z&J, IMI Zikesch Main markets Main markets Main markets Oil & Gas, Fossil Power, Nuclear Power, Commercial Vehicle, Energy, Food and Beverage, Water based heating and cooling systems Petrochemical, Iron & Steel, Desalination Industrial Automation, Life Sciences and Rail for commercial buildings, and temperature and Process Industries control for residential buildings Major operational locations Major operational locations Major operational locations Belgium, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Germany, Germany, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Switzerland, UK and USA Switzerland and USA Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA Find out more about IMI Critical Engineering Find out more about IMI Precision Engineering Find out more about IMI Hydronic Engineering Turn to page 38 Turn to page 40 Turn to page 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 3 Introduction Introduction IMI’s global footprint Europe Strategic Review North America Asia Performance Review South Key America Africa IMI Headquarters IMI Critical Engineering Australasia IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering This map illustrates locations with more than ten employees and includes manufacturing sites and sales offices Corporate Governance Group revenue by geography Revenue by division RoW 4% UK Western Europe IMI Critical 36% Engineering 6% 41% IMI Hydronic Engineering 17% Emerging North IMI Precision Markets America Engineering 33% 21% 42% Divisional revenue by geography Financial Statements IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering RoW Western Europe 5% UK 15% Western Europe RoW 5% RoW 43% 1% UK Western Europe 4% 2% 70% North UK Emerging America 7% Markets 22% 21% Emerging Markets North Emerging America North 53% Markets 28% America 18% 6% 4 IMI plc Chairman’s Statement “Significant opportunities” “This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and continues to be done will drive medium-term growth and long-term value for our shareholders.” “While the Group’s organic growth strategy provides good prospects for profitable expansion, our strong cash generation and balance sheet give us the full range of options to create growth through business development and acquisitions.” First impressions I was delighted to be appointed your Chairman in May last year. IMI is a terrific company with many strengths and I am particularly pleased to be taking on this role at such an exciting time. Following the appointment of Mark Selway as Chief Executive in 2014, the Group’s strategic direction was reset and refocused on delivering sustainable accelerated top and bottom line growth and long-term shareholder value. Since becoming Chairman last year, I have visited a number of our businesses including our world-class Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operations in the Czech Republic and have been able to spend time with many of our employees. Three things in particular have stood out. First, our people: they have world-class engineering skills and are committed and Lord Smith of Kelvin passionate about the products and technologies they are creating and the service Chairman they provide to customers. I have been particularly impressed with the high levels of employee engagement which are very evident throughout every area of the operation, whether it be continuous improvement driven from the shop floor or the Obeya rooms which are used to improve our project management within Critical Engineering. The culture and ambition for change was evident throughout. Secondly, the impact of our growth plan: our new strategic direction is well embedded in all our businesses and, while we are still in the early phases of our five year plan, thanks to the hard work of all employees around the Group, we are making progress and benefits are already starting to come through. It is also evident that, despite the challenging market environment, which Mark Selway explains in his review on page 8, the implementation of cost cutting initiatives and the acceleration of a number of operational improvements, our growth plan remains on track. And thirdly, the opportunity: a range of significant growth opportunities, both organic and acquisitive, exist for all our businesses. I am confident that IMI’s inherent strengths and the significant amount of work that has been done this year to ready our businesses for accelerated growth will enable us to fully exploit these opportunities. Board performance / corporate governance As a newly appointed Chairman of any complex international Group there are a great many activities with which I have needed to become familiar including a new Board, a new Executive team, new products, new markets and practices and procedures, which in many ways make up the DNA of the Group. It is pleasing to report that my early reviews of the key components of IMI have been favourable. There is a positive dynamic in the Boardroom where we have a diversity of skills which provide a good balance of support and challenge to our Executive team. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 5 Introduction Introduction The Executive clearly has a lot on its plate, not helped by Daniel Shook joined the Board as Finance Director designate the headwinds in many of its markets. With the addition of on 1 January 2015 and became Finance Director on 1 March Massimo Grassi who joined us in June to head up the Precision 2015, succeeding Douglas Hurt, who retired from the Board Engineering division, Mark now has his full complement of at the AGM. After serving as a non-executive director for nine Executives who are all committed to delivering our strategic years, Anita Frew also retired from the Board at the AGM and plan. I have completed a review of our succession planning Bob Stack succeeded her as senior independent director Strategic Review and Executive development plans and am comfortable that immediately following the AGM. Ross McInnes, who joined with proper execution we have a robustness from which to the Board as a non-executive director on 1 October 2014, build our future. took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2015 after Phil Bentley stepped down from the Board at the In terms of products and markets, I have spent time with the end of 2014. Board and management reviewing our five year strategic plan and I am impressed with what I have seen. The plan is ambitious More recently on 1 September 2015 we welcomed Isobel but I am a believer in ambitious goals and the Executive has Sharp to the Board as a non-executive director and a member been diligent in its review of its markets, competitors and the of the Audit Committee. Isobel has extensive accounting, audit opportunities which are available to us in the future. and corporate governance experience and having advised a number of FTSE boards during her career she has wide I have also had the opportunity to undertake reviews of our risk ranging business experience. management and internal control and governance framework including meeting with our independent auditor Ernst & Young Performance Review LLP (‘EY’). These reviews give me a great deal of confidence that Summary across the Group, the IMI Way, which sets out our values and This is an exciting time to be part of IMI. As we continue to how we do business, is well embedded. The new procedures deliver our strategic plan I believe that momentum will continue and structures, which are being introduced progressively, and to build and the benefits of all the work that has been and the addition of Francis Knowles, who joined IMI this year as continues to be done will drive accelerated growth and longDirector of Risk and Compliance, will further strengthen the term value for our shareholders. governance framework of the Group. Board changes I succeeded Roberto Quarta as Chairman at the close of the Annual General Meeting in May last year (‘AGM’). Roberto had been your Chairman since 2011 and during that time Corporate Governance he oversaw much change, as a result of which, IMI is well positioned for long-term growth. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his significant contribution and wish him well in the future. Financial Statements Board details Corporate Governance Turn to page 46 Turn to page 44 6 IMI plc Strategic review Our strategic plan is now being executed across the Group and I am pleased to report Chief Executive’s Review real progress and Mark Selway describes early progress momentum starting and continuing ambitions to build 08-11 Our business 12-24 Corporate 26-29 model responsibility Our business model is built around our We set out our approach to doing core strategic priorities of capitalising business responsibly and the on growth opportunities, operational importance of the IMI Way. Engineering excellence, investment in product development and targeted acquisitions. Key performance 30-31 Principal risks 32-35 GREAT the indicators Our business performance is measured through Group-wide targets and and uncertainties We have in place a well-established risk management structure and framework IMI Way improvement measures. which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate the business risks we face. Above Every person at IMI in every function is actively involved in improvement activities Right The implementation of lean uses industry recognised Kanban and Pull systems Introduction Group Overview Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8 IMI plc Chief Executive’s Review “A year of good strategic progress” Performance in 2015 “Despite tough conditions in many of our markets we made steady progress on a number of fronts. Our financial results, while lower than originally anticipated, were broadly in line with expectations, with substantial progress being made in the execution of the strategic plan we outlined in 2014.” Challenging environment Trading conditions in many of our geographies and markets were tough. In particular economic slowdowns in China and Brazil impacted both our Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions. Challenging trading conditions across industrial markets world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses. The Oil & Gas market continues to be impacted globally by the unprecedented slide in the oil price and while IMI is uniquely positioned in our exposure to liquid natural gas, the wider market downturn impacted the petrochemical order book in Critical Engineering and the upstream activities of both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering. The Group’s exposure to the heavy truck sector falls predominantly to Precision Engineering and 2015 represented a solid year of production in Europe and North America with the latter slowing from its peak in the final quarter of 2015. The Brazilian heavy truck market suffered terribly with close to half the volume when compared Mark Selway to 2014. Chief Executive In Hydronic Engineering, our most important European construction markets remained soft with Germany and the Nordic regions showing small declines in the year. The investments which the division has made in new products proved to be timely, growing our market share and offsetting all of the market decline in the year. Given these tough market conditions and the expectation that they will continue in the near term we are undertaking a number of cost cutting initiatives including closing smaller, low growth production facilities in Critical Engineering and downsizing our Brazilian footprint in Precision Engineering. We fully recognise that these difficult decisions affect our employees and the communities in which we operate. However they are necessary to keep our strategic plan on track and deliver long-term sustainable growth. We are also taking the opportunity to accelerate some of the improvement projects which were due for implementation during later phases of our growth plan, including the consolidation of Critical Engineering’s European footprint and closure of its nuclear operation in Canada. Mark Selway at the Critical Engineering conference and visiting our CCI operation in California Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 Introduction Strategic Review The cost cutting initiatives and acceleration of the European Strategy starting to deliver rationalisation projects will improve the short-term results of the Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering divisions As the Chairman has highlighted on page 4, our new strategic while underpinning the longer term prospects of the Group. plan is now embedded in all our businesses and across the Group we are seeing real progress and momentum starting to build. Results overview Despite experiencing tough conditions in many of our markets, Operational performance continues our financial results were broadly in line with expectations. Performance Review Group revenues on an organic basis decreased by 5% to improve due to tough conditions in many of our end markets. After Our operational performance continues to improve. This is acquisitions, disposals and adverse exchange rate movements, a fundamental part of our growth plan. As our businesses reported Group revenues were down 8% to £1,557m (2014: become more efficient we will better utilise our production £1,686m). Segmental operating profit of £239m (2014: facilities, reduce our working capital requirements and generate £298m) decreased by 15% on a like for like basis and reflected cost savings, all of which will enhance our competitiveness. the lower sales volumes and our investment in a range of growth initiatives. After the impact of adverse exchange rate We use a world renowned lean benchmarking assessment movements, reported segmental operating profit decreased by to track operational improvement in every IMI facility and the 20%. The Group’s operating margin was 15.4% (2014: 17.7%) first assessments took place back in June 2014. Since then, and reported earnings per share decreased by 20% to 62.2p significant progress has been made. Critical Engineering has (2014: 78.0p). Cash generation of £192m (2014: £154m) was improved its results from its first benchmark of 26% to 56% at particularly strong following working capital improvements the end of 2015, Precision Engineering has improved from 32% Corporate Governance across our businesses as a result of our lean implementation. to 59% while Hydronic Engineering made the most progress This resulted in Net Debt of £237m and a Net Debt to EBITDA from 37% to 72% in the same period. The goal for all of our ratio of 0.9x. facilities is to achieve world-class operational performance by 2018 and I am delighted to report that several of our plants, Reflecting continued confidence in the Group’s prospects the including Hydronic Engineering’s Polish operations, which Board is recommending that the final dividend be increased by scored 88% in the latest assessment, are well on track to 2% to 24.5p (2014: 24.0p). This makes a total dividend for the achieving that. year of 38.4p, an increase of 2% over last year’s 37.6p. The early benefits of these operational improvements are already showing through. All the Group’s facilities now have established continuous improvement programmes which are driving improvements in quality, productivity and responsiveness to customer demand. The lean journey is a never ending programme to eliminate waste in all of its forms Financial Statements and, while we remain at the early phase of implementation, I was pleased to see the benefits of working capital and inventory gains delivered in the year. Product lead times and machine set ups have also improved remarkably and these benefits, when tied to normal levels of factory loading will, without question, result in improved competitiveness and sustainable competitive advantage across all of our sectors and geographies. Mark Selway meeting with the Precision Engineering leadership in Singapore 10 IMI plc 1. 2. Our businesses are ready for Product development to drive organic accelerated growth growth is accelerating Much of 2015 and the early phases of our growth plan have To maintain our competitiveness and market-leading positions, been about strengthening our infrastructure and investing in we outlined in our strategy the need to develop our product systems and processes that allow us to operate globally in the portfolio and in particular create new products and technologies most efficient and effective way. I am pleased to report we have that are at the forefront of flow control technology and that offer also made much progress in this area. customers compelling solutions to the engineering challenges they face. Last year we began to progressively increase our R&D We have launched new ERP systems, which accurately and spend. In 2014 we spent around 3% of revenue on R&D and by efficiently manage data in all of our divisions. In May 2015, a 2017 we plan to have increased this to around 5% of revenue. new ERP system was launched in Critical Engineering’s Czech Republic and Austrian businesses and will be subsequently rolled In the past 24 months, Hydronic Engineering has developed and out in the division’s Japanese, Korean and Swedish businesses launched 29 new products which generated almost 10% of the during 2016. Precision Engineering has also launched a new ERP division’s total revenue last year. Of particular note is the Eclipse system which went live at Farmington in Connecticut and will be product, which provides the market with a new and dynamic rolled out across four other US sites next year and a new divisionlevel of control and has succeeded in substantially growing wide system is currently being rolled out in Hydronic Engineering. market shares even in these soft market conditions. The successful launch and roll out of these systems, on time, In Precision Engineering we have now completed our review to budget, and without disruption, is a significant achievement of the Industrial Automation market and its various subsectors. and a testament to the hard work of our employees around the This work, together with rigorous laboratory testing and teardown Group. We are progressively rolling out the tools to automatically of recognised market-leading products, has provided a clear collect, manage and distribute accurate and consistent information roadmap for the product pipeline needed to grow our position easily and efficiently. Repetitive, time consuming and sometimes in our selected sectors. erroneous manual data entry is fast becoming a thing of the past. Also in the important heavy Commercial Vehicle sector, the division Day-to-day tasks are performed more efficiently, project cycle has completed the development of a new proportionate valve, times have been reduced and data retrieval and reporting has the Phoenix valve. This provides faster response and assists our been made quicker and easier. In addition to these operational customers reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency. This valve benefits, financial improvements are also coming through. has already been adopted by a significant European customer with Access to accurate consistent data means we can better a good flow of revenue expected from 2019. manage and control operating costs. In particular, as we now In order to manage efficiently the volume of new products have better visibility across the entire production process, within Precision Engineering’s future pipeline, the division has management of our inventory has significantly improved leading developed a new and dynamic New Product Introduction to an impressive reduction in suppliers and slow moving process which includes advanced quality planning and many inventory during the year. Most importantly we are now better of the tools successfully used in both Hydronic Engineering equipped to monitor the profitability of each and every project. and Critical Engineering. We have also introduced systems to improve our project Within Critical Engineering, our already globally recognised management and quality procedures. A new visual project excellence in critical valve design has been enhanced with management system called Obeya is now up and running at competitor teardown and benchmarking processes and the Critical Engineering’s CCI businesses in the US, Korea and the introduction of our Obeya project management system, Czech Republic and a new quality system is now operating which helps reduce lead times and ensure timely and efficient across the whole of the Precision Engineering division. delivery of the entire production process in even the most technically difficult projects. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Introduction 3. 4. Strategic Review Business development In business development, the overarching priority in 2015 has been the integration of Bopp & Reuther which was acquired 1. D  aily ‘tool box’ talks and team at the start of the year. This acquisition allowed us to build and meetings now feature at all IMI facilities implement our new IMI acquisition and integration procedures, which will help deliver successful acquisitions in the future. 2. N  ew product and rapid While the markets for Bopp & Reuther have been similarly prototyping techniques impacted by the declines experienced in our other Critical Performance Review 3. C  ritical Engineering’s new Engineering businesses, the integration, while not without its world-class factory in Korea challenges, has proceeded well and created a platform for 4. T  he use of Total Productive accelerated synergy delivery in the years ahead. Maintenance helps productivity and reduces downtime While timing can never be certain, our business development activities in 2016 will continue to focus predominantly on value enhancing, strategically aligned bolt-ons for Critical Engineering and Hydronic Engineering, with larger scale opportunities remaining an ambition during the later years of our strategic plan. Our people As I have highlighted in 2015, we have made a great deal Corporate Governance of progress. While navigating challenging market conditions the Group has delivered results in line with expectations and continued to execute our growth agenda. All of these achievements are due to our employees and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for all of their hard work, their commitment and focus. Outlook Based on current market conditions, and on an organic constant currency basis, we expect first half revenues to reflect a similar percentage reduction to that experienced in the full year of 2015. Due to reduced sales volumes we expect first half margins to be around 250 basis points lower than the first half Financial Statements of 2015. The benefits of restructuring activities, combined with normal business phasing, are expected to result in improved revenues and margins in the second half of the year. 12 IMI plc Strategic growth priorities Our strategic plan, which was first presented to the market in the summer of 2014, outlined our objective to accelerate growth and focuses on the following key priorities: 1 2 3 4 Capitalising on Improving operational Increased investment Expand addressable significant organic performance in product markets through growth opportunities development targeted acquisitions We already operate in a The benefits of moving We are increasing our We plan to supplement our number of attractive endtowards and achieving best in investment in product organic growth opportunities markets and we intend to class operational performance development, a key enabler with targeted acquisitions focus on those that offer the are significant. As we improve of our growth plan, which is to capable of producing greatest potential in terms how our businesses operate build sustainable competitive returns in excess of the of delivering top and bottom we will better utilise capacity, advantage. Progressively we Group’s weighted average line growth. These endenhance our competitiveness, will increase R&D spend from cost of capital within three markets include those where reduce working capital and around 3% of revenue in 2014 years. Beyond our existing we already are, or have the generate cost savings by to 5% over the next few years. business portfolio, our potential to be, in a leading operating more efficiently. Our To ensure that we maximise review has identified the position, markets where we ambition is to progressively the benefits of this increased potential to double the can grow and where there self-fund our organic growth investment, we are improving Group’s addressable market are significant higher margin initiatives using the benefits our product development by making acquisitions in aftermarket opportunities. generated from our processes and systems and adjacent non-valve product Our current market positioning operational improvements. further detail is contained on markets. Further details of and the growth targets we Details about how we are pages 22 and 23. our acquisition strategy are have set are detailed on improving operational detailed on page 24. pages 16 and 17. performance are set out on pages 18 to 21. Strategic timeline 2014 2015 2016 Year 0: Year 1: Year 2: The hard work Increased Benefits starting begins investment to show Supported by value enhancing acquisitions Annual Report and Accounts 2015 13 Introduction Strategic enablers To deliver our strategic growth objectives while capitalising on the geographic and operational capabilities of the Group we have outlined the following key strategic enablers: Maintain financial Invest in Group-wide IT Work together as one discipline and infrastructure simplified IMI As we execute our strategy to deliver The programme to equip our businesses To harness the Group’s full potential accelerated growth, we will continue to with effective IT has begun with the first we remain determined to channel maintain financial discipline. Capital will sites either launched or on track to do so and maximise our scale to act as one Strategic Review be allocated to drive organic growth, across all three of the Group’s operating IMI. Establishing core processes has maintain a progressive dividend policy in divisions. This commitment, alongside provided a strong platform that underpins line with earnings and fund acquisitions. selective investment to upgrade or a framework for creating consistent Whilst retaining flexibility to develop replace our manufacturing facilities, and Group–wide standards and behaviours. IMI’s full potential, we will continue to our on-going initiatives, is a pre-requisite The global intranet, that all employees focus on maintaining an efficient balance to achieving our strategic goals. regardless of location, are able to access, sheet and, in the event of us having was established last year and enjoys IT implementations are being phased on cash in excess of the Group’s current substantial and growing usage as our a site by site basis to minimise risk and needs, we will return this excess capital businesses share best practice and deliver an optimal solution. Overall capital to shareholders. Through the life of our establish rigorous processes that improve spending is progressively increasing to five year plan we will work to maintain competitiveness and profitability. closer to two times depreciation where net debt to EBITDA of no more than it will remain for the first few years of In 2015, all Group businesses adopted a two times through the cycle. Performance Review the plan. standard IMI branding enabling a coherent go to market approach under a single IMI umbrella. Net debt to adjusted EBITDA 0.9 New image 0.6 0.3 2014 2015 Corporate Governance Financial discipline will support our strategy The Group’s core manufacturing operations Investments in IT, E-commerce and intranets for accelerated growth over the life of our have improved considerably in 2015 improve Group-wide communication five year plan 2017 2018 2019 Year 3: Year 4: Year 5: Financial Statements Nearly firing on Up to full Double all cylinders speed operating profits 14 IMI plc Business priorities For each of the divisions we initially developed and have now fine-tuned our five year plans to be closely aligned to the ambitions of the Group. These plans are now fully embedded within each division and are already beginning to deliver real progress. The key strategic priorities for each division are as follows: Focus and grow Fix, focus and grow Focus and grow • Capitalise on attractive growth in • Fix the basics in the next two years • Capitalise on attractive growth in existing markets > Simplify organisational structure existing markets > Our goal is 6-8% organic compound > Introduced standard costing > Our goal is >5% organic CAGR over average growth rate over five years five years • New ERP launched in Brazil and first • Invest to support growth markets USA site with the balance of USA • Increase new product development > New larger sites in Houston, Italy and underway and on track > 15 new products launched in 2015 Korea now complete > Double investment in new product >C ommenced the refurbishment of IMI Z&J • Grow emerging market local development over five years site in Germany manufacturing content > 15 new products planned for 2016 > Investing  in additional service locations > Address supply chain complexity to support aftermarket • Optimise organisational structure > Manufacture closer to end customers > Introduce core processes • Enhance systems and processes • Increase plant utilisation > Project underway to implement new > New product development divisional ERP system > Significantly improve operational > Project execution benchmarking and performance implementation of Obeya methodology • Acquisitions >E RP system launched in Czech Republic • Revitalise industrial automation > Potential bolt-on acquisitions in Europe and progressing well at IMI CCI and grow organically and larger targets in North America > New product development • Acquisitions to support growth > Our goal is growth in line with market in > Add strategically aligned bolt-ons years one and two and 6-8% organic such as Bopp & Reuther acquired in CAGR thereafter January 2015 > Extend into adjacent markets • Acquisitions >E xpand product portfolio semi-severe > Future opportunity for larger acquisitions and configured valves to accelerate growth Executive Committee* Mark Selway Daniel Shook Roy Twite Massimo Grassi Peter Spencer Paul Roberts Geoff Tranfield John O’Shea Chief Executive Finance Director Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Divisional Managing Group Business Group Human Group Legal Director From 1 March 2015* Director, IMI Critical Director, IMI Precision Director, IMI Hydronic Development Director Resources Director and Company Engineering Engineering Engineering Secretary *Douglas Hurt was the Finance Director and a member of the Executive Committee until 28 February 2015 Executive biographies www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/executive-committee Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Introduction IMI business model Our business model is built around our core strategic priorities of capitalising on growth opportunities, operational excellence, investment in product development and targeted acquisitions. Continuous investment in these areas will deliver improved, more innovative products and services to our customers and help us increase our competitive advantage. By meeting our customers’ needs and investing in our leading market positions, we are well placed to grow profitably to the benefit of all stakeholders including our shareholders. Engineering GREAT Strategic Review the IMI Way n itie s op p o rt u 2. I m w th pro gro Performance Review vi n go a n ic pe g or tive products and s r nt innova erv ice at ica lling st io n nif se oo al sig nd pe s rket a rfo Man ma g on ufa rm a ctu en l i s in rin os nce Goal g ch ur 1 . C a p it a Our ambition: Organisation • to become a world-class business and leader in our chosen sectors structure • to deliver sustainable accelerated Corporate Governance 4. Expand top and bottom line growth • to double the Group’s 2014 operating profits by 2019 How we e nt generate es l op m our revenue addr uri se rvi eve pt ce le Ca ng d sab Strategic td aft an erm ort uc growth p ma ark sup pr res, s et o od priorities et pportun r spa rk th ities fo in t ro ug en tm ht es Strategic arg in v ete ed d ac rea s enablers quisiti 3 . In c Financial Statements ons 16 IMI plc Strategy in action 1. Capitalising on significant organic growth opportunities The Group currently operates in attractive end-markets and to achieve our ambitions we must focus on those that offer the greatest potential in terms of delivering top and bottom line growth. Our priority is to capitalise on those end-markets where we already are, or have the potential to be, in a leading position – markets where we can grow and where there are significant higher margin aftermarket opportunities. Market and positioning Power Oil & Gas Petrochemical Actuation We are the world We supply anti-surge We design and We focus on the design • Almost £7bn addressable market leading supplier of valve and actuator manufacture integrated and production of engineered to order systems to the world’s flow control systems complete actuation • Attractive growth markets turbine bypass valves largest LNG compression for critical applications systems to operate • Leadership position in power for critical applications in facilities. Our systems in Fluid Catalytic industrial valves for and potential to achieve in other conventional and nuclear are capable of ultra-fast Cracking. We also supply the most demanding key sectors power plants – helping to response to maximise bespoke valves into the applications and • Barriers to entry provide excellent provide the safest, most LNG production ethylene, polypropylene processes in terms opportunity in high margin reliable and efficient while protecting and delayed coking of forces, speed aftermarket power generation. the compressor. production processes. and accuracy. 2015 Revenue: £259m 2015 Revenue: £185m 2015 Revenue: £98m 2015 Revenue: £32m In 2015, IMI Critical Engineering had £57m of other revenue. Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences We supply high We design and We offer a comprehensive We supply precision • £14bn addressable market performance products manufacture a range range of products which flow control solutions including valves, valve of cab chassis and deliver precision control used in medical devices, • Challenging competitive environment islands, proportional powertrain solutions in even the harshest diagnostic equipment • Best in class returns but falling and pressure monitoring which deliver fuel environments, including and biotech and analytical market shares controls and air efficiency, emissions stainless steel valves and instruments. Our products • Significant potential in Industrial preparation products, as reduction and faster regulators, nuclear class help to reduce the size Automation well as a comprehensive assembly times for valves and emergency of equipment, while > leading brand range of pneumatic the world’s leading shutdown controls. enhancing accuracy, actuators. commercial vehicle 2015 Revenue: £62m throughput and fluid > high margins from aftermarket 2015 Revenue: £392m manufacturers. control performance. 2015 Revenue: £158m 2015 Revenue: £50m Balancing & Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Our hydronic balancing We design and Reliable pressurisation is The single most • £2bn addressable market opportunity and control solutions manufacture thermostatic a basic requirement for important component • Low cyclicality due to resilience of enable buildings to keep control systems which a trouble-free operation in any hydronic system refurbishment markets comfort at the right level guarantee direct or of heating, cooling and is the water itself. When and lift HVAC efficiency automatic control of solar systems. Our compromised, the effects • Leadership position in core by up to 30%. Our radiators and underfloor robust range of pressure can be felt throughout the European markets expertise covers constant heating systems to maintenance systems system. Our dirt and air • Best in class returns and as from and variable flow and perfectly control individual with compressors or separators and pressure2015 growing market shares both static and room temperatures. pumps and expansion step degassers protect dynamic balancing. 2015 Revenue: £89m vessels maintains the right the installation by keeping 2015 Revenue: £135m pressure in the system water free of microat all times. bubbles and sludge. 2015 Revenue: £29m 2015 Revenue: £11m Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Introduction Strategic Review Market position Market position Market position Attractive higher growth markets with Attractive higher growth markets with Attractive higher growth markets with good competitive position. good competitive position. good competitive position. Goal Goal Goal Over the life of our five year strategic Significantly improving operational Our goal is to deliver compound organic plan our goal is for an average organic performance and driving organic growth growth in excess of 5% over the life of growth rate of around 6 to 8%. are our first priorities. As we focus on these our five year plan. priorities, during the first two years of our plan the goal is to grow at a rate in line with the market. Thereafter the goal is to grow at an average organic rate in the range of 6 to 8%. Performance Review Building our presence in attractive Capitalising on organic growth Increasing addressable market – markets that offer the greatest opportunities – identifying markets expanding product portfolio into potential for growth – expanding that offer best returns adjacent markets our presence in China In our Precision Engineering division and in line New product development is the cornerstone of In 2015, the IMI Board approved significant with our strategic plan, during 2015 we undertook Hydronic Engineering’s growth plan. In addition to investment to enhance Critical Engineering’s a significant amount of work to identify the markets developing next generation products to succeed footprint in mainland China, an attractive market that offer the greatest potential for growth. the division’s existing product portfolio a great with good long-term growth potential. With a deal of work was undertaken during the year to The Industrial Automation sector currently identify new product ranges that will complement greater presence in China, the division will be contributes more than half of the division’s able to manufacture more of its products locally and expand Hydronic Engineering’s existing revenues and operates across over 14 global endoffering and enable the division to access in a cost competitive way and be closer to its markets and a very large number of sub-regional existing key customers and a range of potential new growth markets. markets. To ensure that we properly harness the new customers. businesses’ potential, understanding the current In 2015, Hydronic Engineering began developing During the first quarter of 2015, the existing landscape it operates within is essential. a new actuator product known as Slider. Corporate Governance Critical Engineering manufacturing facility was Using the division’s new product development During the year we undertook a detailed review processes, Slider was developed, manufactured transferred from Shanghai to the Qingpu Industrial of Precision Engineering’s 56 businesses to build Zone, which is west of Shanghai’s city centre. and launched in just under twelve months. a comprehensive understanding of their markets, This new product, which is sold alongside the This facility has additional space and will be the customers, products and competitors. Equipped base for Critical Engineering’s Chinese business division’s valve products, provides accurate with an accurate picture of the current position and efficient control of heating systems. until early 2018 when all manufacturing will move we were then able to identify those markets into a new purpose built facility, which will also which have the greatest potential to deliver the To support the Slider launch, Hydronic be located in Qingpu. This new facility will cover best returns. Using this valuable information as Engineering created an innovative marketing 130,000 square feet and include a dedicated our baseline, we have now developed plans campaign. The first phase of this campaign, research and development capability. to accelerate the division’s growth including which targets the division’s own sales team detailed business specific plans for each region aiming to educate, motivate and excite them and product roadmaps that will underpin our about the project, was rolled out successfully sustainable competitive advantage. in the final quarter of 2015. Financial Statements Roy Twite, Divisional Managing Director and Jackie Hu, Precision Engineering’s industrial products will deliver Hydronic Engineering’s new actuator product which President, IMI China sign the commitment for IMI Critical new business opportunities in Rail launched in January 2015 Engineering’s new Shanghai facility 18 IMI plc Strategy in action 2. Improving operational performance The benefits of moving towards and achieving best in class operational performance are very significant. As we improve how our businesses operate we will better utilise capacity, enhance our competitiveness, reduce working capital and generate cost savings by operating more efficiently. By doing this, we will also improve services for our customers. Our ambition is to progressively self-fund our organic growth initiatives using the benefits generated from our operational improvements. We are on a self-help lean journey, underpinned by the engagement of management and employees at all levels as we believe this is the best way to sustain our achievements. The operational performance of every site in the Group is benchmarked every six months against the ten areas of lean and significant progress has already been achieved. A world-class operational performance score is 85% or more. At the time of the first benchmark, none of our facilities came close to achieving this, with the highest score being 57%. At the most recent review, the average score reached 59%, with Hydronic Engineering’s Polish plant achieving a world-class score of 88%. All of our businesses continue to implement detailed plans to achieve world-class performance by 2018. Fourth round assessment average lean scores by division IMI Critical Engineering Chart shows significant opportunity IMI Precision Engineering to improve competitiveness IMI Hydronic Engineering Cultural World-class > 85% Awareness Level Visual Management Production & Housekeeping The lean assessment score for every IMI site is available for all employees to view via the lean benchmarking application on the global intranet. Benchmarking identifies best practice within IMI and provides visibility of where Material Standardised Control Work to focus improvements and where to go for assistance to improve performance going forward. 2015 operational snapshot • Obeya room introduced in Total Productive Flexible Critical Engineering to accelerate Maintenance Operations project execution • Hydronic Engineering’s Polish plant first to achieve world-class audit scores Quick Continuous • Value engineering and competitor Changeover Improvement tear downs instituted across Error all divisions Proofing Lean assessments During the course of 2015, our sites have been the subject of semi-annual assessments as we closely monitor the progress being made with lean. Improvements to date have been encouraging with average Group scores rising from 31% at the first assessment to 59% at the latest review. Most gratifying has been the collaboration across sites and divisions to achieve that progress which itself is indicative of an important and promising shift in Group culture. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Introduction 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score (average 40%) 1H 2014 (average 56%) Site key: (average 56%) (average 26%) 1 IMI CCI Korea 13 IMI Z&J Germany 2 IMI CCI Brno 14 IMI Truflo Rona Strategic Review Belgium % score 3 IMI CCI RSM 80 15 IMI Truflo Marine 4 IMI STI 16 IMI SSF 70 5 IMI CCI Japan 17 IMI Bopp & 6 IMI InterAtiva Reuther 60 7 IMI CCI SriCity 50 8 IMI Fluid Kinetics 9 IMI CCI Sweden 40 10 IMI Remosa 30 11 IMI Critical Performance Review Engineering 20 Houston 12 IMI Orton 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Strengthening our operational capabilities – new project management tool increases operational agility and customer responsiveness During the year, Critical Engineering Using Obeya, bottlenecks in production Corporate Governance significantly enhanced its project can be easily identified, spare capacity management capabilities by introducing in the process flagged and likely delays a new tool called Obeya at many of its anticipated and, as a consequence, 17 sites around the world. Obeya, from avoided. As a result, stock levels and the Japanese word meaning ‘big room’, work in progress can be reduced and is a dedicated space within a production on time delivery improved. Furthermore facility which provides a detailed visual the comprehensive overview of the entire overview of the entire production process, that Obeya provides, enables process from customer order through the plant’s production process effectively to customer delivery. to be set to the customer’s timetable ensuring on time delivery and Every member of the team involved customer satisfaction. in the design, development and Financial Statements manufacture of one of Critical Engineering’s complex bespoke valves has access to Obeya and uses the tool to review and track not only their own area of responsibility but every stage of the entire production process. The Obeya room process provides real time information to better manage even the most complex projects 20 IMI plc 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score (average 46%) 1H 2014 (average 60%) Site key: (average 59%) (average 32%) 1 IMI Norgren Seattle 16 IMI Webber 2 IMI Norgren Brno 17 IMI Norgren % score Warehouse 3 IMI FAS Switzerland 80 Louisville 4 IMI Norgren 18 IMI Norgren Australia Farmington 70 5 IMI Norgren India 19 IMI Norgren Detroit 6 IMI Norgren China 20 IMI Norgren Kloehn 60 7 IMI Norgren 21 IMI Norgren Singapore Littleton 8 IMI EDC Warehouse 22 IMI Norgren 50 Alpen Brookville 9 IMI Watson Smith 23 IMI Norgren Brazil 40 10 IMI Thompson 24 IMI IMF Valves 25 IMI Norgren 11 IMI Buschjost 30 Denmark 12 IMI Norgren 26 IMI Herion Germany Fellbach Systemtechnik 20 13 IMI Norgren 27 IMI Norgren Germany Alpen Belgium 10 14 IMI Norgren Queretaro 15 IMI Norgren Fradley Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Building strong foundations for future growth – driving efficiency through simplification In line with our strategic plan, much of During 2015 excellent progress was our work in 2015 and during this year is made in rationalising the product portfolio. aimed at making a very fragmented and Approximately 295,000 products were complex business simpler to manage eliminated and the division is well on particularly in terms of structure and track to remove a further 50,000. day-to-day operations. Most importantly, this project has been delivered without any material impact A key part of this simplification process is on day-to-day business. rationalising our existing product portfolio to reduce waste and complexity, eliminate Building on the success of the Europe duplication and create space in the product rationalisation project, similar portfolio for new products. In 2015 we projects are now being implemented launched a project to significantly reduce across the division’s North American the number of products in Precision and Asian operations. Engineering’s European business. At the start of the project the European product portfolio included 450,000 products of which 13,500 represented 80% of sales. Many products were no longer sold to customers while others were sold in very small volumes. As a result, our portfolio contained a large number of redundant products driving unnecessary complexity Excellent progress is being made across Precision and heightened levels of inventory and Engineering sites to reduce complexity and combine working capital. assembly operations Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Introduction 2015 Year end 2014 Year end First assessment Year end target assessment score (average 59%) 1H 2014 (average 69%) Site key: (average 72%) (average 37%) 1 IMI Hydronic Poland 2 IMI Hydronic Slovenia Strategic Review % score 100 3 IMI Hydronic Sweden 90 4 IMI Hydronic Germany 80 5 IMI Hydronic Switzerland 6 IMI Hydronic North America 70 60 50 40 Performance Review 30 20 10 Site 1 2 3 4 5 6 Achieving operational excellence – becoming more efficient and more competitive Improving operational performance enabled a second production line to Corporate Governance will help our businesses improve their be installed without the need for any competitiveness and achieve their additional floor space. Inventory turns growth ambitions. Each of our 50 across the division have increased from facilities around the world are working four to nine and the installed capacity towards world-class operational is better utilised. Furthermore, customer performance and during the year responsiveness has improved significantly Hydronic Engineering’s Polish plant in with on time delivery now at 91% Olkusz, near Krakow was the first to compared with 82% 18 months ago. achieve this significant milestone. A continuous improvement culture is We assess operational performance now embedded throughout the Olkusz using the renowned lean benchmarking facility. While the team have secured system. When the Olkusz plant was first world-class operational status, Financial Statements assessed two years ago, it recorded a maintaining momentum and further score of 53%, which was considerably improving the plant’s operational below a world-class performance performance to increase the division’s score of 85% or more. A most recent competitiveness, remains an assessment of the Olkusz facility resulted on-going target. in a lean score of 88%, and the benefits are very evident. The plant’s original production line is now more efficient. It also operates on a smaller footprint freeing up additional capacity which has Employee involvement and daily ‘tool box’ talks improve communication 22 IMI plc Strategy in action 3. Increasing investment in new product development The development of rigorous and standardised processes in different functions is an initiative of fundamental importance at IMI, no more so than in New Product Development. At the beginning of 2015 we launched a new Group-wide advanced product quality planning (‘APQP’) process and a more standardised approach to the computer assisted design (‘CAD’) systems and procedures that we use across the Group. Advanced product quality planning (‘APQP’) The APQP manual is a guideline for project teams Engineering GREAT Solutions to ensure that the process On 1 January 2015, we launched a new Group-wide APQP process which, for of new product development the first time, provides a standardised stage gate structure for all new product and introduction is efficient development projects. The goal of APQP is to deliver projects on time, to the required and brings added value to the customer. quality, at the agreed cost and in the most efficient way possible. A crucial element of the process is the creation of a cross-functional team, including representatives from all necessary functions including sales, R&D, engineering, procurement, operations and finance. APQP timing plan Idea/ Programme Programme Confirmation Design Launch Launch Job 1 concept approval readiness prototype freeze readiness sign off Planning Product design and development Process design and development Product and process validation Production Feedback assessment and corrective actions Computer assisted design (‘CAD’) We are rationalising the number of CAD systems that we use as part of the new product development process. Going forward we will use two core systems which enable both 3D modelling and detailed two dimensional drawings. By harmonising the systems we will ensure consistency of approach across the product development process and also benefit from economies of scale by purchasing Group-wide solutions. IMI Critical Engineering, Korea IMI Precision Engineering, Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering, Poland Annual Report and Accounts 2015 23 Introduction Technical expertise and Driving organic growth through Driving organic growth – innovation delivers new product development – maintaining competitiveness and significant contracts responding to market potential market-leading positions through new product development During the year Critical Engineering won For the first time in eight years Precision eight separate contracts to supply valves Engineering is preparing to launch a new Capitalising on Hydronic Engineering’s and actuators for Yamal LNG project, Industrial Automation product range leading market positions across Europe, one of the largest industrial projects in the which will progressively come to market new product development is the Strategic Review Arctic. Yamal LNG is based in the estuary from the later part of 2016. cornerstone of the division’s growth plan. of the Ob River in Northern Siberia and Since 2014, 29 new products have been In 2015, building on the extensive work is ice bound for nine months of the developed and launched and today undertaken to assess the potential of year. Given this extremely challenging generate over 10% of the division’s revenue. the division’s Industrial Automation environment, the division’s valves business new product roadmaps One of these new products is Eclipse, were selected for a number of reasons were created. A number of Industrial the next generation automatic thermostatic including their ability to withstand Automation product concepts are now radiator valve that accurately and silently temperatures below -162 celsius. being developed using new processes controls room temperatures. Eclipse was and procedures, including competitor successfully launched in March 2015 product benchmarking which involves at the ISH Exhibition in Frankfurt, the the physical tear down of competitors’ world’s leading trade fair for innovative products to examine the differences building solutions. and identify product advancement Customer reaction to this new product Performance Review opportunities. Teams from Hydronic has been excellent. 500,000 valves were Engineering, who have introduced 29 sold in the first five months of the product’s new products to market in the past life, a dramatic improvement in demand two years, have worked closely with compared to the product that preceded the Precision Engineering product Eclipse, which sold only 100,000 units development teams, sharing best during its lifetime. In addition, a number practice and practical guidance of large European wholesalers have IMI Remosa, part of the Critical based on their own experiences. expressed interest in Eclipse and, as Engineering division, secured several a result, Hydronic Engineering has multi-million euro contracts to supply, developed a new sales strategy using fluidised catalytic cracking valves to a wholesalers as a distribution channel in refinery and petrochemical integrated those markets where the division currently development (‘RAPID’) in the Southern does not have a strong presence. This Corporate Governance Johor region of Malaysia. RAPID will new sales strategy came to fruition cover an area of 2,000 hectares and will in November 2015 when Hydronic include a refinery capable of producing Engineering entered into its first wholesale 300,000 barrels a day. The petrochemical contract with one of Europe’s largest complex, using the latest technologies distributors of building parts and materials. and adhering to the most stringent environmental regulations, will produce highly specialised products such as Following the successful roll-out polyethylene, polypropylene of the new product development and synthetic rubbers. process across Precision Engineering’s Industrial Automation business, similar processes will be initiated in the division’s Commercial Vehicle, Rail and Life Financial Statements Science businesses during 2016. Underpinning Eclipse’s success are a number of new product development procedures which have enabled this product to be developed and launched in eleven months, a process that would have previously taken around four years. Case studies on-line www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 24 IMI plc Strategy in action 4. Expanding our addressable markets through targeted acquisitions We will supplement our organic growth initiatives with targeted acquisitions, capable of producing returns in excess of the Group’s weighted average cost of capital within three years. Beyond our existing business portfolio, we have identified the potential to double the Group’s addressable market by making acquisitions in adjacent non-valve product markets. Criteria for such acquisitions include a focus on North American revenues, strong aftermarket dynamics and critical products that create significant barriers to entry. Our acquisition strategies for each of the divisions are as follows: We continue to target bolt-on acquisitions The growth opportunities within Precision Although the growth plan in our Hydronic to expand our product range and our Engineering remain significant. However, Engineering division is predominantly geographic footprint within our existing readying the business to maximise these organically focused, there is potential to markets and to extend our presence into opportunities was always going to take enhance the division through acquisition. adjacent attractive markets, particularly time. The first phase of our plan has Any addition would need to satisfy where there is an attractive aftermarket focused on simplifying the organisation, stringent criteria but there are business available. We will also consider implementing robust systems and opportunities including, in particular, expanding our product range to include improving operational performance. to build critical mass in the North semi-severe and configured opportunities Once the division is operating optimally American market. in each of our key sectors. In 2015 we we will look to supplement growth by acquired and successfully integrated targeting larger scale acquisitions. Bopp & Reuther (‘B&R’). Broadening the acquisition universe • Potential to double addressable market • Leverage existing positions in attractive end-markets • Non-valve related products and businesses Geographies Market dynamics Products • North America • Aftermarket >30% • Barriers to entry • Europe • Growth rate >5% pa • Criticality of application • Latin America • Customer intimacy • Predictable aftermarket • Asia Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements IMI CCI Control valves ready for customer witness testing at IMI Critical Engineering’s site in the Czech Republic 26 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our approach “Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business, a genuine leader in all the areas in which we operate. We will do this by harnessing our engineering heritage and building IMI into a truly great company one that thinks long-term, delivers profitable sustainable growth, invests in its future, is preferred by all stakeholders including employees, customers and investors and at all times conducts itself in an ethical and responsible manner. At the heart of building IMI into a truly great company is The IMI Way which sets out our values – excellence, innovation, integrity and collaboration – and embraces our commitment to continually improve through the sharing of best practice and the on-going collaboration and development of our people. It also addresses all aspects of the way we conduct our business and the high standards of ethics and integrity we expect of our employees, including the impact we have on the environment and the communities we operate in.” Mark Selway Chief Executive Health & Safety Through the year we continued to build on the already strong safety culture in the Group and The health and safety of our employees is in 2015 we delivered over 95,000 hours of paramount. We also have a duty to protect HS&E training in addition to the 300,000 hours those who work with us, including our delivered in the previous three years. customers, suppliers, contractors and visitors who may be affected by what we do and the Across the Group, our divisional HSE teams environment in which we operate. continued to focus on rigorous root-cause investigations of lost time accidents, including Our ambition is to achieve world-class health where appropriate safety alerts being issued and safety performance in all of our operations across the Group to highlight the incident, IMI employees are at the centre of our ambition to and in 2015 we made good progress towards identify the causal factors and instruct become world-class achieving this goal. During the year we mitigating actions to reduce the likelihood of significantly improved the predictive elements reoccurrence. This sharing of best practice of our safety programme. However this overall remains a fundamental component of our good performance was overshadowed to safety performance. some degree by the integration of Bopp & Reuther which resulted in a slight deterioration During the year we also improved our incident in the number of lost time accidents when reporting and communication tools to improve compared to the excellent results achieved sharing and escalation to senior management in 2014. in a more robust and real time way. Recognising the challenges of integrating newly acquired businesses into the IMI safety culture, we have taken action to improve our health and safety awareness and levels of management oversight across the entire Group. Dovetailing into our lean benchmarking and operational improvements initiative, we have introduced twice-yearly ‘Lean-HSE’ assessments for all manufacturing sites which have resulted in significant improvements in the elimination of hazards and the visual safety of our facilities. Specifically at Bopp & Reuther we are making excellent progress in our work with the local Bopp & Reuther team to ensure we bring their performance up to IMI standards. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Introduction The application of lean creates HSE discipline Visual management is a key component in A formalised approach to problem solving HSE improvements Environment Business integrity & ethics Community Strategic Review Our technologies continue to help our The IMI Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) sets We have a significant presence around the customers respond to a variety of global out the standards we expect everyone world and in addition to benefits from creating environmental challenges, including climate in the Group to comply with and covers jobs and investment we believe we should change, resource scarcity and urbanisation. those areas of good governance that we directly contribute through relevant charitable consider essential to operating an ethical and educational community programmes. In our day-to-day business operations, business with the highest levels of integrity. In addition to the Group charitable donations we remain committed to minimising the It includes workplace conduct, anti-bribery, policy, where we support a range of national environmental impact of our business anti-corruption and fair market competition. and international causes, some of our operations and continuously improving The Code was reviewed in 2014 to bring it business units have relationships with our energy efficiency. in line with the Group’s purpose and values charities that are local to their operating sites. The recent European Union Energy Efficiency and all employees participated in face-toface refresher training on the Code and the In 2015, Precision Engineering’s business Directive (‘EED’) included a requirement for UK at Vimercate, Italy identified that the local businesses to undertake independent energy importance of ethical behaviour at this year’s annual IMI Way Day. The Code was further school’s fencing was in urgent need of surveys in its major European operations. refurbishment. Small teams from all across the This initiative supports what IMI has been reinforced at the 2015 divisional and Group senior leadership conferences with case business – both senior and junior employees Performance Review doing voluntarily for a number of years and – repaired and painted the fencing over the provides a useful addition to our internal study workshops and specific policy training undertaken throughout the Group. course of a long, hard but very rewarding projects. The surveys were carried out at day. Their efforts attracted the appreciation representative sites from each of our divisions IMI has a long standing, well-developed of local residents and its newspaper, with a across several European countries and were whistleblowing policy that encourages recognition letter of thanks received from the coordinated centrally to maximise efficiency. employees to speak up when they see Mayor of Vimercate. We have reviewed all of the recommendations conduct that does not accord with the Code. Where normal channels may not be The IMI Hydronic team in Slovenia got stuck from the individual site surveys and in 2016 in to provide a fresh new look and much will roll out a programme of improvements to appropriate we provide an easily accessible, confidential and independently operated needed handicraft supplies for Ozara a leverage the benefits across all relevant IMI local organisation for the disabled. The team sites. Due to the surveys being carried out at reporting hotline in more than 20 languages which enables employees to raise issues worked on renovating the organisation a variety of sites in several countries, they will premises, where up to 30 disabled members provide a good cross section of opportunities. anonymously. A key foundation of the policy is that employees making reports through of the community have a workshop and make Our 2015 gross CO2e emissions have reduced any channel and in good faith should have no a variety of hand crafted products to sell. Corporate Governance by 2% to 61,250 tonnes compared with fear of retaliation. Our Ethics and Compliance Ozara provides the mentally and physically the previous year (2014: 62,500 tonnes). Committee meets monthly to review hotline handicapped with a meeting and creative There has been a slight deterioration in our reports and is chaired by Geoff Tranfield, space to re-integrate into the community. normalised total CO2e intensity metric from Group Human Resources Director. During The renovation of the premises provided a 37.4 tonnes per £million sales in 2014 to 2015, 97 cases were reported which was much needed facelift and a brighter working 39.5 in 2015. lower than the previous year (2014: 103 cases). environment – much to the delight of everyone there. In 2013 we targeted to reduce our emissions by We operate a supplier evaluation process 7.5% over a three year period, from the baseline which assesses our suppliers to provide A combined team of around 200 staff from set in 2012, both in terms of gross emissions assurance that they comply with the IMI headquarters and IMI Critical Engineering and emissions intensity. In 2015 we achieved provisions contained within the Code and Group, attended a project at Newlands this ambitious target. Overall, we have reduced and our Supply Chain Policy. Bishop Farm, a facility that helps young both gross CO2e emissions and normalised people and adults with mental health issues, CO2e emissions intensity by 13.7% and learning disabilities, brain injuries and physical 13.8% respectively. disabilities to learn work based skills in a real work environment. The IMI team spent an Financial Statements Our target for 2016 is to embed these afternoon helping to create a beach garden, efficiency gains and make our 2015 emissions develop an outdoor play space and decking the minimum baseline performance. In for their outdoor café along with general addition, we will look to make continuous maintenance such as painting and repairing improvements in all of our businesses as we different areas around the site. implement the improvements identified in our EED energy audits and share those learnings across our non-European sites. For further information please refer to page 134 of the Directors’ Report. Code on-line www.imiplc.com/corporate-responsibility 28 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our people Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director “The steady progress we made during the year on our strategic plan is primarily down to the hard work and dedication of our employees around the world. To ensure that this progress is maintained and to position IMI for accelerated sustainable growth, we recognise the need to continue to attract good people, strengthen our talent pipeline and ensure that we have the relevant skills and experiences to serve our customers well. We continue to focus on ensuring that we provide a working environment within which our people can develop, understand the contribution they make and be fully engaged.” Attracting good people and strengthening “I joined IMI in February 2009 and attended my first IMI Leadership our talent pipeline programme in 2010. This year During 2015 we launched a number of new and updated development I was one of the first people to programmes across the Group. participate in ‘Leading the Way to Engineering Great’ our new leadership Following a detailed review in 2014, which was undertaken by a diverse crossprogramme. This new programme, divisional team which took account of feedback from past and present recruits, which is more closely aligned to our we launched an updated graduate programme. The main changes were two-fold: growth plan, links our role and firstly the programme, which was previously focused on developing leadership objectives as leaders to the Group’s five and managerial skills, was realigned to support our strategy and, in particular, year strategy and there is a particular recruit and develop the best engineering talent capable of delivering new products focus on better understanding our and world-class customer service, both of which are key elements of our organic customers and markets. Working in growth plan. Secondly, to replace the former Group-wide single scheme and small groups, with excellent coaching increase our international mix and level of hiring, our three divisions have each support and the expectation of “teach developed their own programme tailored to meet their specific needs. In an back” to our teams, really helped increasingly competitive environment this bespoke approach ensures that our us embed our learning from the graduate recruits quickly gain a deep understanding of our customers, their needs programme back into our businesses and the markets in which they operate. Equipped with this in-depth knowledge and our day-to-day managerial roles.” and benefitting from at least one placement outside their home country, our graduates will be better able to contribute to their businesses from an early CM Merrimon President, stage in their career. IMI CCI Americas During the year we introduced a new leadership development programme which is also aligned to IMI’s strategy and its objective is to develop relevant skills and leadership capabilities to support the Group’s growth plan. Senior managers from around the Group participated in the inaugural programme which was launched “Seeing how passionate the senior in July 2015. executives are about the business was inspiring. I learned how important ‘Being a GREAT IMI Manager’, our new management and supervisory programme it is for me to communicate clearly was also launched in November and will be rolled out globally in 2016 to over and how to develop my team through 200 of our supervisors and managers. The programme’s objectives are to equip coaching and feedback.” managers and supervisors with the skills to manage their people and their part of the business. Qamar Hashmi Quality Manager, Watson Smith, Precision Engineering Graduate induction 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Introduction Serving our increasingly them against benefits available in Engaging effectively with our sector globally to ensure that our diverse customer base offering is in line with market best employees We are a global business. To ensure practice. Our audit revealed that we In response to employee requests for that we deliver competitive products operated a large number of varied improved communication, we have and solutions to our increasingly schemes around the world including further invested in our Group intranet diverse customer base we must over 84 pension plans, 90 car policies and to date we have had over four employ and retain people who have and 89 health plans. Administration million hits from employees who use the best relevant skills, experience of these arrangements absorbed a the tool on a daily basis to facilitate and ideas. We have a diverse Board significant amount of time and added collaboration with other parts of the in terms of gender and nationality and an unnecessary layer of complexity Group and share best practice. During in our businesses we always seek to in the day-to-day running of our the year each division also introduced appoint and promote local talent. HR operations. their own divisional intranet platforms Strategic Review to improve the flow of communication In 2014 we formally articulated our between the businesses in each approach to diversity through the division. In addition our newsletter introduction of a revised diversity and the IMI Eye, which covers news inclusion policy. In 2015 and following stories and updates about all our the introduction of the revised policy, businesses, is produced twice a year each of our divisions embedded in and is distributed to employees and their businesses specific and relevant stakeholders across and outside diversity objectives including setting the Group. recruitment targets for apprenticeships and graduate programmes. This Our new diversity policy and graduate recruitment plans Building on the work undertaken in will deliver benefits work is progressing well and already 2014 in relation to communicating IMI’s delivering results. By way of example values to all our employees, in 2015 During the year the number of schemes Performance Review in 2015, through our graduate we launched our IMI Way Behaviours programme, we hired 28 new recruits, have been reduced significantly. For which are below: a third of which are female, from example, the 500 bonus schemes 13 nationalities. that previously operated have been rationalised and now only 15 incentive Our mindset schemes exist across the whole of Operating more efficiently the Group, all of which are directly and transparently in our linked to IMI’s strategic growth plan. reward processes We have also standardised a number “Engineering GREAT together” of procedures, including annual pay Behaviours: Improving performance across all reviews, which are now harmonised, areas of our business by operating wherever practical, to take place on more efficiently is a key priority and a 1 January every year. driver of our growth plan. Running our Connect Corporate Governance HR, finance and other functions across As we have reduced the number of Deliver Lead schemes and simplified operating Learn the Group in an efficient way is as Improve important as operating our production procedures administration has facilities effectively. become easier and more efficient. Furthermore this rationalisation These core IMI Behaviours have been During 2015 we made good progress process will enable us to leverage communicated to all employees as towards simplifying and harmonising the purchasing power of the Group to part of the IMI Way Day (held in June the employee benefit schemes that achieve the most competitive pricing. 2015) and are embedded in all our operate across the Group. Working Already across the Group, through HR processes including performance with Mercer, a specialist consultancy the rationalisation and simplification management, recruitment, talent focused on employee rewards, we of pension plans, we have achieved development and reward. We continue undertook a detailed internal audit of savings and reduced our liability in to hold the IMI Way Day annually and to existing benefits and benchmarked this area. seek feedback from employees through Financial Statements this and local pulse survey data. 30 IMI plc Measurements and targets Business performance is measured through Group-wide targets and improvement measures. Each IMI business participates in an annual round of planning meetings with the Executive Committee, during which performance and future plans for that business are reviewed and updated. These business plans have all been aligned with the Group’s strategy. The Key Performance Indicators (‘KPIs’) set out below represent the financial and non-financial targets which are integral to the delivery of the new strategy. Organic revenue growth Segmental operating profit % Millions 6 400 5 4 3 300 2 1 1% 2% 0 -5% 200 -1 -2 -3 100 -4 -5 £321.6m £298.1m £239.4m -6 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Organic revenue growth excludes the In 2015, Group segmental operating impact of acquisitions, disposals and profit was £239m compared to £298m foreign exchange movements. The representing a reduction of 20% on a revenues from acquisitions are only reported basis. On an organic basis, included in the current year for the period after adjusting for the adverse impact during which the revenues were also of exchange rates and acquisitions and included in the prior period. In 2015, disposals, segmental operating profit the Group’s continuing businesses was lower by 15%. experienced a drop in organic revenue of 5%. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Introduction Strategic Review Health & Safety Lean score Return on capital employed Lost time accident rate Performance Review % % 0.3 100 20 0.25 75 15 0.2 0.15 50 10 0.1 Corporate Governance 25 5 0.05 0.13 0.11 0.14 31% 46% 59% 19.7% 18.3% 14.3% 2013 2014 2015 First Year end Year end 2013 2014 2015 assessment 2014 2015 The health and safety of all our During the year we continued to improve Return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) is employees remains paramount. We our operational performance and lean defined as segmental operating profit measure our progress in this area by scores toward world-class. Our semiafter tax divided by capital employed. tracking our >1 day lost time accident annual benchmarking process is now In 2015 ROCE was 14.3% which frequency rate (‘LTA rate’). In 2015, well embedded, and scores continue to compares to 18.3% in 2014 and reflects our LTA rate increased relative to 2014. reflect the improvement that has been the reduced operating profit impacted The inclusion of Bopp & Reuther from executed. Our highest score is now 88% by market headwinds. For the purposes Financial Statements January 2015 negatively impacted the and the average has increased from of the long-term incentive plan the result and we continue to work with the 31% when we first benchmarked the Bopp & Reuther local team to ensure business in 2014 to 59% in the Group uses the segmental operating we bring their performance up to fourth assessment. profit divided by operating assets which IMI standards. equate to 71% (2013), 58% (2014) and 46% (2015). 32 IMI plc Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the principal risks it is prepared to accept to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives. The Executive Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems. The Executive Committee operates alongside the Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations Committee, which has primary responsibility for succession risk, and the Remuneration Committee, which has primary responsibility for remuneration and incentive structure risk. In 2014 a new risk management process was piloted across Group risk profile and actions undertaken to ensure compliance the Group which for the first time required our principal business with the enhanced requirements of the UK Corporate Governance units to produce detailed risk profiles. Following the successful Code were submitted to the Board. The Board explicitly pilot exercise, Group-wide deployment of the new risk profile was considers the risks associated with the Group’s strategic completed in March 2015. Each site is now required to develop objectives and the risks involved in specific investment and maintain a current risk profile, which identifies the key risks decisions, including acquisitions and divestments. facing the business. Every risk is assessed, rated and appropriate Through these processes the significant risks facing the business mitigating procedures and, where necessary, improvement are identified, assessed and ranked according to their likelihood actions are developed. Specific key performance indicators and impact on the business and, following Executive review, the (‘KPIs’) are tracked for each risk and site management are Board is able to actively monitor the measures used to mitigate, required to review progress on a monthly basis. Site level risk transfer or avoid such risks. Risk appetite across the range of profiles are uploaded to the Group intranet every six months Group strategic objectives is also reviewed by the Board. and then consolidated into divisional risk registers and ultimately the Group risk register. During 2015 all required business units In addition to strategic, operational and compliance risks, completed and uploaded their risk profile, demonstrating strong the Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks process adherence and a high level of management commitment. including credit risk, liquidity risk, counter party risk, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. Each Divisional Managing Director reviewed and approved their A description of these risks and our centralised approach business unit risk profiles and as part of this review process to managing them is described in section 4.4 of the calibrated risk assessment across their division, assessed local financial statements. management mitigating procedures and tracked the status of improvement actions. Once complete, the most significant The key strategic and operational risks facing the Group are business unit level risks were consolidated into a summarised shown in the table on pages 33 to 35. This analysis includes divisional risk profile, including any additional divisional level a description of the risk and the potential impact for the Group, risks as appropriate. a summary of the mitigation actions, the risk movement and the main changes during 2015. The three divisional risk profiles were subsequently consolidated into a single Group risk profile and the divisional and consolidated Group risk profiles were presented at Executive Committee meetings in the second half of 2015. The senior leadership team reviewed the most pertinent risks facing the IMI Group. This review, the supporting risk profiles and a detailed analysis of the Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Introduction RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MACRO-ECONOMIC The Group operates in global markets and • Divisional management monitor key customers and respond quickly to INSTABILITY demand for our products is dependent on changes in customer demand. GLOBAL ECONOMIC OR a number of economic and sector-facing • Our core forecasting process utilises early indications of reduced demand POLITICAL INSTABILITY environments. A downturn in a regional and the operational output can be right sized appropriately. IMPACTING THE GROUP’S economy or a political event could impact ABILITY TO ACHIEVE • The Group operates in all main regional markets and our strategy is to end-market demand and result in reductions FORECAST AND MARKET ensure that we have a balanced portfolio of markets to ensure we are EXPECTATIONS in revenue and profit. not too dependent on any one region or market. Strategic Review • Enhanced stress testing and sensitivity analysis of business plans with RISK regular reviews of key market and sector metrics. MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING 2015 Economic and market conditions have become increasingly challenging with weakness in Brazil and slower growth in China coupled with lower activity in Oil & Gas and Nuclear Power generation. The Group continues to increase investment in new product development and improve operational performance to enhance competitiveness. To mitigate, where practical, the impact of current market weakness, Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering are reviewing a number of cost-reduction initiatives which will be introduced in 2016. MAJOR PROJECT The Group will undertake a number of major • Continued upgrade of resources to manage projects including the IMPLEMENTATION change projects in line with our strategic introduction of new Group-wide core processes. FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR objectives including: business reorganisations • Detailed plans with clear and measurable milestones reviewed by TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS and implementation of IT systems. Failure the Divisional Managing Directors to track progress. ON TIME AND ON BUDGET to deliver the desired objectives and failure • Regular review of major project progress by the Executive Committee. to react quickly enough to changing market • Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans Performance Review RISK conditions, could have an adverse financial impact on the Group. for all major change projects. MOVEMENT • Specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews of major IT projects. • Detailed contingency plans. CHANGES DURING 2015 The Group has a similar volume of major change projects compared to 2014, with the majority now relating to business re-organisations and IT system implementations. All significant projects receive substantial senior management oversight in the form of bi-weekly Executive project reviews to deliver the objectives which were approved at project initiation, to ensure they remain on track and are adequately resourced. PRODUCT QUALITY The Group prides itself on the innovative • Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced product quality QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO engineering solutions we provide our planning (‘APQP’) programme. PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, customers. The quality and safety of our • Continued focus on adherence to existing quality management systems, WARRANTY ISSUES, INJURY, products is of the highest importance including audits to appropriate quality standards. DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO and failure to deliver the quality required CUSTOMER’S BUSINESS • Testing of finished product and customer sign off on the most critical would result in negative financial and of products. Corporate Governance reputational impact. • Targeted lean events to improve quality and application of problem RISK MOVEMENT solving tools to address significant re-occurring quality issues per site. • Upgrade of talent and focus on functional excellence in quality and product development. • Processes to mitigate the reputational and legal implications of product failures. CHANGES DURING 2015 Customers continue to insist on more onerous contractual terms relating to product quality and performance. The Group has implemented a new APQP process across all manufacturing operations. Significant progress has been made embedding standard work and lean tools such a poka-yoke (quality system with the goal of achieving zero defects), which will reduce the likelihood of issues arising. Introduction of Obeya rooms in Critical Engineering and the addition of a global standard IMI Norgren quality system in Precision Engineering will add significantly to systems integrity and performance monitoring. ACQUISITION RISK An important part of our growth agenda is to • Resourced central M&A function working with our divisions to identify FAILURE TO INTEGRATE make acquisitions that complement or extend hard and soft synergies within targeted acquisition opportunities. Financial Statements ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY our product portfolio. Failure to implement the • Formalised acquisition approval, due diligence and post-acquisition AND DELIVER THE REQUIRED post integration strategy would reduce the integration processes. SYNERGIES value enhancing synergies. • Weekly review of the 100 day post-acquisition plan with the integration team to track progress, led by the Divisional Managing Director. RISK MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING 2015 The revised acquisition integration process introduced in 2014 which was used for the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther at the start of 2015 will ensure efficiency synergies are maximised. This revised and formalised process has improved the visibility and rigour of delivery of the planned synergies. 34 IMI plc Principal Risks and Uncertainties (cont’d) RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION SUPPLY CHAIN The Group has a significant number of • Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate FAILURE TO MANAGE contracts with a broad base of suppliers. the impact of a supplier failure or increased prices. THE SUPPLY CHAIN Failure to meet customers’ requirements in • Review of supply base to reduce over-reliance on key suppliers. respect of quality or delivery, could have a • Adequate safety stock and/or dual supply for critical components. material impact on the Group’s results. RISK • Supplier scorecard process to monitor performance, capability MOVEMENT and resilience. CHANGES DURING 2015 Continued collaboration across divisions to share knowledge of suppliers and use of standardised scorecards to monitor trends in key supplier performance. Introduction of value engineering programmes across divisions. Introduction of global agreements to leverage Group purchase and ensure all supplies are sourced from reputable suppliers under standard terms and pricing. CYBER SECURITY Unapproved access to IT systems resulting • Increased IT security resources and establishment of an IT security UNAUTHORISED ACCESS in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent steering group comprising representatives for all divisions and TO OUR IT SYSTEMS activity and theft of cash or data, business corporate offices. interruption and reputational damage. • Increased cyber security awareness training for all employees, particularly with regard to fraud. RISK MOVEMENT • Disaster recovery plans developed. • Increased monitoring of IT systems. CHANGES DURING 2015 The nature and number of security threats has increased during 2015 and the Group has responded with significant investments in sophisticated anti-virus and firewall preventative measures coupled with increased user awareness. In addition, following a wideranging review of the Group’s IT infrastructure and cyber security, the Group has agreed and funded a comprehensive Security Improvement Programme, which is currently being piloted in a number of business units before being rolled out across the Group. REGULATORY BREACH We have set ourselves very high standards • Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH in our approach to ethics and rejection of the IMI Way. LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF corruption in business. We need to ensure, •F  urther enhancement of the internal controls declaration process and OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS as we expand our operations to achieve our OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR continued rigorous financial audits by our Group Assurance team. desired growth, that we maintain these high standards. We face legislation around tax, •T  he annual IMI Way Day was held in June across the Group and included anti-bribery, fraud and competition law and face-to-face training for all employees. RISK need to ensure compliance to avoid financial MOVEMENT • Policies, manuals, training and guidelines are available to all employees under and reputational damage. the legal and compliance and financial sections of the IMI global intranet. •G  roup, division and specific territory resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance. •T  raining of employees focusing on how to apply the IMI Way in everyday situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption. •A  vailability and promotion of the whistle blowing policy and the confidential IMI hotline to report concerns. •G  roup standard operating procedures are available on the intranet and increased rigour around core legal and compliance processes. •E  nhanced third party agent due diligence and approval procedures, standard agency agreements and terminated non-compliant agents. CHANGES DURING 2015 Whilst the external regulatory environment is increasingly arduous, our process and procedures are more embedded throughout the business. During 2015 we significantly enhanced our due diligence and approval procedures for sales agents and have organised our legal and compliance resources under a divisional structure so that they are now an integral part of our operational management teams. COMPETITIVE MARKETS Increased volatility and slowdown in •R  eview of site capacity as part of the lean benchmarking process and to INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE major economies may result in increased obtain better utilisation and improved productivity. MARKETS LEADING TO competition, leading to loss of customers •R  igorous review of standard costings to ensure thorough understanding PRICING PRESSURES OR and/or pricing pressures leading to lost LOSS OF CUSTOMERS of product cost. sales and reduced profits. •M  onitoring of markets to ensure cost competitiveness and market shares RISK understood and managed. MOVEMENT •F  ormal market, competitor and peer reviews undertaken quarterly. CHANGES DURING 2015 Increased macro-economic pressures have increased competitive and pricing risks. Formal new product introduction procedures, improvements in operational capabilities, routine teardown testing and competitive benchmarking of competitor products have placed the Group in a better position to respond to these challenges. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Introduction RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Group’s strategy to double operating • Implementation of Group-wide standard for advanced APQP programme. LACK OF INNOVATION OR profit is underpinned by organic growth, • Five year technology roadmaps included in divisional strategies. DEVELOPMENT OF A PIPELINE which will be achieved in part by delivering OF NEW PRODUCTS a pipeline of innovative new products. • Continued investment in research and development, working with our key Failure to achieve this objective will impact account management teams to ensure we meet our customer needs. RISK our ability to grow. • Centres of design and technological excellence established in a number MOVEMENT of locations with dedicated teams to monitor progress. Strategic Review • New product introduction procedures in place. • Tracking of key performance metrics – level of sales from new products and level of research and development spend against sales. CHANGES DURING 2015 A new advanced product quality planning process was launched across the Group which had been developed and piloted in Hydronic Engineering. Fifteen new products in Hydronic Engineering generated £30m of sales in 2015. Five year regional plans including new product priorities were established for the industrial engineering sector and roadmaps were included as an integral component of divisional strategies. HEALTH, SAFETY & The Group recognises our duty of care to our • Application of lean manufacturing principles into an improved HSE ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS employees and other stakeholders. Whilst assessment and audit process including 5S (housekeeping methodology FAILURE OF HEALTH, SAFETY we have made great progress in recent years for manufacturing areas) and Gemba walks (management walks in AND ENVIRONMENTAL (HSE) we understand the impact on our employees manufacturing areas). CONTROLS RESULTING IN HARM and other stakeholders from the failure of this TO EMPLOYEES OR OTHER • Improved standard work processes, new lifting and slinging procedures Performance Review obligation and therefore consider this a key and improved planning around plant layout. STAKEHOLDERS risk. Failure of controls could result in injury, death and environmental damage with the • Global process in place to ensure that HSE matters are appropriately RISK consequential impact of reputational damage monitored and addressed and risks minimised including monthly reporting MOVEMENT and risk of regulator action. to, and review at the Executive Committee. • Group and divisional level HSE resource proactively manage and audit divisional HSE performance and provide guidance and support to site management. CHANGES DURING 2015 We measure progress by tracking lost time accidents (‘LTAs’), medical incidents and near misses. In 2015, the Group implemented an improved HSE audit process, incorporating similar methodology to our lean manufacturing benchmark and audit process. These reviews are undertaken more frequently and improve hazard detection across sites in different divisions and regions. Risk appetite Corporate Governance The Board has considered the Group’s risk appetite and it is deemed to be appropriate to pursuing and achieving our strategic objectives. Specific risk exposures and appetites vary according to the nature of the risk. Details on risk appetite are communicated to the Divisional Managing Directors and the Group’s Executive Committee to ensure that decision making and behaviours across the business are consistent with the guidance set by the Board. Improved risk management processes have meant that the identification and mitigation of risks are now well-embedded within the operating protocols across our businesses. Financial Statements 36 IMI plc Performance Precision Engineering review prototype tooling skills help accelerate new product launches IMI Critical Engineering Critical Engineering made significant progress towards achieving its strategic objectives in a tough market environment. 38 IMI Precision Engineering Precision Engineering advanced a number of strategic initiatives including rationalising the product portfolio, improving operational performance and implementing a new system of product development. 40 IMI Hydronic Engineering Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results and a number of new market-leading products despite a still challenging European environment. 42 Above Final testing of valve assemblies at IMI CCI Korea Right State of the art test technology in our Olkusz, Poland facility Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Annual Report and Accounts 2015 38 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Critical Engineering Revenue IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of flow control solutions that enable vital energy and process industries £631m Down 10%* to operate safely, cleanly, reliably and more efficiently. We operate a global service network with manufacturing facilities in 12 countries and employ Operating profit over 4,300 talented people across a range of disciplines, all committed to providing excellent service to our customers. £93.1m Down 24%* We design, manufacture and install customised, highly engineered solutions for new plant builds and also provide complete plant lifecycle service support. This ensures that our customers benefit from efficient maintenance, speedy issue resolution and plant optimisation at all times. * organic Our products are at the heart of complex energy and production processes. They control the flow Engineering of steam, gas and liquids in harsh environments – they are designed to withstand temperature, and pressure extremes, as well as intensely abrasive or corrosive cyclical operations. GREAT Solutions Our engineering expertise sets us apart. We combine technical knowledge, engineering design capability, application experience and innovative custom-designed products to deliver safe, reliable and durable solutions. Performance Full year order intake at £619m (2014: £686m) was down 13% on an organic basis (after adjusting for acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements). In the second half, order intake decreased 20% on an organic basis. The Oil & Gas sector, where we have a significant position in the LNG market, showed resilience with order intake decreasing by 3% in the year despite the drastic reduction in the oil price. LNG new construction orders played a key role in Oil & Gas, with orders up 23% in the year, more than offset by upstream orders down 25%. Due to the slower new order activity in China, Fossil Power orders were down 1% on the prior year. In the Petrochemical sector, orders were down 42% due to a combination of lower market activity in China, large one-off orders in 2014 and slippage of some large projects from 2015 into 2016. As anticipated, Nuclear orders were down 76% reflecting on-going weakness in the market post-Fukushima. Aftermarket orders were down 3% compared to 2014 with Oil & Gas being up 3%, more than offset by Fossil Power down 4% and the remaining segments down 6%. After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £26m and for acquisitions and disposals, revenues decreased 10% on an organic basis. Revenues of £631m (2014: £692m) were down 9% on a reported basis with IMI Bopp & Reuther contributing £46m of revenues in the year. Segmental operating profit of £93m (2014: £131m) declined by 29% on a reported basis and was 24% lower on an organic basis while margins decreased to 14.8% from 19.0% in 2014. This decline in profitability and margins was primarily due to the reduction in volumes. The division made good progress on a number of its growth initiatives including the division wide adoption of Obeya, a visual project management system, lean manufacturing and implementation of new ERP systems in two key sites. Oil & Gas Petrochemical Power – Fossil & Nuclear IMI Critical Engineering is the global market leader IMI Critical Engineering is the global leader in the design IMI Critical Engineering supplies the critical, customised in the supply of anti-surge valve and actuator and manufacture of integrated flow control systems for turbine by-pass valves to the world’s most efficient systems to the world’s largest LNG compression critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Cracking (FCC). power stations. Our valves control high pressure superfacilities, including Gorgon in Australia. Our systems We also supply bespoke valves into the ethylene and heated steam at temperatures up to 650°C, protecting operate below -160°C, with ultra-fast response to polypropylene production processes, as well as for the turbine and optimising power yield. Globally, we maximise liquid natural gas production while delayed coking at temperatures up to 1,600°C. have an installed base of over 100,000 valves and are protecting the compressor. a leader in the combined cycle gas sector. We also supply both products for new nuclear reactors and upgrades to existing facilities to improve safety levels. To date we have supplied products to over half the world’s reactor fleet. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39 “During the year IMI Critical Engineering made significant progress towards achieving its strategic Introduction objectives including the completion of a brand new world-class facility in Korea, the successful launch of a new ERP system, excellent progress in lean and project management, as well as sector leading performance in a tough market environment.” Roy Twite Divisional Managing Director IMI Bopp & Reuther Market review IMI Bopp & Reuther was acquired on 2 January 2015 and has been Conditions across much of the capital goods sector were particularly fully integrated into Critical Engineering with 97% of 400 integration difficult in 2015 resulting in Critical Engineering’s key markets being actions being completed by the year-end. Hard synergies are now more challenging than expected. The sharp decline in the oil price being delivered and actions have been taken to close the Swiss caused significant weakness in the Oil & Gas sector and post the and Canadian Nuclear businesses and transfer their operations 2011 Fukushima incident, investment continued to be depressed in Strategic Review to the IMI Bopp & Reuther manufacturing facility in Mannheim by the Nuclear sector. More generally the slowdown in China and the the end of 2016. cautious global capital spending environment impacted new order opportunities significantly. Key achievements In response, the division initiated a number of cost-cutting initiatives including the restructuring of its European and Canadian nuclear • IMI Bopp & Reuther successfully integrated in the year businesses which are now centred at IMI Bopp & Reuther’s • Completion of the new £8m manufacturing facility for IMI CCI in Mannheim facility in Germany and the transfer of IMI TH Jansen’s South Korea and commencement of a £5m refurbishment of the production facilities to IMI Z&J’s plant at Düren. IMI Z&J Germany manufacturing plant • Two new service centres opened in China and a new £9m China Outlook manufacturing localisation plan started Based on the current order book and market outlook, we expect • Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from 26% to 56% first half revenues and margins to reflect a similar percentage • Obeya project management process implemented in key reduction as experienced in the full year of 2015. Subject to order Performance Review manufacturing plants book timing, and including the benefits of restructuring actions, we anticipate a second half improvement in both revenues and • New process improvements embedded in each of the business margins when compared to the first half of the year. units including the 5 year strategic planning process, new risk profiling process and financial internal controls process • New divisional ERP system successfully launched in Austria and Czech Republic with a further four sites on track for go-live in 2016 • Won a number of new orders including new choke valves for the Kashagan project, new monitoring and isolating equipment to prevent fugitive emissions and aftermarket high temperature nozzles for de-superheating applications • Sale of non-core IMI Scott and IMI Z&J South Africa to remove complexity from the division Corporate Governance CASE STUDY Readying our businesses for accelerated growth – efficient systems and processes installed to strengthen operational infrastructure and enhance competitiveness Financial Statements During the year, a new ERP system, an integrated IT system that automatically manages multiple business processes and functions, was successfully installed on time and to budget at Critical Engineering’s Brno, Czech Republic facility. The new system embeds a common way of working, consistent processes and accurate data collection all of which make day-to-day operations more cost and time efficient and product and service offerings more competitive. Repetitive time consuming manual data entry is now a thing of the past. Day-to-day tasks are now performed more efficiently and effectively, project cycle times have been reduced and data retrieval has been made quicker and easier. Today, as a result of access to accurate consistent data, operating costs at the Brno facility can be better monitored and controlled and the profitability of every single project carefully managed. The team in Brno also now has better visibility across the entire production process which has resulted in improved inventory management and customer responsiveness. Following the successful Brno launch, the same ERP system will be rolled out across Critical Engineering’s eight other major facilities, starting with Japan and Sweden during the first quarter of 2016. As a result of this investment in a key part of the division’s infrastructure, Critical Engineering’s operational performance has been enhanced and the business is now better equipped to harness significant market opportunities in the coming years. Case studies on-line www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 40 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Precision Engineering Revenue IMI Precision Engineering is a world leader in motion and fluid control technologies wherever precision, speed and reliability £662m Down 3%* of process are essential. We deliver integrated solutions which improve the productivity and efficiency of customers’ equipment. Operating profit We operate sales and service networks in 75 countries and have manufacturing facilities £117.7m in the US, Germany, China, UK, Czech Republic, Mexico, India and Brazil. Product Down 14%* support is provided through global centres of technical excellence, and facilities for computational fluid dynamics design, research and development and testing. * organic We also employ a dedicated team of field engineers, sector specialists and key account managers – all committed to providing excellent service to customers. Engineering Performance GREAT Solutions After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £23m and for acquisitions and disposals, revenues of £662m (2014: £710m) decreased 3% on an organic basis and were down 7% on a reported basis. Industrial Automation revenues were down 5%, driven by lower market demand in North America and the Asia Pacific region. Commercial Vehicle sales decreased 1% in the year through a combination of 9% growth in Europe, a good first half performance in North America and significantly lower truck production in Brazil. Rail was up 17%, while Oil & Gas declined 10% and Life Sciences was up 1%. Segmental operating profit at £117.7m (2014: £138.5m) was 15% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £3m, 14% lower on an organic basis. Operating margins suffered from weaker market conditions in the second half (H1 2015: 18.6% v H2 2015: 16.9%) and in the full year operating margins of 17.8% were also lower reflecting an adverse sales mix and the increased investment to support long-term growth. The application of lean made terrific progress right across the division with significantly improved productivity, nearly 50% reduction in warranty costs, a 23% reduction in scrap costs and 7.5% lower inventory when compared to 2014. Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Oil & Gas Life Sciences Delivering benefits to global customers An extensive range of cab, chassis IMI Precision Engineering’s extensive IMI Precision Engineering has a – including auto in-plant, machine tools and powertrain solutions deliver range of products and expertise is proven track-record of supporting the and general industry – IMI Precision fuel efficiency, emissions reduction acknowledged widely throughout development of advances in medical Engineering’s high performance and faster assembly times for the the Oil & Gas industry. In addition to devices, diagnostic equipment and products include valves, valve islands, world’s leading commercial vehicle IMI’s customised solutions, Precision biotech and analytical instruments. proportional and pressure monitoring manufacturers. Acknowledged for their Engineering produce a comprehensive In particular, the division’s products controls and air preparation products, safe and reliable operation, Precision range of certified, world-class products and expertise have helped reduce the as well as a comprehensive selection Engineering’s products have been which deliver precision control in even size of equipment, while enhancing of pneumatic actuators – rodless, proven in the harshest environments the harshest environments, including accuracy, throughput and fluid control compact, roundline and rotary. and over millions of miles of reliable stainless steel valves and regulators, performance. The division is recognised These are quickly and easily selected service. We understand the market nuclear class valves and emergency for products which manage the precise and ordered via our Norgren Express trends, environmental challenges, shutdown controls. control, repeatability and safety needs activities globally and supported emissions standards and specifications of the industry. Our solutions are found with high quality technical advice. that matter to truck manufacturers and in equipment for anaesthetics and Tier 1 suppliers. patient therapy through to molecular diagnostics and pathogen detection. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 “During the year we made good progress on a number of strategic initiatives including rationalising Introduction the product portfolio in Europe, improving operational performance through the application of lean, addressing supply chain complexities and implementing a new system of new product development world-wide.” Massimo Grassi Divisional Managing Director The division focused on a number of strategic activities during Market Review the year including simplifying the organisational structure, The global industrial economic outlook for 2016 remains improving operational performance through the application mixed with leading indicators, including the Purchasing of lean manufacturing, upgrading IT systems, addressing Managers Index, weakening in the second half of 2015. supply chain complexities and increasing investment in While we expect the general industrial markets in Europe to new product development. Strategic Review remain broadly neutral, the US and Asian markets will remain Our review of the Industrial Automation market confirmed that challenging, particularly in China. In the truck sector we expect we have excellent market positions, with a valuable installed the European market to remain stable while North America base and access to a high margin aftermarket. We are now class 8 volumes are expected to be lower in the year ahead. developing detailed product roadmaps in each of the key geographies which will underpin our plans for growth. Outlook Based on current market conditions, we expect first half Key Achievements revenues to reflect a similar percentage reduction to • New Divisional Managing Director, Massimo Grassi, appointed the second half of 2015. Margins in the first half will be with effect from 1 June 2015 comparable to second half of 2015. While markets remain uncertain the benefits of restructuring activities in Brazil and • Successful adoption of lean with scores improving from a the actions taken to lower our costs are expected to deliver year 1 assessment of 32% to 59% at year end 2015 improved margins in the second half of the year. Performance Review • Division-wide adoption of new product introduction process, reducing lead time and improved ‘job 1 readiness’ • New divisional ERP system launched successfully in Brazil and Farmington, Connecticut • New division-wide quality system implemented across all IMI Norgren global sites • Parts rationalisation completed in Europe, reducing 450,000 SKUs by 295,000 in the year Corporate Governance CASE STUDY Implementing a robust New Product Development and quality system to deliver competitive advantage – helps secure new contract win During the year Precision Engineering won a new contract to supply patent protected Phoenix valves to Kongsberg Automotive, the Norwegian based company that provides world-class products to the global vehicle industry. The Phoenix valve plays a key part in managing the engine and transmission systems of large commercial trucks, in particular their clutch control mechanisms, ensuring that the trucks run efficiently and avoid off-road time which is very costly for the truck operators. Financial Statements The Phoenix valve was designed in Precision Engineering’s Fellbach facility in Germany and is manufactured in the Czech Republic at the division’s Brno plant. In the past 18 months both plants have significantly improved their operational performance and this was a key factor in the successful development and commercialisation of the Phoenix valve. In particular, a new robust product development process, that now operates across the whole of the Precision Engineering division, guarantees the quality of the product through every stage of its development ensuring that each valve (one of which will be produced every five seconds) is delivered on time, to specification and to cost. As a result quality issues, late delivery and costly overruns have been eliminated. Case studies on-line www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 42 IMI plc Operational Review IMI Hydronic Engineering Revenue IMI Hydronic Engineering is the leading global provider and recognised expert in hydronic distribution systems and room £264m Up 2%* temperature control, with experience in more than 100,000 construction projects world-wide. Operating profit We help clients optimise their heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems £51.8m by providing products and knowledge to deliver perfect indoor climate at minimum Down 1%* energy use and at the right energy cost. Our team of just under 2,000 people operate around the world, and we have design * organic and manufacturing facilities in six countries. Performance Engineering After adjusting for the impact of adverse exchange rate movements of £23m and GREAT Solutions disposals of £2m, revenues were 2% higher on an organic basis. Revenues on a reported basis of £264m (2014: £284m) were down 7%. The strong growth in the second half of the year was driven by sales of new products and the absence of adverse weather conditions experienced in the prior year. Segmental operating profit at £52m (2014: £57m) was 9% lower on a reported basis and, after adjusting for £4m of exchange rate impact, 1% lower on an organic basis. Operating margins showed their normal second half seasonal improvement to 21.2% (2014: 21.4%), full year margins at 19.6% were slightly lower compared to last year (2014: 20.0%). During the year we continued to invest in new product development and successfully launched 15 new products, which delivered annualised revenues of around £30m. A good pipeline of exciting launches is scheduled for 2016, which will underpin our growth ambitions for the division. Good progress was also made on other strategic initiatives, including a further implementation of the lean principles in our factories and of the new ERP system in the division. The full implementation of lean, including Kanban and Pull Systems, resulted in base load inventory reductions of 18% while on-time delivery rose to 92%. These improvements were delivered despite the impact of 15 great new products which required their own additions to inventory and operational complexity in the year. Balancing and Control Thermostatic Control Pressurisation Water Quality Hydronic balancing is about controlling With an unparalleled history of success Changes in temperature result in Our wide range of separators and water flow, which ensures that a waterowing to our dedication to precision changing water volume, which have degassers protect the installation based heating or cooling system and control, IMI Hydronic Engineering’s to be dealt with immediately to avoid and maintain system performance by performs to its full potential. Today thermostatic control systems guarantee damage and system breakdown. Our keeping water free of micro-bubbles and unbalanced systems are the cause of reliability in room temperature reliable pressure control systems with sludge in heating, solar and chilled water two thirds of all indoor climate problems. control. All our thermostatic control compressors or pumps, together with systems. Our latest cyclonic technology As the balancing experts, IMI Hydronic bodies and housings are made from our robust range of static expansion has been proven to be up to nine times Engineering enable customers to gunmetal. Resistant to corrosion and vessels and water make-up devices, more efficient at removing dirt from HVAC maintain comfort at the right level and dezincification, this tough material is make sure there is the right amount systems ensuring a longer life of the increase HVAC efficiency by up to 30%. shaped using our own casting process. of water, at the right pressure in the installation, lower maintenance costs Our expertise covers all types of The result is unmatched temperature system at all times. as well as lower energy costs. hydronic systems – constant flow control and thermostatic valve quality. and variable flow, static balancing and dynamic balancing. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 “IMI Hydronic Engineering delivered positive results in 2015 in a still challenging European environment. Introduction We continued to strengthen our business, launched a number of great new products and introduced operational improvements. All of these initiatives resulted in positive sales development in 2015 and will drive significant future growth.” Peter Spencer Divisional Managing Director Key achievements Outlook • Delivered 2% organic sales growth In 2016 European construction markets are forecast to • Launched 15 new products including Eclipse, a revolutionary remain broadly flat, however, the success of our new product thermostatic radiator valve based on our patented launches is expected to result in good revenue growth in AFC technology 2016. Operating margins are expected to show their normal Strategic Review second half improvement and reflect the on-going investment • Good progress on lean implementation resulting in for longer term growth. an improved lean assessment score of 72%, an 18% reduction in inventory levels and over 92% on time deliveries • Hydronic Engineering’s Polish site first in IMI to achieve worldclass lean ranking with score of 88% Market review Governments and international bodies continue to launch initiatives to significantly increase energy efficiency, such as the European Union’s plan for nearly-zero energy buildings by 2020; the agreement by the US and China to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency Performance Review over the next 20 years; and the United Nations’ plan to double the rate of improvement in energy efficiency by 2030. The trend towards a more sustainable and energy efficient world will be a key driver for IMI Hydronic Engineering. While building construction in our core European markets has remained weak in 2015, the global ambition to improve energy efficiency will continue to drive demand for the division’s new and world leading products. Corporate Governance CASE STUDY Capitalising on new product development – winning new contracts Eclipse, the next generation automatic thermostatic radiator valve product developed and launched by Hydronic Engineering in just eleven months, has enabled the division to win a number of significant new contracts. In July 2015, following an introduction to Eclipse during the ISH Exhibition Launch in Frankfurt in March of that year, Vivawest Wohnen GmbH (‘Vivawest Wohnen’), one of the largest housing associations in Germany, which owns and manages over 120,000 residential properties, entered into its first contract with Hydronic Engineering. The contract covers the supply of Eclipse valves for installation into 369 flats at its Neue Stadtgärten housing estate in Recklinghausen all of which are being renovated. As the Eclipse product automatically balances the heating Financial Statements system and does not require complex calculations to be undertaken, both time and costs are saved during the installation process, which in the case of Neue Stadtgärten totalled €65,000. Hydronic Engineering is currently in discussions with Vivawest Wohnen to supply Eclipse to a number of other renovation projects it is planning to undertake. Case studies on-line www.imiplc.com/media/imi-in-action 44 IMI plc Corporate Hydronic Governance Engineering’s new Slider actuator prototypes are Corporate Governance Report built in an all new The Company Secretary, John O’Shea, reports design lean cell on corporate governance and the main activities of the Board. 49-53 The Board 46-47 Audit 54-56 Committee Report Our business is governed by the Board Ross McInnes, Chairman of the Committee, of directors. Biographical details of the reports on the oversight role and other directors can be found here. activities of the Audit Committee. Nominations 57-58 Remuneration 59-71 Committee Report Report Lord Smith, Chairman of the Committee, Bob Stack, Chairman of the Committee, outlines the Committee’s work on Board gives a full and transparent picture of appointments and succession and other executive director remuneration. activities of the Nominations Committee. Above Daily factory performance reviews are a key part of the rhythm of all IMI facilities Right Three IMI CCI Korea employees use the new Obeya Project Management room to deliver exceptional on time deliveries to customers Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 45 Engineering Annual Report and Accounts 2015 GREAT the IMI Way 46 IMI plc Board of Directors Lord Smith of Kelvin Mark Selway Roy Twite Daniel Shook Bob Stack Chairman Chief Executive Executive Director Finance Director Senior independent non-executive director Nationality British Australian British American British American Committee membership Nominations Committee – Chair Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee – Chair Date of appointment 2015 2013 2007 2015 2008 Expertise Significant UK and international Experienced and proven Proven operational and 20 years financial management Experienced non-executive board experience Chief Executive engineering expertise experience director at public company level Extensive knowledge of both Solid track record running Management capability having Extensive knowledge of complex Significant international engineering and manufacturing international engineering run all of IMI’s divisions process manufacturing across business experience Strong track record in private businesses Extensive knowledge of enda range of industrial sectors Specialist capability in human equity, mergers and acquisitions In-depth knowledge of relevant markets and customer base Strong international resources, organisation change Specialist capability in finance end-markets including oil & gas, perspective, having worked in and corporate affairs energy and automotive a number of key geographies during his time with two leading global businesses Key external appointments Non-executive Chairman of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Alliance Trust plc Halma plc the Earthwatch Institute Non-executive Chairman of the UK Non-executive director of Green Investment Bank plc Signet Jewellers Limited Board experience International business responsibility 90% Engineering 70% Public company board 70% Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 Introduction Carl-Peter Forster Birgit Nørgaard Ross McInnes Isobel Sharp Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Nationality Strategic Review German Danish French Australian British Committee membership Audit Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee – Chair Audit Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Date of appointment Performance Review 2012 2012 2014 2015 Expertise Experienced international Experienced non-executive Considerable financial expertise Considerable accounting, audit, business leader Held senior executive positions Significant knowledge and governance and transactions In-depth knowledge of the in engineering consultancy experience of working in large experience including time as automotive sector international companies that the Senior Technical Partner at Wide ranging sectoral operate in global markets Deloitte in London, President Expert in operational excellence experience including energy, of the Institute of Chartered and lean manufacturing water, infrastructure and Accountants of Scotland Significant experience in building industries and membership of the UK technology management Experience in strategy as well Accounting Standards Board as finance and accounting and the Financial Review Panel Key external appointments Corporate Governance Non-executive director of Geely Non-executive director of Non-executive Chairman of Non-executive director of the Automobile Holdings, Hong Kong DSV A/S Safran SA UK Green Investment Bank plc Chairman of London Non-executive director of WSP Non-executive director Non-executive director and Taxi Company Global Inc. and Chairman of and Chairman of the Audit Audit Committee Chair of Non-executive director of Volvo the Governance, Ethics and Committee at Faurecia SA Winton Capital Group Limited Cars Corporation, Gothenburg, Compliance Committee Non-executive director Honorary Professor at Sweden Non-executive director of and Chairman of the Audit Edinburgh University Non-executive director of Cobham plc Committee at Eutelsat Business School Rexam plc Communications SA Finance 70% Regulatory & legal 60% Financial Statements Mergers & acquisitions 80% Find out more about the Board on-line www.imiplc.com/about-imi/leadership-and-governance/board 48 IMI plc Corporate Governance introduction Chairman’s Governance letter Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Dear Shareholder Looking ahead to 2016, I see the key objectives for the Board to be: I have been Chairman of IMI since the Annual General Meeting • continuing to develop our strategy review process with a in May 2015 and am delighted to be working with the Board longer-term perspective; and the Executive team on the delivery of IMI’s ambitious • supporting and advising management as they implement accelerated growth plan. the business improvement and growth investment plans As I visit the businesses I am very impressed with the people approved by the Board; and and the culture, as well as the improvements and investment • continuing to strengthen the Group’s risk management and programmes that are underway. I am pleased to report that control environment. the measures to strengthen the businesses’ foundations have continued, with the full support of the Board, despite the I am keen to engage with shareholders and since my economic headwinds we faced in 2015. appointment I have met with a number of IMI’s larger I am grateful to my predecessor, Roberto Quarta, for the strong institutional investors. I look forward to meeting individual Board and robust governance practices he put in place. From shareholders again at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. these firm foundations I will continue to build the effectiveness of the Board. Yours faithfully So far during my tenure we have appointed one new nonLord Smith of Kelvin executive director, we have dedicated time to a Board strategy Chairman day and visited our facilities in the Czech Republic. The Board has decided to hold most of our UK Board meetings at the 25 February 2016 new head office in Birmingham, which I am confident will help increase the visibility and effectiveness of future meetings. I am now fully recovered since a health issue which affected me back in September and October 2015. My commitment to IMI is as strong as ever and I thank my Board colleagues for their understanding and support. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Introduction Corporate Governance Report Set out below is the Board’s formal report on Corporate Governance and separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees. Strategic Review UK Corporate Governance Code The role of the Board and the division of responsibilities Compliance statement between the Chairman and the Chief Executive are outlined The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of in the Directors’ Report on page 134 and 135. corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ending 31 December 2015 the Company has applied the Independence of non-executive directors principles of good governance contained in the 2014 UK The Board considers that all five current non-executive Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) and complied with its directors are free from any business or other relationship which best practice provisions as set out below, and in the Directors’ could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Report and other cross-referenced sections of this Annual judgement. All non-executive directors meet the criteria for Report, all of which are incorporated by reference into this report. independence under the Code save that Isobel Sharp is a co-director with Lord Smith on the board of the UK Green Performance Review A description of the main features of the Company’s internal Investment Bank plc, a government owned financial institution. control system and other regulatory matters including statements Cross-directorships are recognised in the Code criteria for on going concern and viability can be found on pages 133 to 136 independence as a potential consideration in relation to the in the Directors’ Report. Risk management systems and principal assessment of independence. The Board has considered risks and uncertainties are summarised on pages 33 to 35. the circumstances and regards Isobel and all of the other Information on corporate responsibility can be found on pages non-executive directors as independent. The Chairman, Lord 26 to 29. Smith, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board. The non-executive directors are a The Board diverse group from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in Composition commerce, finance and industry in various parts of the world. At the end of 2015 and to date in 2016 the Board comprised nine directors: the Chairman; the Chief Executive; five Dates of appointment Corporate Governance independent non-executive directors; the Finance Director and one operational executive director. Name Date of appointment Date of current letter Anticipated expiry of of appointment current term Roberto Quarta, Anita Frew and Douglas Hurt retired at the 2015 Annual General Meeting. Daniel Shook was appointed Carl-Peter Forster 1 October 2012 20 December 2015 30 September 2018 as an executive director from 1 January 2015 and became Ross McInnes 1 October 2014 20 December 2015 30 September 2017 Finance Director on 1 March 2015. Isobel Sharp joined as a Birgit Nørgaard 6 November 2012 20 December 2015 5 November 2018 non-executive director on 1 September 2015. Isobel Sharp 1 September 2015 20 December 2015 31 August 2018 Lord Robert Smith 7 May 2015 20 December 2015 6 May 2018 In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves Bob Stack 13 June 2008 20 December 2015 12 June 2016 for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting. Board gender Board balance (at the year end/current) (at the year end/current) Financial Statements Women (2) 1 3 Men (7) 5 1 Chairman 3 Executive directors 5 Non-executive directors 50 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Meetings and use of Board time Board and Committee attendance 2015 The Board met on six occasions during the year including Director Board Audit Nominations Remuneration quarterly reviews, results meetings, strategy discussions and meetings Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose. 6 4 4 3 Carl-Peter Forster 6 4 3 Highlights of other Board activity in 2015 included: Anita Frew (i) 2 1 1 1 • As the year opened, IMI searched for a new Chairman Ross McInnes 6 4 and, after a full process led by Anita Frew, the then senior Birgit Nørgaard(ii) 6 4 3 3 independent non-executive director, Lord Smith was selected Roberto Quarta(i) 2 1 0 • Progress with Board succession Isobel Sharp(iv) 3 1 New Finance Director, Daniel Shook, appointed and smooth Lord Smith(iii) 3 3 handover effected in March 2015 Bob Stack 6 4 3 New non-executive director, Isobel Sharp, with a strong Mark Selway 6 1 financial background appointed Douglas Hurt(i) 2 • Growth and process investments Daniel Shook 6 Continuing growth investments made in new products Roy Twite 5 and business IT systems (i) Retired as a director in May 2015 Embedded core process disciplines including lean, (ii) Joined the Nominations Committee in May 2015 risk, compliance, new product development and (iii) Joined the Board in May 2015 policy deployment (iv) Joined the Board in September 2015 Three major new facilities up and running Completion of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther to Induction and continuing development programme complement our control valve business in Critical Engineering A formal induction process for new non-executive directors has The Board’s time been well established for several years and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive and Corporate Governance Company Secretary. This process was refreshed in the year 5% to reflect changes introduced in consultation with the Risk, legal and compliance Operational performance new Chairman. 10% and plans Major investments 30% Business familiarisation is at the core of induction and continuing 15% development for non-executive directors at IMI and is based around gaining an understanding of the business and getting to know the wider management team. All non-executive directors Financial Strategy 15% 25% are expected to attend one of the corporate induction days at head office. There is also a committee induction process designed to brief new committee members on the relevant committee’s activity and the issues it faces. Non-executive directors are required to visit business units around the Group and, most importantly, to meet face-to-face with senior operating management and key corporate staff. Non-executive directors continue to become familiar with the businesses after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits, formal meetings and events. During the year all of the non-executive directors made site visits and the whole Board spent two days in Brno, Czech Republic where it visited the largest sites in Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Introduction Appropriate coaching and access to training and other Standing committees of the Board continuing professional development is available to all nonThe standing committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, executive directors and appropriate updates were given the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee. during the year at Board and Committee meetings. Special Each of these committees operates under written terms of governance and regulatory refresher sessions were held during reference which clearly set out their respective delegated the year, attended by all of the non-executive directors. responsibilities and authorities. The full terms of reference Strategic Review of these committees are part of the Corporate Governance Board evaluation Framework which appears on the IMI website. The In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman Committees report to the Board on their work, normally should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process, through their respective chair, following each meeting. normally at least once every three years. In 2014 such a process was conducted and facilitated by Independent Separate reports from the Committees appear as follows: Board Evaluation. Audit Committee on pages 54 to 56; Nominations Committee on pages 57 and 58 and Remuneration Committee on pages Excellent progress has been made in relation to the actions 59 to 71. arising from the external evaluation exercise in 2014, and some highlights are given below: • introducing governance training for all first-time UK plc Board members; Performance Review • allowing more Board time, specifically dedicated to strategy process; • establishing a Board succession plan, agreed by the Nominations Committee; and • increasing Board contact with senior management. In 2015 an internal evaluation exercise was carried out through non-attributable questionnaires and canvassing comments from directors. The results were positive and Board members noted some areas for development over the coming year, including most notably, the appointment of all of the non-executive directors to the Nominations Committee Corporate Governance and a training session on best practice for the expanded Nominations Committee. The Board received the findings of the internal evaluation in December 2015 and after review the directors confirmed that the Board is fulfilling its responsibilities appropriately and that the Board and its Committees were effective and that each continuing director demonstrated a valuable contribution. Financial Statements 52 IMI plc Corporate Governance Report (cont’d) Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Ross McInnes Lord Smith of Kelvin Bob Stack Chairman Chairman Chairman Membership: Membership: Membership: • Carl-Peter Forster • Carl-Peter Forster •C arl-Peter Forster • Birgit Nørgaard •R  oss McInnes •B irgit Nørgaard • Isobel Sharp • Birgit Nørgaard • Isobel Sharp •B  ob Stack Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Main responsibilities: Financial reporting • Board and committee composition • Define and recommend the remuneration policy • Oversight role in relation to financial statements •S  uccession plans for the Board and for senior •D etermine the individual remuneration packages for • Reviewing significant areas of judgement and management and corporate roles the most senior executives and the Chairman within accounting policies •S  earch for and recommendation of candidates the policy approved by shareholders • Advising the Board on whether the draft Annual for appointment as non-executive directors, Chief •S et annual and long-term incentive metrics and Report is fair, balanced and understandable Executive and other executive director positions awards and determine the outcomes • Monitoring announcements in respect of • Diversity policy and monitoring of progress •R eport on remuneration matters and constructively financial performance •R  eview and recommendation of proposals for engage with shareholders the assignment of major executive responsibilities •A ssess risk in respect of remuneration and incentive Financial control and risk and the appointment and removal of divisional structures in particular • Monitoring the effectiveness of internal business leaders financial controls • Reviewing financial risk including fraud risk • Oversight of internal audit • Managing the external audit process, its objectivity, effectiveness and cost • Appointment of the auditor and responsibility for the audit fee • Reviewing the system for confidential whistleblowing and the treatment of reports received Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Introduction Executive Committee In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and preliminary results and interim results announcements, as the other members are shown on page 14. Regular attendees well as two interim management statements between results include the Group Financial Controller, Director of Risk and announcements. The IMI website includes recordings of Compliance, and the Head of Investor Relations. Other senior certain key presentations made by senior management, executives and line managers from around the Group are recent annual and interim reports, interim management Strategic Review regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive statements, other corporate announcements and links to Committee. The Committee meets monthly and more often the websites of the Group’s businesses. The Company has as may be required, and all members attended all but one arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders or two meetings during their tenure in the year. with Equiniti (details are shown on page 156). A sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme has been The Executive Committee is the senior management body and established for which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary as part of the broad remit set by the Chief Executive it monitors (details can be found on page 156). and manages business performance, reviews progress against strategic objectives, considers business management issues The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced and formulates budgets and proposals on strategy, policy understanding of the issues and concerns of major and resource allocation for consideration by the Board. shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their The Executive Committee is not a committee of the Board. investments. Financial analysts’ notes are circulated to the directors and the Board receives regular feedback reports The Executive Committee plays a key part in the risk from the Company’s brokers. Dialogue is maintained with Performance Review assessment, risk management and monitoring processes shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance, with institutional investors. The Chief Executive and Finance legal and corporate affairs. Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report to the Board on shareholder issues. Investor relations They are supported by the Head of Investor Relations. The 2015 Annual General Meeting was presided over by the The Chairman has also met with some major investors Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing and the senior independent director is available to committees of the Board and other directors. The Chairman shareholders as needed. encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and During 2015 there were consultations with the larger the directors met shareholders informally afterwards. shareholders and institutional shareholder representative Each substantively separate issue was put to the 2015 Annual bodies in respect of remuneration matters and the new General Meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was incentive plans and remuneration policy, which were Corporate Governance invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and tabled for shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual to deal with other regular business. Separate resolutions for General Meeting. the approval of the Directors’ Remuneration Report and the Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, Directors’ Remuneration Policy were also put to the meeting voting and other rights of shareholders, directors’ conflicts and a new long-term incentive plan and sharesave plan were and indemnification and certain other regulatory disclosures approved. Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting was are set out in the Directors’ Report on pages 133 to 136. issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the By order of the Board meeting and shown on the IMI website. The Board values the John O’Shea support of shareholders and the poll results for all resolutions Group Legal Director and Company Secretary proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting were well above 90% in favour in each case. 25 February 2016 Financial Statements 54 IMI plc Audit Committee Report Ross McInnes Chairman of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder control, inventory management and segregation of duties. The commitment and significant progress in new IT investment and infrastructure will further strengthen our control environment I am pleased to present my second report as Chairman of the in the years ahead. Audit Committee. The Committee has received reports on the six-monthly Internal Composition of the Audit Committee Control Declarations which are submitted by each business unit and cover internal controls in financial affairs, IT, human I chair the Audit Committee. I was a career finance director resources and other key areas. The process is managed until my retirement from executive office with Safran in 2015 by Group Assurance which routinely audits and follows up and I have significant recent and relevant financial experience. declarations to review the setting and completion of appropriate I also chair the audit committees at Faurecia SA and Eutelsat improvement actions. Communications SA. Birgit Nørgaard, Carl-Peter Forster and I were members of the Audit Committee throughout the year. Significant accounting issues reflected in the 2015 financial Isobel Sharp joined on 1 September 2015, adding further statements include accounting for acquisitions, impairment significant accounting, audit and governance experience to of goodwill and intangible assets arising from acquisitions, the Committee. All of the Committee members are regarded revenue recognition, pensions accounting and inventory by the Board as independent non-executive directors. valuation. The matters of judgement involved in these issues are described in more detail below. The Committee generally asks the following to join its meetings: the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the The Committee reviewed and approved for submission to the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Risk and Compliance, Board the statements on going concern and viability, which the Group Assurance Director and the external auditor. appear in the Director’s Report on page 136. The Committee holds at least part of several meetings each year The Committee remit calls upon it to advise the Board in relation alone with the external auditor and with the Director of Risk and to the fair, balanced and understandable requirements in respect Compliance and the Group Assurance Director. The Committee of the Annual Report and the Committee is pleased to see has the powers to call on any employees to come before it. further progress in the clarity and quality of reporting in 2015. The Secretary to the Committee is also the Group Legal Director. Oversight of financial reporting Main areas of activity in 2015 The Committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the The Audit Committee met four times in 2015. Annual Report and announcements with financial content that are prepared by executive management. The Committee Financial controls continued to be a key focus area for the received reports on the annual and interim financial statements Committee and during the year management made further from the external auditor who attended its meetings. The significant progress in strengthening controls and addressing auditor’s report including a summary of key areas of audit action points raised by the external auditor and internal focus is set out on pages 138 to 144. assurance processes. Based on its review of selected key controls EY agreed with management’s assessment that the The Committee’s work also included reviewing the financial level of control effectiveness across the Group remains high statements, key finance policies including accounting, tax, at 96% and has improved compared to 2014. It is pleasing to and treasury, significant issues of judgement and, as described report that the areas where controls are weakest have been below under the section headed ‘Internal audit’, looking a key management focus in the year and good progress has at the effectiveness of internal financial controls and been made across all operations in the areas of balance sheet assurance processes. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Introduction Significant judgements related to the External audit independence and performance review financial statements The Committee approved the proposed external audit Accounting for acquisitions approach and its scope based on the size and level of risk During the year we acquired Bopp & Reuther. The valuation of the entities concerned. The Committee also approved the of goodwill and intangible assets and fair values of other internal audit programme. The Committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity. Strategic Review assets were reviewed and agreed by the Committee. The result of that valuation is detailed in section 3.4 on page 100. The Committee considered the independence and objectivity Impairment of goodwill and intangibles arising of the external auditor. In assessing auditor independence from acquisitions the Committee had regard to best practice guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that We considered the level of goodwill held on the Group’s its ethics and independence policies complied with the balance sheet in respect of a number of past acquisitions requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and whether, given the future prospects of these businesses, in England and Wales. the value of goodwill in each case remains appropriate. The policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is The Committee reviewed the assumptions and calculations established and monitored by the Committee and requires used by management in the assessment of any impairment approval by the Chairman of the Committee for any nonof goodwill and intangibles assets and agreed that no audit engagement where fees exceed £150,000. The policy impairment charges were required. Section 3.2 to the does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could financial statements on page 97 provides details regarding Performance Review compromise auditor independence, such as, functioning the Group’s intangible assets and goodwill. in the role of management or auditing its own work. NonRevenue recognition audit fees paid to the auditor were £0.2m (2014: £0.3m), The Committee discussed the timing of revenue recognition which represents 7% of the audit fee and demonstrated the on some of the Group’s larger contracts running over tight control which is maintained in this area. We are of the several years. In addition, this is an area of audit focus and view that the level and nature of non-audit work does not accordingly EY reported on this matter to the Committee. compromise the independence of the external auditor. Having reviewed management’s process and EY’s report, Benchmarking of the audit fee was conducted to ensure the Committee concluded that revenues were appropriately that it is appropriate and competitive and the Committee reflected in the financial statements. Section 5 note C approved the proposed audit fees payable to EY. to the financial statements on page 128 provides further information. We formally reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process. The Committee adopted a formal framework by Pensions accounting way of a questionnaire to review the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance An actuarial valuation in accordance with IAS19 has been external auditor. The framework is completed annually performed on the Group’s defined benefit obligations. The by each member of the Committee and by the Finance Committee reviewed the appropriateness of this valuation, Director. Feedback was also received from the Chief including the actuarial assumptions used and the treatment Executive, the Group Financial Controller, Group and of one-off special pension events. The Committee also Divisional Management. The feedback from this process reviewed reporting from the external auditor. Further was considered by the Committee and was provided to the details can be found in section 4.5 on page 115. external auditor. As a result of this exercise the Committee believes the performance has been satisfactory and the Inventory valuation external auditor is considered to be effective. The Committee reviewed the judgements applied to standard costing valuations and provisions against excess To further enhance the audit process certain improvement and obsolete inventory and concurred with management’s actions were identified and plans have been put in place assessment. This was another focus area for EY, in respect to address these, including better visibility and integration of specialists and more timely completion of the statutory Financial Statements of which it reported to the Committee that inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate. accounts of audited subsidiaries. Note 3.1.1 to the financial statements on page 96 The FRC’s Audit Quality Review (‘AQR’) team completed provides details of inventory valuation. a review of the 2014 external audit performed by EY. In addition the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of In respect of the matters within the scope of their review, costs disclosed as exceptional and the appropriateness of no significant findings arose. taxation provisions and further details on these are disclosed In 2016 the Committee’s review of the auditor will take in sections 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. account of the FRC’s May 2015 practice aid in relation to the evaluation of audit quality. 56 IMI plc Audit Committee Report (cont’d) Auditor choice, tenure and tendering Compliance hotline The Committee recommended and the Board approved The Committee also reviews the operation of the independent the proposal to re-appoint EY as the external auditor at the compliance hotline for reporting concerns, oversees the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. EY was first appointed more significant reports received and considers how these as auditor for the year ending 31 December 2009 following are investigated and followed up. We believe that the hotline a competitive tendering process, after which it replaced the process and investigations are effective and proportionate previous auditor. The term of appointment is annual and there action is taken in response. are no contractual restrictions on the Committee’s choice of auditor. Independent Committee evaluation To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external The Audit Committee reviewed its own performance and audit partner responsible for the Group is rotated within EY terms of reference and received positive feedback from the at least every five years and the current Senior Statutory evaluation exercise carried out by the Board and each of its Auditor has now been in place for three years and will change standing committees. following completion of the 2017 audit. Succession planning The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work. includes having a second partner in place on the audit team. New regulations for audit tendering and rotation of audit firms have been introduced which require mandatory tendering after Yours faithfully ten years (i.e. ahead of the 31 December 2019 audit) and a Ross McInnes change of audit firm ahead of the 31 December 2029 audit, Chairman of the Audit Committee assuming in each case that EY remains in place as auditor until the completion of 2018 and 2028 audits respectively. 25 February 2016 The Committee reserves the right to run a tender for the audit role at any time but, if not conducted earlier, it will be undertaken in advance of the regulatory deadline ahead of the 2019 audit. Internal audit The Committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance. The appointment of a new Director of Risk and Compliance, reporting to the Chief Executive, is intended to accelerate the extension of internal audit into compliance and other areas of non-financial audit activity. Group Assurance reports through the Director of Risk and Compliance to the Chief Executive. Group Assurance also has a direct reporting line to the Committee. Assurance work is primarily directed towards financial control audits but has broadened into other areas including major business change project planning and implementation. The principal projects reviewed in 2015 were major computer systems implementations and significant capital projects. Group Assurance reviewed project management, governance and the ability to achieve the project objectives. These reviews have identified opportunities for process and project management improvements, and Group Assurance will help to facilitate sharing of best practice for similar major projects. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Introduction Nominations Committee Report Strategic Review Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman of the Nominations Committee Dear Shareholder Review of time commitments and contributions The appointments of the Chairman and non-executive directors Main areas of activity in 2015 are made on the basis of a formal letter of appointment including The Committee carried out a successful search for a nona stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the Performance Review executive director and used The Zygos Partnership as Committee. The Committee considers that the time given to IMI recruitment consultants. Committee members interviewed by each non-executive director is sufficient. The Board is satisfied a range of candidates and the Committee made a that I have the necessary time to devote to my role as Chairman. recommendation to the Board for the appointment of Since my appointment in May 2015, I have stepped down from Isobel Sharp as a non-executive director resulting in her the Chairmanships of SSE plc and Standard Bank Group Limited appointment with effect from 1 September 2015. and subsequently became Chairman of Alliance Trust plc, which is my only other publicly listed company role outside IMI. The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees. It recommended changes in executive Succession planning responsibilities and supported the selection of the new The Committee reviews Board skills and put in place a structured, Divisional Managing Director, Massimo Grassi, for Precision medium-term plan for Board succession. During the year we Engineering. The Board approved all of the recommendations reviewed talent development and succession planning for the made by the Committee for the appointment of new directors top 250 roles in the Group with the support of the Group Human and renewals of appointment for continuing directors. All of the Resources Director and were encouraged to see that progress Corporate Governance directors are recommended for election or re-election at the had been made in terms of embedding good processes and 2016 Annual General Meeting. cultivating a pipeline of high calibre management talent. Anita Frew, formerly our senior independent non-executive director, and Bob Stack worked with Mark Selway on the Diversity selection of a successor for the outgoing Chairman, Roberto The Board recognises the benefits a diverse pool of talent can Quarta, resulting in the Board approving my own appointment. bring to a boardroom and remains committed to increasing Zygos was also retained in respect of the recruitment for a diversity in the businesses by voluntary measures. We will new Chairman. continue to review the composition of our management teams and the Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and Members experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution All of the members of the Committee are regarded as capabilities. At Board level, there are six nationalities, two of independent other than the Chairman. Bob Stack was a the five non-executive directors are female and there is a member of the Committee throughout the year. Roberto broad mix of backgrounds and experience. Financial Statements Quarta and Anita Frew were members of the Committee until the In 2014 the Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Policy 2015 Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2015, on which date which applies to all IMI employees, contractors and agency Birgit Nørgaard and I became members. Mark Selway stepped workers, both direct and indirect via third parties. The policy is down from the Committee on 26 February 2015. Carl-Peter designed to take a broad approach to diversity and inclusion Forster, Ross McInnes and Isobel Sharp became members in order to reflect the UK legislative framework of the Equality of the Committee on 15 December 2015. Act 2010. IMI is committed to being compliant with the local legal and best practice frameworks in the countries in which it operates and therefore the application of the Diversity and Inclusion Policy will reflect the legal context in the jurisdictions in which it is applied. 58 IMI plc Nominations Committee Report (cont’d) We are committed to ensuring that all employees and workers are treated fairly in an environment which is free from any form of discrimination with regard to the nine protected characteristics outlined in the Equality Act 2010, which are age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender reassignment, marriage/civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation. Our policy is to recruit the best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect the diverse nature of the global footprint of the business, reflecting the location of our customers and markets. We will continue to seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Group. In line with our recruitment practices, the Group strives to produce diverse shortlists for internal and external vacancies and specifically requests this of external providers, with the aim of encouraging and promoting diversity. The Nominations Committee has agreed to measure progress on diversity metrics including gender and nationality mix, although specific targets have not been set. At the year end the mix of male and female employees across the Group is as follows: All Managers Senior Board employees managers directors Female 3,197 198 106 2 Female % 26 18 15 22 Male 8,997 885 584 7 Male % 74 82 85 78 As part of the performance management process in 2015, each Divisional Managing Director agreed objectives aimed at improving diversity in their area and our Executive Committee undertook a training session on diversity and inclusion. Further work is planned in both these areas for 2016. The Nominations Committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and received positive feedback from the evaluation exercise carried out in respect of the Board and each of its committees. The Committee approved the foregoing report on its work. Yours faithfully Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman of the Nominations Committee 25 February 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Directors’ Remuneration Report Introduction Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Committee “The Remuneration Committee has worked hard this year to ensure our new remuneration policy has been implemented consistently and is aligned to our strategic Strategic Review growth plan whilst reflecting a strong link between pay and performance.” Bob Stack Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder How were pay outcomes linked to performance? Remuneration for the executive directors is closely tied 2015 saw the first full year under our new remuneration policy to business performance with a high proportion of total which was strongly supported and approved by shareholders in remuneration delivered through variable pay linked to our Performance Review 2014. To simplify this year’s report, our approved remuneration strategic plan. At IMI we operate a strong pay-for-performance policy can be found on our website www.imiplc.com. Our focus philosophy and as a result of the performance challenges this year has been twofold, to ensure consistent application I outlined above, the outcomes under our variable pay of the new policy whilst ensuring remuneration arrangements schemes are well below the targeted level. remain appropriate in light of the continuing difficult economic Annual incentives paid to executive directors for 2015 were and market conditions. based on a combination of Group profit before tax, organic 2015 has been a challenging year for IMI with continued difficult revenue growth, cash conversion and strategic and personal economic and market conditions putting pressure on our ability objectives. Below threshold performance under the Group to grow in the short-term. Trading conditions in many of our profit before tax, and organic revenue growth measures were geographies and markets were tough. In particular economic balanced by strong performance under the cash conversion slowdowns in both China and Brazil impacted both our measure. Our focus on investing for future growth has resulted Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering businesses in strong performance under the strategic and personal and challenging trading conditions across industrial markets objectives, recognising the contribution made to achieving Corporate Governance world-wide adversely affected most of our businesses. our strategic plan. Summary outcomes against financial Despite this difficult environment our financial results were targets are presented in the chart below: broadly in line with expectations. Target Maximum Group profit before tax decreased by 21% to £219m while Group profit revenue of £1,557m decreased by 5% on an organic basis. before tax 0% Adjusted EPS decreased by 20% in 2015 and we declared Organic revenue a total dividend of 38.4p – an increase of 2% from last year. growth 0% We remain focused on executing our strategic plans which Cash conversion 100% includes investing in the business and capitalising on long-term growth opportunities. In particular, the investments made over the course of 2014 and 2015 give us improved potential to grow -21% 5.0% + 1,600bps shareholder value in the long-term and we believe we are well Profit before tax Revenue Cash conversion Financial Statements positioned for progress in a depressed market. The Committee remains confident that the remuneration arrangements in place Strategic and personal objectives vary by person as detailed will continue to support the strategic business plan and ensure later in the report. a strong focus on growth. As the IMI Incentive Plan was only implemented last year, the first vesting of the award will be in 2018. Roy Twite and Douglas Hurt were granted a matching share award and performance award in 2013 and the awards vested at 17.3% and 0% respectively. 60 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) The chart below provides a view of each executive directors’ single figure of remuneration over the course of 2014 and 2015: Fixed pay Other items Annual Long-term variable pay variable pay £1.952m £1.667m £1.567m £0.956m £0.773m Not Applicable 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 M W Selway R M Twite D J Shook Chief Executive Executive Director Finance Director What changes were made in 2015? The Committee reviewed remuneration arrangements for the executive directors during the year and remain confident that they remain fit-for-purpose with no changes to structure required. The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executive directors in light of 2015 business performance and concluded that an increase of 2.1%, effective 1 January 2016, was appropriate and in line with the wider employee workforce. The Chairman and non-executive director fees were increased by 2.0%, effective 1 January 2016 in line with the wider employee workforce. Looking forward The Committee anticipates 2016 to be another difficult trading year with market and economic head winds featuring heavily. Notwithstanding these issues the committee plans to implement the approved policy on a similar basis to 2015. The Committee will keep the existing remuneration policy under review to ensure it continues to support IMI’s strategic growth plan. Yours faithfully Bob Stack Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Directors’ Remuneration Report Introduction Annual Remuneration Report Introduction The Committee presents the Directors’ Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory (non-binding) vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2016. The report includes details of the Committee, the pay received by our executive directors during the year in accordance with Strategic Review our current remuneration policy (approved on 7 May 2015) and comparative internal and external data. The Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’) During 2015, Willis Towers Watson has also supported management on some broader reward and human resource Composition matters. The fees charged by Willis Towers Watson in respect The members of the Committee during the year were Bob of advice and services to the Committee totalled £50,000 Stack (Chairman), Carl-Peter Forster and Birgit Nørgaard. and for support to management totalled £27,178 in 2015. Roberto Quarta and Anita Frew were members of the Willis Towers Watson are signatories to the Remuneration Committee until they stepped down from their positions after Consultants’ Code of Conduct in the UK. the AGM in May 2015. In accordance with the UK Corporate A summary of the Committee activities during 2015 Governance Code, all of the non-executive directors were regarded by the Board as independent. The Committee had three formal meetings during the year, Performance Review that were attended by all members. The principal agenda Responsibility items were as follows: The Committee determines the remuneration policy and •a  review of total compensation packages of the executive rewards for the executive directors and, in his absence, directors and the most senior management of the Group the Chairman. The Committee also reviews the remuneration to ensure alignment with IMI’s strategic growth plan; packages of those at the next most senior level of management •a  pproval of achievements and outcomes under the and has regard to levels of pay across the Group. A copy of the incentive plans; terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, is included in • consideration of the fees for the new Chairman; the IMI Corporate Governance Framework and available in the Corporate Governance section of the IMI website. • s etting the framework and target levels for the 2015 incentive cycle; Internal advisors to the Committee •a  pproval of the granting of share awards for executive directors and certain other levels of management; Corporate Governance During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, regarding the packages of the other executive directors and •a  review of the UK corporate governance environment senior managers. It also received the advice of the Finance relative to remuneration; Director, the Group Human Resources Director, the Head • a risk review of the remuneration framework; of Group Reward and the Company Secretary, who is also •a  review of the engagement of independent remuneration secretary to the Committee. None of these individuals was consultants to the Committee; and involved in determining their own remuneration. •a  review of the Committee’s own performance, constitution External advisers to the Committee and terms of reference. Independent remuneration consultant, Willis Towers Watson, Voting outcome at the 2015 Annual General Meeting is formally appointed by the Committee and provided advice on directors’ remuneration to the Committee in 2015. The The following table summarises the details of votes cast in Committee noted that the firm are actuaries and administrators respect of the remuneration resolutions along with the number of votes cast as a percentage of the issued share capital Financial Statements for the IMI Pension Fund and provided some broader reward and human resources support to management. The Committee (‘ISC’). The Committee was pleased with the level of support is comfortable that these activities do not represent a conflict shown by shareholders and will continue to consider the of interest and that objective and independent advice continues views of, and feedback from, shareholders when setting to be received by the Committee from the dedicated team and reporting on remuneration arrangements. servicing it at Willis Towers Watson. Directors’ Remuneration Report Votes for Votes against Votes withheld (abstentions) Directors’ Remuneration Policy 96.55% 3.45% 3,352,149 Annual Remuneration Policy 98.52% 1.48% 2,525,925 62 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report Annual Remuneration Report Executive single figure table (audited) Annual variable Other items in the nature Fixed pay pay Long-term variable pay of remuneration (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) Share Subtotal Annual Matching Performance long-term AllDividend Taxable incentive Plan Share variable employee equivalent Total Director Base salary Pension benefits bonus (‘SMP’) Plan (‘PSP’) pay share plans payments (£000) Pages Pages See page Page 64 Page 64 Page 65 65 to 66 Page 67 67 to 68 Page 69 Page 69 2015 770 231 50 611 5 1,667 M W Selway 2014 750 225 45 545 2 1,567 2015 445 156 19 194 138 138 4 956 R M Twite 2014 430 151 19 197 1,106 1,106 3 46 1,952 2015 400 80 100 193 773 D J Shook 2014 2015 150 52 6 75 104 104 387 D M Hurt1 2014 430 151 21 191 1,202 1,202 4 148 2,147 R M Twite served on the board of Halma plc during the year and received fees of £48,000 in respect of this appointment. D M Hurt served on the boards of Vesuvius plc and Tate & Lyle plc during his time as a director of IMI plc and received fees of £6,411 and £25,221 respectively. These figures have been calculated as follows: Share price assumptions: for shares vesting in 2016, that related to performance in the three years to 31 December 2015, the average Base salary: the actual salary receivable for the year. share price over the final three months of 2015 Pension: the cash allowance paid in lieu of pension. (940.93 pence) is used to estimate the value of shares on vesting. For shares vested in 2015, relating to Taxable benefits: the gross value of all taxable benefits (or benefits performance in the three years to 31 December 2014, that would be taxable in the UK) received in the year. previously reported figures2 are updated to reflect the Annual incentive bonus: the value of the annual incentive payable for actual share price on the date of vesting (1,193.00 performance in respect of the relevant financial pence for the Share Matching Plan and 1,253.00 pence year (half of this is automatically delivered in shares for the Performance Share Plan). when the executive does not meet the share All-employee share plans: the value of free shares and dividends (‘SIP’) at award ownership requirement). made in the relevant financial year and the intrinsic Share Matching Plan: the value on vesting of the matching shares that value of share options on the date of grant (‘SAYE’) in were subject to performance over the three-year the relevant financial year (applying a 10% discount). period ending on 31 December in the relevant financial Dividend equivalent the value of dividend equivalent shares on vested but year (see share price assumptions adjacent). payments: unexercised awards under the share plans, valued at Performance Share Plan: the value on vesting of shares that were subject the price on the dividend payment date. to performance over the three-year period ending on 31 December in the relevant financial year (see share price assumptions adjacent). 1 D  ouglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the table reflects payments to this date. 2  he average share price over the final three months of 2014 (1,204.86 pence) T was used. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Introduction Comparative data Historical performance and remuneration The following information is intended to provide additional context In addition to considering executive remuneration in the regarding the total remuneration for executive directors. context of internal comparisons, the Committee reviews annually historical outcomes under the variable pay plans. Relative importance of pay spend The graph below compares IMI’s TSR to the FTSE100 over the Strategic Review 2015 2014 Change last seven years. We compare performance to the FTSE100 as £m £m it is a position where IMI aspires to be and IMI was historically Acquisitions 106.2 traded on the broad market index, therefore, allowing for consistent comparisons. TSR measures the returns that a Dividends 102.5 97.3 5% company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share Return of cash 620.3 -100% price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends Purchase of own shares 40.0 -100% (source: DataStream), with data averaged over the final 30 Total employment costs for Group 508.2 535.5 -5% days of each financial year. (see section 2.1.3.1 on page 89) As the graph below illustrates, IMI’s absolute and relative TSR performance has been strong over the last seven years. In 2015, the total dividend for the year of 38.4 pence represented This is reflected in the outcomes under our variable pay plans, an increase of 2% over last year’s 37.6 pence. As a result of the which are largely driven by the financial performance of the sale of the Retail Dispense divisions an additional special return Group and IMI’s share price. Performance Review of £620m was made to shareholders in 2014 and there was a consolidation of the Group’s equity with the issue of seven new shares for every eight held. Total return from a hypothetical £100 investment IMI FTSE100 £ Relative percentage change in remuneration for 800 Chief Executive 700 The Committee actively considers any increases in base 600 pay for the Chief Executive relative to the broader employee population. However, benefits and bonus payments are not 500 £445 typically compared given they are driven by a far broader 400 range of factors, such as local practices, eligibility, individual 300 circumstances and role. 200 £190 Corporate Governance 100 Chief Executive Employees1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Base salary 2.7% 3.9% Benefits 11.1% 0.9% Annual bonus 12.1% 6.6% 1 A  ll UK head office employees. This comparison excludes our international workforce which we feel would not provide a true comparison given differing local market factors. Financial Statements 64 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) The following table summarises the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the last seven years, and the outcomes of short and long-term incentive plans as a % of maximum. Financial year ended 31 December 20091 20101 20111 20121 20131 20142 20152 Total remuneration 2,547 4,439 12,289 7,954 6,688 1,567 1,667 (single figure, £000) Annual variable pay 91% 95% 85% 47% 62% 36% 40% (% of maximum) Long-term variable pay 64% 97% 95% 100% 100% (% of maximum) Share Matching Plan Long-term variable pay 45% 100% 100% 100% 82.6% (% of maximum) Performance Share Plan 1 Represents remuneration for Martin Lamb. 2 Represents remuneration for Mark Selway who was appointed Chief Executive on 1 January 2014. No payments under long-term incentive plans will be made until 2016. Executive remuneration received in respect of 2015 The key elements of the benefits in the Fund are summarised below: Base salary • the normal retirement age under the Fund is 62 and Roy Twite Salaries effective January 2015 were agreed taking into account may retire from employment with IMI any time after age 60 a range of factors including the prevailing economic conditions, without actuarial discount. the financial performance of the Group and salary increases • on death after retirement, a dependant’s pension is provided for other employees. The average increase for employees was equal to 50% of the member’s pension. 2.9%, compared to 2.2% for the executive directors. Mark • should he die within the first five years of retirement, the Selway’s and Roy Twite’s salaries increased by 2.7% and 3.5% dependant’s pension is increased to 100% of the member’s to £770,000 and £445,000 respectively. Daniel Shook was pension for the remainder of the five year period. appointed on a salary of £400,000 from 1 January 2015. • pensions in payment, in excess of any guaranteed minimum Pension pension, are increased each year in line with price inflation up to a maximum of 5% in respect of pension built up before Executive directors are entitled to receive a taxable cash 1 January 2006, and 2.5% in respect of pension built up allowance instead of pension benefits. With the Committee’s after 1 January 2006. approval the executive directors may, at their discretion, redirect part or all of their allowance into any defined contribution pension arrangement in the country in which they are contracted. Mark Accrued pension in Accrued pension in the Fund as at 31 the Fund as at 31 Selway receives a cash allowance of 30% of salary and Daniel December 2015 December 2014 Shook receives a cash allowance of 20% of salary. Roy Twite £000pa £000pa receives a cash allowance of 35% of salary as legacy obligations to those appointed to the Board before October 2013 continue R M Twite 69 67 to be honoured. Douglas Hurt was eligible for a cash allowance of 35% of salary. Pension benefits for past service Roy Twite was previously an active member of the defined benefit IMI Pension Fund. He opted out with effect from 1 February 2007 and as a result, he retains past pensionable service up to that date in the IMI 2014 Deferred Fund (‘the Fund’). Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Introduction Benefits Annual incentive bonus During the year the executive directors received a number of The 2015 bonus plan focused on the financial performance of benefits. These are summarised below and amounts less than IMI during the year, considering Group profit before tax (40%), £10,000 p.a. are combined. organic revenue growth (20%), cash conversion (20%) and strategic and personal objectives (20%). Health and safety underpins the plan to ensure bonuses are only paid out when Strategic Review M W Selway R M Twite D J Shook D M Hurt1 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 minimum standards are achieved. Non-cash benefits (£000) 2015 was a challenging year for IMI with difficult economic and market conditions contributing to weaker financial results Total 1 1 2 2 11 1 than expected: Cash benefits and taxable allowances (£000) •G  roup profit before tax decreased to £219m in 2015 from Company 20 19 17 17 14 6 17 £278m 2014, representing 21% decrease; car and fuel allowance •G  roup revenue decreased by 5% on an organic basis compared to 2014; Relocation 75 •c  ash conversion was 97%, compared with 81% in 2014; Other 29 25 3 • the total dividend for the year increased by 2% compared Total 50 45 19 19 100 6 21 to 2014; and Performance Review • strong performance for health and safety with leading 1 D  ouglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the table reflects payments to measures showing benefits from lean and HSE integration this date. in the year. In addition to the above benefits and allowances that are included in the single figure (refer to table on page 62), the executive directors are also beneficiaries of company policies that have no taxable value, including directors’ insurance, death in service cover, travel insurance, the use of a company driver and personal accident cover. Summarised in the table below is the achievement against Group targets set at the beginning of the year alongside the resulting Corporate Governance contribution to bonus payout. Annual bonus metrics1 2015 Actual performance Payout as a Weighting as a Contribution performance percentage of percentage of total to payout as a required maximum bonus opportunity percentage of maximum bonus opportunity Group profit before tax Threshold £278.6m £231.0m 0% 40.0% 0% (adjusted)2 Target £287.7m Maximum £296.7m Organic revenue growth Threshold 0.0% -5.2% 0% 20.0% 0% Target 1.8% Financial Statements Maximum 3.0% Cash conversion Threshold 65.0% 97.4% 100% 20.0% 20.0% (FY figures shown) Target 77.0% Maximum 84.0% 1  oy Twite’s annual bonus opportunity is dependent on a combination of Group (40%) and Critical Engineering (40%) financial objectives in line with his role’s R responsibilities. The Committee believes that the specific business unit targets are commercially sensitive and are therefore not disclosed in the table above. 2 G  roup Profit Before tax actual performance of £231.0m is stated at the exchange rates used in the targets, which results in a £12.0m increase when compared with reported results, and includes £0.3m of profit for the performance of disposed businesses included within the target. 66 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) In addition to these quantifiable measures, each executive director has a number of personal objectives. Objectives are agreed with the individual during the first quarter of the financial year, and pertain to areas directly within their remit. These personal objectives and the Committee’s assessment of individuals’ performance against them is described below, to the extent the Committee does not believe the information to be commercially sensitive. Individual performance metrics 2015 performance required Payout as a Weighting as Contribution to payout percentage of a percentage as a percentage of maximum of total bonus maximum bonus opportunity opportunity Individual performance objectives M W Selway: 98.3% 20.0% 19.7% are robustly set and are customised Objectives included areas such as organisation, for each individual. All objectives strategy, financial integrity and specific projects. are measurable and are objectively determined. Individual objectives for D J Shook: 93.4% 20.0% 18.7% 2015 were built around the Group’s Objectives included areas such as strengthening key performance indicators. investor/analyst relationships, financial process improvements, strategy and specific IT projects. R M Twite: 95.0% 20.0% 19.0% Objectives included areas such as diversity, strategy, core process and specific projects. D M Hurt: 100.0% 20.0% 20.0% Objectives included areas such as effective and efficient transition to Daniel Shook. In aggregate this resulted in the following short-term incentive outcomes: 2015 maximum Total bonus Total bonus Achievement of share Bonus delivered Bonus delivered bonus opportunity awarded (£000) awarded ownership guidelines in form of cash in form of shares (% of salary) (% of salary) at 31 Dec 2015 (£000) (£000) M W Selway 200% 611 79% 10% 305 306 R M Twite 150% 194 44% 117% 194 D J Shook 125% 193 48% 6% 96 97 D M Hurt1 150% 75 50% N/A 75 1 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and annual bonus paid was pro-rated based on his employment up to that date. Share interests granted to executive directors during 2015 (audited) Grants made under the IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’) The following grants were approved and made in 2015: As approved at the AGM, grants under the IIP were made on 7 May 2015 in the form of nil-cost options. Awards will vest subject to IIP shares Value on date of Award as a awarded award1 percentage of performance in three core areas aligned to our long-term strategic (£000) salary priorities: return on capital employed (25%), relative Total Shareholder M W Selway 154,041 1,925 250% Return (25%) and Group profit before tax growth (50%). R M Twite 71,218 890 200% All of the performance measures are defined in such a manner to allow the Committee discretion to make further adjustments to the D J Shook 48,012 600 150% definitions as it determines is fair and reasonable. The performance D M Hurt Nil Nil Nil targets that apply to the 2015 IIP awards are as follows: 1 The three day average mid-market price on the date of award was 1,249.67 pence. ROCE Relative Group profit Level of TSR before tax vesting growth The IIP is also used to grant deferred bonus awards exercisable Threshold 40% Median 2.5% 25% after three years to satisfy bonus delivered in the form of shares. Details of these awards made in 2015 are shown in the table on Maximum 50% Upper 7.5% 100% quartile page 70 under the ‘without performance conditions’ column. Weighting 25% 25% 50% Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Introduction Awards vesting under legacy share plans based on segmental operating profit after tax with appropriate adjustments, less a capital charge on the invested capital in The Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) – the last grant made under the business reflecting IMI’s cost of capital. this plan was in 2014 and will vest in 2017 The performance measure considered compound annual Roy Twite and Douglas Hurt received an award under the SMP growth in EVA over the three financial years from 2013 to in May 2013. At the date of awards, Roy and Douglas both Strategic Review 2015 compared to EVA in the preceding three financial years. exceeded their share ownership requirements and as such Awards lapse for negative compound growth. However were invited to invest up to the maximum permitted. The 2013 for positive growth between 0% and 6%, 10% to 25% of SMP award will vest at 17.3%. matching shares vested; and for growth between 6% and Vesting was subject to the achievement of an Economic Value 17%, 25% to 100% of matching shares vested. Within Added (‘EVA’) performance condition, measured over the three each range, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis. years ending 31 December 2015. The calculation of EVA is Over the period IMI delivered compound annual EVA growth of 2.9% based on three-year EVA from 2013 to 2015 of £557.4m compared to three-year EVA from 2010 to 2012 of £511.5m. The total awards vesting for Roy Twite in March 2016 will be: Shares Initial Value on date Number of Additional Total matching Value of matching invested by the matching of award 1 matching shares dividend shares vesting shares on vesting2 Performance Review executive award (£000) vesting equivalent (£000) shares R M Twite 18,086 78,000 956 13,494 1,142 14,636 138 D M Hurt 3 19,659 58,637 719 10,144 858 11,002 104 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,226.00 pence. 2 A  wards will vest on 9 April 2016. The value of shares on vesting is estimated using the average price over the last quarter of 2015 (940.93 pence). Awards take the form of nil-cost options and can be exercised over a period of up to seven years following vesting, unless reduced under the terms of an individual’s departure. 3 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the award vesting was pro-rated based on his employment up to that date. The Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’) – the last grant made Growth of 6% per annum would trigger the minimum level under this plan was in 2014 and will vest in 2017 of vesting (25% of the EPS element), increasing on a Corporate Governance In March 2013, awards were made to Roy Twite and Douglas straight-line basis such that awards were eligible to vest Hurt under the PSP. The vesting of the awards was subject to in full for EPS growth of 15% per annum. Over the period the achievement of three independent performance conditions: IMI delivered EPS growth of -5.7% per annum, decreasing EPS growth (50%), relative TSR (25%) and organic revenue EPS from 64.7 pence in 20124 to a comparable 54.2 pence growth (25%), measured over the three years ending at the end of 20155. 31 December 2015. 4 Adjusted for IAS19 The 2013 PSP award will vest at 0%. 5 Adjusted for 2014 share consolidation and the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther • EPS growth Under the PSP, EPS is defined as adjusted basic earnings per share before the post-tax impact of any reported exceptional items, which may include impairment losses, profit/ loss on disposal of a subsidiary, rationalisation costs, Financial Statements acquired intangible amortisation and IAS39 charges or credits for changes in the fair value of financial instruments. EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure because it rewards absolute growth in underlying earnings and because the Committee believed it worked well in combination with TSR which is an external, relative measure of performance.  68 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) • Relative TSR UK US TSR is defined as the movement in share price during BBA Aviation Borgwarner the performance period, measured in local currency, with Bodycote Eaton adjustments to take account of changes in capital structure and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested in shares Cobham Emerson Electric on the ex-dividend date. TSR was chosen as a measure as it GKN Flowserve Corp is an external, relative benchmark for performance that aligns Halma Honeywell executives’ rewards with the creation of shareholder value. Johnson Matthey IDEX The 2013 peer group comprised the companies shown Meggitt Illinois Tool Works opposite, adjusted to take account of merger and acquisition Rotork Ingersoll-Rand activity during the performance period in line with the Committee’s established guidelines. Spectris Manitowoc Spirax-Sarco Engineering Parker-Hannifin At the end of the three-year performance period, the Company Vesuvius Pentair ranked 31 in the peer group. The Committee was in agreement that the outcome under the TSR measure was reflective of the Weir Group Tyco International general underlying financial performance of the Company. Japan Continental Europe Amada Atlas Copco • Organic revenue growth Fanuc Heidelberg Druckmaschinen Organic growth is calculated as an average annual growth NSK Metso Corporation rate, to encourage continued focus on organic growth. SMC Sandvik Revenue is defined as segmental revenues before exceptional items adjusted, at the Committee’s discretion, to exclude the THK SKF B impact of material acquisitions and disposals by the Company Yaskawa Electric Sulzer AG completed during the performance period and to remove the impact of exchange rate movements. Organic revenue growth of 2.7% per annum would trigger the minimum level of vesting (25% of the organic revenue element) increasing on a straight-line basis such that awards were eligible to vest in full for growth of 8% per annum. Over the period IMI delivered growth of -0.7%. In aggregate, none of the initial number of shares awarded were released to the executives and other participants. Initial award Value on date of Number of initial Additional dividend Total shares Value of shares on award1 shares vesting equivalent shares vesting vesting (£000) (£000) R M Twite 31,500 417 D M Hurt2 31,500 417 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,324.00 pence. 2 Douglas Hurt retired from the Board on 7 May and the award vesting will be pro-rated based on his employment up to that date. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Introduction All-employee share plans Executive directors are entitled to participate in the all-employee share plans on the same terms as other eligible employees at IMI. In 2015, Mark Selway and Roy Twite received free share awards under the Employee Share Ownership Plan. Mark Selway received SAYE awards in 2015 of 836 shares. Strategic Review Share Incentive Plan SAYE Total value under Number of shares Value of free Number of options Value of SAYE Dividends the all-employee awarded share award1 awarded options2 (£000) share plans (£000) (£000) (£000) 2015 289 4 836 1 5 M W Selway 2014 73 1 650 1 2 2015 289 4 4 R M Twite 2014 196 3 3 2015 D J Shook 2014 2015 Performance Review D M Hurt 2014 196 3 650 1 4 1 In 2015 free shares were awarded at a share price of 1,245.00 pence (1,526.00 pence in 2014). 2 In 2015 SAYE awards were made at a 10% discount and the value shown is the intrinsic gain at the date of the grant, calculated in accordance with the single figure requirements (on page 62). Dividend payments 2015 and 10 May 2015 respectively. No shares vested under Under the SMP and PSP, dividend equivalent payments are the PSP and a total of 23,420 shares vested under the SMP made on vested but unexercised share awards, which take (21,145 award shares and 2,275 dividend shares) which the form of nil-cost options. Dividend equivalents, while equated to a value on the vesting date of £279,401. notionally tracked by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid The Committee can confirm that under the terms of his or transferred to the participant until the point of exercise. Corporate Governance departure, Martin Lamb’s 2013 PSP and SMP awards vested, These have been included in the single figure (the table subject to the performance conditions, on 12 March 2016 and on page 62) based on the number of dividend equivalents 9 April 2016 respectively. No shares vested under the PSP and notionally accrued in the financial year, valued at the price on a total of 23,254 shares vested under the SMP (21,440 award the dividend payment date. Any residual cash is rolled over shares and 1,814 dividend shares) which equated to a value and applied to the subsequent dividend equivalent purchase. at vesting of £218,804. Payments to past directors (audited) Payments made to Douglas Hurt during his period as a past director are disclosed in the table on page 62 and do not It is the Committee’s intention to disclose any payments to past include any payments for loss of office. directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors. Dividend equivalent payments for vested but unexercised nil-cost option awards will continue to be made to past The Committee can confirm that under the terms of his directors under the terms of the original grant. departure, Sean Toomes’ 2012 PSP and SMP awards were Financial Statements pro-rated to the date of his departure (30 June 2013) and vested, subject to the performance conditions, on 4 May 70 IMI plc Directors’ Remuneration Report (cont’d) Chairman’s and non-executive directors’ single figure table (audited) The following table summarises the total fees and benefits paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the financial years ending 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. Director 2015 (£000) 2014 (£000) Base fees Additional fees Total Base fees Additional fees Total Lord Smith of Kelvin1 195 195 R Quarta 2 106 106 300 300 C P Forster 60 60 60 60 A M Frew 3 21 4 25 60 10 70 B Nørgaard 60 60 60 60 R J Stack4 60 22 82 60 15 75 R McInnes 5 60 15 75 15 15 I Sharp6 20 20 1 Joined the IMI Board in 2015 and became the Chairman at the 2015 AGM. 4 Appointed senior independent director at the 2015 AGM. 2 Stepped down as Chairman at the 2015 AGM. 5  ppointed 1 October 2014 and became Audit Committee Chair A on 1 January 2015. 3 A  ppointed senior independent director May 2013 and stepped down at the 2015 AGM. 6 J oined the IMI Board on 1 September 2015 and is a member of the Audit Committee. Directors’ shareholdings and share interests (audited) The following table summarises the share interests of any director who served during the year as at 31 December 2015 or at the date of retirement from the Board. During the period 31 December 2015 to 25 February 2016 there were no changes in the interests of any current director from those shown save for purchases within the IMI All Employee Share Ownership Plan on 12 January 2016 of 16 shares on behalf of each of M W Selway, D J Shook and R M Twite at 788p per share, and 9 February 2016 of 16 shares on behalf of each of M W Selway, R M Twite and D J Shook at 777p per share. Director Total Beneficial Scheme interests interests interests Nil-cost options All-employee share plans With performance conditions Without performance conditions Unvested Vested but Unvested Vested but unexercised unexercised M W Selway 400,557 9,016 368,843 22,100 598 R M Twite 410,045 112,421 291,325 6,299 D J Shook 52,747 4,000 48,653 94 D M Hurt1 855,515 66,351 369,062 418,531 1,571 Lord Smith of Kelvin 8,300 8,300 R Quarta1 7,248 7,248 C P Forster 2,625 2,625 A M Frew 1 6,562 6,562 B Nørgaard 2,625 2,625 R J Stack 13,125 13,125 R McInnes 3,000 3,000 I Sharp 3,000 3,000 1 Share interests as at retirement on 7 May 2015. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Introduction From 2015, the Committee requires Mark Selway to build up IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’) a shareholding of at least 250% of salary, 200% of salary in In accordance with the approved remuneration policy, the case of Roy Twite and 150% of salary for Daniel Shook, the IIP will be operated as follows in 2016: to mirror the IMI Incentive Plan Award. At the end of the •2  016 awards are set at 250% of salary for Mark Selway, year Roy Twite significantly exceeded the share ownership 200% for Roy Twite and 150% for Daniel Shook. guideline. Daniel Shook made progress towards his guideline Strategic Review through direct market purchase of shares. •A  wards will vest subject to performance in three core areas aligned to our longer-term strategic priorities: return on Application of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2016 capital employed (25%), relative Total Shareholder Return (25%) and Group profit before tax growth (50%). Service contracts The unexpired terms of the Directors’ service contracts can Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors be reviewed in the Board’s Corporate Governance Report The Chairman and non-executive directors’ remuneration on page 49. increased by 2.0%, effective 1 January 2016. This is in line with the executive directors and the wider employee workforce. Executive director fixed pay Salaries effective January 2016 were agreed taking into Share ownership for the Chairman and non-executive directors account a range of factors including the prevailing economic The Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged conditions, the financial performance of the Group and salary to hold some shares in IMI within a reasonable period after Performance Review increases for other employees. their appointment. As at 25 February 2016, the Chairman The average increase for employees was 2.7%, compared to and non-executive directors hold IMI shares as set out in 2.1% for the executive directors. Mark Selway’s, Roy Twite’s the table on page 70. and Daniel Shook’s salaries were increased by 1.9%, 2.0% and 2.5% to £785,000, £454,000 and £410,000 respectively. Bob Stack Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Other elements of fixed pay (benefits and pension) will for and on behalf of the Board remain unchanged. 25 February 2016 Incentive pay Annual bonus In accordance with the approved remuneration policy, the annual bonus plan will be operated as follows in 2016: Corporate Governance • 2016 bonus opportunity is set at 200% of salary for Mark Selway, 150% for Roy Twite and 125% for Daniel Shook. • Bonus will be paid subject to performance in Group profit before tax (40%), organic revenue growth (20%), cash conversion (20%) and strategic and personal objectives (20%). Health and safety will serve as an underpin to ensure bonuses are only paid out when minimum standards are achieved. • In 2016 the annual bonus weightings for Roy Twite will change to reflect his leadership role for the Critical Engineering division. His 2016 annual bonus will be subject to IMI Group profit before tax (35%), Critical Engineering Financial Statements operating profits (15%), Critical Engineering organic revenue growth (15%), Critical Engineering cash conversion (15%) and strategic and personal objectives (20%). • The Committee has determined that the targets associated with the performance measures has been disclosed retrospectively (refer to table on page 65). 72 IMI plc Financial Statements Engineering GREAT the IMI Way Introduction 74 Primary 76-83 Statements An explanation of the financial impacts The primary statements for the Group, of the key events during the year from including the consolidated income our Finance Director, Daniel Shook, statement, balance sheet and together with a more detailed index statement of cash flows. to the financial statements. Section 1 84 Section 2 85-95 Basis of Preparation Results for the Year A description of the key factors Further information relating to the underpinning the Group financial performance of the Group during the statements and significant changes year, providing supporting analysis for in comparison to the prior year. items reported in the income statement. Section 3 96-102 Section 4 103-126 Operating Assets Capital Structure and Liabilities and Financing Costs Further information relating to the Information relating to equity, debt assets and liabilities of the Group at the and retirement benefit obligations in year-end, providing supporting analysis the year-end balance sheet, which for operating items reported in the together form our capital base. balance sheet. Section 5 127-132 Company 145-151 Other Notes Financial Statements Other supporting notes to the Group The financial statements for the holding financial statements, including the company of the Group, IMI plc. accounting policies. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Introduction IMI Critical Engineering invested £7m in a brand new world-class facility at Paju, South Korea in order to support its Korean growth ambitions. This fantastic facility was delivered in just 8 months Strategic Review Below far left IMI Critical Engineering’s brand new facility in Houston, Texas Below left Inside view of IMI Critical Engineering’s new Korean factory showing engineered valves awaiting final test Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 74 IMI plc Financial statements FINANCE DIRECTOR’S INTRODUCTION Introduction from Daniel Shook Dear Shareholder Welcome to the financial statements section of our Annual Report. My financial review commentary is set out in this section alongside the primary statements. These financial statements are presented with the primary statements first, followed by five sections: ‘Basis of preparation’, ‘Results for the year’, ‘Operating assets and liabilities’, ‘Capital structure and financing costs’ and ‘Other notes’. I am very pleased with the progress the IMI Finance Team has made in 2015 to further strengthen our control environment and support our businesses. In the year we fully launched a new, best-in-class Treasury Management System and made considerable progress in strengthening our financial controls. All businesses performed two internal control reviews and declarations, providing evidence that our hard work is delivering improvements across the organisation. Despite difficult market conditions, IMI continues to deliver good results and, importantly, advance its longer term strategic initiatives to position the Group for future growth. Daniel Shook Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Financial statements TABLE OF CONTENTS Primary statements Consolidated income statement and commentary thereon ............................................ 76 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income and commentary thereon ................ 78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity and commentary thereon ......................... 79 Consolidated balance sheet and commentary thereon .................................................. 80 Consolidated statement of cash flows and commentary thereon ................................... 82 Section 1 – Basis of preparation ............................................................................... 84 Section 2 – Results for the year 2.1 Segmental information ............................................................................................. 85 2.2 Exceptional items .................................................................................................... 90 2.3 Earnings per ordinary share ..................................................................................... 91 2.4 Taxation ................................................................................................................... 92 2.5 Discontinued operations .......................................................................................... 95 Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Working capital ........................................................................................................ 96 3.2 Intangible assets ...................................................................................................... 97 3.3 Property, plant and equipment ................................................................................. 99 3.4 Acquisitions ........................................................................................................... 100 3.5 Disposals ............................................................................................................... 101 3.6 Provisions .............................................................................................................. 102 Section 4 – Capital structure and financing costs 4.1 Net debt ................................................................................................................ 103 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings ................................................................... 104 4.3 Net financing costs ................................................................................................ 105 4.4 Financial risk management .................................................................................... 106 4.5 Retirement benefits ................................................................................................ 115 4.6 Share capital ......................................................................................................... 121 4.7 Share-based payments ......................................................................................... 123 4.8 Non-controlling interests ........................................................................................ 126 Section 5 – Other notes 5.1 Contingent liabilities ............................................................................................... 127 5.2 Related party transactions ..................................................................................... 127 5.3 Subsequent events ................................................................................................ 127 5.4 Significant accounting policies ............................................................................... 127 Directors’ Report ...................................................................................................... 133 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities................................................................ 137 Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of IMI plc..................................... 138 IMI plc Company financial statements ................................................................... 145 Subsidiary undertakings .......................................................................................... 152 Five year summary.................................................................................................... 154 Shareholder and general information...................................................................... 156 Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or the Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements. The notes that follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure to assist readers’ understanding and interpretation of the Annual Report and the financial statements. 76 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Exceptional Exceptional Reported items Statutory Reported items Statutory Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2.1 1,557 10 1,567 1,686 6 1,692 Segmental operating profit 2.1 239.4 239.4 298.1 298.1 Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 2.2.1 7.6 7.6 3.9 3.9 Restructuring costs 2.2.2 (2.1) (27.1) (29.2) (2.6) (8.6) (11.2) Gains on special pension events 2.2.3 9.1 9.1 7.0 7.0 Impairment losses 2.2.4 (40.8) (40.8) Acquired intangible amortisation 2.2.4 (32.2) (32.2) (19.6) (19.6) (Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries 2.2.5 (0.4) (8.4) (8.8) 34.2 34.2 Acquisition and disposal costs 2.2.6 (1.8) (1.8) Operating profit 236.9 (51.0) 185.9 295.5 (25.7) 269.8 Financial income 4.3 3.2 20.9 24.1 1.1 15.1 16.2 Financial expense 4.3 (21.6) (25.9) (47.5) (15.4) (21.8) (37.2) Net financial income/(expense) relating to defined benefit pension schemes 4.5.3.3 0.2 0.2 (3.1) (3.1) Net financial expense (18.2) (5.0) (23.2) (17.4) (6.7) (24.1) Profit before tax 218.7 (56.0) 162.7 278.1 (32.4) 245.7 Taxation 2.4.5 (48.1) 8.7 (39.4) (61.2) 8.3 (52.9) Profit from continuing operations after tax 170.6 (47.3) 123.3 216.9 (24.1) 192.8 Profit from discontinued operations after tax 2.5 6.7 6.7 478.5 478.5 Total profit for the year 170.6 (40.6) 130.0 216.9 454.4 671.3 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 127.6 668.5 Non-controlling interests 4.8 2.4 2.8 Profit for the year 130.0 671.3 Earnings per share 2.3 Basic from profit for the year 47.2p 243.4p Diluted from profit for the year 46.8p 241.3p Basic from continuing operations 44.7p 69.2p Diluted from continuing operations 44.4p 68.6p Basic from adjusted profit for the year 62.2p 78.0p Diluted from adjusted profit for the year 61.7p 77.3p Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Results summary (on continuing operations and before exceptional items, Acquisitions and disposal costs see section 2.1.1) There were no exceptional acquisition costs in 2015. Acquisition and disposal Reported revenue decreased by 8% to £1,557m (2014: £1,686m). After costs in 2014 comprised £2.2m of fees associated with the acquisition of Bopp adjusting for an adverse exchange rate impact of £72m and the contribution & Reuther and a net release of £0.4m relating to deferred remuneration included from acquisitions and disposals, organic revenue decreased 5%, reflecting within the post-employment contracts of the vendors for the AFP and NPSL difficult market conditions, particularly in Critical Engineering which was acquisitions. The costs associated with the disposals in 2015 are included impacted by the lower oil price and a slowdown in capital spending globally. within the loss on disposal. Segmental operating profit of £239m (2014: £298m) fell by 20% on a reported Financing costs basis and by 15% at constant exchange rates and excluding acquisitions A net charge arose on the revaluation of financial instruments and derivatives and disposals. The segmental operating margin was 15.4% (2014: 17.7%). under IAS39 of £5m (2014: £7m) principally reflecting movements in exchange Operating profit was £186m (2014: £270m) after the deduction of exceptional rates during the year on forward foreign exchange contracts. items which are discussed in more detail below. Taxation Continuing net interest costs on net borrowings were £18m (2014: £14m) and An exceptional tax credit of £9m (2014: £8m) arose in connection with business reflect the Group’s higher net debt following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther restructuring and other exceptional costs. earlier in 2015. These were covered 15 times (2014: 23 times) by continuing earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items Profit from continuing operations after tax and exceptional items of £275m (2014: £334m). The net pension financing income under IAS19 was Profit after taxation and exceptional items was £123m (2014: £193m). £0.2m (2014: charge of £3m). This movement is as a result of our UK scheme Earnings per share (‘EPS’) being in surplus throughout 2015. The Board considers that a more meaningful indication of the underlying Profit before taxation and exceptional items was £219m (2014: £278m), a performance of the Group is provided by continuing earnings before exceptional decrease on the previous year of 21%. items after tax. Details of this calculation are given in section 2.3 to the Group The effective tax rate for the Group before exceptional items remained at 22% financial statements on page 91. Adjusted EPS from continuing operations was (2014: 22%). The total tax charge for the year on continuing operations was 62.2p, a decrease of 20% on last year’s 78.0p. Statutory basic EPS was down £48m (2014: £61m) and continuing profit after tax was £171m (2014: £217m). 81% to 47.2p (2014: 243.4p) and diluted EPS was 46.8p (2014: 241.3p), both The Group seeks to manage its tax affairs within its core tax principles of decreasing largely as a result of the profit on disposal of the Retail Dispense compliance, fairness, value and transparency, in accordance with the businesses of £478m in the prior year. Group’s Code of Conduct which is explained further in section 2.4. Corporate costs Exceptional items In 2014 and prior years corporate costs were allocated to each of the divisions Operating profit was £186m (2014: £270m) after the deduction of exceptional to arrive at segmental operating profit. For our 2015 reporting we have items which are discussed below: separately disclosed the Group’s corporate costs in our segmental information. This change gives greater transparency of the underlying segmental operating Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses profits for each division. For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together Exchange rates with the gains and losses on their settlements, are included in the segmental The most important foreign currencies for the Group remain the euro and the revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional US dollar and the relevant average rates of exchange for the consolidated item at the operating level reverses this treatment and the loss of £8m (2014: income statement were: £4m) and records a charge within interest (see section 2.2.1). Restructuring costs 2015 2014 The restructuring costs treated as exceptional in 2015 of £27m (2014: £9m) Euro 1.38 1.24 are as a result of a number of significant restructuring projects across the US dollar 1.53 1.65 Group, in particular within Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering. This restructuring is explained in more detail in section 2.2.2 on page 90. The movement in average exchange rates between 2014 and 2015 resulted Restructuring costs of £2m (2014: £3m) that arose from normal recurring in our reported 2015 segmental revenue and segmental operating profit each cost reduction exercises have not been treated as exceptional. being 4% lower as the average euro rate was 11% weaker against sterling Pensions partially offset by the US dollar rate, which strengthened 7% against sterling. During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure to defined benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, If the average exchange rates for January 2016 of US$1.45 and €1.33 were buy-outs and mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US which resulted in projected for the full year and applied to our 2015 results, it is estimated settlement gains of £5m. In addition, following the commencement of a significant that segmental revenue and segmental operating profit would have been restructuring exercise in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4m was realised. approximately 3-4% higher. Impairment and acquired intangible amortisation The Group recorded no exceptional impairment charges in 2015 (2014: £41m). Acquired intangible amortisation increased to £32m (2014: £20m) as a result of the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther. Loss on disposal of subsidiaries The Group disposed of Asterm in H1 resulting in a loss of £0.4m which is presented separately within reported operating profit, as based on its quantum, it did not meet our definition of an exceptional item. In H2 the Group made further disposals of IMI Scott Limited (‘Scott’), Zimmerman & Jansen South Africa (Pty.) Ltd (‘Z&J SA’) and the non-core elements of Nano Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’). The H2 disposals resulted in losses of £8m (2014: profit of £34m) which are presented in the income statement as an exceptional item as, based on their quantum, they meet our definition of exceptional items. The losses on disposals are not disclosed within discontinued operations because none of these businesses represented a separate major line of business. 78 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m Profit for the year 130.0 671.3 Items reclassified to profit and loss in the year Foreign exchange loss/(gain) reclassified to income statement on disposal of operations 2.0 (3.9) Realised gain on settlement of deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds reclassified to income statement (11.2) Related tax effect on items reclassified to profit and loss 2.4 2.0 (12.7) Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss Change in fair value of effective net investment hedge derivatives (11.0) 3.6 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations net of hedge settlements and funding revaluations 2.9 (14.7) Change in fair value on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds (3.0) Fair value (loss)/gain on available for sale financial assets (1.7) 1.1 Related tax effect on items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss (1.6) 1.0 (11.4) (12.0) Items that will not subsequently be reclassified to profit and loss Re-measurement gain on defined benefit plans 27.8 16.6 Related taxation effect in the year (5.6) (2.2) Taxation in relation to restructure of UK Pension Fund 0.5 (6.6) Effect of taxation rate change on previously recognised items (5.1) 17.6 7.8 Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of taxation 8.2 (16.9) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 138.2 654.4 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 135.8 651.6 Non-controlling interests 2.4 2.8 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of taxation 138.2 654.4 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Movements in shareholders’ equity Any net investment hedge derivatives which have not settled by the year-end Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2015 was £546m (2014: £509m). Movements are marked to market on the balance sheet at the year-end and the movements in shareholders’ equity can be split into three categories: are recorded in the hedging reserve. This movement is also included in other • the profit for the year attributable to the equity shareholders of £128m (2014: comprehensive income and in 2015, amounted to a loss of £10m (2014: income £669m). This is discussed on the page opposite the income statement. of £4m) including the related taxation effect. • other comprehensive income movements in the year increased shareholders’ The Group’s foreign denominated net assets are translated into sterling using equity by £8m (2014: £17m reduction). These are discussed below. exchange rates prevailing at the year-end. To the extent that these differ from the • movements taken directly to equity in the year reduced shareholders’ equity rates used at the previous year-end to translate net assets at that date and from by £99m (2014: £743m). These are discussed overleaf. the average exchange rate used to translate foreign denominated income during the year, a difference on reserves arises, which is included in other comprehensive Other comprehensive income income, along with the settlement of net investment hedge derivatives and When the Group makes unrealised gains or losses on assets and liabilities, revaluations of foreign debt, which are used to protect the Group from this instead of being recorded in the income statement, they are credited or exposure. These items (including the related taxation effect) amounted to charged to reserves and recorded in the statement of comprehensive income. a loss of nil in 2015 (2014: loss of £13m). In accordance with the amendment to IAS1, these items are allocated between Movements in available-for-sale assets, which are principally used to fund defined those items that have been reclassified to the income statement, those that benefit obligations in the US, are also recorded in other comprehensive income and may be reclassified to the income statement and those items that will not amounted to a loss of £1m (2014: gain of £1m) including the related taxation effect. subsequently be reclassified to the income statement. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December 2015 Share Capital Total NonShare premium redemption Hedging Translation Retained parent controlling Total capital account reserve reserve reserve earnings equity interests equity £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m As at 1 January 2014 85.3 171.8 7.9 19.0 16.7 300.2 600.9 46.6 647.5 Profit for the year 668.5 668.5 2.8 671.3 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (8.3) (17.1) 8.5 (16.9) (16.9) Total comprehensive income/(expense) (8.3) (17.1) 677.0 651.6 2.8 654.4 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.8 1.9 1.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares capital option 151.9 (151.9) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 10.9 (10.9) Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares (162.8) 162.8 (162.8) (162.8) (162.8) Cancellation of treasury shares (3.7) 3.7 Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares (457.5) (457.5) (457.5) Dividends paid (97.3) (97.3) (0.2) (97.5) Share-based payments (net of tax) 3.2 3.2 3.2 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (30.7) (30.7) (30.7) Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 10.7 (0.4) 232.1 509.3 44.8 554.1 Changes in equity in 2015 Profit for the year 127.6 127.6 2.4 130.0 Other comprehensive income/(expense) (10.1) 1.8 16.5 8.2 8.2 Total comprehensive income/(expense) (10.1) 1.8 144.1 135.8 2.4 138.2 Issue of share capital 0.1 1.0 1.1 1.1 Dividends paid (102.5) (102.5) (102.5) Share-based payments (net of tax) 0.1 0.1 0.1 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 2.3 Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) As at 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 0.6 1.4 276.1 546.1 42.8 588.9 Actuarial movements in the Group’s defined benefit pension obligations are also The credit for share-based payments, which reverses the £1m (2014: £4m) recorded in other comprehensive income. These movements are explained in charged through the income statement in the year, thereby deferring the reduction detail in section 4.5 on page 115. Together with the taxation effect, the gain in the in reserves until such time as the options are exercised, is also recognised here, year was £22m (2014: £14m). together with the reversal of the associated £1m tax credit (2014: £1m). Items recognised directly in equity The credit to reserves relating to the issue of shares by the employee trust to Movements in reserves which represent transactions with the shareholders of the satisfy share options, net of amounts received from employees representing the Group are recognised directly in equity rather than in the income statement or price on exercise for those options was £2m (2014: charge of £31m), refer to through other comprehensive income. section 4.6 for more information. 0.2m (2014: 0.4m) shares were issued during the year, realising £1m (2014: £2m) in the share capital and share premium account. The 2014 final dividend of 24.0p (2014: 22.5p) per share and the 2015 interim dividend of 13.9p (2014: 13.6p) per share were paid during the year, which reduced equity by £103m (2014: £97m). 80 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Notes £m £m Assets Intangible assets 3.2 457.2 367.7 Property, plant and equipment 3.3 230.8 226.5 Employee benefit assets 4.5 88.7 60.2 Deferred tax assets 2.4.7 19.8 21.3 Other receivables 4.6 6.0 Total non-current assets 801.1 681.7 Inventories 3.1.1 233.3 226.3 Trade and other receivables 3.1.2 351.4 368.9 Other current financial assets 4.4.6 2.8 10.5 Current tax 10.4 14.9 Investments 4.4.6 27.0 26.9 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 114.2 43.8 Total current assets 739.1 691.3 Total assets 1,540.2 1,373.0 Liabilities Bank overdraft 4.1 (6.4) (23.0) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (54.1) (2.0) Provisions 3.6 (25.1) (22.7) Current tax (44.6) (42.6) Trade and other payables 3.1.3 (342.1) (333.9) Other current financial liabilities 4.4.6 (8.9) (9.2) Total current liabilities (481.2) (433.4) Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4.2 (290.6) (218.8) Employee benefit obligations 4.5 (84.3) (94.9) Provisions 3.6 (17.5) (16.4) Deferred tax liabilities 2.4.7 (53.5) (27.2) Other payables (24.2) (28.2) Total non-current liabilities (470.1) (385.5) Total liabilities (951.3) (818.9) Net assets 588.9 554.1 Equity Share capital 4.6.1 81.8 81.7 Share premium 11.8 10.8 Other reserves 176.4 184.7 Retained earnings 276.1 232.1 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 546.1 509.3 Non-controlling interests 4.8 42.8 44.8 Total equity 588.9 554.1 Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Net debt The net surplus for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2015 was £4m Net debt at the year-end was £237m compared to £200m at the end of the (2014: £35m net liability). The UK funds surplus was £89m as at 31 December previous year, largely reflecting the payment for the Bopp & Reuther acquisition 2015 (2014: £60m) and constituted 88% (2014: 84%) of the total defined benefit offset by good operating cash delivery. The net debt is composed of a cash liabilities and 95% (2014: 90%) of the total defined benefit assets. The improvement balance of £114m (2014: £44m), a bank overdraft of £6m (2014: £23m) and in the UK funds in 2015 principally arose from actuarial gains of £26m. interest-bearing loans and borrowings of £345m (2014: £221m). The deficit in the overseas funds as at 31 December 2015 was £84m (2014: The year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio was 0.9 times (2014: 0.6 times) based on £95m), including the impact of £4m from the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther. This continuing EBITDA before exceptional items. Following the drawdown of €150m reduction in the overseas deficit is as a result of a number of liability management during the year, at the end of 2015 the loan notes totalled £341m (2014: £218m), exercises that were undertaken during the year, in particular in Switzerland and with a weighted average maturity of 4.6 years (2014: 3.4 years) and other loans the United States. including bank overdrafts totalled £10m (2014: £26m). Total committed bank loan facilities available to the Group at the year-end were £294m (2014: £272m), Details of movements in actuarial assumptions are discussed in section 4.5. of which nil (2014: nil) was drawn. Foreign exchange and interest rate risk Intangible assets Further information on how the Group manages its exposure to these financial The value of the Group’s intangible assets increased to £457m at 31 December risks is shown in section 4.4 of the financial statements on page 106. The most 2015 (2014: £368m), a £118m increase in intangible assets arose in relation to important foreign currencies for the Group remain the euro and the US dollar and the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, which comprised goodwill of £53m, customer the relevant closing rates of exchange for the balance sheet were: relationships of £44m, order book of £9m, brand of £11m and software of £1m. Details of the acquisition accounting for Bopp & Reuther can be found in section As at 31 December 3.4. Other additions to intangible assets were £20m (2014: £18m), including 2015 2014 £14m of IT related capital expenditure, partly offset by the continuing amortisation Euro 1.36 1.29 charge, foreign exchange movements and disposals. US dollar 1.47 1.56 Property, plant and equipment (‘PPE’) The net book value of the Group’s PPE at 31 December 2015 was £231m (2014: Return on capital employed £227m). Capital expenditure on PPE amounted to £51m (2014: £53m), with Post tax return on capital employed (‘ROCE’) from continuing operations was significant capital expenditure on our new manufacturing plant in South Korea 14.3% compared to 18.3% in 2014. and a new Chinese service centre in the Critical Engineering division. Including capitalised intangible assets, total capital expenditure was £71m (2014: £71m) Dividend and was 1.9 times (2014: 1.9 times) the depreciation and amortisation charge The Board has recommended a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 24.5p (excluding acquired intangible amortisation) for the year of £38m (2014: £38m). (2014: 24.0p) per share, an increase of 2.1% over the 2014 final dividend. This makes the total dividend for 2015 of 38.4p (2014: 37.6p). The cost of the Working capital final dividend is expected to be £66m (2014: £65m), leading to a total dividend The reduction in the Group’s trade and other receivables of £18m is due to favourable cost of £104m (2014: £102m) in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015. cash movements of £29m and foreign exchange movements of £6m, partially offset Dividend cover based on reported earnings for the continuing businesses is by an increase of £17m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year. 1.6 times (2014: 2.1 times). As detailed in note C9 of the Company financial statements on page 149, all of the retained earnings at both 31 December 2015 The Group’s inventory increased by £7m due to an increase of £7m following the and 31 December 2014 are considered to be distributable reserves. acquisitions and disposals in the year and a further increase of £4m due to cash movements. These increases were partially offset by a £4m reduction due to Whilst the Group does not have a formal dividend policy or payout ratio, the foreign exchange movements. Group’s aim is to continue with its progressive dividend policy, which typically increases at a steady rate for both the interim and final dividend payments, with The Group’s trade and other payables increased by £4m due to an increase of an aim that the dividend should, through the cycle, be covered by at least two £11m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year and movements in times reported earnings. In making its dividend recommendations, the Board accruals of £4m. These increases were partially offset by cash movements of considers the levels of cash and debt within the Group, forecasted operating £7m and foreign exchange movements of £4m. and capital cash flow requirements and the availability of distributable reserves. The working capital cash movements during the year are discussed in more The Board also monitors the Group’s dividend cover based on reported detail in the narrative opposite the consolidated cash flow statement. earnings for the continuing business. For more details refer to section 4.4.4.4. Taxation Share price and shareholder return The current tax asset fell by £5m to £10m (2014: £15m), as it was used to offset The share price at 31 December 2015 was £8.62 (2014: £12.63) and the current year tax payments (which is discussed further at 2.4.3). Deferred tax average for the year was £11.34 (2014: £14.02) representing a decrease liabilities increased by £27m during the year to £54m (2014: £27m). This largely of 32% and 19% respectively. Based on the 2015 average share price, arose as a result of the recognition of deferred tax on certain intangible assets the proposed total dividend of 38.4p represents a yield of 3.4%. relating to the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, together with the deferred tax taken to the statement of comprehensive income in respect of the pension funds. More analysis of the deferred tax movement in the year is shown in section 2.4.7. Pensions The Group has 63 (2014: 64) defined benefit obligations in existence as at 31 December 2015. The Group recognises there is a funding and investment risk inherent within defined benefit arrangements and seeks to continue its programme of closing overseas defined benefit plans where possible and providing in their place appropriate defined contribution arrangements. 82 IMI plc CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2015 2015 2014 £m £m Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit for the year from continuing operations 185.9 269.8 Operating profit for the year from discontinued operations 0.9 1.0 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortisation 70.4 57.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 6.9 43.5 Loss/(gain) on disposal of subsidiaries 8.8 (34.2) Gain on special pension events (9.1) (7.0) (Profit)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment (6.9) 1.2 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 1.1 4.4 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (3.5) 5.8 Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 29.2 (37.7) Decrease in trade and other payables (7.3) (18.9) Increase/(decrease) in provisions and employee benefits 5.6 (13.7) Cash generated from the operations 282.0 271.8 Income taxes paid (36.2) (67.2) Cash generated from the operations after tax 245.8 204.6 Additional pension scheme funding UK and overseas (2.9) (87.0) Net cash from operating activities 242.9 117.6 Cash flows from investing activities Interest received 3.2 1.1 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 12.0 1.1 Purchase of investments (0.8) (3.6) Settlement of transactional derivatives (5.0) (0.2) Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 29.0 36.7 Acquisitions of subsidiaries net of cash (106.2) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and non-acquired intangibles (70.6) (70.8) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries net of cash 0.6 696.3 Net cash from investing activities (137.8) 660.6 Cash flows from financing activities Interest paid (21.6) (15.4) Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) Shares issued by/(acquired for) employee share scheme trust 2.3 (30.7) Proceeds from the issue of share capital for employee share schemes 1.1 1.9 Net drawdown/(repayment) of borrowings 107.9 (80.7) Dividends paid to equity shareholders and non-controlling interest (102.5) (97.5) Return of cash to equity shareholders (620.3) Net cash from financing activities (17.2) (847.1) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 87.9 (68.9) Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 20.8 90.3 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.9) (0.6) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year* 107.8 20.8 * Net of bank overdrafts of £6.4m (2014: £23.0m). Notes to the cash flow appear in section 4.1. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 COMMENTARY ON THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Reconciliation of EBITDA to movement in net debt Closing net debt The Group’s consolidated statement of cash flows is shown on the opposite The opening net debt was £200m (2014: £199m). There were exchange rate page, which reconciles the operating profit for the year to the change in cash losses of £8m (2014: £12m), principally on US dollar-denominated borrowings. and overdrafts in the balance sheet as required for financial reporting purposes. After the net cash outflow in the year of £22m (2014: £41m inflow), net borrowings acquired of £6m and net cash disposed of £1m, closing net However, because the Group’s debt financing also includes other interestdebt was £237m (2014: £200m). bearing liabilities, it is more insightful to consider the effect of the transactions in the year on the net debt in the balance sheet. Accordingly, a reconciliation between EBITDA (after exceptional items) and net debt is shown in the column 2015 2014 opposite, upon which this section provides commentary. Movement in Net Debt £m £m EBITDA* from continuing operations 263.2 370.9 Operating cash flow Working capital movements 18.4 (50.8) The operating cash flow from continuing operations was £222m (2014: £205m). Capital and development expenditure (70.6) (70.8) This represents a conversion rate of total Group segmental operating profit after restructuring costs of £210m (2014: £287m) into operating cash flow of 106% Loss/(gain) on disposal of subsidiaries 8.8 (34.2) (2014: 71%). Gain on special pension events (9.1) (7.0) Other 11.0 (3.0) Net working capital balances decreased by £18m (2014: £51m increase) during Operating cash flow from continuing operations 221.7 205.1 the year. Inventory increased by £4m (2014: £6m decrease) due to an increase in inventory of £13m within Critical Engineering reflecting the timing of orders and EBITDA from discontinued operations 0.9 1.0 customer shipments, partially offset by inventory reductions in Precision Engineering Other (7.6) and Hydronic Engineering of £6m and £3m respectively as a result of lean initiatives. Operating cash flow from discontinued operations 0.9 (6.6) The Group’s receivables decreased by £29m (2014: £38m increase) as a result Operating cash flow** 222.6 198.5 of both a reduction in revenue and increased efforts across the Group to improve Tax paid (36.2) (67.2) the collection of receivables. Payables decreased by £7m (2014: £19m) due to the timing of payments to suppliers across each of the divisions. Interest/derivatives 5.6 22.2 Cash generation 192.0 153.5 Cash spent on property, plant and equipment and other non-acquired Additional pension scheme funding UK (70.0) intangibles in the year was £71m (2014: £71m) which was equivalent to 1.9 times (2014: 1.9 times) depreciation and amortisation thereon. Additional pension scheme funding overseas (2.9) (17.0) Free cash flow before corporate activity 189.1 66.5 Continuing research and development spend including capitalised intangible Acquisitions (before net cash acquired) (109.2) development costs of £5m (2014: £6m) totalled £52m (2014: £52m). Dividends paid to equity shareholders and In 2015 the Group paid tax of £36m (2014: £67m) which was 75% (2014: non-controlling interest (102.5) (97.5) 109%) of the reported tax charge for the year. This reflects the timing of Return of cash (620.3) estimated tax payments on account and is discussed in more detail in Disposal of subsidiaries 1.4 725.3 section 2.4. Payment to non-controlling interest (4.4) (4.4) In 2015 there was a £29m cash inflow (2014: £37m) following the settlement Net issue/(purchase) of own shares 3.4 (28.8) of currency derivatives hedging the balance sheet. Net cash flow (excluding debt movements) (22.2) 40.8 After payment of interest and tax, the free cash flow generated from operations Opening net debt (200.0) (199.4) was £192m (2014: £154m). Net cash disposed (0.8) (29.0) Free cash flow before corporate activity Net debt acquired (5.6) As noted in section 4.5, following the special pension events in Switzerland Foreign exchange translation (8.3) (12.4) and the US, £2.9m of additional pension contributions were made. Free cash Closing net debt (236.9) (200.0) flow before corporate activity was £189m (2014: £67m). * Earnings before interest (£23m), tax (£39m), depreciation (£33m), Net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) amortisation (£38m) and impairment (£7m). Dividends paid to shareholders totalled £103m (2014: £98m) and there was ** Operating cash flow is the cash generated from the operations shown in the a cash inflow of £3m (2014: £29m outflow) for net share issues to satisfy consolidated statement of cash flows less cash spent acquiring property, employee share options. There was a cash outflow of £109m (excluding plant and equipment, other non-acquired intangible assets and investments; £3m net cash acquired) in relation to the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther. plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and equipment and the The total net cash outflow (excluding debt movements) was £22m (2014: sale of investments. inflow of £41m). 84 IMI plc SECTION 1 – BASIS OF PREPARATION 1.1 ii) Issued Accounting Standards which are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2015 and are not yet endorsed by the EU Introduction The IASB and IFRIC have issued a number of new accounting standards and IMI plc (the ‘Company’) is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom. amendments with an effective date after the date of these financial statements. The consolidated financial statements of the Company comprise the Company The following new standards in particular are expected to have an impact on and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’). The Company financial the Group although the Group is yet to assess the full impact. statements present information about the Company as a separate entity • IFRS9 ‘Financial Instruments’ (2014) and not about the Group. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as A finalised version of IFRS9 was issued in July 2014, incorporating requirements adopted by the EU and applicable law (‘IFRSs’). The Company has elected to for classification and measurement, impairment, general hedge accounting prepare its Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with FRS 101 and de-recognition. The Group is yet to assess the full impact of IFRS9. and these are presented on pages 145 to 151. The financial statements were The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018. approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016. • IFRS15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ (2015) 1.2 IFRS15 provides a single, principles based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers. Guidance is provided on topics such as the point Basis of accounting at which revenue is recognised, accounting for variable consideration, costs of The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (which is the fulfilling and obtaining a contract and various related matters. New disclosures Company’s functional currency), rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, about revenue are also introduced. The Group is still assessing IFRS15’s full except revenues, which are rounded to the nearest whole million. They are impact, following the deferral of the effective date from 2017 to 2018. Early prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and indications suggest our Critical Engineering business will be most likely to be liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments; availableimpacted by any changes. The standard will be adopted from 1 January 2018. for-sale financial assets; financial assets and liabilities identified as hedged • IFRS16 ‘Leases’ (2015) items; and assets and liabilities acquired through business combinations. Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale are stated at the lower of IFRS16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to their carrying amounts and their fair values less costs to sell. recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. The Group is yet to assess The policies described in this section and in the accompanying sections have IFRS16’s full impact, however a significant portion of leases currently accounted been applied consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of these for as operating leases (therefore off balance sheet) would be expected to be consolidated financial statements except as discussed below. Refer to recognised as assets with a corresponding liability under IFRS16. The standard section 5.4 for the Group’s significant accounting policies. will be adopted from 1 January 2019. i) New or amended EU Endorsed Accounting Standards adopted by the Group during 2015 The following amended standards were adopted in these financial statements during 2015, none of which had any impact. • IFRS2 ‘Share-based Payment’ • IFRS3 ‘Business Combinations’ • IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’ • IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ • IAS16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ • IAS19 ‘Employee Benefits’ • IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ • IAS38 ‘Intangible Assets’ Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR What you will find in this section This section focuses on the results and performance of the Group. On the following pages you will find disclosures explaining the Group’s results for the year, including segmental information, exceptional items, taxation and earnings per share. 2.1 Segmental information Reported revenues and profits for the Group are stated before exceptional items as presented in the consolidated income statement. Organic revenue growth and operating profit are the two short-term key performance indicators or measures that reflect the way the performance of the Group is managed and monitored by the Executive Committee. In this section the key constituents of these two KPI’s, being the Group’s revenues and segmental operating profits, are analysed by reference to the performance and activities of the Group’s segments and their operating costs. Organic revenue growth is the growth in segmental revenues on a like-for-like basis excluding the effects of acquisitions, disposals and exchange rate movements. 2.1.1 Segmental information Segmental information is presented in the consolidated financial statements for each of the Group’s operating segments. The operating segment reporting format reflects the Group’s management and internal reporting structures and represents the information that was presented to the chief operating decision-maker, being the Executive Committee. As described on page 2, each of the Group’s three divisions has a number of key brands across its main markets and operational locations. For the purposes of reportable segmental information, operating segments are aggregated into the Group’s three divisions, as the nature of the products, production processes and types of customer are similar within each division. Inter-segment revenue is insignificant. Continuing operations Corporate costs IMI Critical Engineering In 2014 and prior years corporate costs were allocated to each of the divisions IMI Critical Engineering is a world-leading provider of critical flow control to arrive at segmental operating profit. Whilst our corporate costs do not meet solutions that enable vital energy and process industries to operate safely, the definition of an operating segment under IFRS8 ‘Operating Segments’, for cleanly, reliably and more efficiently. 2015 reporting we have separately disclosed corporate costs before arriving at segmental operating profit so that reporting is consistent with the format IMI Precision Engineering that has been used for review by the chief operating decision maker from IMI Precision Engineering specialises in developing motion and fluid control 1 January 2015. As required by IFRS8, comparative amounts have been technologies for applications where precision, speed and reliability are essential. restated to reflect this change. This change gives greater transparency of the underlying segmental operating profits for each division. IMI Hydronic Engineering IMI Hydronic Engineering designs and manufactures technologies which deliver Definitions optional and energy efficient heating and cooling systems to the residential and References to segmental revenue, segmental operating profit and segmental commercial building sectors. operating margins, unless otherwise stated, relate to amounts on a reported basis before exceptional items as noted on the face of the consolidated Performance is measured based on segmental operating profit which is the income statement. profit reported by the business, stated before exceptional items and other restructuring costs (see section 2.2). References to organic growth exclude the impact of exchange rate translation and acquisitions or disposals that are included in reported figures. The organic Businesses enter into forward currency and metal contracts to provide growth is derived from excluding any contribution from acquired businesses economic hedges against the impact on profitability of swings in rates and to revenue or profit in the current period until the first anniversary of their values in accordance with the Group’s policy to minimise the risk of volatility acquisition. It also excludes the contribution to revenue or profit in both the in revenues, costs and margins. Segmental operating profits are therefore current and comparative period from any business that has been disposed. charged/credited with the impact of these contracts. In accordance with This organic revenue or profit will then be compared to the organic revenue IAS39, these contracts do not meet the technical provisions required for hedge or profit for the prior period after their re-translation at the current period accounting and gains and losses are reversed out of segmental revenue and average exchange rates to provide the organic growth rate. profit and are recorded in net financial income and expense for the purposes of the consolidated income statement. 86 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued The following table illustrates how the results for the segments reconcile to the overall results reported in the income statement. Revenue Operating profit Operating margin 2014 2014 2015 2014 2015 restated* 2015 restated* £m £m £m £m % % Continuing operations IMI Critical Engineering 631 692 93.1 131.4 14.8% 19.0% IMI Precision Engineering 662 710 117.7 138.5 17.8% 19.5% IMI Hydronic Engineering 264 284 51.8 56.8 19.6% 20.0% Corporate costs (23.2) (28.6) Total segmental revenue/segmental operating profit and margin 1,557 1,686 239.4 298.1 15.4% 17.7% Restructuring costs (non-exceptional) (2.1) (2.6) Loss on disposal of subsidiaries (non-exceptional) (0.4) Total segmental revenue/operating profit and margin (before exceptional items) 1,557 1,686 236.9 295.5 15.2% 17.5% Reversal of net economic hedge contract losses/(gains) 10 6 7.6 3.9 Restructuring costs (27.1) (8.6) Gains on special pension events 9.1 7.0 Impairment losses (40.8) Acquired intangible amortisation (32.2) (19.6) (Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries (8.4) 34.2 Acquisition and disposal costs (1.8) Statutory revenue/operating profit 1,567 1,692 185.9 269.8 Net financial expense (23.2) (24.1) Profit before tax from continuing operations 162.7 245.7 *Restatement reflects the separate disclosure of corporate costs. The following table illustrates how revenue and operating profit have been impacted by movements in foreign exchange, acquisitions and disposals. Year ended 31 December 2015 Year ended 31 December 2014 Movement As Acquisitions/ Reported Organic As in foreign Acquisitions/ reported disposals Organic growth (%) growth (%) reported exchange disposals Organic Segmental revenue IMI Critical Engineering 631 (52) 579 -9% -10% 692 (26) (23) 643 IMI Precision Engineering 662 662 -7% -3% 710 (23) (1) 686 IMI Hydronic Engineering 264 264 -7% 2% 284 (23) (2) 259 Total 1,557 (52) 1,505 -8% -5% 1,686 (72) (26) 1,588 Segmental operating profit IMI Critical Engineering 93.1 (1.2) 91.9 -29% -24% 131.4 (5.4) (5.7) 120.3 IMI Precision Engineering 117.7 117.7 -15% -14% 138.5 (3.4) 1.7 136.8 IMI Hydronic Engineering 51.8 51.8 -9% -1% 56.8 (4.3) (0.1) 52.4 Corporate costs (23.2) (23.2) (28.6) (28.6) Total 239.4 (1.2) 238.2 -20% -15% 298.1 (13.1) (4.1) 280.9 Segmental operating profit margin (%) 15.4% 15.8% 17.7% 17.7% Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 The following table illustrates how the segmental assets and liabilities reconcile to the overall total assets and liabilities reported in the balance sheet. Assets Liabilities 2015 2014 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m IMI Critical Engineering 682.1 590.2 196.9 183.6 IMI Precision Engineering 419.2 430.6 90.7 91.9 IMI Hydronic Engineering 165.6 149.7 53.7 45.8 Total segmental assets/liabilities 1,266.9 1,170.5 341.3 321.3 Corporate items 9.1 17.4 61.5 71.4 Employee benefits 88.7 60.2 84.3 94.9 Investments 27.0 26.9 Net debt items 114.2 43.8 351.1 243.8 Net taxation and others 34.3 54.2 113.1 87.5 Total assets and liabilities in Group balance sheet 1,540.2 1,373.0 951.3 818.9 The following table includes other information to show how certain costs are allocated between the segments of the Group. Restructuring Capital costs* Expenditure Amortisation** Depreciation 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m IMI Critical Engineering 13.4 5.1 22.4 27.0 33.2 18.8 11.7 10.6 IMI Precision Engineering 13.6 5.8 30.4 25.6 3.0 4.3 14.1 15.3 IMI Hydronic Engineering 2.2 0.3 17.2 12.7 1.3 1.5 6.3 6.6 29.2 11.2 70.0 65.3 37.5 24.6 32.1 32.5 Corporate costs 0.6 5.5 0.8 0.5 Total 29.2 11.2 70.6 70.8 37.5 24.6 32.9 33.0 * Restructuring costs include both exceptional and non-exceptional. ** The amortisation figures above includes the amortisation of acquired intangibles. £30.8m (2014: £17.2m) is included in respect of Critical Engineering, the increase being due to the acquisition of Bopp and Reuther in the year, £1.2m (2014: £2.1m) is included in respect of Precision Engineering and £0.2m (2014: £0.3m) is included in respect of Hydronic Engineering. 88 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued The following table shows a geographical analysis of how the Group’s revenue is derived by destination. 2015 2014 Revenue Revenue £m £m UK 90 98 Germany 219 235 Other Western Europe 344 409 Western Europe 563 644 USA 311 300 Canada 23 18 North America 334 318 Emerging Markets 505 544 Rest of World 65 82 Total segmental revenue 1,557 1,686 Reversal of economic hedge contract losses 10 6 Total 1,567 1,692 Continuing revenue by destination (2015) Continuing revenue by destination (2014) Rest of the UK Rest of the UK World 6% World 6% 4% 5% Emerging Western Europe Emerging Western Europe Markets 36% Markets 38% 33% 32% North America North America 21% 19% The following table shows a geographical analysis of the location of the Group’s property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. 2015 2014 £m £m UK 77.5 77.0 Germany 223.2 130.9 Rest of Europe 205.3 208.2 USA 129.4 123.6 Asia Pacific 39.0 35.4 Rest of World 13.6 19.1 Total 688.0 594.2 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 2.1.2 The aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was £2.9m (2014: £10.6m). The remuneration, as defined in the Companies Act Operating costs by function 2006 Schedule 5, for the executive directors’ comprises fixed and annual variable pay as set out in the table on page 62 of the Remuneration Report. For details of the non-executive directors’ remuneration please refer to page The following table is included to show how much of the operating costs 70 of the Remuneration Report. In addition, in 2014 former executive director deducted from revenue to arrive at the Group’s post-exceptional operating M J Lamb received remuneration of £0.5m and former non-executive director profit, relate to cost of sales, selling and distribution costs, administrative P Bentley received remuneration of £0.1m. These comparatives are required expenses and exceptional items. under IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ but are not required to be disclosed in the single figure table in the Remuneration Report. 2015 2014 2.1.3.2 Operating lease charges and operating lease commitments £m £m Segmental revenue 1,557.0 1,686.0 The Group enters into leases for property, plant and equipment assets when doing so represents a more cost-effective or lower risk option than Cost of sales (866.7) (919.6) purchasing them. This leads to an income statement charge for the year Segmental gross profit 690.3 766.4 and future commitments for the Group in respect of these leases. Selling and distribution costs (199.9) (211.5) Administrative expenses (251.0) (256.8) Continuing operating costs include a charge of £14.7m (2014: £14.4m) Loss on disposal (0.4) relating to the lease of properties and a charge of £7.7m (2014: £7.8m) Restructuring costs (2.1) (2.6) relating to the lease of plant and machinery. The continuing commitments Operating profit before exceptional items 236.9 295.5 in respect of non-cancellable operating leases in place are shown in the following table by time period: Exceptional items* (51.0) (25.7) Operating profit 185.9 269.8 2015 2014 * The exceptional costs are analysed in detail in section 2.2. Land and Land and buildings Others buildings Others £m £m £m £m 2.1.3 Within one year 13.7 6.6 13.4 7.5 Specific elements of operating costs In the second to fifth year 39.4 8.6 41.3 10.8 After five years 20.7 35.0 1.5 Certain specific items of operating expenses are disclosed to provide the 73.8 15.2 89.7 19.8 reader of financial statements with more information regarding these costs. This section provides this analysis. 2.1.3.3 Research and development expenditure The continuing cost of research and development expenditure charged directly 2.1.3.1 Employee information to the income statement was £46.7m (2014: £45.4m). In addition, amortisation The average number of people employed by the Group during the year was: of capitalised intangible development costs amounted to £2.5m (2014: £2.3m) and across the Group a further £5.3m (2014: £6.4m) was capitalised. 2015 2014 2.1.3.4 Exchange gains on operating activities net of IMI Critical Engineering 4,236 3,971 hedging arrangements IMI Precision Engineering 5,482 5,748 The transactional foreign exchange losses in the Group were £1.3m (2014: £1.8m). IMI Hydronic Engineering 1,862 1,878 2.1.3.5 Audit Fees Corporate 131 151 The Group engages its auditor, EY, to perform assignments in addition to their Total Group 11,711 11,748 statutory audit duties where their expertise, experience and knowledge of the Group should enable them to perform these assignments more efficiently than The aggregate employment cost charged to operating profit for the year was: other similar service providers. The Group’s policy on such assignments is set out in the Audit Committee Report 2015 2014 on page 55. Fees earned by EY and its associates during the year are set out below: £m £m Wages and salaries 427.9 436.7 2015 2014 £m £m Share based payments 1.1 4.4 Social security costs 77.0 84.3 Fees earned by the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s annual accounts 0.2 0.2 Pension costs* 2.2 10.1 The audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, Total 508.2 535.5 pursuant to legislation 2.5 2.5 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.3 * In 2015, pension costs include the gains on special pension events which are disclosed as exceptional items, see section 4.5.3.3. The 2014 comparatives Other assurance services 0.1 include a gain of £3.5m in relation to our Swedish pension scheme. The £3.5m Total 2.9 3.0 gain arising from the split of the UK Funds was excluded as this was in respect of former employees. 90 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.2 2.2.3 Exceptional items Gains on special pension events During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure to defined The Group uses the exceptional items category in the income statement to benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, buy-outs and classify separately items of both income and expense which are sufficiently mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US. These exercises resulted in settlement large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements gains of £4.9m. Following the commencement of a restructuring exercise in to gain a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m was realised. Gains on special pension events in the UK and Sweden of £7.0m were recognised in 2014. The following items are considered to be exceptional in these financial statements. 2.2.4 2.2.1 Impairment losses and acquired Reversal of net economic hedge contract intangible amortisation losses/gains As reported on page 98, following completion of the Group’s annual impairment For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic review, no impairment charge has been recognised in 2015 against goodwill hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, together or intangible assets (2014: £40.8m). As described in 2.2.2, directly resulting with the gains and losses on their settlement, are included in the segmental from a number of significant restructuring projects was £6.9m of impairment of revenues and operating profit of the relevant business segment. The exceptional property, plant and equipment. An analysis by segment of acquired intangible items at the operating level reverse this treatment. The financing exceptional amortisation is included in section 2.1.1. items reflect the change in value or settlement of these contracts with the financial institutions with whom they were transacted. The former comprised 2.2.5 a reversal of a loss of £7.6m (2014: reversal of a loss of £3.9m) and the latter amounted to a loss of £5.0m (2014: loss of £6.7m). Losses on disposal of subsidiaries Losses on the disposal of Scott, Z&J SA and part of our NPSL business are 2.2.2 discussed in section 3.5. Restructuring costs 2.2.6 The restructuring costs treated as exceptional in 2015 of £27.1m (2014: £8.6m) are as a result of a number of significant restructuring projects across the Group. These Acquisition and disposal costs include £9.6m relating to a large European restructuring exercise across each of the divisions and £9.3m in relation to the restructuring of our Switzerland business, There were no exceptional acquisition and disposal costs in 2015. Acquisition that both Critical Engineering and Precision Engineering operate from. Our Critical and disposal costs in 2014 comprised £2.2m of fees associated with the Engineering business in Switzerland will be merged with Bopp & Reuther acquisition of Bopp & Reuther and a net release of £0.4m relating to deferred along with our Canadian Nuclear business which is also being closed at a cost of remuneration included within the post-employment contracts of the vendors £1.7m. £3.6m was incurred in relation to the closure of two of our Petrochemical for the AFP and NPSL acquisitions. sites in Italy and Germany, with further costs expected in 2016. As part of Critical Engineering’s localisation plan in China, £1.1m of restructuring costs were incurred. 2.2.7 Included within the costs above are £6.9m of impairment charges against property, plant and equipment directly resulting from these significant restructuring projects. Taxation Exceptional restructuring costs in 2014 related to the closure of IMI The tax effects of the above items are included in the exceptional column Components and the IMI Precision Engineering UK factory move (£8.6m). of the income statement. Further costs of £1.8m were incurred associated with these restructuring exercises in 2015. Other restructuring costs of £2.1m (2014: £2.6m) are not included in the measure of segment operating profit reported to the Executive Committee. These costs have been charged below segmental operating profit and included in reported operating profit as, based on their quantum, they do not meet our definition of exceptional items. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 2.3 Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per share (‘EPS’) is the amount of post-tax profit attributable to each share (excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust or by the Company). Basic EPS measures are calculated as the Group profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year. Diluted EPS takes into account the dilutive effect of all outstanding share options priced below the market price, in arriving at the number of shares used in its calculation. Both of these measures are also presented on an adjusted basis, to remove the effects of exceptional items, being items of both income and expense which are sufficiently large, volatile or one-off in nature to assist the reader of the financial statements to get a better understanding of the underlying performance of the Group. The note below demonstrates how this calculation has been performed. 2015 2014 Key million million Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of basic earnings per share A 270.6 274.6 Dilutive effect of employee share options 1.9 2.4 Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of diluted earnings per share B 272.5 277.0 Key £m £m Profit for the year 130.0 671.3 Non-controlling interests (2.4) (2.8) Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent C 127.6 668.5 Profits from discontinued operations, net of tax (6.7) (478.5) Continuing profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent D 120.9 190.0 Total exceptional charges included in profit before tax 56.0 32.4 Total exceptional credits included in taxation (8.7) (8.3) Earnings for adjusted EPS E 168.2 214.1 Key 2015 2014 EPS measures Basic EPS C/A 47.2p 243.4p Diluted EPS C/B 46.8p 241.3p Basic continuing EPS D/A 44.7p 69.2p Diluted continuing EPS D/B 44.4p 68.6p Adjusted EPS measures Adjusted basic continuing EPS E/A 62.2p 78.0p Adjusted diluted continuing EPS E/B 61.7p 77.3p The reduction in the weighted average number of shares is primarily as a result of the 7 for 8 share consolidation on 17 February 2014. Discontinued earnings per share Basic discontinued earnings per share were 2.5p (2014: 174.2p). Diluted discontinued earnings per share were 2.4p (2014: 172.7p). 92 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.4 2.4.3 Taxation Tax payments During the year, the Group made payments of corporate income tax of £36.2m IMI operates through subsidiary companies all around the world that pay many (2014: £67.2m), principally as follows: different taxes such as corporate income taxes, VAT, payroll withholdings, social security contributions, customs import and excise duties. This note aggregates Jurisdiction of Companies Making Corporate Income Tax Payments: only those corporate income taxes that are or will be levied on the individual profits of IMI plc and its subsidiary companies for periods leading up to and Germany £6.3m including the balance sheet date. The profits of each company are subject to certain adjustments as specified by applicable tax laws in each country to arrive at the tax liability that is expected to result on their tax returns. Where these Other £12.3m adjustments have future tax impact then deferred taxes may also be recorded. 2015 £36.2m US £6.9m 2.4.1 Sweden £0.8m Tax governance, risk and strategy UK £1.1m Italy £3.7m IMI recognises its corporate responsibility to ensure that all businesses within the IMI group follow responsible tax practices. Accordingly, the IMI Tax Policy Switzerland £4.7m Japan £0.4m sets the core principles of compliance, fairness, value and transparency for the management of the Group’s tax affairs. This Policy has been approved by the Board, fully communicated to subsidiary businesses and is regularly reviewed Other £12.5m to ensure responsible business practices across the Group are maintained. A Germany £11.3m robust tax governance framework has also been established under which the Sweden £5.2m Executive Committee and the IMI Board are appraised on a timely basis of any material or significant tax matters, so that appropriate action can be effected. IMI seeks to manage its taxation obligations worldwide in compliance with all UK £6.5m 2014 £67.2m applicable tax laws and regulations, as well as fully in line with the Group’s Code US £10.4m of Conduct. Accordingly, the tax contribution by the individual businesses is monitored and processes installed such that corporate tax returns should be Switzerland £6.6m accurately filed with the tax authorities around the world and taxes paid on time. In particular, IMI aims to build positive working relationships with tax authorities Japan £6.9m Italy £7.8m by co-operating in a constructive, open and timely manner. IMI seeks to disclose its tax affairs in its published accounts and taxation returns fully in accordance with the applicable standards and, where appropriate, will supplement its tax There is normally an element of volatility in the annual payments of corporate disclosures with further information to better inform, and to be transparent to, its income taxes due to the timing of assessments, acquisitions and disposals, stakeholders. As tax laws are often complex, there will be areas of differing legal exceptional items and payments on account in the many countries in which interpretation. Where this occurs, IMI seeks to engage in proactive discussion with the Group operates. In particular the level of payments made during 2015 was the fiscal authorities to obtain early resolution and seek to remove uncertainty and reduced compared to 2014 as the Group recovered certain tax prepayments that controversy. Tax risks are regularly assessed for all companies within the Group, had built up during 2014. In addition, the 2014 payments included a one-off tax promptly addressed and reported so that they may be appropriately provided payment arising from restructuring of the UK defined benefit pension schemes, and disclosed in the relevant accounts and tax returns. which was recognised through other comprehensive income. IMI seeks to record its profits across the subsidiary companies around the world on The Group makes substantial other tax payments relating to employment, an arm’s length basis in accordance with internationally accepted best practices, consumption, procurement and investment to local authorities around the world. recognising the relative contributions of people, assets, intellectual property and risks borne by the various businesses. IMI manages the impact of taxation on its businesses in a responsible manner by only 2.4.4 adopting legitimate, commercial and generally acceptable positions. In particular, IMI Recognised in the income statement seeks to follow not only the law itself but the intention of the local laws where this can reasonably be ascertained. As a UK Headquartered group, IMI’s profits are ultimately This section sets out the current and deferred tax charges, which together subject to UK taxation, although as the Group pays significant taxes overseas, the comprise the total tax charge in the income statement. overall effective tax rate for the Group is marginally above the UK statutory tax rate. 2.4.2 2015 £m 2014 £m UK corporation tax Current tax charge The average weighted rate of corporation tax in the UK for the 2015 calendar Current tax charge 34.6 46.3 year was 20.25% (2014: 21.5%). Changes to the rate of UK corporation tax Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.3 (3.4) were proposed in the budget of 8 July 2015 to reduce the rate to 19% from 37.9 42.9 1 April 2017 and to 18% from 1 April 2020. These were substantively enacted Deferred taxation on 26 October 2015. UK deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been calculated using a rate of 18% (2014: 20%), on the basis that no material items Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 12.5 are forecast to reverse prior to 1 April 2020. Total income tax charge 38.0 55.4 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 The above income tax charge is apportioned between continuing and discontinued operations in the income statement as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m Current tax charge Total income tax charge Continuing operations 39.3 39.9 Continuing operations 39.4 52.9 Discontinued operations (1.4) 3.0 Discontinued operations (1.4) 2.5 37.9 42.9 38.0 55.4 Deferred tax charge Continuing operations 0.1 13.0 Discontinued operations (0.5) 0.1 12.5 2.4.5 Reconciliation of effective tax rate As IMI’s head office and parent company is domiciled in the UK, the Group references its effective tax rate to the UK corporation tax rate, despite only a small proportion of the Group’s business being in the UK. Therefore, the following tax reconciliation applies the UK corporation tax rate for the year to profit before tax, both before and after exceptional items. This resulting tax charge is reconciled to the actual tax charge for the Group, by taking account of specific tax adjustments as follows: 2015 2014 Before Exceptional Before Exceptional exceptionals items Total exceptionals items Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit before tax from continuing operations 218.7 (56.0) 162.7 278.1 (32.4) 245.7 Profit before tax from discontinued operations (section 2.5) 5.3 5.3 481.0 481.0 Profit before tax 218.7 (50.7) 168.0 278.1 448.6 726.7 Income tax using the Company’s domestic rate of tax of 20.25% (2014: 21.5%) 44.3 (10.3) 34.0 59.8 96.4 156.2 Effects of: Non-deductible items 2.7 1.5 4.2 2.9 4.7 7.6 Non-taxable loss/(profit) on disposal of businesses 0.1 0.5 0.6 (108.0) (108.0) Release of deferred tax asset 1.0 1.6 2.6 Utilisation of losses on which no deferred tax had been recognised (2.6) (2.6) Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised 3.2 3.2 1.3 1.3 Change in future tax rate on UK deferred tax (5.5) (5.5) Differing tax rates 0.1 (3.5) (3.4) 0.8 (1.7) (0.9) Under/(over) provided in prior years 4.8 0.1 4.9 (3.6) 2.8 (0.8) Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 48.1 (10.1) 38.0 61.2 (5.8) 55.4 Income tax expense reported in the consolidated income statement 48.1 (8.7) 39.4 61.2 (8.3) 52.9 Effective rate of tax (continuing operations): 22.0% 24.2% 22.0% 21.5% Income tax attributable to discontinued operations (section 2.5) (1.4) (1.4) 2.5 2.5 Effective rate of tax (discontinued operations): -26.4% 0.5% Total tax in income statement (section 2.4) 48.1 (10.1) 38.0 61.2 (5.8) 55.4 Effective rate of tax (total Group): 22.0% 22.6% 22.0% 7.6% 94 IMI plc SECTION 2 – RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Continued 2.4.6 Recognised outside of the income statement In addition to amounts charged to the income statement, some current tax and deferred tax is charged/(credited) directly to equity or through other comprehensive income, which can be analysed as follows: 2015 2014 £m £m Deferred tax: On equity-settled transactions 0.9 5.2 On change in value of effective net investment hedge derivatives (0.9) 0.7 On available for sale financial assets (0.6) 0.4 On fair value gain on deal-contingent forward relating to disposal proceeds (3.0) On re-measurement gains and on defined benefit plans 10.7 2.2 On pension restructuring (3.0) 10.1 2.5 Current tax: On pension restructuring (0.5) 9.6 On foreign currency translation differences 3.1 (1.5) On equity-settled transactions 0.1 (4.0) 12.8 6.6 Of which the following amounts are charged/(credited): to the statement of comprehensive income 11.8 5.4 to the statement of changes in equity 1.0 1.2 12.8 6.6 2.4.7 Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred taxes record the tax consequences of temporary differences between the accounting and taxation recognition of certain items, as explained below: Assets Liabilities Net 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets 1.9 3.7 (48.1) (40.8) (46.2) (37.1) Inventories 3.1 3.5 (4.1) (4.1) (1.0) (0.6) On revaluation of derivatives 0.7 1.9 (2.2) (2.4) (1.5) (0.5) Employee benefits and provisions 30.0 35.2 (15.9) (5.4) 14.1 29.8 Other tax assets 0.9 2.5 0.9 2.5 36.6 46.8 (70.3) (52.7) (33.7) (5.9) Offsetting within tax jurisdictions (16.8) (25.5) 16.8 25.5 Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 19.8 21.3 (53.5) (27.2) (33.7) (5.9) Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 The movement in the net deferred tax balances has been recognised in the financial statements as analysed below: Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Acquisitions Balance at 1 Jan 15 statement statement Exchange /disposals 31 Dec 15 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (37.1) 8.3 2.0 (19.4) (46.2) Inventories (0.6) (0.2) (0.2) (1.0) On revaluation of derivatives (0.5) (1.8) 0.9 (0.1) (1.5) Employee benefits and provisions 29.8 (5.1) (11.0) 0.3 0.1 14.1 Other tax assets 2.5 (1.3) (0.3) 0.9 Net deferred tax asset/(liability) (5.9) (0.1) (10.1) 1.7 (19.3) (33.7) Recognised Recognised in the outside the Balance at income income Balance at 1 Jan 14 statement statement Exchange Disposals 31 Dec 14 £m £m £m £m £m £m Non-current assets (53.5) 7.1 (0.2) 9.5 (37.1) Inventories 0.1 (2.4) (0.2) 1.9 (0.6) On revaluation of derivatives (1.8) (0.9) 2.3 (0.1) (0.5) Employee benefits and provisions 54.6 (15.8) (4.8) (4.2) 29.8 Other tax assets 4.0 (0.5) (0.3) (0.7) 2.5 Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 3.4 (12.5) (2.5) (0.8) 6.5 (5.9) All exchange movements are taken through the translation reserve. 2.4.8 Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets of £48.9m (2014: £39.8m) have not been recognised in respect of tax losses of £32.8m (2014: £16.1m), interest of £59.0m (2014: £40.4m) and capital losses of £123.2m (2014: £113.3m). The majority of the tax losses have no expiry date. No deferred tax asset has been recognised for these temporary differences due to uncertainty over their offset against future taxable profits and therefore their recoverability. It is likely that the majority of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption. However £74.3m (2014: £81.7m) of those earnings may still result in a tax liability principally as a result of withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate. These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed £5.3m (2014: £8.1m), of which £4.7m (2014: £2.0m) has been provided on the basis that the Group expects to remit these amounts. The balance has not been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of dividends and does not expect to pay up these amounts in the foreseeable future. 2.5 Discontinued operations When the Group has assets and liabilities that are likely to be sold rather than being held for continuing use and when accounting standards require, these assets and liabilities are included in current assets and liabilities and denoted ‘held for sale’ rather than in their usual categories. If they represent a significant enough proportion of the Group, they are also treated as discontinued operations. This means that their trading performance, i.e. their revenues, costs and other items of income and expense, are no longer reported within the headline figures in the income statement and are instead reported in a separate line, net of tax, called ‘discontinued operations’. These amounts no longer form part of continuing earnings per share. Comparative figures are restated to be shown on the same basis. This enables the income statement for the current and prior year to be presented on a consistent basis and to convey a more forward-looking version of the results for the year. A pre-tax and post-tax gain of £4.4m was recognised in the current year as a result of the finalisation of a number of matters relating to the disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses, which were sold on 1 January 2014 and a pre-tax gain of £0.9m and post-tax gain of £2.3m relating to other discontinued operations. The prior year comparative includes a post-tax gain on disposal of the Retail Dispense businesses of £477.5m and a pre-tax and post-tax gain of £1.0m relating to other discontinued operations. 96 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES What you will find in this section This section shows the assets used to generate the Group’s trading performance and the liabilities incurred as a result. Liabilities relating to the Group’s financing activities are addressed in Section 4. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in Section 2.4.7. On the following pages there are sections covering working capital, non-current assets, acquisitions, other payables due after more than one year, provisions and pensions. 3.1 3.1.2 Working capital Trade and other receivables Working capital represents the assets and liabilities the Group generates 2015 2014 through its trading activities. The Group therefore defines working capital £m £m as trade and other receivables, inventory and trade and other payables. Current Working capital is managed very carefully to ensure that the Group can Trade receivables 291.3 318.0 meet its trading and financing obligations within its ordinary operating cycle. Other receivables 39.8 34.8 To provide the Executive Committee with insight into the management Prepayments and accrued income 20.3 16.1 of working capital, an important measure monitored is cash conversion. 351.4 368.9 Cash conversion is defined as the operating cash flow (as defined in the commentary on the cash flow statement) divided by the segmental operating Receivables are stated after: profit which therefore represents the proportion of segmental operating profit Allowance for impairment 8.9 7.1 generated during the year that has been converted into cash. The reduction in the Group’s trade and other receivables of £18m is due to favourable cash movements of £29m and foreign exchange movements of 3.1.1 £6m, partially offset by an increase of £17m following the acquisitions and Inventories disposals in the year. The Group’s exposure to credit and market risks related to trade and other 2015 2014 receivables is disclosed in section 4.4. £m £m Raw materials and consumables 78.8 87.0 3.1.3 Work in progress 99.7 71.9 Trade and other payables Finished goods 54.8 67.4 233.3 226.3 2015 2014 £m £m In 2015 the cost of inventories recognised as an expense (being segmental Current cost of sales) amounted to £866.7m (2014: £919.6m). The Group’s inventory Trade payables 171.2 164.4 increased by £7m due to an increase of £7m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year and a further increase of £4m due to an increase in Social security and other taxation 21.1 26.1 inventory of £13m within Critical Engineering, reflecting the timing of orders Other payables 5.9 7.5 and customer shipments, partially offset by inventory reductions in Precision Accruals and deferred income 143.9 135.9 Engineering and Hydronic Engineering of £6m and £3m respectively as a result 342.1 333.9 of lean initiatives. These increases were partially offset by a £4m reduction due Non-current to foreign exchange movements. Other payables 24.2 28.2 In 2015 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to £5.8m 366.3 362.1 (2014: £7.9m). The reversal of write-downs amounted to £2.5m (2014: £3.9m). Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to on-going assessments of The Group’s trade and other payables increased by £4m due to an increase of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale £11m following the acquisitions and disposals in the year and movements in values across all of the Group’s businesses. accruals of £4m. These increases were partially offset by cash movements of £7m and foreign exchange movements of £4m. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 3.2 Intangible assets T  he following section shows the non-physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include goodwill, customer relationships, order books, patents, development costs and software development costs. The cost of these assets is the amount that the Group has paid for them or, when they have arisen due to a business combination, the fair value of the specific intangible assets that could be sold separately or which arise from legal rights. In the case of goodwill, its cost is the amount the Group has paid in acquiring a business over and above the fair value of the individual assets net of the liabilities acquired. The value of the goodwill can arise from a number of sources, but in relation to our more recent acquisitions, it has been represented by post-acquisition synergies and the skills and knowledge of the workforce. The value of the Group’s intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, reduces over the number of years over which the Group expects to use the asset, the useful life, via an annual amortisation charge to the income statement.  he Group splits its intangible assets between those arising on acquisitions and those which do not, because the amortisation of acquired intangibles meets T the definition of an exceptional item as described in section 2.2. W  here there are indications that the value of intangible assets is no longer representative of their value to the Group, for example where there is a customer relationship recognised but revenues from that customer are reducing, or where goodwill was recognised on an acquisition but the performance of the business acquired is below expectations, the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their amortised values. If this has happened, a one-off impairment charge is recognised. This section explains the overall carrying values of the intangible assets within the Group and the specific judgements and estimates made by the directors in arriving at these values. 3.2.1 Analysis of intangible assets Non-acquired Acquired Other Total Other nonintangibles customer acquired acquired acquired under Goodwill relationships intangibles intangibles intangibles construction Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost As at 1 January 2014 330.0 137.2 85.4 552.6 48.2 600.8 Exchange adjustments (9.3) (6.0) (3.3) (18.6) (2.5) (21.1) Additions 7.3 10.9 18.2 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 0.2 (0.2) Disposals (0.6) (0.6) As at 31 December 2014 320.7 131.2 82.1 534.0 52.6 10.7 597.3 Exchange adjustments (4.5) (7.7) (1.8) (14.0) 0.2 (0.1) (13.9) Acquisitions 52.5 43.9 20.7 117.1 1.0 118.1 Disposals of subsidiaries (2.4) (1.0) (15.0) (18.4) (18.4) Additions 5.9 14.1 20.0 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 6.0 (6.0) Disposals (0.9) (0.9) As at 31 December 2015 366.3 166.4 86.0 618.7 64.8 18.7 702.2 Amortisation As at 1 January 2014 79.2 62.8 142.0 28.5 170.5 Exchange adjustments (3.2) (2.8) (6.0) (1.8) (7.8) Disposals (0.5) (0.5) Impairment 27.8 12.9 40.7 2.1 42.8 Amortisation for year 16.9 2.7 19.6 5.0 24.6 As at 31 December 2014 27.8 92.9 75.6 196.3 33.3 229.6 Exchange adjustments (1.3) (2.9) (0.6) (4.8) (0.3) (5.1) Disposals of subsidiaries (0.9) (0.7) (14.5) (16.1) (16.1) Disposals (0.9) (0.9) Amortisation for year 19.7 12.5 32.2 5.3 37.5 As at 31 December 2015 25.6 109.0 73.0 207.6 37.4 245.0 Net book value at 31 December 2014 292.9 38.3 6.5 337.7 19.3 10.7 367.7 Net book value at 31 December 2015 340.7 57.4 13.0 411.1 27.4 18.7 457.2 98 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.2.2 Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is not subject to an annual amortisation charge. Instead, its carrying value is assessed annually by comparison to the future cash flows of the business to which it relates (the cash generating unit, or ‘CGU’). These cash flows are discounted to reflect the time value of money and this discount rate, together with the growth rates assumed in the cash flow forecasts, are the key assumptions in this impairment testing process. Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units (‘CGUs’) based on the synergies 2015 2014 expected to be derived from the acquisition upon which the goodwill arose. The % % Group has 20 cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated, compared to 24 in the prior year. The change in the composition of CGUs follows changes Pre-tax discount rate 9.9 – 16.2 9.8 – 16.4 in both the way in which cash inflows are generated and the internal reporting Long-term growth rate 1.0 – 2.1 1.0 – 3.8 structure. Where our businesses operate closely with each other we will continue to review whether they should be treated as a single or combined CGU. For the purpose of assessing the significance of CGUs, the Group uses a Goodwill is tested annually for impairment as part of the overall assessment of threshold of 20% of the total goodwill balance. Goodwill of £78.4m associated assets against their recoverable amounts. The recoverable amount of a CGU is with the Control Valves CGU in Critical Engineering is considered to be the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use is significant. The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from a value determined using cash flow projections from financial budgets, forecasts and in use calculation. The key assumptions for the value in use valuation are plans approved by the Board covering a five-year period and include a terminal the discount rate, growth rate and operating cashflows. These estimates are value multiple. The projected cash flows reflect the latest expectation determined using the methodology discussed above. The discount rate applied of demand for products and services. for Control Valves is 12.5% and a growth rate of 1.6% is applied into perpetuity. The key assumptions in these calculations are the long-term growth rates and No other CGUs have goodwill that is considered significant in the context the discount rates applied to forecast cash flows in addition to the achievement of the Group’s total goodwill balance, nor do any CGUs use the same key of the forecasts themselves. Long-term growth rates are based on long-term assumptions for the purposes of impairment testing in either this year or economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geographical the last. regions in which the cash generating unit operates. Pre-tax discount rates The aggregate amount of goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 1 January specific to each cash generating unit are calculated by adjusting the Group 2004 which had been deducted from the profit and loss reserves and post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) of 8% (2014: 9%) for the incorporated into the IFRS transitional balance sheet as at 1 January 2004, tax rate relevant to the jurisdiction before adding risk premia for the size of the amounted to £364m. The cumulative impairment recognised in relation to unit, the characteristics of the segment in which it resides, and the geographical goodwill is £34m (2014: £34m). regions from which the cash flows are derived. This exercise resulted in the use of the following ranges of values for the key assumptions: Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 3.3 Property, plant and equipment The following section concerns the physical assets used by the Group to generate revenues and profits. These assets include manufacturing, distribution and office sites, as well as equipment used in the manufacture of the Group’s products. The cost of these assets represents the amount initially paid for them. With the exception of the Group’s land and assets under construction which have not yet been brought into use, a depreciation expense is charged to the income statement to reflect the annual wear and tear and the reduction in the value of the asset over time. Depreciation is calculated by reference to the assets’ useful lives, by estimating the number of years over which the Group expects the asset to be used. As we do for our intangible assets (see section 3.2), if there has been a technological change or decline in business performance the directors review the value of the assets to ensure they have not fallen below their depreciated value. If an asset’s value falls below its depreciated value, a one-off impairment charge is made against profit. Assets in the Land & Plant & course of buildings equipment construction Total £m £m £m £m Cost As at 1 January 2014 173.6 568.9 17.2 759.7 Exchange adjustments (8.7) (25.2) (0.6) (34.5) Disposals of subsidiaries (2.9) (6.1) (0.3) (9.3) Additions 1.0 26.9 24.7 52.6 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 1.2 19.8 (21.0) Disposals (0.8) (50.5) (51.3) As at 31 December 2014 163.4 533.8 20.0 717.2 Exchange adjustments (3.0) (9.4) 0.1 (12.3) Acquisitions 0.4 3.8 4.2 Disposals of subsidiaries (0.4) (3.0) (3.4) Additions 1.8 22.9 25.9 50.6 Transfers from assets in the course of construction 5.3 19.0 (24.3) Disposals (8.0) (42.5) (50.5) As at 31 December 2015 159.5 524.6 21.7 705.8 Depreciation As at 1 January 2014 80.7 456.2 536.9 Exchange adjustments (4.3) (20.2) (24.5) Disposals of subsidiaries (1.6) (4.7) (6.3) Disposals (0.6) (48.5) (49.1) Impairment charge 0.7 0.7 Depreciation 3.5 29.5 33.0 As at 31 December 2014 77.7 413.0 490.7 Exchange adjustments (1.4) (7.0) (8.4) Disposals of subsidiaries (1.7) (1.7) Disposals (3.4) (42.0) (45.4) Impairment charge 5.1 1.8 6.9 Depreciation 3.3 29.6 32.9 As at 31 December 2015 81.3 393.7 475.0 NBV at 31 December 2014 85.7 120.8 20.0 226.5 NBV at 31 December 2015 78.2 130.9 21.7 230.8 A net impairment charge of £6.9m relating to continuing operations occurred during the year (2014: £0.7m charge) as described in section 2.2. The recoverable amount of these assets has been determined using their fair value less costs to sell, estimated by both internal and external valuation specialists. Group contracts in respect of future capital expenditure which had been placed at the balance sheet date relating to the continuing business amounted to £6.9m (2014: £7.6m). Included in the total net book value of plant and equipment is £0.7m (2014: £1.0m) in respect of assets acquired under finance leases. Depreciation for the year on these assets was £0.3m (2014: £0.3m). 100 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.4 Acquisitions The following section discusses businesses acquired by the Group, which have given rise to the additions to the acquired intangible assets (including goodwill) reported in section 3.2 and which contributed to the Group’s profits, working capital and other balance sheet assets and liabilities. On 2 January 2015, the Group acquired the entire share capital of B&R Holding GmbH (‘Bopp & Reuther’) for a cash consideration of £109.2m (€140.8m). Bopp & Reuther is a leading manufacturer of safety, control and shut-off valve technology for process industries as well as conventional fossil and nuclear power plants worldwide. Its head office and manufacturing plant is located in Mannheim, Germany and it has service centres in Germany, Austria, Romania and China. The senior management team and all of its approximately 400 employees transferred upon completion of the acquisition by the Group. Bopp & Reuther joins the IMI Critical Engineering division and over the course of the year has been effectively integrated into its control valve business (‘CCI’). The final fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are summarised below: £m Customer relationships 43.9 Order book 9.3 Brand 11.4 Property, plant and equipment 4.2 Other intangibles software 1.0 Inventories 10.4 Trade and other receivables 21.1 Cash and cash equivalents 3.0 Interest-bearing liabilities and borrowings (8.6) Trade and other payables (14.9) Taxation balances (20.3) Employee benefit obligations (4.4) Other assets 0.6 Total identifiable net assets 56.7 Goodwill arising on acquisition 52.5 Total purchase consideration 109.2 Cash flows from the acquisition of controlling interests are shown below: £m Cash consideration 109.2 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired (3.0) Net cash paid on acquisition 106.2 Acquisition costs (included in cash flows from operating activities) 1.8 Total cash flow on acquisition of controlling interests 108.0 The goodwill recognised is primarily attributed to the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the assets and activities of Bopp & Reuther with those of the Group. The goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. Acquisition costs of £2.2m were incurred in 2014 and were recorded as an exceptional item in the income statement. The cash flows associated with these acquisition costs in 2015 are shown in the table above. At the date of the acquisition, the fair value and gross amount of the trade receivables was £21.1m. At 31 December 2015, £0.1m of the trade receivables have been impaired. From the date of acquisition, Bopp & Reuther has contributed £46m of revenue and a profit of £1.3m to the operating profit of the Group. In addition, the effective integration of Bopp & Reuther within IMI Critical Engineering’s existing large control valve business has resulted in strong revenue synergies elsewhere within the Group. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 101 3.5 Disposals Disposals in the current year During the year, the Group disposed of Asterm SAS (‘Asterm’), IMI Scott Limited (‘Scott’), Zimmerman & Jansen South Africa (Pty.) Ltd (‘Z&J SA’) and the non-core elements of Nano Porous Solutions Limited (‘NPSL’), with the remainder of the NPSL business being transferred to Norgren UK. These disposals resulted in losses of £8.8m and with the exception of Asterm, are presented in the income statement as an exceptional item as, based on their quantum, they meet our definition of exceptional items. The losses on disposals are not disclosed within discontinued operations because none of these businesses represented a separate major line of business. A summary of the proceeds received, assets disposed and resulting losses on disposal are included in the table below: Asterm Scott Z&J SA NPSL 21 January 30 October 13 November 16 December Total 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 £m £m £m £m £m Sale consideration 0.4 1.2 0.2 0.7 2.5 Net assets disposed (0.7) (2.7) (2.2) (2.0) (7.6) Costs of disposal (0.1) (0.6) (0.4) (0.6) (1.7) Foreign exchange loss reclassified on disposal (2.0) (2.0) Loss on disposal (0.4) (2.1) (4.4) (1.9) (8.8) Net cash flow arising on disposal Sale consideration 0.4 1.2 0.2 0.7 2.5 Cash disposed of (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.1) (0.8) Cash costs of disposal (0.1) (0.5) (0.4) (0.1) (1.1) Net cash flow arising on disposal of operations 0.1 0.5 (0.5) 0.5 0.6 Disposals in the prior year Retail Dispense The Group disposed of the Retail Dispense businesses on 1 January 2014 for proceeds of £691.2m resulting in a post-tax gain on disposal of £477.5m. Eley The Group disposed of Eley Limited, Accles and Shelvoke Limited and Eley Americas Inc (together ‘Eley’) on 4 October 2014 for proceeds of £41.6m resulting in a gain on disposal for the Group of £33.1m, after disposing of £6.5m of net assets and incurring £2.0m of associated costs. AFP The Group disposed of Mecanique Analytique Inc (trade name ‘AFP’) on 23 October 2014 for proceeds of £3.4m resulting in a gain on disposal for the Group of £1.1m, after disposing of £1.3m of net assets and incurring £1.0m of associated costs. The gains on disposal of Eley and AFP were presented in the income statement as an exceptional item. They were not disclosed as discontinued operations because they did not represent a separate major line of business. 102 IMI plc SECTION 3 – OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Continued 3.6 Provisions A provision is recorded instead of a payable (see section 3.1.3) when there is less certainty over how much cash will be paid and when the payment might be made. When the Group has an obligation relating to previous events and when it is probable that cash will be paid to settle it, a provision rather than a payable is recorded. In this situation, an estimate is required. The principal estimates made in respect of the Group’s provisions concern the timing and amount of payments required to: • cover the costs of known restructuring projects; • reimburse customers for potential product warranty claims; • ensure that current and former manufacturing sites meet relevant environmental standards; • reflect the estimated outcome of ongoing legal disputes; and • provide against indemnities following the disposal of subsidiaries. Analysis of the Group’s provisions: Environmental, Trade legal & Restructuring warranties indemnity Total £m £m £m £m Current 4.4 6.9 11.4 22.7 Non-current 1.2 7.4 7.8 16.4 At 1 January 2015 5.6 14.3 19.2 39.1 Arising during the year 24.4 2.6 (4.7) 22.3 Utilised during the year (16.4) (1.3) (0.3) (18.0) Exchange adjustment (0.2) (0.1) (0.5) (0.8) At 31 December 2015 13.4 15.5 13.7 42.6 Current 12.5 9.3 3.3 25.1 Non-current 0.9 6.2 10.4 17.5 13.4 15.5 13.7 42.6 The restructuring provision reflects residual amounts committed but not spent in relation to a number of specific projects. Trade warranties are given in the normal course of business and cover a range of periods, typically one to two years, with the expected amounts falling due in less than and greater than one year separately analysed above. Amounts set aside represent the directors’ best estimate regarding the amount of the settlements and the timing of resolution with customers. Environmental and legal provisions recognise the Group’s obligation to remediate contaminated land at a number of current and former sites, together with current legal cases for which a settlement is considered probable. Because of the long-term nature of the liabilities, the timescales are uncertain and the provisions represent the directors’ best estimates of these costs. Provisions for indemnities included in the agreed terms of disposals of subsidiaries are provided for based on the expected probability of indemnified losses that may be suffered by the purchaser. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 103 SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS What you will find in this section This section outlines how the Group manages its capital and related financing costs. The directors determine the appropriate capital structure for the Group, specifically, how much cash is raised from shareholders (equity) and how much is borrowed from financial institutions (debt) in order to finance the Group’s activities both now and in the future. The directors consider the Group’s capital structure and dividend policy at least twice a year ahead of announcing results in the context of its ability to continue as a going concern and deliver its business plan. The Board is mindful that equity capital cannot be easily flexed and in particular raising new equity would normally be likely only in the context of an acquisition. Debt can be issued and repurchased more easily but frequent adjustments lead to high transaction costs and debt holders are under no obligation to accept repurchase offers. 4.1 Net debt Net debt is the Group’s key measure used to evaluate total outstanding debt, net of the current cash resources. Some of the Group’s borrowings (and cash) are held in foreign currencies. Movements in foreign exchange rates affect the sterling value of the net debt. a) Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents 2015 2014 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents in current assets 114.2 43.8 Bank overdraft in current liabilities (6.4) (23.0) Cash and cash equivalents 107.8 20.8 b) Reconciliation of net cash to movement in net borrowings 2015 2014 £m £m Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents excluding foreign exchange and net cash disposed/acquired 85.7 (39.9) Net (drawdown)/repayment of borrowings (107.9) 80.7 (Increase)/decrease in net debt before acquisitions, disposals and foreign exchange (22.2) 40.8 Net cash disposed (0.8) (29.0) Net debt acquired (5.6) Currency translation differences (8.3) (12.4) Movement in net borrowings in the year (36.9) (0.6) Net borrowings at the start of the year (200.0) (199.4) Net borrowings at the end of the year (236.9) (200.0) 104 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued c) Analysis of net debt Borrowings and finance leases due Cash and cash within after more Total equivalents one year than one year net debt £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2015 20.8 (2.0) (218.8) (200.0) Net cash and cash equivalents disposed of (0.8) (0.8) Net cash/(debt) acquired 3.0 (8.6) (5.6) Cash flow excluding settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet and net cash disposed of/acquired 53.8 (49.1) (58.8) (54.1) Settlement of currency derivatives hedging balance sheet 31.9 31.9 Currency translation differences (0.9) (3.0) (4.4) (8.3) At 31 December 2015 107.8 (54.1) (290.6) (236.9) 4.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group borrows money from financial institutions in the form of bonds and other financial instruments. These generally have fixed interest rates and are for a fixed term or are drawn from committed borrowing facilities that generally have floating interest rates. This section provides information about the terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see section 4.4.3. 2015 2014 £m £m Current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 53.6 1.3 Finance lease liabilities 0.5 0.7 54.1 2.0 Non-current liabilities Unsecured loan notes and other loans 290.2 218.2 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.6 290.6 218.8 The increase in unsecured notes and other loans is primarily due to the drawdown of £107.9m of loans in the year, following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 105 4.3 Net financing costs This section details the income generated on the Group’s financial assets and the expense incurred on borrowings and other financial assets and liabilities. The finance income and expense taken into account in arriving at reported earnings only includes the income and expense arising on cash balances, borrowings and retirement benefit obligations. The finance income or expense on mark-to-market movements on interest and foreign exchange derivatives and other financing costs are excluded from adjusted earnings per share. Recognised in the income statement 2015 2014 Financial Financial Interest instruments Total Interest instruments Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Interest income on bank deposits 3.2 3.2 1.1 1.1 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges 0.8 0.8 Other economic hedges current year trading 14.5 14.5 7.1 7.1 future year transactions 6.4 6.4 7.2 7.2 Financial income 3.2 20.9 24.1 1.1 15.1 16.2 Interest expense on interest-bearing loans and borrowings (21.6) (21.6) (15.4) (15.4) Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss: Designated hedges (0.8) (0.8) Other economic hedges current year trading (16.8) (16.8) (7.2) (7.2) future year transactions (9.1) (9.1) (13.8) (13.8) Financial expense (21.6) (25.9) (47.5) (15.4) (21.8) (37.2) Net financial income/(expense) relating to defined benefit pension schemes 0.2 0.2 (3.1) (3.1) Net financial expense (18.2) (5.0) (23.2) (17.4) (6.7) (24.1) Included in financial instruments are current year trading gains and losses on economically effective transactions which for management reporting purposes are included in segmental revenue and operating profit (see section 2.1). For statutory purposes these are required to be shown within net financial income and expense above. Gains or losses for future year transactions are in respect of financial instruments held by the Group to provide stability of future trading cash flows. Recognised in other comprehensive income 2015 2014 £m £m Change in fair value of effective portion of net investment hedges (11.0) 3.6 Foreign currency translation differences 2.9 (14.7) Settlement of/change in fair value of deal contingent forward (14.2) Change in fair value of other financial assets (1.7) 1.1 Income tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income (1.6) 3.4 Total items recognised in other comprehensive income (net of tax) (11.4) (20.8) Recognised in: Hedging reserve (10.1) (8.3) Translation reserve (0.2) (13.2) Retained earnings (1.1) 0.7 (11.4) (20.8) 106 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4 4.4.2.2 Financial risk management Exposure to credit risk in respect of financial assets The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: interest rate, foreign exchange and base metal price movements in addition to funding and The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets is represented by their liquidity risks. The financial instruments used to manage the underlying risks carrying value and is analysed below: themselves introduce exposure to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk. This section presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of Carrying amount these risks; the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring 2015 2014 and managing risks, including each of the above risks; and the Group’s £m £m management of capital. Cash and cash equivalents 107.8 43.8 Investments 18.7 19.0 4.4.1 Forward exchange contracts* 0.1 8.1 126.6 70.9 Overview The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of * Forward exchange contracts include the net amount receivable by each entity the Group’s risk management framework. As described in the Corporate in the Group, from each financial institution, reflecting the Group’s maximum Governance Report on page 44 the Executive Committee monitors risk and credit exposure since individual entities within the Group have the right but internal controls and the Audit Committee monitors financial risk, while the not the obligation to settle these net. other Board committees also play a part in contributing to the oversight of risk. The Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with 4.4.2.3 the Group’s financial risk management policies and procedures and reviews the Exposure to credit risk in respect adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the financial risks faced by the Group. The Group Assurance department undertakes both regular and of trade receivables ad-hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee. Carrying amount The following sections discuss the management of specific financial risk factors 2015 2014 in detail, including credit risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity £m £m risk and liquidity risk. UK 18.4 23.7 Germany 25.9 23.5 4.4.2 Rest of Europe 77.0 89.3 Credit risk USA 43.6 51.2 Asia Pacific 74.1 90.9 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or Rest of World 52.3 39.4 counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, 291.3 318.0 and arises principally from the Group’s receivables from customers, cash and cash equivalents held by the Group’s banks and other financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at the reporting date At the end of 2015 these totalled £417.9m (2014: £388.9m). by segment was as follows: 4.4.2.1 Carrying amount Managing credit risk arising 2015 2014 £m £m from customers IMI Critical Engineering 156.8 170.7 The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual IMI Precision Engineering 95.6 111.2 characteristics of each customer. The demographics of the Group’s customer IMI Hydronic Engineering 38.9 36.1 base, including the default risk of the industry and country in which customers 291.3 318.0 operate, have less of an influence on credit risk. Our largest single customer accounted for 2% of our 2015 revenues (2014: 3%). Geographically there is no unusual concentration of credit risk. The Group’s contract approval procedure ensures that large contracts are signed off at executive director level at which time the risk profile of the contract, including potential credit and foreign exchange risks, is reviewed. Credit risk is minimised through due diligence on potential customers, appropriate credit limits, cash flow management and the use of documentary credits where appropriate. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 107 4.4.2.4 4.4.3.1 Impairment provisions for trade receivables Foreign exchange risk The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: The Group publishes consolidated accounts in sterling but conducts much of its global business in other currencies. As a result it is subject to the risks 2015 2014 associated with foreign exchange movements affecting transaction costs (‘transactional risk’), translation of foreign profits (‘profit translation risk’) Gross Impairment Gross Impairment and translation of the underlying net assets of foreign operations (‘asset £m £m £m £m translation risk’). Not past due 247.9 (0.3) 273.1 (0.5) Past due 1-30 days 22.9 (0.5) 26.8 (0.6) a) Management of transactional risk Past due 31-90 days 14.4 (0.7) 13.8 (0.6) Past due over 90 days 15.0 (7.4) 11.4 (5.4) The Group’s wide geographical spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange Total 300.2 (8.9) 325.1 (7.1) rates as well as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures. It is the Group’s policy to minimise risk to exchange rate movements affecting sales and The net movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade purchases by economically hedging or netting currency exposures at the time receivables during the year was as follows: of commitment, or when there is a high probability of future commitment, using currency instruments (primarily forward exchange contracts). A proportion of forecast exposures are hedged depending on the level of confidence and hedging 2015 2014 is periodically adjusted following regular reviews. On this basis up to 50% of the £m £m Group’s annual exposures to transactional risk are likely to be hedged at any point Net balance at 1 January 7.1 8.1 in time and the Group’s net transactional exposure to different currencies varies Utilised during the year (1.0) (1.5) from time to time. Charged to the income statement 3.5 2.3 As discussed in the commentary on the consolidated statement of Released (0.4) (1.1) comprehensive income the Group used a deal-contingent forward to hedge Exchange (0.3) (0.7) the foreign exchange exposure on the US denominated proceeds for the Retail Net balance at 31 December 8.9 7.1 Dispense businesses resulting in a net pre-tax gain of £8.2m in the prior year. b) Management of profit translation risk The net impairment charge recognised of £3.1m (2014: charge of £1.2m) relates to the movement in the Group’s assessment of the risk of non-recovery The Group is exposed to the translation of profits denominated in foreign from a range of customers across all of its businesses. currencies into the sterling-based income statement. The interest cost related to the currency liabilities hedging the asset base provides a partial hedge to this exposure. Short-term currency option contracts may be used to provide limited 4.4.2.5 protection against sterling strength on an opportunistic basis. The translation of US dollar and euro-based profits represent the most significant translation Managing credit risk arising exposures for the Group. from counterparties c) Management of asset translation risk A group of relationship banks provides the bulk of the banking services, The Group hedges its net investments in its major overseas operations by way with pre-approved credit limits set for each institution. Financial derivatives of external currency loans and forward currency contracts. The intention is to are entered into with these core banks and the underlying credit exposure manage the Group’s exposure to gains and losses in Group equity resulting to these instruments is included when considering the credit exposure to the from retranslation of currency net assets at balance sheet dates. counterparties. At the end of 2015 credit exposure including cash deposited did not exceed £23.2m with any single institution (2014: £7.5m). To the extent that an instrument used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation is determined to be an effective hedge, the gain or loss arising is recognised directly in reserves. Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately 4.4.3 in the income statement. Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices will affect the Group’s income and cash flows or the value of its financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters. Under the management of the central treasury function, the Group enters into derivatives in the ordinary course of business and also manages financial liabilities in order to mitigate market risks. All such transactions are carried out within the guidelines set by the Board and are undertaken only if they relate to underlying exposures. 108 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued d) Currency profile of assets and liabilities Assets subject Exchange to interest Other Total Total Cash* Debt contracts rate risk net assets net assets net assets 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Sterling 65 270 335 77 412 426 US dollar 5 (231) 85 (141) 141 26 Euro 3 (111) (209) (317) 377 60 (10) Other 35 (3) (146) (114) 231 117 112 Total 108 (345) (237) 826 589 554 * Cash is stated net of overdrafts. Exchange contracts and non-sterling debt are financial instruments used as currency hedges of overseas net assets. 4.4.3.2 Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to a number of global interest rates through assets and liabilities denominated in jurisdictions to which these rates are applied, most notably US, Eurozone and UK rates. The Group is exposed to these because market movements in these rates will increase or decrease the interest charge recognised in the Group income statement. a) Management of interest rate risk The Group adopts a policy of maintaining a portion of its liabilities at fixed interest rates and reviewing the balance of the floating rate exposure to ensure that if interest rates rise globally the effect on the Group’s income statement is manageable. Interest rates are managed using fixed and floating rate debt and financial instruments including interest rate swaps. Floating rate liabilities comprise short-term debt which bears interest at short-term bank rates and the liability side of exchange contracts where the interest element is based primarily on three month inter-bank rates. All cash surpluses are invested for short periods and are treated as floating rate investments. Non-interest bearing financial assets and liabilities including short-term trade receivables and payables have been excluded from the following analysis. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 109 b) Interest rate risk profile The following table shows how much of our cash, interest-bearing liabilities and exchange contracts attract both fixed and floating rate interest charges, and how this is analysed between currencies: Assets Weighted Debt and Cash and subject Weighted average exchange exchange to interest Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate risk rate rate fixed for which 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 335 335 335 US dollar (231) 90 (141) 90 (231) 6.8 2.4 Euro (320) 3 (317) (207) (110) 1.4 9.3 Other (149) 35 (114) (114) Total (700) 463 (237) 104 (341) Assets Weighted Debt and Cash and subject Weighted average exchange exchange to interest Floating Fixed average period contracts contracts rate risk rate rate fixed for which 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 interest rate rate is fixed £m £m £m £m £m % years Sterling 343 343 343 US dollar (218) 106 (112) 106 (218) 6.8 3.4 Euro (303) 6 (297) (297) Other (172) 38 (134) (134) Total (693) 493 (200) 18 (218) 4.4.3.3 Funding for the Group is co-ordinated centrally by the treasury function and comprises committed bilateral facilities with a core group of banks, and a series Commodity risk of US loan note issues. The level of facilities is maintained such that facilities and term loans exceed the forecast peak gross debt of the Group over a rolling 12 month view by an appropriate amount taking into account market conditions The commodity inputs to the Group’s production process typically consist and corporate activity, including acquisitions, organic growth plans and share of base metals. Commodity risk for the Group is the risk that the prices of buybacks. In addition, we undertake regular covenant compliance reviews to these inputs could rise, thus reducing Group profits. ensure that we remain fully within those covenant limits. At the end of 2015 the Group had undrawn committed facilities totalling £294m (2014: £272m) and a) Overview was holding cash and cash equivalents of £114m (2014: £44m). There are no significant seasonal funding requirements or capital intensive investment areas The Group’s operating companies purchase metal and metal components and for the Group. are therefore exposed to changes in commodity prices. b) Management of commodity risk 4.4.4 The Group manages this exposure through a centralised process hedging Capital management copper, zinc and aluminium using a combination of financial contracts and local supply agreements designed to minimise the volatility of short-term margins. Capital management concerns the decision as to how the Group’s activities are financed and specifically, how much of the Group capital is provided by 4.4.3.4 borrowings (or debt) and how much of it is financed with equity raised from Liquidity risk the issue of share capital. The Board’s policy is to maintain a balance sheet with a broad capital Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial base and the strength to sustain the future development of the business obligations as they fall due. including acquisitions. This section discusses how the Board views the capital base of the Group and the impact on leverage, distribution policy and investment policy. a) Management of liquidity risk The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have adequate resources to meet its liabilities when they fall due, with sufficient headroom to cope with abnormal market conditions. This position is reviewed on a quarterly basis. 110 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4.4.1 4.4.4.4 Overview Dividend policy and share buy-backs The Board monitors the geographical spread of its shareholders and As part of the capital management process, the Group ensures that adequate employees are encouraged to hold shares in the Company. The underlying reserves are available in IMI plc in order to meet proposed shareholder capital base of the Group includes total equity and reserves and net debt. dividends, the purchase of shares for employee share scheme incentives Employee benefit obligations net of deferred tax form part of the extended and any on-market share buyback programme. capital base. Management of this element of the capital base is discussed The Board supports a progressive dividend policy with an aim that the dividend further in section 4.5 of the financial statements. Undrawn committed funding should, through the cycle, be covered by at least two times reported earnings. facilities are maintained as described in section 4.4.5.1 to provide additional In the event that the Board cannot identify sufficient investment opportunities capital for growth (including acquisitions and organic investments) and liquidity through capital expenditure, organic growth initiatives and acquisitions, the requirements as discussed above. return of funds to shareholders through share buybacks or special dividends will be considered. It should be noted that a number of shares are regularly 4.4.4.2 bought in the market by an employee benefit trust in order to hedge the Capital base exposure under certain management incentive plans. Details of these purchases are shown in section 4.6.2 to the financial statements. 2015 2014 4.4.4.5 £m £m Weighted average cost of capital Total equity 589 554 Gross debt including overdrafts 351 244 The Group currently uses a post-tax weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’) Gross cash (114) (44) of 8% (2014: 9%) as a benchmark for investment returns. This is reviewed Capital base 826 754 regularly in the light of changes in market rates. The Board tracks the Group’s Employee benefits and deferred tax assets (24) 13 return on invested capital and seeks to ensure that it consistently delivers Extended capital base 802 767 returns in excess of the WACC. Undrawn funding facilities 294 272 Available capital base 1,096 1,039 4.4.5 Part of the capital base is held in currencies to broadly match the currency base Debt and credit facilities of the assets being funded as described in the asset translation risk section. This section provides details regarding the specific borrowings that the Group has in place to satisfy the debt elements of the capital management policy 4.4.4.3 discussed above. Debt or equity The balance between debt and equity in the capital base of the Group is considered regularly by the Board in light of market conditions, business 4.4.5.1 forecasts, growth opportunities and the ratio of net debt to continuing EBITDA Undrawn committed facilities before exceptional items. Funding covenants currently limit net debt to a maximum of 3.0 times EBITDA. The net debt to EBITDA ratio at the end of The Group has various undrawn committed borrowing facilities. The facilities 2015 was 0.9 times (2014: 0.6 times). Through the life of our five year plan, available at 31 December in respect of which all conditions precedent had the Board would consider appropriate acquisitions that could take net debt been met were as follows: up to 2.5 times EBITDA on acquisition, provided that a clear plan exists to reduce this ratio back to under 2.0 times. It is expected that at these levels 2015 2014 our debt would continue to be perceived as investment grade. The potential £m £m benefits to equity shareholders of greater leverage are offset by higher risk and the cost and availability of funding. The Board will consider raising additional Expiring within one year 22.1 48.3 equity in the event that it is required to support the capital base of the Group. Expiring between one and two years 75.0 23.2 Expiring after more than two years 197.1 200.0 294.2 271.5 The weighted average life of these facilities is 3.2 years (2014: 2.9 years). Annual Report and Accounts 2015 111 4.4.5.2 Terms and debt repayment schedule The terms and conditions of cash and cash equivalents and outstanding loans were as follows: Effective Carrying Contractual 0 to 1 to 2 to 3 to 4 to 5 years interest rate value cash flows <1 year <2 years <3 years <4 years <5 years and over % £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m 2015 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 114.2 114.2 114.2 US loan notes 2016 7.26% (50.9) (53.0) (53.0) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (101.7) (114.8) (6.1) (6.1) (102.6) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (67.8) (86.4) (5.2) (5.2) (5.2) (70.8) US loan notes 2022 7.17% (10.2) (15.1) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.6) US loan notes 2025 1.39% (110.4) (124.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (1.5) (117.0) Finance leases Various (1.0) (1.0) (0.5) (0.3) (0.1) (0.1) Bank overdrafts Floating (6.4) (6.4) (6.4) Unsecured bank loans Floating (2.7) (2.9) (2.7) (0.1) (0.1) Total (236.9) (289.9) 38.1 (13.9) (110.2) (73.1) (2.2) (128.6) 2014 Cash and cash equivalents Floating 43.8 43.8 43.8 US loan notes 2016 7.26% (48.1) (53.6) (3.5) (50.1) US loan notes 2018 5.98% (96.2) (114.4) (5.8) (5.8) (5.8) (97.0) US loan notes 2019 7.61% (64.1) (86.5) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (4.9) (66.9) US loan notes 2022 7.17% (9.6) (15.1) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (0.7) (11.6) Finance leases Various (1.3) (1.3) (0.6) (0.4) (0.2) (0.1) Bank overdrafts Floating (23.0) (23.0) (23.0) Unsecured bank loans Floating (1.5) (1.8) (1.4) (0.2) (0.1) (0.1) Total (200.0) (251.9) 3.9 (62.1) (11.7) (102.8) (67.6) (11.6) Contractual cash flows include undiscounted committed interest cash flows and, where the amount payable is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference to the conditions existing at the reporting date. 112 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4.6 Fair value Financial instruments included in the financial statements are measured at either fair value or amortised cost. The measurement of this fair value can in some cases be subjective, and can depend on the inputs used in the calculations. The Group generally calculates its own fair values using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using the respective and relevant market data for the instrument being valued. 4.4.6.1 Total financial assets and liabilities The table below sets out the Group’s accounting classification of each class of financial assets and liabilities, and their fair values at 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014. Under IAS39, all derivative financial instruments not in a hedge relationship are classified as derivatives at fair value through the income statement. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative purposes and transacts all derivatives with suitable investment grade counterparties. All transactions in derivative financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities. Fair value Other Available for At Total Designated derivatives sale assets amortised carrying Fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value cost value if different £m £m £m £m £m £m 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 114.2 114.2 Bank overdrafts (6.4) (6.4) Borrowings due within one year (54.1) (54.1) (55.6) Borrowings due after one year (290.6) (290.6) (308.3) Trade and other payables* (352.6) (352.6) Trade receivables 291.3 291.3 Investments 18.7 8.3 27.0 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets** 2.8 2.8 Derivative liabilities*** (2.9) (6.0) (8.9) Total (2.9) (3.2) 132.9 (404.1) (277.3) 2014 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 Bank overdrafts (23.0) (23.0) Borrowings due within one year (2.0) (2.0) Borrowings due after one year (218.8) (218.8) (248.7) Trade and other payables* (361.4) (361.4) Trade receivables 318.0 318.0 Investments 19.0 7.9 26.9 Other current financial assets/(liabilities) Derivative assets** 8.1 2.4 10.5 Derivative liabilities*** (9.2) (9.2) Total 8.1 (6.8) 62.8 (279.3) (215.2) * Trade and other payables exclude corporation tax and other tax liabilities and include liabilities of £10.5m (2014: £15.4m) falling due after more than one year ** Includes £0.2m (2014: nil) falling due after more than one year. *** Derivative liabilities include liabilities of £0.3m (2014: £0.4m) falling due after more than one year: £0.3m in 1-2 years and nil in 2-3 years (2014: £0.4m in 1-2 yrs and nil in 2-3 yrs). Derivative liabilities designated at fair value represent the fair value of net investment hedge derivatives. The decrease in value of net investment hedge derivatives (from an asset to a liability) in the year of £11.0m is shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (net of tax). There are no other financial liabilities included within payables disclosed above and finance leases disclosed in section 4.4.5.2. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 113 The following table shows the Group’s financial instruments held at fair value. Quoted prices in active markets Significant for identical other assets and observable Unobservable liabilities inputs inputs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total £m £m £m £m As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments* 18.7 18.7 Cash and cash equivalents 114.2 114.2 Foreign currency forward contracts 2.8 2.8 132.9 2.8 135.7 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Foreign currency forward contracts (8.9) (8.9) (8.9) (8.9) As at 31 December 2014 Financial assets measured at fair value Equity instruments* 19.0 19.0 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 Foreign currency forward contracts 10.5 10.5 62.8 10.5 73.3 Financial liabilities measured at fair value Foreign currency forward contracts (9.2) (9.2) (9.2) (9.2) * Equity instruments relate to investments in funds in order to satisfy long-term benefit arrangements. Valuation techniques for level 2 inputs Derivative assets and liabilities of £2.8m and £8.9m respectively are valued by level 2 techniques. The valuations are derived from discounted contractual cash flows using observable, and directly relevant, market interest rates and foreign exchange rates from market data providers. Valuation techniques for level 3 inputs The Group has no financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair value using significant unobservable (level 3) inputs. 4.4.6.2 Valuation methodology Cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts, trade payables and trade receivables are carried at their book values as this approximates to their fair value due to the short-term nature of the instruments. Long-term and short-term borrowings, apart from any which are subject to hedging arrangements, are carried at amortised cost as it is the intention that they will not be repaid prior to maturity, where this option exists. The fair values are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and relevant credit spreads. Long-term borrowings which are subject to hedging arrangements are valued using appropriate discount rates to value the relevant hedged cash flows. Derivative assets and liabilities, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and metal hedges, are valued using comparable observed market prices and a valuation model using foreign exchange spot and forward rates, interest rate curves and forward rate curves for the underlying commodities. Investments are primarily in publically-quoted pooled funds held to fund overseas pension liabilities. The fair value is determined by the unadjusted price quotation at the reporting date. 114 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.4.6.3 Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly. Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data. 4.4.7 Market risk sensitivity analysis on financial instruments This section shows how the fair value of financial instruments presented can change for a given change in market rates. The values shown in the table below are estimates of the impact on financial instruments only. The underlying risks that these financial instruments have been acquired to hedge will move in an opposite direction. 4.4.7.1 Overview In estimating the sensitivity of the financial instruments all other variables are held constant to determine the impact on profit before tax and equity. The analysis is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice market rates rarely change in isolation. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these estimates due to the movements in the underlying transactions, actions taken to mitigate any potential losses, the interaction of more than one sensitivity occurring, and further developments in global financial markets. As such this table should not be considered as a projection of likely future gains and losses in these financial instruments. 4.4.7.2 Financial derivatives sensitivity table The outputs from the sensitivity analysis are estimates of the impact of market risk assuming that the specified changes occur only to the financial derivatives and do not reflect the opposite movement from the impact of the specific change on the underlying business that they are designed to hedge. 1% 1% 10% 10% decrease increase 10% 10% decrease in increase in in interest in interest weakening strengthening base metal base metal rates rates in sterling in sterling costs costs £m £m £m £m £m £m At 31 December 2015 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (0.7) 0.7 0.3 (0.3) Impact on equity (loss)/gain (55.3) 55.3 At 31 December 2014 Impact on income statement (loss)/gain (1.4) 1.4 (0.1) 0.1 Impact on equity (loss)/gain (52.1) 52.1 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 115 4.5 Retirement benefits IMI offers a number of defined benefit arrangements to employees that will not be paid until more than a year after the period in which they are earned, for example pension benefits, jubilee plans, post-employment and other long-term employee benefit arrangements. There is a significant degree of estimation involved in predicting the ultimate benefits payable under these defined benefit arrangements in respect of which the Group holds net liabilities on its balance sheet. This section explains how the value of these benefits payable and any assets funding the arrangements are accounted for in the Group financial statements and gives details of the key assumptions upon which the estimations are based. Assets and liabilities for defined contribution arrangements are minimal as they relate solely to short-term timing differences between the period during which benefits have accrued and when contributions are paid into schemes. Defined contribution (‘DC’): Arrangements where the employer pays fixed contributions into an external fund on behalf of the employee (who is responsible for making the investment decision and therefore assumes the risks and rewards of fund performance). Contributions to these arrangements are recognised in the income statement as incurred.  Defined benefit (‘DB’): A defined benefit pension plan is a pension arrangement in which the employer promises a specified annual benefit on retirement that is predetermined by a formula based on the employee’s earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than depending directly on individual investment returns. In some cases, this benefit is paid as a lump sum on leaving the Company or while in the service of the Company rather than as a pension. The Group underwrites one or more risks in meeting these obligations and therefore any net liability or surplus in these arrangements is shown on the Group balance sheet. 4.5.1 Summary information Net pension surplus: £4.4m (2014: deficit of £34.7m) The net pension surplus or ‘net asset for defined benefit obligations’ (‘DBO’) at 31 December 2015 was £4.4m (2014: deficit of £34.7m). The assets and liabilities of the schemes are aggregated, recognised in the consolidated balance sheet and shown within non-current liabilities or in non-current assets if a scheme is in surplus and it is recoverable. Number of defined benefit arrangements: 63 (2014: 64) During the year, following the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther, the Group took on the Bopp & Reuther Pension & Jubilee plans and also recognised the CCI Long Service Plan in Australia. The Group fully settled the IMI Americas inc & CCI inc Pension plans and the Asterm retirement indemnity plan, following disposal. It is anticipated the number of DBOs will reduce in 2016 following the merger of the five Swiss plans into the IMI Switzerland Pension Fund from 1 January 2016 and the formal wind-up of the IMI Pension Fund. The following table shows a summary of the geographical profile of the Group’s DBOs: Surplus/ Quantity Assets DBO (deficit) Quantity 2015 £m £m £m 2014 Australia 2 (0.3) (0.3) 1 Austria 6 (2.4) (2.4) 6 France 3 0.1 (0.9) (0.8) 4 Germany 27 5.0 (45.8) (40.8) 25 India 6 (0.4) (0.4) 6 Italy 6 (2.9) (2.9) 7 Spain 2 (0.1) (0.1) 2 Switzerland 5 68.3 (86.7) (18.4) 5 US* 3 (18.2) (18.2) 5 UK 3 1,272.9 (1,184.0) 88.9 3 Asset ceiling (0.2) (0.2) 63 1,346.1 (1,341.7) 4.4 64 * The US deficit above excludes £18.7m of assets relating to unqualified plans classified as investments (see section 4.4.6). 116 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued The Group provides pension benefits through a mixture of funded and unfunded Asset profile of schemes defined benefit and defined contribution (‘DC’) arrangements, although its The following table sets out the profile of the overall assets of the schemes (to strategy is to move away from defined benefit arrangements towards defined give an indication of their risk profile), the comparative amounts of the funded contribution arrangements wherever possible to minimise the liability of the and unfunded DBO and a split of the balance sheet impact between schemes Group. Assessments of the obligations of the defined benefit plans are carried with a net pension surplus and a net pension deficit. out by independent actuaries, based on the projected unit credit method. An historical split of the types of defined benefit schemes in operation is as follows: 2015 2014 £m £m % % of total of total Quoted equities 77.8 22.9 Qty Assets assets DBO liabilities Quoted bonds 661.8 703.1 Type of scheme No. £m % £m % Total quoted assets 739.6 726.0 2015 Private equities 92.3 85.0 Final salary* 21 1,273.0 95% (1,233.4) 92% Insurance policies 273.9 287.9 Cash balance** 11 68.3 5% (89.4) 7% IMI Scottish Limited Partnership 17.4 15.1 Jubilee*** 13 0% (2.0) 0% Hedge funds 142.7 185.4 Other 18 5.0 0% (16.9) 1% Property 30.1 34.8 Total 63 1,346.3 100% (1,341.7) 100% Private finance initiatives 76.8 Asset ceiling (0.2) Other* 50.3 64.8 Revised assets 1,346.1 Total unquoted assets 606.7 749.8 2014 Fair value of assets 1,346.3 1,475.8 Final salary* 23 1,369.8 93% (1,362.7) 90% Restriction due to asset ceiling (0.2) (0.1) Cash balance** 12 101.0 7% (127.4) 9% DBOs for funded schemes (1,277.1) (1,445.0) Jubilee*** 11 0% (2.0) 0% DBOs for unfunded schemes (64.6) (65.4) Other 18 5.0 0% (18.3) 1% Net surplus/ (deficit) for DBOs 4.4 (34.7) Total 64 1,475.8 100% (1,510.4) 100% Schemes in net pension deficit (84.3) (94.9) Asset Ceiling (0.1) Schemes in net pension surplus 88.7 60.2 Revised assets 1,475.7 * ‘Other’ assets include the market value of interest, inflation, equity and * Final Salary scheme: The pension available to a member in a final salary currency swaps relating to UK scheme assets and liabilities. arrangement will be a proportion of the member’s salary at or around their retirement date. This proportion will be determined by the member’s length The overseas assets of £73.2m (2014: £152.1m) comprise equities of of pensionable service, their accrual rate and any particular circumstances £12.5m (2014: £22.9m), bonds of £22.2m (2014: £88.7m), insurance of under which the member retires (for example early ill-health retirement). £28.8m (2014: nil), property of £6.5m (2014: £9.5m) and other assets of £3.2m (2014: £31.0m). ** Cash Balance: A cash balance scheme is a form of defined benefit pension under which the member has the right to a defined lump sum on retirement rather Funded: The majority of the Group defined benefit and other post-employment than a defined amount of pension receivable. For example a cash balance plan benefit arrangements are funded, which means they are linked to specific plan may have minimum or guaranteed rates of return on pension contributions. assets that have been segregated in a trust or foundation. The amount of pension to which that lump sum may be converted is Unfunded: Plans that are not funded are those that are not backed by determined by the annuity rates prevailing at the time of conversion. segregated assets. These include some pension plans but also a number of other *** Jubilee: Jubilee plans provide for cash award payments which are based long-term arrangements for the benefit of our employees, with benefits payable on completed lengths of service. These payments are often made on cessation while they are employed by the Group but more than 12 months after the related of service with the Company, subject to a minimum period of service. service is rendered. Actuarial gains and losses on other long-term arrangements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Average duration by geography The following table shows the weighted average number of years (or duration) over which pension benefits are expected to be paid: Location Years UK 15.6 Switzerland 18.1 USA 9.2 Eurozone 14.7 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 117 4.5.2 4.5.2.2 The UK and overseas pension funds Overseas pension funds In September 2015 liabilities relating to all pensions in payment in Switzerland 4.5.2.1 were settled via an insurance contract with Patrimonia (this related to two The UK Funds autonomous plans). Payments of £40.3m were made to settle £45.1m of liabilities resulting in a settlement gain of £4.8m. Following the commencement The United Kingdom constitutes 88% (2014: 84%) of total defined benefit of a restructuring exercise in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m liabilities and 95% (2014: 90%) of total defined benefit assets. Historically the was realised. IMI Pension Fund offered final salary benefits to UK employees until it closed to new entrants in 2005 and to future accrual on 31 December 2010. In December In the US, termination proceeds commenced for the IMI Americas inc and 2014 winding-up procedures commenced and those members who were CCI inc pension plans and all liabilities were settled via lump sum payments or not eligible or did not take up the offer of a single cash lump sum transferred insurance contracts. In total £47.5m of payments were made to settle £48.1m to one of two new Funds (IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund or the IMI 2014 Deferred of liabilities resulting in a settlement gain of £0.6m in 2015. Fund – ‘the UK Funds’). Ongoing pension benefits in the UK are provided via Following the deduction of fees of £0.7m associated with these settlements, the Trustee’s defined contribution plan The IMI Retirement Savings Plan. All all three of these events led to the special pension events which are classified UK pension assets are run on behalf of the Trustee by the Board of the IMI as exceptional items (see section 2.2.3). Common Investment Fund. The Trustee has determined an investment objective to achieve, over time, a position of self-sufficiency, defined using a discount rate of gilts + 0.25% and 4.5.3 at the March 2015 valuation the UK Funds were 91.5% funded on this level. Specific effect on financial statements Asset allocation The corresponding entries for increases and decreases in the net pension The Trustee has, over recent valuations, continued to reduce asset volatility and deficit reported in the balance sheet are reflected as follows: sensitivity to UK interest rates, inflation and foreign currencies. The Trustee has • Cash flow statement: When the Group makes cash contributions to fund been able to do this due to asset outperformance and significant contributions the deficit they are reflected in the cash flow statement and reduce the net from IMI (£173m from 2011-2014). It has been agreed as part of the 2015 deficit/increase the net surplus. Valuation that the percentage of external assets categorised as Fixed Income will be gradually increased in 2016 towards: • Income statement: Movements in the overall net pension deficit are recognised in the income statement when they relate to changes in the overall pension promise, due to either an additional period of service (known IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund 100% as ‘current service cost’), changes to pension terms in the scheme rules IMI 2014 Deferred Fund 84% (known as ‘past service cost’), or closure of all or part of a scheme (known as ‘settlements and curtailments’). The interest charge/income on the net deficit/ surplus position is also recognised in the income statement. As at 31 December 2015 the two UK Funds were, in total, 62% (2014: 64%) hedged against interest rates and 81% (2014: 70%) hedged against UK • Other comprehensive income (‘OCI’): Movements in the overall net inflation on the Trustee’s self-sufficiency basis. pension deficit are recognised through OCI when they relate to changes in actuarial assumptions or the difference (‘experience gain or loss’) between Liability management previous assumptions and actual results. As discussed above, in December 2014 over 2,500 members (£25.2m of payments) accepted either minimal commutation payments or winding-up lump The table below reconciles the movement in the UK and overseas defined sums as full settlement of their pension. A further trivial commutation exercise benefit surplus/(obligation) between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015. was carried out in summer 2015 with a further £10.1m of settlements resulting in a settlement gain of £0.2m (see section 2.2.3). It is anticipated that further UK Overseas Total exercises to manage the Trustee’s liabilities will be carried out in 2016. £m £m £m Contributions Net defined benefit surplus/(obligation) The recovery plan from the 2011 valuation agreed annual contributions of at 1 January 2015 60.1 (94.8) (34.7) £16.8m until 2016. The Trustee agreed, as part of the 2015 valuation, the Movement recognised in: payments for 2015 and 2016 were not to be paid and instead a contingent contribution plan was agreed for the IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund. The amount Income statement 2.7 2.9 5.6 of contributions due, if any, will depend on asset performance over the next OCI 25.9 1.9 27.8 three triennial valuations with contributions payable where asset returns are Cash flow statement 9.7 9.7 less than 1.5% over gilts. The maximum amounts payable, where asset Acquisitions (4.0) (4.0) returns are less than or equal to 0.7% over gilts would be: Net defined benefit surplus/(obligation) at 31 December 2015 88.7 (84.3) 4.4 £13m due 30 June 2019 £12m due 30 June 2022 £12m due 30 June 2025 118 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5.3.1 Cash flow impacts 2015 2014 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Amounts from employees 2.8 2.8 3.1 3.1 Amounts from employers 5.2 5.2 70.0 4.4 74.4 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group 4.5 4.5 22.2 22.2 Total 12.5 12.5 70.0 29.7 99.7 The expected contributions to the defined benefit arrangements in 2016 are £2.2m of normal employer contributions and £2.2m of normal employee contributions, both in relation to overseas pension funds. 4.5.3.2 Other comprehensive income Movements in pension assets and liabilities that arise during the year from changes in actuarial assumptions, or because actual experience is different from the underlying actuarial assumptions, are recognised in equity via other comprehensive income. These movements are analysed below: 2015 2014 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Change in discount rate 28.2 2.8 31.0 (170.1) (41.3) (211.4) Change in inflation 0.4 0.4 64.5 0.5 65.0 Change in other assumptions (8.0) 0.9 (7.1) 6.4 (3.1) 3.3 Actuarial experience 31.6 (2.6) 29.0 12.1 1.0 13.1 Asset experience (25.9) 0.5 (25.4) 136.9 9.5 146.4 Actuarial gains/(losses) in the year 25.9 2.0 27.9 49.8 (33.4) 16.4 Change in the asset ceiling (0.1) (0.1) 0.2 0.2 Exchange gains/(losses) 0.1 (0.1) 3.9 (0.1) 3.8 Gains/(losses) recognised through equity 25.9 2.0 (0.1) 27.8 49.8 (29.3) (0.1) 20.4 IMI takes advice from independent actuaries regarding the appropriateness of the assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligations. These assumptions include the discount rate applied to the assets and liabilities, the life expectancy of the members, their expected salary and pension increases and inflation. The assumptions used for this purpose in these financial statements are summarised below: Weighted Averages 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 UK Overseas UK Overseas UK Overseas % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa % pa Inflation RPI 3.1 n/a 3.1 n/a 3.5 n/a Inflation CPI 2.1 1.5 2.1 1.7 2.5 1.8 Discount rate 3.7 1.7 3.6 2.1 4.5 3.3 Expected salary increases 2.5 1.7 n/a 2.2 n/a 2.3 Rate of pension increases 3.1 0.4 3.1 0.3 3.5 0.5 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 119 2015 2014 2013 Years Years Years Life expectancy at age 65 (UK Funds only) Current male pensioners 21.1 21.2 21.0 Current female pensioners 24.0 24.0 23.9 Future male pensioners 23.2 23.0 22.8 Future female pensioners 26.3 26.0 25.9 The mortality assumptions used for the UK Funds above reflect its scheme specific experience, together with an allowance for improvements over time. The experience was reviewed as part of the formal triennial actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2014, and the assumptions used as at 31 December 2015 and 2014 reflect the results of this review. The table below left illustrates how the UK Funds’ net pension surplus would decrease (excluding the impact of inflation rate and interest rate hedging), as at 31 December 2015, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key assumptions above. The table below right shows how the net pension deficit for IMI’s non-UK plans would increase, in the event of the following reasonable changes in the key assumptions above. UK Overseas Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £16.1m Discount rate 0.1% pa lower £2.2m Inflation-linked pension increases 0.1% pa higher* £10.8m Salary increases 0.1% higher £0.4m Increase of one year in life expectancy from age 65 £37.7m Increase of one year in life expectancy at age 65 £3.3m 10% fall in non-bond-like assets** £48.2m In each case all other assumptions are unchanged. * This is an in-payment pension increase sensitivity. ** Fund assets excluding cash, bonds, insurance policies and the Funds’ interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership. 4.5.3.3 Income statement In accordance with IAS19, pension costs recorded through the income statement primarily represent the increase in the defined benefit obligation based on employee service during the year and the interest on the net liability or surplus for defined benefit obligations in respect of employee service in previous years. The table below shows the total cost reported in the income statement in respect of pension obligations and therefore also includes the cost of DC schemes. 2015 2014 Overseas Overseas Overseas Overseas post non-post post non-post UK employment employment Total UK employment employment Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Current service cost 5.0 0.9 5.9 4.1 0.8 4.9 Past service credit (0.1) (0.1) Settlement/curtailment (0.2) (9.7) 0.1 (9.8) (3.5) (4.5) (8.0) Recognition of (gains)/losses (1.5) (1.5) 1.0 1.0 DC employer contributions 3.5 4.1 7.6 3.4 5.4 8.8 Pension (income)/expense operating costs 3.3 (0.6) (0.5) 2.2 (0.1) 4.9 1.8 6.6 Interest on DBO 43.8 4.1 0.4 48.3 52.5 6.7 0.5 59.7 Interest on assets (46.3) (2.2) (48.5) (52.4) (4.2) (56.6) Interest (income)/expense financing costs (2.5) 1.9 0.4 (0.2) 0.1 2.5 0.5 3.1 During the year the Group continued its focus on de-risking the exposure to defined benefit obligations by undertaking a number of scheme closures, buy-outs and mergers in Switzerland, the UK and the US. These exercises resulted in a settlement gain of £5.6m. Following the commencement of a restructuring exercise in Switzerland, a curtailment gain of £4.2m was realised. Fees of £0.7m were incurred as part of these settlements resulting in a net settlement gain of £9.1m in the income statement. 120 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.5.4 Overall reconciliation of changes in the net surplus/(liability) for defined benefit obligations 2015 2014 Net defined Net defined Defined benefit Defined benefit benefit Asset asset/ benefit Asset asset/ obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) obligation Assets Ceiling (liability) £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Brought forward at start of year (1,510.4) 1,475.8 (0.1) (34.7) (1,450.2) 1,292.6 (0.3) (157.9) Current service cost (5.9) (5.9) (4.9) (4.9) Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Settlement/curtailment 108.2 (98.4) 9.8 33.0 (25.0) 8.0 Net interest (cost)/income on net defined benefit (liability)/asset (48.3) 48.5 0.2 (59.7) 56.6 (3.1) Immediate recognition of gains/(losses) 1.5 1.5 (1.0) (1.0) Total credited/(charged) to income statement 55.5 (49.9) 5.6 (32.5) 31.6 (0.9) Actuarial gain due to experience 29.0 29.0 13.1 13.1 Actuarial gain/(loss) due to financial assumption changes 23.7 23.7 (146.4) (146.4) Actuarial gain due to demographic assumption changes 0.6 0.6 3.3 3.3 Return on plan assets* (lower)/greater than discount rate (25.4) (25.4) 146.4 146.4 Change in effect of asset ceiling (0.1) (0.1) 0.2 0.2 Total remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income 53.3 (25.4) (0.1) 27.8 (130.0) 146.4 0.2 16.6 Employer contributions 5.2 5.2 74.4 74.4 Employee contributions (2.8) 2.8 (3.1) 3.1 Benefits and settlements paid directly by the Group 4.5 4.5 22.2 22.2 Benefits paid from plan assets 68.0 (68.0) 65.0 (65.0) Net cash outflow/(inflow) 69.7 (60.0) 9.7 84.1 12.5 96.6 Acquisitions (4.0) (4.0) 11.0 (3.9) 7.1 Changes in exchange rates (5.8) 5.8 7.2 (3.4) 3.8 Total other movements (9.8) 5.8 (4.0) 18.2 (7.3) 10.9 Carried forward at end of year (1,341.7) 1,346.3 (0.2) 4.4 (1,510.4) 1,475.8 (0.1) (34.7) * Net of asset management costs Annual Report and Accounts 2015 121 4.6 Share capital The ordinary shareholders of the Group own the Company. This section shows how the total number of ordinary shares in issue has changed during the year and how many of these ordinary shares are held as treasury shares or in Employee Benefit Trusts, to be used to satisfy share options and awards to directors and employees of the Company, as part of employee share ownership programmes. This section also sets out the dividends paid or proposed to be paid to shareholders. 4.6.1 Number and value of shares 2015 2014 Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary Deferred Shares Shares Shares ‘B’ Shares ‘C’ Shares shares 28 4/7p per 25p per 28 4/7p per 200p per 0.001p per 0.001p per share share share share share share Number (m) Value (£m) Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Number (m) Value (£m) In issue at the start of the year 286.0 81.7 341.0 85.3 Share cancellations (14.6) (3.7) Share consolidation (326.4) 285.6 Issued to satisfy employee share schemes 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.1 Issue of ‘B’ shares immediate capital option 75.9 151.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares deferred capital option 5.5 10.9 Redemption of ‘B’ shares at nominal value (81.4) (162.8) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 228.7 Dividend paid on ‘C’ shares (228.7) 228.7 Cancellation of deferred shares (228.7) In issue at the end of the year 286.2 81.8 286.0 81.7 All issued share capital at 31 December 2015 is fully paid and conveys the same rights. Share consolidation The ‘B’ and ‘C’ share scheme in the prior year was accompanied by a share consolidation, which is a commonly used arrangement to ensure that the Group’s share price after the return of capital is broadly equivalent to the share price prior to the return of capital, which ensures that targets and prices in the Group’s various share-based remuneration schemes remain appropriate. 122 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.6.2 Share movements in the year Movements in shares due to share issues and purchases during the year were as follows: Number of ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each (million) Employee Benefit Trust Treasury Other Total In issue at 31 December 2014 1.7 14.3 270.0 286.0 New issues to satisfy employee share scheme awards 0.2 0.2 Shares allocated under employee share schemes (0.8) 0.8 At 31 December 2015 0.9 14.3 271.0 286.2 During the year 0.2m (2014: 0.4m) shares were issued under employee share schemes realising £0.9m (2014: £1.8m). Employee Benefit Trust The Employee Benefit Trust made market purchases of a total of nil (2014: 2.9m) shares with an aggregate market value of nil (2014: £40.0m) and a nominal value of nil (2014: £0.8m). Associated transaction costs amounted to nil (2014: nil). Share options exercised in 2015 were settled using the shares in the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust. In 2015 0.8m (2014: 2.8m) shares were issued for cash of £2.3m (2014: £9.3m). Of the 15.2m (2014: 16.0m) shares held within retained earnings, 0.9m (2014: 1.7m) shares with an aggregate market value of £8.0m (2014: £21.5m) are held in trust to satisfy employee share scheme vesting. 4.6.3 Dividends After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2015 2014 £m £m Current year final dividend 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 24.0p) 66.4 64.9 The following dividends were declared and paid by the Group during the year: 2015 2014 £m £m Prior year final dividend paid 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 22.5p) 64.9 60.6 Current year interim dividend paid 13.9p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 13.6p) 37.6 36.7 102.5 97.3 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 123 4.7 Share-based payments The Group uses share option schemes to reward and retain its employees. The estimated cost of awarding these share options is charged to the income statement over the period that the Group benefits from the employees’ services. This cost is then added back to retained earnings, to reflect that there is no overall impact on the Group’s balance sheet until the shares are issued to the employees when the options are exercised. The individual share option schemes, the number of options outstanding under each of them, the estimated cost of these options recognised in the income statement and the assumptions used in arriving at this estimated cost are described in this section. 4.7.1 Outstanding share options At 31 December 2015, options to purchase ordinary shares had been granted to, but not yet exercised by, participants of IMI share option schemes as follows: Date of Number grant of shares Price Dates from which exercisable IMI Sharesave Scheme 06.04.10 912 510.92p 01.08.15 06.04.11 18,122 849.02p 01.08.16 10.04.12 40,216 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 05.04.13 45,247 1196.50p 01.08.16 or 01.08.18 06.05.14 40,944 1384.02p 01.08.17 or 01.08.19 05.06.15 212,485 1075.32p 01.08.18 or 01.08.20 357,926 Global Employee Share Purchase Plans 19.12.11 22,255 849.02p 01.08.14 or 01.08.16 10.04.12 1,682 890.01p 01.08.15 or 01.08.17 26.08.14 25,165 1225.00p 01.08.16 01.09.15 63,038 911.52p 01.09.17 112,140 IMI Incentive Plan 07.05.15 781,784 07.05.17 or 07.05.18 781,784 IMI Share Option Plan 03.09.09 7,989 440.93p 03.09.12 22.03.10 24,500 645.00p 22.03.13 23.03.11 246,840 971.83p 23.03.14 04.05.12 509,400 980.67p 04.05.15 27.11.12 14,400 1007.33p 27.11.15 23.03.13 474,870 1322.70p 23.03.16 10.05.13 10,000 1294.33p 10.05.16 22.10.13 74,000 1518.33p 22.10.16 11.03.14 475,913 1467.00p 11.03.17 1,837,912 IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share Plan) 03.04.06 2,454 03.04.09 05.04.07 2,146 29.03.10 04.04.08 4,500 04.04.11 10.03.09 40,705 10.03.12 12.03.13 102,380 12.03.16 22.10.13 98,792 22.10.16 11.03.14 146,688 11.03.17 397,665 Share Matching Plan 22.03.10 135,549 22.03.13 28.03.11 100,791 28.03.14 10.05.12 366,757 10.05.15 12.03.13 473,807 12.03.16 01.04.14 335,465 01.04.17 1,412,369 Total 4,899,796 124 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.7.2 4.7.3 Schemes under which options Other share-based payment arrangements are outstanding The Group also operates the following employee share plans: The options in the above table relate to the following share-based Share Matching Plan (‘SMP’) payment schemes: The delivery of the executive directors’ and selected senior managers’ annual IMI Sharesave Scheme (‘SAYE’) bonuses is governed by the individual’s achievement of a Share Ownership Guideline (‘SOG’). The SOG is a requirement to hold a percentage of salary This scheme is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including as IMI shares and, if achieved, any bonus is paid in cash. The SMP has been the executive directors, and allows the grant of options to all participants at a operated on the basis that if the SOG is not achieved a proportion of any annual discount of up to 20% below the market price. Such schemes are not subject bonus will be mandatorily deferred for three years and delivered in IMI shares to performance conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to under the SMP. This mandated investment (if the SOG is not achieved) has use their own money to purchase IMI shares. SAYE options may be exercised been matched from 75% up to a maximum of 200%. These matching shares within six months of the date they first become exercisable. can be earned if performance conditions over the three year vesting period Global Employee Share Purchase Plans (‘GESPP’) are met. These plans were introduced in 2011 for the US and Germany. The German Qualifying employees have also been able to elect voluntarily to defer all or part and US GESPP’s offer the opportunity to buy shares in IMI at a fixed price at of the remainder of their bonus, and invest personal funds, up to a maximum a future date. The German GESPP mirrors the UK Sharesave scheme, with a of 100% of their annual bonus opportunity. Additional shares, in the form of minimum/maximum savings limit per month and contract duration of three to a matching award, may be earned (up to a maximum of 200% of the ‘gross five years. The US GESPP also operates in a similar way to the UK Sharesave equivalent’ number of shares invested in the SMP) if performance conditions Scheme, with a minimum/maximum savings limit per month, but the contract over the three year vesting period are met. duration is for a fixed period of two years and different taxation conditions apply The performance measures for SMP matching awards differ depending upon for the exercise period. No further awards are intended to be granted under the the year in which the award was granted. No further awards can be granted German GESPP. under the SMP. Refer to the Remuneration Report for information on the IMI Share Option Plan (‘SOP’) proposed new schemes. Share option awards were made from 2009 to selected senior managers and Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) certain other employees under the SOP. These awards are not subject to The SIP is open to the majority of the Group’s UK employees, including performance conditions, but are subject to a three year vesting period. The the executive directors. This scheme covers two separate opportunities for purpose of the SOP is to give selected IMI employees (who are not executive employees to share in IMI’s success as follows: directors of the Company) the opportunity to share in the benefits of share price growth and to increase their IMI shareholding. • Partnership shares – allow employees to invest up to the statutory maximum from pre-tax pay, which is used to buy IMI shares. IMI 2005 Long-term Incentive Plan (also known as Performance Share • Free shares – allows a grant of shares to employees each year, up to the Plan (‘PSP’)) statutory maximum. Awards have been granted to the Company’s executive directors and selected Shares acquired or awarded under the SIP are not subject to performance senior managers within the Group. Awards have been granted subject to conditions and offer tax incentives to encourage employees to build up their stretching performance targets, the nature of which differs depending upon shareholdings with the Company. the year in which the award was granted. No further awards can be granted under the PSP. The IMI Incentive Plan (‘IIP’) In light of the expiry in 2015 of both the PSP and SMP, the IIP was introduced to act as the Company’s sole senior executive long-term incentive plan. The IIP acts as an umbrella plan which allows the Company to grant different types of award to different employee groups in an efficient way. The IIP is to be used annually to grant ‘Performance Share Awards’ in respect of ordinary shares to the executive directors and other members of senior management subject to performance conditions. The IIP will also be used annually to grant ‘Bonus Share Awards’ below board level. The IIP also gives the Company the ability to grant ‘Restricted Stock Unit Awards’ and ‘Share Options’. It is currently intended that Restricted Stock Unit Awards and share options will only be granted in response to specific business requirements. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 125 4.7.4 Options granted during the year Number of Weighted Number of options average Normal options Normal granted option exercisable granted exercisable (thousand) price date (thousand) date SAYE PSP 2014 103 1384p 2017-2019 2014 163 2017 2015 227 1075p 2018-2020 2015 GESPP SMP 2014 33 1225p 2016 2014 396 2017 2015 66 912p 2017 2015 SOP IIP 2014 594 1467p 2017 2014 2015 2015 783 2017-2018 4.7.5 Movement in outstanding options in the year Options granted at Options not granted at nil cost (1) nil cost (2) Total Number of Weighted Number of Number of options Range of average options options (thousand) option prices option price (thousand) (thousand) Outstanding at 1 January 2014 4,266 201-1518p 966p 4,157 8,423 Exercisable at 1 January 2014 259 358-645p 499p 1,255 1,514 Granted 730 1225-1467p 1444p 559 1,289 Exercised 1,440 201-1384p 780p 1,553 2,993 Lapsed 854 201-1518p 1087p 306 1,160 Outstanding at 31 December 2014 2,702 201-1518p 1157p 2,857 5,559 Exercisable at 31 December 2014 368 201-972p 862p 508 876 Granted 293 912-1075p 1038p 783 1,076 Exercised 382 201-1384p 858p 487 869 Lapsed 305 201-1467p 1239p 561 866 Outstanding at 31 December 2015 2,308 441-1518p 1180p 2,592 4,900 Exercisable at 31 December 2015 814 441-1007p 961p 653 1,467 Options not granted at nil cost include options granted under the following schemes: IMI Sharesave Scheme, Global Employee Share Purchase Plans, (1)  IMI Share Option Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme. Options granted at nil cost are those granted under the Performance Share Plan, Share Matching Plan and IMI Incentive Plan. (2)  126 IMI plc SECTION 4 – CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING COSTS Continued 4.7.6 4.8 Share-based payment charge for the year Non-controlling interests The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments was £1.1m (2014: £4.4m) which comprises a charge of £12.9m (2014: £14.4m) Non-controlling interests are recorded as reductions from the income and for the year offset by a credit of £11.8m (2014: £10.0m) in respect of lapses. equity recorded in the Group’s financial statements. In accordance with IFRS, these arise because if the Group controls an operation, it accounts for that £3.5m (2014: £4.9m) of the total charge and £4.2m (2014: £3.3m) of the total operation as if the Group were the only party holding an interest in it, but in credit is in respect of options granted to directors. spite of this control, when other parties have an interest in the operation, that interest should be reflected. 4.7.7 The deduction from income and equity therefore reflects the reduction in the Group’s interest resulting from the third party’s interest. Share-based payment valuation methodology The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are Shanghai measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted, based on a CCI SLP Total £m £m £m Black-Scholes option pricing model. The assumptions used for grants in 2015 included a dividend yield of 3.4% (2014: 2.8%), expected share price volatility Non-controlling interests as at of 22% (2014: 31%), a weighted average expected life of 3.5 years (2014: 1 January 2015 2.5 42.3 44.8 3.5 years) and a weighted average interest rate of 0.6% (2014: 1.1%). The expected volatility is wholly based on the historical volatility (calculated based Profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests (0.4) 2.8 2.4 on the weighted average remaining life of the share options), adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information. Income earned by partnership (4.4) (4.4) 2015 movement in 4.7.8 non-controlling interest (0.4) (1.6) (2.0) Non-controlling interest as Other share-based payment disclosures at 31 December 2015 2.1 40.7 42.8 The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at 31 December 2015 is 6.87 years (2014: 7.24 years) and The non-controlling interest denoted Shanghai CCI in the above table the weighted average fair value of share options granted in the year at their represents the 30% ownership interest in the ordinary shares of Shanghai grant date was £9.15 (2014: £8.03). CCI Power Control Equipment Co Limited held by Shanghai Power Station Auxiliary Equipment Works Co Limited. The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of share options exercised during the year was £11.90 (2014: £14.68). The non-controlling interest denoted SLP relates to an interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership which is held jointly by the Funds and provides the Funds with a conditional entitlement to receive income of £4.4m per annum unless the Group has not paid a dividend in the prior year or the Funds are fully funded. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 127 SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES 5.1 5.4 Contingent liabilities Significant accounting policies A contingent liability is a liability that is not sufficiently certain to qualify for A. Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests recognition as a provision because significant subjectivity exists regarding The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of IMI plc its outcome. and the entities it controls (its subsidiaries) for the year to 31 December. The Group has no significant interests which are accounted for as associates or joint ventures as at 31 December 2015. Group contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £161m (2014: £144m). Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases. Control comprises the power to govern the financial and 5.2 operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is Related party transactions achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights; currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights; or by way of contractual agreement. The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated Related parties are solely the key management personnel. The Board is financial statements are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent considered to be the key management personnel of the Group. company and are based on consistent accounting policies. All intragroup balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from them, are eliminated in full. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, 2015 2014 is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group loses control over a £m £m subsidiary, it: Short-term employee benefits* 4.6 5.1 • derecognises the assets (including any goodwill relating to the subsidiary) Share-based payments** (0.7) 1.6 and liabilities of the subsidiary; Total 3.9 6.7 • derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interest; • derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity; * Short-term employee benefits comprise salary, including employers’ social • recognises the fair value of the consideration received; contributions, benefits earned during the year and bonuses awarded for the year. • recognises the fair value of any investment retained; • recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss; and ** For details of the shared based payment (credit)/charge for key management personnel, see section 4.7.6. • reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate. There are no other related party transactions. Taxation on the above accounting entries would also be recognised where applicable. 5.3 Non-controlling interests include the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly Subsequent events or indirectly, to the parent company and the UK Funds’ interest in the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership (‘the Partnership’). Non-controlling interests are presented Events that occur in the period between 31 December and the date of within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from equity attributable approval of the Annual Report can be categorised as adjusting or non-adjusting to owners of the parent. Losses within a subsidiary are proportionally attributed depending on whether the condition existed at 31 December. If the event is an to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance. adjusting event, then an adjustment to the results is made. If a non-adjusting event after the year end is material, non-disclosure could influence decisions B. Use of judgements and estimates that readers of the financial statements make. Accordingly, for each material The preparation of financial statements requires management to make non-adjusting event after the reporting period we disclose the nature of the judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of event and an estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, estimate cannot be made. income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates. i. Judgements, estimates and assumptions There were no adjusting or non-adjusting subsequent events after the balance The key judgements and assumptions concerning the future and other key sheet date of 31 December 2015. sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are described below. The Group bases its assumptions and estimates on information available when the consolidated financial statements are prepared. Market changes or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected. Impairment of non-financial assets Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The value in use is based on a discounted cash flow 128 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued model. Cash flows are derived from the Group’s long-term forecasts for the valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual next three to five years. The principal assumptions in these calculations are the developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, long-term growth rates and the discount rate applied to forecast cash flows in inflation, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases. addition to the achievement of the forecasts themselves. Further information These assumptions, accompanied by sensitivity analysis thereon, are included on this process and the assets affected is included in section 3.2. in section 4.5. Due to the complexity of the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. Acquired businesses In particular, although only constituting a minor proportion of the assets, The Group has over the years acquired a number of businesses. IFRS3 the valuation of the UK Funds’ interests in the Scottish Limited Partnership ‘Business Combinations’ requires the acquired assets to be recognised at their is a highly subjective area because their valuation depends on an actuarial fair value at the acquisition date. The valuation of these acquired assets involves assessment of the amount a third party might be willing to pay for the asset, the use of estimates and assumptions, in particular with respect to the valuation taking into account the risk that the associated income stream could either of acquired intangibles for which there are significant unobservable inputs. cease in the event that the two UK Pension Funds both became fully funded or become deferred in any year in which no dividend was paid to the shareholders. Disposed businesses The Group has over the years disposed of a number of businesses. The sale Consolidation of the Scottish Limited Partnership (‘SLP’) and inclusion agreements contained various warranties and indemnities. In some cases, of the UK Pension Funds’ interests in this special purpose entity as a the agreements also include the potential for adjustment to the purchase price, non-controlling interest sometimes contingent on future events. At the time of disposal, the accounts In June 2010, the Group made a special contribution to the IMI Pension Fund reflect the best estimate of the likely future impact of these agreements. of £48.6m which the Trustee agreed to invest in the IMI Scottish Limited These estimates are then regularly reviewed and provisions are recognised Partnership (‘SLP’) , an entity controlled by the Group, which conferred upon where necessary. the Fund conditional rights to receive income of £4.4m a year for twenty years, or until the Fund becomes fully funded. One of the judgements involved in this Share-based payments issue was whether this entity qualified as a Special Purpose Entity as defined The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by by SIC 12 ‘Consolidation – Special Purpose Entities’, and whether, in applying reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are this interpretation, the entity should be consolidated. It was determined that granted. Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions requires the entity meets the definition of a Special Purpose Entity under IFRS10 and determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on furthermore, upon consideration of the criteria in this interpretation, it was the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination determined that consolidation was appropriate. The Partnership Agreement of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected includes a clause under which the payments in the year are deferred in the life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and related assumptions. event that the Group has not paid a dividend in the preceding year and These assumptions and the models used for estimating fair value for sharetherefore, because the Group has the ability to defer these payments indefinitely based payment transactions are disclosed in section 4.7. and is in control of the circumstances under which the arrangement can be terminated, the payments envisaged by the agreement are discretionary and Taxes therefore do not constitute a liability under IAS32. As such the Pension Funds’ Uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations, interests in this SLP have been recorded as non-controlling interests, as a changes in tax laws, and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given component of equity. During the prior year the IMI Pension Fund commenced the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature winding up procedures and the relevant liabilities were transferred to one of two and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the new funds, IMI 2014 Deferred Fund and IMI 2014 Pensioner Fund (together actual results and the assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, ‘The Funds’). The interest in the SLP is now held jointly by the Funds. could necessitate future adjustments to the tax income and expense already recorded. The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for Development costs possible consequences of audits by the tax authorities of the respective countries Development costs are capitalised in accordance with the criteria set in which it operates. The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, out in IAS38: Intangible Assets. Initial capitalisation of costs is based on such as experience of previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax management’s judgement regarding the technological and commercial feasibility regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority. Such differences of the asset, and only when a product development project has reached a of interpretation may arise on a wide variety of issues depending on the conditions point where such determinations can be made. In testing these assets for prevailing in the respective domicile of the Group companies. impairment, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it cash generation of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be period of benefits. Further detail is provided in section 3.2. utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount C. Revenue recognition of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits. Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and that the revenue can be reliably measured. Trading provisions The nature of the equipment, valve and other contracts into which the Group The Group sells a wide range of highly technical products and whilst its products enters means that: are designed and engineered to a high degree of precision and to customer • the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks specifications, there will always be a risk of products requiring modification, which and rewards to the customer. Where such discrete elements are present, can lead to warranty claims as well as excess or obsolete inventory, collection risk revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the regarding receivables and other trading provisions. Provisions are held against sale of goods. these risks, which are estimated based on past experience of claims and by • the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the total measuring the likely use of inventory in the future against past usage. The degree contract value and is often provided on a short-term or one-off basis. Where of dependence on future events makes these estimates inherently subjective. this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete. Employee benefits As a result of the above, the significant majority of the Group’s revenue is The present value of the Group’s defined benefit pension plans and other postrecognised on a sale of goods basis. employment benefits are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial Annual Report and Accounts 2015 129 The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue D. Exceptional items earned by the Group are set out below: Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the income statement and excluded in arriving at reported results, where the quantum, the one-off nature or i. Sale of goods volatility of these items would otherwise distort the underlying trading performance. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the income statement net of returns, trade discounts and volume rebates when the significant risks The following items of income and expense are considered to be exceptional in and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer and reliable these financial statements: measurement is possible. No revenue is recognised where recovery of the • gains and losses (including fair value adjustments) on derivative financial consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding instruments; associated costs, or the possible return of goods. • restructuring costs, which comprise significant costs associated with the Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products closure of activities or factories and the cost of significant reductions in sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale. Sales made under workforce due to excess capacity or the reorganisation of facilities. Noninternationally accepted trade terms, Incoterms 2010, are recognised as significant restructuring costs are not disclosed as exceptional items; revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer • special pension events, which comprises settlement gains or losses relating to risks as defined by the International Chamber of Commerce Official Rules for the Group’s defined benefit schemes; the Interpretation of Trade Terms. Sales made outside Incoterms 2010 are generally recognised on delivery to the customer. • impairment losses recorded against goodwill, intangible assets and other operating assets; ii. Rendering of services • the amortisation of acquired intangible fixed assets; As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually • gains or losses on disposals of subsidiaries; insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided • costs associated with acquisitions and disposals, which principally represent: on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service is complete. costs payable to the legal and financial advisors assisting with the origination and completion of the transactions; and Where this is not the case, revenue from services rendered is recognised in contingent consideration payments, which because they might be forfeited proportion to the stage of completion of the service at the balance sheet date. in some of the instances in which the vendors’ post-acquisition employment The stage of completion is assessed by reference to the contractual agreement contracts may be terminated, are required by IFRS3 (revised) to be treated with each separate customer and the costs incurred on the contract to date as remuneration. in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. Revenue recognition commences only when the outcome of the contract can be reliably measured. The tax impact of the above items is also shown within exceptional items. Installation fees are similarly recognised by reference to the stage of completion on the installation unless they are incidental to the sale of the goods, in which E. Business combinations and goodwill case they are recognised when the goods are sold. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration When a transaction combines a supply of goods with the provision of a transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any significant service, revenue from the provision of the service is recognised non-controlling interest in the acquiree. The choice of measurement of nonseparately from the revenue from the sale of goods by reference to the stage controlling interest, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the of completion of the service unless the service is essential to the functionality acquiree’s identifiable net assets is determined on a transaction by transaction of the goods supplied, in which case the whole transaction is treated as a basis. Acquisition-related costs incurred are expensed and included in construction contract. Revenue from a service that is incidental to the supply of administrative expenses unless their quantum, nature or volatility meets goods is recognised at the same time as the revenue from the supply of goods. the definition of an exceptional item as set out in accounting policy D. iii. Construction contracts When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer. However, where with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of embedded derivatives recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference in contracts held by the acquiree. to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract to date in Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract. recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be a liability revenue from construction contracts when certain criteria are met. Variations will be recognised in accordance with IAS39 either in profit or loss or in other are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, liability for the variation in principle. Claims are included when negotiations it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity. with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that the customer is Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the certain to accept the claim. Incentive payments are included when a contract acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business combination triggering the incentive will be achieved. is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such held equity interest in the acquiree) over the net identifiable amounts of the assets contracts can be reliably assessed. On all contracts, full provision is made for acquired and the liabilities assumed for the business combination. Assets acquired any losses in the year in which they are first foreseen. and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs. Identifiable intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill. Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be reliably measured. 130 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred H. Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest (and where the business Where applicable, on initial classification as ‘held for sale’, non-current disposal combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s groups are recognised at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs previously held equity interest in the acquiree) is lower than the fair value of the to sell. Impairment losses on the initial classification of assets as held for sale assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing are included in profit or loss, even for assets measured at fair value, as are interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss. impairment losses on subsequent remeasurement and any reversal thereof. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated Once classified as held for sale, assets are no longer depreciated or amortised. impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of a separate major line of business that has been disposed of, is held for sale or the Group’s cash-generating units (or groups of cash generating units) that are is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units. Each unit or group of I. Foreign currencies units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the i. Foreign currency transactions entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and shall not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translating transactions at within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation the exchange rate ruling on the transaction date are reflected in the income disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained. currencies that are stated at fair value are translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date. F. Financial income and expense Financial income comprises interest receivable on funds invested, income ii. Foreign operations from investments and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the The income statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at income statement. Interest income is recognised in the income statement as it the appropriate average rate of exchange for the year and the adjustment to accrues, taking into account the effective yield on the asset. Dividend income is year end rates is taken directly to reserves. recognised in the income statement on the date that the dividend is declared. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value Financial expense comprises interest payable on borrowings calculated using adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated at foreign exchange rates the effective interest rate method, the interest related element of derivatives and ruling at the balance sheet date. losses on financial instruments that are recognised in the income statement. The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognised in Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly the income statement using the effective interest rate method. as a separate component of equity. Since 1 January 2004, the Group’s date of transition to IFRSs, such differences have been recognised in the translation Net finance expense relating to defined benefit pension schemes represents the reserve. When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant assumed interest on the difference between employee benefit plan liabilities and amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit or loss. the employee benefit plan assets. J. Financial instruments and fair value hedging Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to Financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value plus directly attributable get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the transaction costs unless the instrument is a derivative not designated as a respective assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they hedge (see below). Subsequent measurement depends on the designation occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs of the instrument, which follows the categories in IAS39: in connection with the borrowing of funds. • fixed deposits, principally comprising funds held with banks and other financial institutions are classified as ‘available for sale assets’ under IAS39, and held G. Income tax at fair value. Short-term borrowings and overdrafts are classified Current tax payable/receivable represents the expected tax payable/receivable as financial liabilities at amortised cost. on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively • derivatives, comprising interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts enacted at the balance sheet date and taking into account any adjustments in and options, metals futures contracts and any embedded derivatives, are respect of prior years. classified as ‘fair value through profit or loss’ under IAS39, unless designated Deferred tax is provided, using the balance sheet method, on temporary as hedges. Derivatives not designated as hedges are initially recognised at differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial fair value; attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss when reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, changes in fair value of such not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of derivatives and gains or losses on their settlement are recognised in net goodwill, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a financial income or expense. business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit, and • long-term loans and other interest bearing borrowings are generally held at differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the timing amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Where the long-term of the reversal of the differences can be controlled and it is probable that the loan is hedged, generally by an interest rate swap, and the hedge is regarded differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax is measured as effective, the carrying value of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences fair value of the hedge. reverse, based on the tax laws that have been enacted or substantively • trade receivables are stated at cost as reduced by appropriate impairment enacted by the balance sheet date. allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future • trade payables are stated at cost. taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 131 • financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the balance sheet only when ii. Software development costs the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Software applications and systems that are not an integral part of their host • available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value with gains and losses computer equipment are capitalised on initial recognition as intangible assets at being recognised in equity, except for impairment losses which are recognised cost. Cost comprises the purchase price plus directly attributable costs incurred in the income statement. on development of the asset to bring it into use. Following initial recognition, software development costs are carried at cost less any accumulated K. Other hedging amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting i. Hedge of monetary assets and liabilities, financial commitments or policy ‘Impairment’) and are included in the other acquired or other nonforecast transactions acquired category of intangible assets depending on their origin. Where a derivative financial instrument is used as an economic hedge of the iii. Customer relationships and other acquired intangible assets foreign exchange or metals commodity price exposure of a recognised monetary asset or liability, financial commitment or forecast transaction, but does not meet Customer relationships and other intangible assets that are acquired by the the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting under IAS39 no hedge accounting is Group as part of a business combination are stated at their fair value calculated applied and any gain or loss resulting from changes in fair value of the hedging by reference to the net present value of future benefits accruing to the Group instrument is recognised in net financial income or expense. from utilisation of the asset, discounted at an appropriate discount rate. Expenditure on other internally generated intangible assets is recognised Where such a derivative is a formally designated hedge of a forecast transaction in the income statement as an expense as incurred. for accounting purposes, such as the forward component of the deal-contingent forward contract entered into to hedge foreign exchange movements relating to iv. Amortisation of intangible assets other than goodwill the US dollar proceeds of the sale of the Retail Dispense businesses, movements Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (other in the value of the derivative are recognised directly in other comprehensive than for customer relationships and order book, which are charged on a sum income to the extent the hedge is effective. The Company assesses the of digits basis) over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. effectiveness of the hedge based on the expected fair value of the amount Amortisation commences from the date the intangible asset becomes to be received and the movement in the fair value of the derivative designated available for use. The estimated useful lives for: as the hedge. • capitalised development costs are the life of the intangible asset (usually a For segmental reporting purposes, changes in the fair value of economic hedges maximum of 10 years) that are not designated hedges, which relate to current year trading, together with • software development costs are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) the gains and losses on their settlement, are allocated to the segmental revenues • customer relationships are the life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) and operating profit of the relevant business segment. • other intangible assets (including order books, brands and software) are the ii. Hedge of net investment in foreign operation life of the intangible asset (up to 10 years) Where a foreign currency liability or derivative financial instrument is a formally M. Property, plant and equipment designated hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the foreign currency liability or changes in Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are not depreciated. the fair value of the financial instrument are recognised directly in equity via Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated other comprehensive income to the extent the hedge is effective. The Group depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy assesses the effectiveness of its net investment hedges based on fair value ‘Impairment’). changes of its net assets, including relevant goodwill designated as foreign currency assets, and the fair value changes of both the debt designated Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components as a hedge and the relevant financial instrument. having different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. Costs in respect of tooling owned by the Group L. Intangible assets for clearly identifiable new products are capitalised net of any contribution Intangible assets are further sub-divided in the notes to these accounts between received from customers and are included in plant and equipment. acquired intangible assets and non-acquired intangible assets. Amortisation Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis (unless of acquired intangible assets is treated as an exceptional item as described in such a basis is not aligned with the anticipated benefit) so as to write down the accounting policy D of these accounting policies, because of its inherent volatility. cost of assets to residual values over the period of their estimated useful lives The accounting policy for goodwill is described in accounting policy E. within the following ranges: i. Research and development • Freehold buildings 25 to 50 years Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining • Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in the N. Leased assets income statement as an expense as incurred. Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to ownership are classified as finance leases. a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes, is capitalised provided benefits are probable, cost can be Plant and equipment acquired by way of finance lease is stated at an amount reliably measured and if, and only if, the product or process is technically and equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease commercially feasible and the Group has sufficient resources and intention payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see above) to complete development. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of and impairment losses (see accounting policy ‘Impairment’). materials, direct labour and directly attributable overheads. Other development Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred. on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Capitalised development expenditure is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement over the ‘Impairment’) and is included in the other acquired or other non-acquired period of the lease unless a different systematic method is more appropriate category of intangible assets depending on its origin. under the terms of the lease. The majority of leasing transactions entered into by the Group are operating leases. 132 IMI plc SECTION 5 – OTHER NOTES Continued O. Inventories S. Employee benefits Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Due to i. Defined contribution pension plans the varying nature of the Group’s operations, both first in, first out (‘FIFO’) and Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an weighted average methodologies are employed. In respect of work in progress expense in the income statement as incurred. and finished goods, cost includes all direct costs of production and the appropriate proportion of production overheads. ii. Defined benefit pension plans P. Cash and cash equivalents The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any the Group’s cash management are included as a component of cash and plan assets are deducted. Past service costs are recognised in profit or loss on cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows. the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises restructuring-related costs. The discount rate is the yield Q. Impairment at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds of the appropriate The carrying values of the Group’s non-financial assets other than inventories currency that have durations approximating those of the Group’s obligations. (see accounting policy ‘Inventories’) and deferred tax assets (see accounting The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit policy ‘Income tax’), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine credit method. When the calculation results in a net asset to the Group, the whether there is any indication of impairment. recognised asset is limited to the net total of any unrecognised past service costs and the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or all assets in future contributions to the plan and restricted by any relevant asset ceiling. within its cash generating unit is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised Any deduction made by the tax authorities in the event of a refund of a surplus whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit would be regarded by the Group as an income tax. exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the expense is recognised immediately in the income statement. Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised For goodwill and assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable immediately in equity and disclosed in the statement of comprehensive income. amount is evaluated at each balance sheet date. iii. Long-term service and other post-employment benefits i. Calculation of recoverable amount The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service and other postThe recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables other than financial assets employment benefits, other than pension plans, is the amount of future benefit held at fair value is calculated as the present value of expected future cash that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate inherent in the asset. periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method Receivables with a short duration of less than one year are not discounted. and is discounted to its present value and the fair value of any related assets The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their fair value is deducted. The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on high less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use an individual quality bonds of the appropriate currency that have durations approximating assessment is made of the estimated future cash flows generated for each cash those of the Group’s obligations. generating unit (based upon the latest Group forecast and extrapolated using an appropriate long-term growth rate for each cash generating unit in perpetuity iv. Equity and equity-related compensation benefits consistent with an estimate of the relevant geographic long-term GDP growth). The Group operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits These are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that as set out in section 4.7. The fair value of the employee services received in reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense each year. specific to the asset. Management believe that this approach, including the use The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by of the indefinite cash flow projection, is appropriate based upon both historical reference to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any experience and because it is one of the bases management utilise to evaluate non-market vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). the fair value of investment opportunities. For an asset that does not generate Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options is smallest cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. ii. Reversals of impairment At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of As required by IAS36 ‘Impairment of Assets’, any impairment of goodwill or original estimates, if any, in the income statement. available for sale financial assets is non-reversible. In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if at the balance sheet date there are indications For newly issued shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable that the loss has decreased or no longer exists following a change in the transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. when the options are exercised. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount T. Provisions does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will R. Dividends be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are valued at management’s best estimate of the amount required Final dividends payable are recognised as a liability at the date at which they are to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date. approved by the Company’s shareholders or by the subsidiary’s shareholders in respect of dividends to non-controlling interests. Interim dividends payable are A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group has approved recognised on the date they are declared. a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced publicly. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 133 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2015. The Strategic Report is on pages 8 to 43. Results and dividend There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 76. Segmental other than: operating profit amounted to £239m (2014: £298m) and profit before taxation • certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by laws and and discontinued operations amounted to £163m (2014: £246m). regulations (for example insider trading laws); and The directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p per share (2014: 24.0p per • pursuant to the Company’s share dealing code whereby the directors and certain share) on the ordinary share capital payable, subject to shareholder approval, employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Company’s shares. at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 5 May 2016 to shareholders on The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that the register at the close of business on 8 April 2016. Together with the interim may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights. dividend of 13.9p per share paid on 18 September 2015, this final dividend will None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of bring the total distribution for the year to 38.4p per share (2014: 37.6p per share). the Company. The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury. Electronic and paper proxy appointments and Research and development voting instructions must be received by the Company’s registrars not later See section 2.1.3.3 to the financial statements on page 89. than 48 hours (excluding any non-working days) before a general meeting, or (subject to the Company’s articles of association) any adjournment thereof. Shareholders’ funds Shareholders’ funds increased from £509m at the end of 2014 to £546m Own shares acquired by the Company at 31 December 2015. In 2015 the Company did not make market purchases of its own ordinary shares. Share capital The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015 to purchase up to 40,774,071 of its ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. As at 31 December 2015, the Company’s share capital comprised a single class This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of share capital which was divided into ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. Details to be held on 5 May 2016 where shareholders will be asked to give a similar of the share capital of the Company are set out in section 4.6 to the financial authority, details of which are contained in the separate Notice of Annual statements on page 49. The Company’s ordinary shares are listed on the General Meeting. London Stock Exchange. As at 31 December 2015, 14,248,836 ordinary shares (nominal value £4,071,096) The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) programme for were held in treasury representing 5.2% of the issued share capital (excluding which Citibank, N.A. acts as depositary. The ADRs are traded on the US overtreasury shares) at that time. The maximum number of shares held in treasury the-counter market under the symbol IMIAY, where each ADR represents two during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 14,248,836. ordinary shares. As at 31 December 2015, 925,169 shares were held in an employee trust for use Substantial shareholdings in relation to certain executive incentive plans representing 0.3% of the issued Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure and share capital (excluding treasury shares) at that time. The independent trustee Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service and on the of the trust has the same rights as any other shareholder. Participants in option Company’s website. As at 31 December 2015, the following voting interests in schemes do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise. the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, had been notified to the Company: During the year, 144,709 new ordinary shares were issued under employee share schemes: 136,749 under save as you earn plans and 7,960 under executive share plans. Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank % Held 1 equally with the shares in issue and have no special rights. Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited 7.77% The rights and obligations attaching to the Company’s ordinary shares are set MFS Investment Management 5.04% out in the Company’s articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, from the Company’s website or by writing Blackrock Inc 5.01% to the Company Secretary. Changes to the articles of association must be Ameriprise Financial Inc 5.01% approved by a special resolution of the shareholders (75% majority required) in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. Subject to applicable Legal & General Group plc 3.03% statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or (if there is no such resolution or so far as it 1 As of the date in the notification to the Company does not make specific provision) as the Board may decide. Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Company’s report and Subsequent to 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company, Company was notified that the interests of MFS Investment Management were and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights. Holders of ordinary shares may 10.17%. receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company. As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with substantial holdings Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition in the Company other than those noted above. a general meeting of the Company or propose resolutions at Annual General Meetings. Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and Statement on corporate governance the treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on of assets. pages 49 to 53 and are incorporated into this report by reference. 134 IMI plc DIRECTORS’ REPORT Continued Employment policies Our CO2e accounting methodology follows DEFRA guidelines and includes The Group continues to invest in employee involvement at all levels of the all material emissions across IMI. organisation. Since the global intranet was put in place in 2014, we have had Political donations over 4 million hits from employees. It has been instrumental in developing cross business collaboration and sharing of best practice. To date we have invested No political donations were made during the year. £1.6m in developing the intranet recognising the importance we place on keeping employees informed and connected with Group and individual business Directors developments. Each Division has now launched its own Divisional intranet to The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors are given communicate and support business developments specific to its particular needs on pages 46 and 47 and are incorporated into this report by reference. Roberto and markets. The Group also continues to publish its cross-divisional newsletter, Quarta resigned as Chairman and Director with effect from the end of the Annual the ‘IMI eye’, bi-annually which features news stories from sites around the globe General Meeting held on 7 May 2015. Lord Smith of Kelvin was appointed as and is distributed to employees and key stakeholders. The Company’s European a director on 7 May 2015 and was appointed as Chairman of the Board at the Works Council, which has been in operation since 2003, meets at least once a end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015. Douglas Hurt and Anita year to exchange views on pan-European issues facing the Group. At the date Frew retired from the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting held on 7 of this Annual Report, there are 15 members of the European Works Council May 2015. Daniel Shook became Finance Director Designate on 1 January 2015 comprising 13 employee representatives nominated from among employees and become Finance Director on 1 March 2015. Isobel Sharp was appointed to from each of our European businesses, covering 11 countries, with the balance the Board on 1 September 2015. being Company appointees. The Group’s financial results and important initiatives such as health and safety, training and development, and employee The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in engagement are communicated through a number of mechanisms including the Company’s articles of association. Each new appointee to the Board is the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their the Company’s website and ‘town hall’ meetings. A Global Benefits Review, appointment. In addition, the Company’s articles of association require each which commenced in early 2015, is underway across the Group to harmonise director to stand for re-election at least once every three years. However, in the remuneration for our employees across each country and align to local accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’), all directors market practice. wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting and are recommended for re-election. Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee share ownership. Further details The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and all of employee share schemes are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third party indemnity provisions 59 to 71 and in section 4.7 of the financial statements on pages 123 to 126. which were in place during the financial year. At the date of this Annual Report there are such indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the A number of people initiatives, including development, employee engagement, costs of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings brought against global benefits and diversity are co-ordinated across the Group. These initiatives them, in their capacity as a director, subject always to the limitations set by and the Company’s approach to investment in these areas are explained on the Companies Act 2006. pages 26 to 29. Role of the Board Our policy on employee diversity and inclusion is to comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which we operate and to actively promote our The role of the Board is: diversity goal to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities • to promote the success of the Company; and to reflect the diverse nature of our global business. Every effort is made to • be guardians of stakeholders’ interests; ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and • to set/monitor leadership behaviour and culture; fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion. Further details of our approach to diversity • to select and appoint the executive management team; and inclusion are set out in pages 29 and 57 and are incorporated into this • to provide supportive challenge to the executive management team; report by reference. • to approve business plans and strategy; At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected in the • to oversee governance, risk and the control environment; and composition of our Board; further details of the Board composition along with • to monitor and oversee the businesses and management. biographies are set out on pages 46 and 47. The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and Health, safety and the environment oversees business and management performance. The Board has adopted a It is Group policy to continuously improve healthy and safe working conditions corporate governance framework which defines Board roles and includes the list and to always operate in an environmentally responsible manner. of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive management. Board reserved matters include strategy and Our carbon reporting statistics indicate that our recent performance in gross key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment tonnes of CO2e has continued to improve: 2012-71,000, 2013-69,000, 2014decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group. 62,500, 2015-61,250. Of the 2015 total, our direct (Scope 1) emissions of CO2e, essentially gas, diesel and fuel oil consumed, amounted to 18,250 tonnes. In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly defined in Our indirect (Scope 2) emissions of C02e, essentially the emissions generated writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated on our behalf to provide our electricity, amounted to 43,000 tonnes. authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief Executive. The Group has a clear organisational structure and wellIn addition to gross tonnes of CO2e, we report CO2e intensity relative to £million established reporting and control disciplines. Managers of operating units sales. There has been a slight deterioration in our CO2e intensity metric to assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running 39.5 (tonnes/£m sales) in 2015 (2014: 37.4), largely on account of exchange day-to-day trading activities. They do this within a framework of clear rules, rate movement. On a normalised line-for-line basis however, the IMI carbon policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of intensity metric has comfortably achieved our 2015 year-end target of a 7.5% proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject reduction over 2012 performance. Using 2015 as our new baseline, we plan to regular senior management reviews of performance. to continuously improve our emissions performance going forward, building on the results from the European Energy Directive audits undertaken in 2015 and cascading these lessons throughout our non-European facilities. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 135 Division of responsibilities amongst directors Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation in Chairman: which they have or may have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company. This duty is in addition to the • building a well-balanced Board duty that they owe to the Company to disclose to the Board any interest in any • chairing meetings, setting the agenda and ensuring the best use of time transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company. If any director • ensuring effectiveness of the Board including the quality of debate becomes aware of any situation which may give rise to a conflict of interest, that and decisions director informs the rest of the Board and the Board is then permitted under the articles of association to decide to authorise such conflict. The information is • promoting the right environment and relations for effective engagement recorded in the Company’s register of conflicts and a conflicts authorisation and challenge around the boardroom table letter is issued to the relevant director. • setting the tone and high standards of governance practice • getting the right executive leadership and succession plans in place Change of control The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of agreements that may There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the arrangements on a change of Executive, which is reflected in the written corporate governance framework control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts approved by the Board. In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the and employee share plans. Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive none of these is considered by the Company to be significant in terms of its powers or responsibilities. The Chief Executive leads the executive management likely impact on the Group as a whole. team in running the businesses and implementing operational and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board. In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Group’s main funding agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms or give notice of repayment The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to for all outstanding amounts under the relevant facilities. an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration. He is supported by the The Company does not have agreements with any director or employee that Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in would provide compensation for loss of office or employment specifically accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant resulting from a takeover, although the provisions of the Company’s share regulatory requirements. The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to directors and standing committees of the Board. The Board has a recognised procedure for employees under such schemes to vest in those circumstances. any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor. Information included in the Strategic Report All disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions (as required to be Chief Executive: disclosed by the Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ • leadership of the executive management team Report) Regulations 2013) are contained on the previous page. Likely future • formulating strategy, business plans and budgets developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 43. • ensuring the highest compliance and internal control standards are maintained Information to be disclosed under Listing Rules 9.8.4R • developing organisation structure • resourcing, talent development and succession plans Listing Rule Detail Page 9.8.4R (1-2)(5-14) Not applicable N/A Directors’ powers The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and the articles 9.8.4R (4) Long-term incentive schemes 59 to 71 of association of the Company in force from time to time. The directors were authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases Internal control of the Company’s ordinary shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting held on 7 May 2015 by the passing of new resolutions, The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Group’s system of internal in respect of the new ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each. The current authorities control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on Code and relevant best practice guidance including the Financial Reporting 5 May 2016, at which new authorities will be sought. Council’s September 2014 publication, ‘Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting’. Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set out in the separate Notice of the Annual All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in General Meeting. detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board. Performance against forecast is continuously monitored at monthly meetings Directors’ interests of the Executive Committee and, on a quarterly basis, by the Board. Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and The interests of the persons (including the interests of any connected persons) monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group. Certified annual reports who were directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of the Company, are required from senior executives of operating units, confirming compliance and their interests under share option and incentive schemes, are shown on with Group financial reporting requirements. The internal audit function, Group page 70. Assurance, operates a rolling programme of internal assurance on site reviews at selected operating units. Additionally, visits to operations are carried out Management of conflicts of interest by senior Group finance personnel. These internal assurance processes are The Company’s articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the co-ordinated with the activity of the Company’s external auditor. activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the IMI website. These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conflicts of interest. These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Board’s view that they operated effectively during 2015. 136 IMI plc DIRECTORS’ REPORT Continued Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, The directors also recognised a number of key features of the Company’s authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals operations. The Company’s wide geographical and sector diversification, and the referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their lack of a single major production site, help minimise the risk of serious business materiality, to the Board. In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board interruption. Furthermore, our business model is structured so that the Company regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls including those is not overly reliant on a few large customers. Our largest customer constitutes relating to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental only 2% of Group revenue and our top 20 customers account for just over issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions. 16% of Group revenue. In addition, our ability to flex our cost base reduces Compliance and internal audit reports are made available to the Board, the our exposure to sudden adverse economic conditions. Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored. Going concern Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made Accounting standards require that directors satisfy themselves that it is reasonable to adapt them to the changing risk profile of operations and to implement for them to conclude whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on proportionate measures to address any identified weakness in the internal control a going concern basis. The Group’s business activities, together with the factors system. The internal control declaration process introduced in 2014 is now likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the fully embedded and is enabling improvement in control through bi-annual selfStrategic Report on pages 6 to 43. Principal risks are detailed on pages 32 to 35. assessments from all operating units. Action plans to improve controls as a result The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing of these assessments are being tracked and reported to the Audit Committee. facilities are described in the financial statements. In addition, section 4.4 to the We are committed to further strengthen the key financial control processes. financial statements includes the Group’s objectives, policies and processes More information in relation to risk is given on page 32 under the heading for managing its capital; its financial risk management objectives; details of its ‘Principal Risks and Uncertainties’. financial instruments and hedging activities; and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. Section 4.5 to the financial statements addresses the management Through the procedures outlined here, the Board has considered the of the funding risks of the Group’s employee benefit obligations. effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2015 and up to the date of this Annual Report. The Board believes that the Group’s system of The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides relationships with a number of customers, suppliers and funding providers across reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. different geographic areas and industries. The Group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of potential and realistic changes in trading performance, indicate Financial reporting processes that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on 31 December 2015, or renewed since, without the need to renew any further The use of the Group’s accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements facilities before 25 February 2016. As a consequence, the directors believe that by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Group’s the Group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately uncertainties inherent in the current economic outlook. Such uncertainties as reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process. The use of a standard have been identified are not regarded as material uncertainties for the purpose reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information is of the going concern assessment. presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements. After making due enquiry, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Viability statement foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors in preparing the Financial Statements. have assessed the viability of the Company over a relevant period, taking into account the Group’s financial and trading position as summarised in this Annual Disclosure of information to the auditor Report, the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 32 to 35 and the Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant five year business plan reviewed by the Board in September 2015. Based on audit information of which the Company’s auditor is unaware; and each director this assessment, and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board, the has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due the Company’s auditor is aware of that information. over the period from the date of this Annual Report to 31 December 2020. Annual General Meeting The directors have determined that the period to 31 December 2020 constitutes an appropriate period over which to make its assessment of viability. Whilst the The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole directors have no reason to believe the Company will not be viable over a longer Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on 5 May 2016 at 10am. timing horizon, the five year period to 31 December 2020 was chosen as it aligns Notice of the meeting will be published on the Company’s website. with the Company’s business and strategic planning timing horizon and is a sensible period for such an assessment. It is believed this period provides readers Auditor of the Annual Report with an appropriately long-term view with which to assess the Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company’s prospects although future outcomes cannot be predicted with certainty. Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting. In making its assessment, the Board recognised the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity. A summary of these risks can be found on By order of the Board pages 32 to 35 of the Annual Report. John O’Shea The five year business plan was used to assess the headroom on the Company’s Company Secretary facilities and to stress test ongoing covenant compliance under scenarios where 25 February 2016 its principal risks materialise. The analysis considered both ‘running business’ risks, such as reducing revenues and margins, as well as one-off ‘event’ risks IMI plc is registered in England No. 714275 such as product recalls. The Board also considered the Company’s ability to raise capital in the future, as well as both the ongoing actions undertaken to prevent occurrence and the potential actions to mitigate the impact of any particular risk. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 137 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements. The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Directors’ Report, Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement, and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • state that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • state for the parent company financial statements whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the parent company and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation as appropriate. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Directors’ responsibility statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms that: • the Group and parent company financial statements in this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK law and with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group; and • the Annual Report (which includes the Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report) includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face. The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group’s performance, business model and strategy. By order of the Board John O’Shea Company Secretary 25 February 2016 138 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Overview of our audit approach We have audited the financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended Risks impacting audit strategy Revenue and profit recognition 31 December 2015 set out on pages 76 to 151. In our opinion: Inventory valuation • IMI plc’s Group financial statements and Parent Company financial statements Valuation of the overall pension scheme (the financial statements) give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s liabilities and of the Parent Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the The assessment of the carrying value of Group profit for the year then ended; goodwill and acquired intangible assets • the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Accounting for the acquisition of with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union; Bopp & Reuther • the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; financial information of 14 entities and audit and procedures on specific balances for a further • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 29 entities. requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group The entities where we performed full or financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. specific audit procedures accounted for 85% of profit before tax adjusted for nonWhat we have audited recurring items, 66% of revenue and 83% of total assets. We audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements of IMI plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 which comprise: Materiality Overall Group materiality of £9.4m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted Group Parent Company for non-recurring items. Consolidated balance sheet as at Balance sheet as at What has changed The accounting for the acquisition of Bopp 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 & Reuther has been included as a risk of Consolidated income statement for Statement of changes in material misstatement. Bopp & Reuther has the year then ended equity for the year then ended also been included as a full scope entity. Consolidated statement of comprehensive Related notes C1 to C11 to the income for the year then ended financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 5 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 139 Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team. In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas. Risk Our response to the risk Revenue and Profit Recognition (£1,557m, PY We carried out testing of controls over revenue recognition with a focus on those related to the timing of comparative £1,686m) revenue recognition; Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); We performed analytical procedures to compare revenue recognised with our expectations from past Accounting policies (page 128); and section experience, management’s forecasts and, where possible, external market data; 2.1.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 85) We obtained support for individually unusual and/or material revenue journals; Revenue recognition is a significant audit risk We performed tests of detail for a sample of revenue transactions to confirm the transactions had been across all divisions within the Group. Specifically appropriately recorded in the income statement. We verified that the risks and rewards of ownership of the there is a risk of inappropriate revenue and products had been transferred to the customer by: profit recognition if deliveries are recorded • analysing the contract and terms of the sale to determine that the Group had fulfilled the requirements of within the wrong accounting period, contract the contract; confirming revenue could be reliably measured by reference to underlying documentation; loss provisions are misstated or revenue is not • confirming collectability of the revenue was reasonably assured by agreeing to collection history; and accounted for in line with contractual terms. •  tracing the costs of the transactions to bills of materials and expenses incurred; The cyclical nature of deliveries within the Critical Engineering division’s results in significant We performed cut-off testing by tracing a sample of transactions around the period end to third party shipments near the December period end which delivery note documentation and customer acceptance. increases the risk of a cut-off error. In respect of the Critical Engineering division we audited management’s assessment of forecast costs to complete, corroborating the underlying assumptions against historic experience and future production plans to confirm that any contract losses are appropriately recognised. We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 34 locations where revenue is in scope, which represents 66% of the total revenue balance. We also performed specific procedures over £268m of revenue recognised in the 50 Precision and Hydronic divisions’ marketing companies. These companies purchase IMI manufactured products, either directly from the manufacturing IMI entity or through the Group’s centralised warehousing, and sell into local markets. The specific procedures performed included verifying the occurrence and completeness of a sample of sales transactions recognised by the marketing companies through to goods despatch documentation. We also test a sample of transactions recognised in these companies to determine that the valuation of revenue recognised is consistent with the Group’s transfer pricing policies and the inter-company transactions eliminate on consolidation. What we concluded to the Audit Committee: Our year-end audit procedures did not identify any concerns regarding revenue or profit recognition in the Group. All transactions tested have been recognised in accordance with contractual terms. 140 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued Risk Our response to the risk Inventory Valuation (£233m, PY comparative We carried out testing on controls over inventory valuation to verify the Group values inventory appropriately; £226m) We tested the accumulation of cost within inventory, confirming that the valuation reflected the products’ Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); stage of completion including agreement to the physical inventory counts we attended; Accounting policies (page 132); and section 3.1.1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements We tested the appropriateness of overhead absorption in the inventory valuation by analysing the nature of (page 96) costs being absorbed and verifying the level of costs absorbed based on production data; and The valuation of inventory across the Group is We audited the adequacy of excess and obsolete provisions held against inventory by verifying received dependent on establishing appropriate valuation orders, inspecting approved budgets, considering historical usage and the historical accuracy of controls and physical counting procedures. provisioning and understanding management’s future plans to utilise the inventory. This includes reliance on manual processes. We performed the same audit procedures at full and specific scope entities over this risk area in 28 locations Management judgement is applied to formulaic where inventory is in scope, which represents 81% of the total inventory balance. calculations for standard costing and excess and obsolete inventory provisions. If these judgements are not appropriate then this increases the risk that inventory is inappropriately stated. What we concluded to the Audit Committee: Inventory valuation across the Group is considered appropriate including the adequacy of the excess and obsolete provision. Our audit procedures confirmed the variances between standard and actual costs and the overheads absorbed in the inventory valuation had been correctly calculated. Risk Our response to the risk Valuation of the overall pension scheme Using external data we benchmarked the key actuarial assumptions, as detailed in section 4.5.3.2 of the liabilities (£1,342m, PY comparative £1,510m) consolidated financial statements, used by management, in determining the pension obligation under IAS within the net pension asset of £4m 19(R) to determine that their assumptions were appropriate, met the requirements of IFRS and were in line with market practice. Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); Accounting policies (page 132); and section This included a comparison of life expectancy with relevant mortality tables, benchmarking inflation and 4.5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements discount rates against external market data, considering changes in historical assumptions and evaluating (page 115) the independence, qualifications and results of work performed by management’s experts involved in the valuation process. The actuarial assumptions used to value the UK and overseas pension scheme liabilities We used our pension specialists to assist us with these procedures. are judgemental and sensitive. Due to the significance of the value of the pension The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team. obligation, a small change in assumptions may result in a material difference to the amounts reported. The risk has marginally reduced on the valuation of pension scheme liabilities reflecting further scheme closures in the current year, although the UK scheme represents the vast majority of the total liability and the assumptions continue to be subject to judgement. What we concluded to the Audit Committee: The actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the year end liabilities are well within the acceptable range when compared to external benchmarks. We consider the valuation of pension scheme liabilities to be appropriate. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 141 Risk Our response to the risk The assessment of the carrying value of We walked through management’s controls in respect of their assessment of the valuation of goodwill goodwill and acquired intangible assets and acquired intangible assets and determined these to be designed and placed in operation; (£411m, PY comparative £338m) We examined management’s methodology, as detailed in section 3.2 of the consolidated financial Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); statements, and models for assessing the valuation of significant goodwill balances to confirm the Accounting policies (page 129); and section 3.2.2 composition of management’s future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up. of the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 98) This included confirming that the underlying cash flows were consistent with the Board approved budgets; As a consequence of the Group’s growth strategy In accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, management performed an a significant value of goodwill and intangible impairment test on all CGUs that have goodwill allocated. assets has arisen from acquisitions. There is a risk that cash generating units (‘CGUs’) may not For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the key assumptions would need to fluctuate before an achieve the anticipated business performance impairment conclusion was triggered and considered the likelihood of this occurring. to support the carrying value of these assets In respect of the CGUs identified as having impairment indicators or low levels of head room we performed leading to an impairment charge that has not detailed testing to critically assess and corroborate the key inputs of the forecast cash flows including: been recognised by management. Significant • corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining the underlying data used in the calculation and judgement is required in assessing the future cash benchmarking it against comparable organisations; flows of the CGU, together with the rate at which they are discounted. • validating the growth rate assumed by comparing them to economic and industry forecasts; and • analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual results to determine whether forecast cash flows During 2015, and as a result of changes to the are reliable based on past experience. operational activities within the Group to integrate the activities of acquired business, transfer We considered the appropriateness of the amortisation rates and useful economic lives of intangible assets technology and increase the incidence of crossallocated to CGUs on acquisition with reference to their expected usage and future economic inflows. selling by its businesses, management have redefined the groups of CGUs within the Critical We obtained evidence of increased cross-selling within the Critical businesses and interdependencies engineering division to which goodwill is allocated. of cash flows within this division. We confirmed the change in internal reporting has occurred and the In particular, some previously separate CGUs have CGUs considered for impairment testing are aligned to this new basis of internal reporting on financial been combined to reflect those groups which now performance. generate cash inflows that are largely independent The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team. of the others. These changes led management to restructure its internal reporting accordingly. A risk exists that the CGUs used in the impairment testing are not appropriate. What we concluded to the Audit Committee: We concurred with management’s conclusion that none of the CGUs are required to be impaired as at 31 December 2015. Based on the change in the way in which cash inflows are generated and the changes in the associated internal reporting structure, we consider the CGUs to be appropriate. Risk Our response to the risk Accounting for the acquisition of Bopp & We obtained and inspected the key contracts associated with the acquisition, including the sale and purchase Reuther (Consideration of £109m, Goodwill agreement, to confirm that significant terms and conditions have been appropriately accounted for. and intangibles of £118m). New risk for FY15 With involvement of EY business valuations specialists, we evaluated management’s determination of the Refer to the Audit Committee Report (page 55); fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired, and in particular the valuation of intangible assets. This Accounting policies (page 129); and section 3.4 of included corroborating the key assumptions made by management, such as the useful economic lives, the Consolidated Financial Statements (page 100) discount rates and growth rates applied. These assumptions were also benchmarked against historic IMI acquisitions and other transactions in the sector. The identification and valuation of intangible assets arising on the Bopp & Reuther acquisition We worked with EY tax audit specialists to determine the completeness and accuracy of the current and is considered to be a significant risk for the IMI deferred tax balances included in the acquisition balance sheet including the impact on the tax balances plc group audit. Management has exercised of the fair value adjustments applied in the acquisition accounting. significant judgement in determining the appropriate fair value adjustments in respect of The audit procedures performed to address this risk have been performed by the group audit team. the assets and liabilities acquired. In particular, the judgement in determining the fair value and estimated useful economic life of intangible assets acquired such as customer relationships, the order book and the Bopp & Reuther brand. What we concluded to the Audit Committee: We confirmed management had used appropriate valuation techniques to determine the fair value of the identified assets and liabilities acquired. Accordingly, we concluded the goodwill and intangibles of £118.1m were correctly recognised. 142 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued The scope of our audit Profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items CY / (PY) Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation 26% (17%) of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Full scope entities Group. Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We take into account the level of Group revenue and operating profit, risk profile (including country risk, risk determined to be 15% (15%) associated based on the grading of internal audit findings, controls findings, Other procedures historical knowledge and discussions with management and the level of growth in the entity), the number of significant accounts based on performance materiality and any other known factors when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity. 59% (68%) In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, Specific scope entities and to achieve adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 128 reporting entities of the Group, we selected 43 entities, which represent the principal business units within the Group. Of the 43 entities selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial Revenue CY / (PY) information of 14 entities (‘full scope entities’) which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics. For the remaining 29 entities (‘specific scope entities’), we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that entity that we 40% (38%) considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts Full scope entities in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile. 17% (18%) The reporting entities where we performed audit procedures accounted for 85% Other procedures (2014: 85%) of the Group’s profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items, 66% (2014: 65%) of the Group’s revenue and 83% (2014: 82%) of the Group’s 26% (27%) total assets. Specific scope entities 17% (17%) We also performed procedures over the revenue recognised in the Precision Procedures on and Hydronic divisions’ marketing companies, which provided additional marketing companies coverage of 17% in respect of the Group’s Revenue. Excluding full and specific scope entities, there are a further 85 reporting entities with average revenues of £6.1m and average profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items of £0.3m. In addition, these locations do not have common Total assets CY / (PY) systems and controls. As a consequence, we consider the likelihood of any systematic error arising within this population to be low. Notwithstanding this, for the remaining 85 entities we performed other procedures, including 20% (26%) analytical review and enquiries of management to address the residual risk Specific scope entities of material misstatement. The charts to the right illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed 17% (18%) by our audit teams. Other procedures 63% (56%) Full scope entities Annual Report and Accounts 2015 143 Involvement with entity teams Performance materiality In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level. It is set type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the entities by us, as at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the the group audit team, or by entity teams from other EY global network firms aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality. operating under our instruction. Of the 43 full scope and specific scope entities, • On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the where the work was performed by entity teams, we determined the appropriate Group’s overall control environment, our judgement was that performance level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had materiality was 50% (2014: 50%) of our planning materiality, namely £4.7m (2014: been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole. £6.2m). Our objective in adopting this approach was to conclude that undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our planning materiality level. During the current year’s audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the group audit team to the entity teams in China, Czech Republic, Germany, India, Audit work at entity locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over Mexico, Sweden, Switzerland and the USA. These visits involved meeting significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage with our entity team to discuss and direct their audit approach, reviewing of total performance materiality. The performance materiality set for each entity and understanding the significant audit findings in response to the risk areas is based on the relative scale and risk of the entity to the Group as a whole and including revenue, profit recognition and inventory valuation, holding meetings our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that entity. In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to entities was £0.45m to with local management, undertaking factory tours and obtaining updates on £1.35m (2014: £0.7m to £1.8m). local regulatory matters including tax, pensions and legal. The group audit team interacted regularly with the entity teams where appropriate during various Reporting threshold stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process. This, together with the additional An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our clearly trivial. opinion on the Group financial statements. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of £0.5m (2014: £0.6m), which is set Our application of materiality at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion. We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative Materiality considerations in forming our opinion. The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions Scope of the audit of the financial statements of the users of the financial statements. Materiality provides a basis for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures. financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial • We determined materiality for the Group to be £9.4m (2014: £12.4m), which is statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. 5% (2014: 5%) of profit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items. We believe This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to that profit before tax, adjusted for the items described in the table, provide us the Group’s and the Parent Company’s circumstances and have been consistently with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the entity. estimates made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the financial statements. In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the • During the course of our audit, we reassessed and reduced materiality Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited from preliminary materiality of £10.9m to final materiality of £9.4m following financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially a reduction to the forecasted profitability of the Group. This was due to a incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us combination of adverse exchange differences, lower profit within the Critical in the course of performing the audit. If we become aware of any apparent material Engineering division due to the economic weakness observed in China and misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report. a weakening in market conditions in Europe affecting the Precision and Hydronic Engineering divisions which developed throughout the period. Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 137, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial • Profit before tax £162.7m Starting basis statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our • For the year ended 31 December 2015 responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing • Loss on disposals of businesses £8.4m Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. (Note 3.5 to the Financial Statements) This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance • Gain on special pension events (£9.1m) with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been Adjustments (Note 2.2.3 to the Financial Statements) undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters • Restructuring £27.1m we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. (Note 2.2.2 to the Financial Statements) To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. •P  rofit before tax adjusted for non-recurring items £189.1m (basis for materiality) Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Materiality • Materiality £9.4m (5% of £189.1m) In our opinion: • the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006; and • the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements. 144 IMI plc INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IMI PLC Continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report is: • materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements; or •a  pparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit; or • otherwise misleading. In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the directors’ statement that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entity’s performance, business model and strategy; and whether the Annual Report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed. Companies Act 2006 reporting We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • adequate  accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or •c  ertain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. Listing Rules review requirements We are required to review: • the  directors’ statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 136, and longer-term viability, set out on page 136; and • the  part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the company’s compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review. Conclusion in respect of all matters on which we are required to report by exception: We have nothing to report in respect of any of the items above. Statement on the Directors’ Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity ISAs (UK and Ireland) reporting We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: • the  directors’ confirmation in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity; • the  disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated; • the directors’ statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entity’s ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements; and • the  directors’ explanation in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. Conclusion: We have nothing to add or to draw attention to in respect of the above. Andrew Walton (Senior statutory auditor) for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Birmingham 25 February 2016 Notes: 1. The maintenance and integrity of the IMI plc web site is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site. 2. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions Annual Report and Accounts 2015 145 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2015 2015 2014 Note £m £m Fixed assets Investments C5 173.2 173.2 Current assets Debtors C6 397.3 447.3 Deferred tax assets C7 1.9 4.3 Cash at bank and in hand 11.3 3.4 410.5 455.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors C8 (2.9) (41.2) Net current assets 407.6 413.8 Total assets less current liabilities 580.8 587.0 Net assets 580.8 587.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital C9 81.8 81.7 Share premium account C9 11.8 10.8 Capital redemption reserve C9 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account C9 312.8 320.1 Equity shareholders’ funds 580.8 587.0 Approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman 146 IMI plc COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2015 Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2014 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 Retained profit for the year 730.1 730.1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares (97.3) (97.3) Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.8 1.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares capital option 151.9 (151.9) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 10.9 (10.9) Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares (162.8) 162.8 (162.8) (162.8) Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares (457.5) (457.5) Cancellation of treasury shares (3.7) 3.7 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Shares acquired for: employee share scheme trust (30.7) (30.7) At 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares (102.5) (102.5) Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by: employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 147 COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C1. Significant accounting policies Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all temporary differences between the The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have with items considered material in relation to the financial statements, arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required except where otherwise noted below: by IAS12 ‘Income Taxes’. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the temporary differences reverse, based on the tax laws Basis of accounting that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable The financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting profit will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (‘FRS 101’). The Company has not presented a separate profit and loss account as Equity and equity-related compensation benefits permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The Company operates a number of equity and equity-related compensation benefits as set out in section 4.7 to the Group financial statements. The fair The Company has transitioned to FRS 101 from previously extant UK Generally value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options Accepted Accounting Practice for all periods presented. Transition tables is recharged in full to the principal employing company and accordingly, there is showing all material adjustments are disclosed in note C11. no net charge recorded in the Company’s financial statements. The recharged The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions amount is recognised as a debtor falling due for payment within one year. under FRS 101: The total amount recharged over the vesting period is determined by reference a) the requirements of paragraphs 45 (b) and 46-52 of IFRS2 ‘Share based to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market Payment’; vesting conditions (for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Nonb) the requirements of IFRS7 ‘Financial Instruments’; market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of c) the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’; options that are expected to become exercisable. The fair value of the options at the date of grant is determined based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. d) the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79(a) At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate of the number (iv) of IAS1; of options that are expected to vest. It recognises the impact of the revision of e) the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f) and 134-136 of IAS1; original estimates, if any, in the amount recharged to subsidiary undertakings. f) the requirements of IAS7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’; For newly issued shares, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable g) the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 ‘Accounting Policies, transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’; premium when the options are exercised. h) the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’; and Treasury shares i) the requirements in IAS24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related The consideration paid by the Company on the acquisition of treasury shares party transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, is charged directly to retained earnings in the year of purchase. Consideration provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is wholly owned received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any by such a member. Related party transactions with the Company’s key difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost taken to share management personnel are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages premium. If treasury shares are subsequently cancelled the nominal value of 59 to 71 and in section 5.2 on page 127 of the Group financial statements. the cancelled shares is transferred from share capital to the capital redemption reserve. No gain or loss is recognised on the purchase, sale or cancellation of Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty treasury shares. The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported for Dividends assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the amounts reported for Dividends unpaid at the balance sheet date are only recognised as a liability income and expenses during the year. However, the nature of estimation means at that date to the extent that they are authorised and are no longer at the that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. discretion of the Company. Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria Foreign currencies are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. The Company’s functional currency and presentation currency is sterling. C2. Remuneration of directors Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling The detailed information concerning directors’ emoluments, shareholdings and at the date of transaction. options are shown in the audited section of the Remuneration Report on pages Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been 59 to 71 and section 2.1.3 of the Group financial statements. translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account. C3. Staff numbers and costs The number of people employed by the Company, including directors, during Investments the year was 32 (2014: 28) all of whom were employed in administrative roles. Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less any provision for The costs associated with them were borne by a subsidiary undertaking. impairment. The Company’s cost of investments in subsidiary undertakings is The Company participates in the IMI UK Funds, which are defined benefit stated at the aggregate of (a) the cash consideration and either (b) the nominal schemes in which the assets are held independently. The total net defined value of the shares issued as consideration when section 612 of the Companies benefit costs of these Funds are borne by a subsidiary undertaking and Act 2006 applies or (c) in all other cases the market value of the Company’s therefore in accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised shares on the date they were issued as consideration. in the Company’s financial statements. Section 4.5 to the Group financial Taxation statements provides further details regarding the defined benefit schemes. The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. 148 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C4. Dividends The aggregate amount of dividends comprises: 2015 2014 £m £m Prior year final dividend paid 24.0p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 22.5p) 64.9 60.6 Current year interim dividend paid 13.9p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 13.6p) 37.6 36.7 Aggregate amount of dividends paid in the financial year 102.5 97.3 Dividends paid in the year of £102.5m represent 37.9p per share (2014: 36.1p). After the balance sheet date the following dividends were proposed by the directors. The dividends have not been provided for and there are no income tax consequences. 2015 2014 £m £m Current year final dividend 24.5p per qualifying ordinary share (2014: 24.0p) 66.4 64.9 Dividends proposed after the balance sheet date may differ from the final dividend paid. This is a result of the final number of qualifying shares entitled to dividends differing from those in issue at the balance sheet date. C5. Fixed assets investments Subsidiary undertakings 2015 2014 £m £m At 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 cost and net book value 173.2 173.2 Details of subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 are shown on pages 152 to 153. C6. Debtors 2015 2014 £m £m Falling due for payment after more than one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 316.4 334.3 Falling due for payment within one year: Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 80.9 113.0 397.3 447.3 C7. Deferred tax 2015 2014 £m £m The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Employee benefits and share based payments 1.9 4.3 Deferred tax asset included in the balance sheet 1.9 4.3 £m Reconciliation of movement in deferred tax asset: At 1 January 2015 4.3 Deferred tax charge in the profit and loss account (2.4) At 31 December 2015 1.9 It was announced in the Budget of July 2015 that the UK corporate tax rate will reduce to 19% and 18% in 2017 and 2020 respectively. These rates were substantively enacted on 26 October 2015. The deferred tax balance has been calculated based on the rates applicable when the balances are expected to reverse, which is mainly 18% (2014: 20%). Annual Report and Accounts 2015 149 C8. Other creditors falling due within one year 2015 2014 £m £m Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1.0 39.5 Other payables 1.9 1.7 2.9 41.2 C9. Share capital and reserves Share Share Redemption Retained Parent capital premium reserve earnings equity £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2014 85.3 171.8 7.9 333.9 598.9 Retained profit for the year 730.1 730.1 Dividends paid on ordinary shares* (97.3) (97.3) Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.8 1.9 Issue of ‘B’ shares capital option 151.9 (151.9) Issue of ‘C’ shares income option 10.9 (10.9) Redemption of ‘B’ and ‘C’ shares (162.8) 162.8 (162.8) (162.8) Dividends paid on ‘C’ shares (457.5) (457.5) Cancellation of treasury shares (3.7) 3.7 Share-based payments 4.4 4.4 Shares acquired for*: employee share scheme trust (30.7) (30.7) At 31 December 2014 81.7 10.8 174.4 320.1 587.0 Retained profit for the year 91.8 91.8 Dividends paid on ordinary shares* (102.5) (102.5) Shares issued in the year 0.1 1.0 1.1 Share-based payments 1.1 1.1 Shares issued by*: employee share scheme trust 2.3 2.3 At 31 December 2015 81.8 11.8 174.4 312.8 580.8 * Details of treasury and employee trust share scheme movements are contained in section 4.6 of the Group financial statements and details of dividends paid and proposed in the year are shown in note C4. All of the retained earnings held at both 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 are considered to be distributable reserves. Share capital 2015 2014 £m £m Issued and fully paid 286.2m (2014: 286.0m) ordinary shares of 28 4/7p each 81.8 81.7 C10. Contingencies Contingent liabilities relating to guarantees in the normal course of business and other items amounted to £64.4m (2014: £73.5m). There is a right of set-off with three of the Company’s bankers relating to the balances of the Company and a number of its wholly-owned UK subsidiaries. Where the Company enters into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for them as such. In this respect, the Company treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to make a payment under the guarantee. 150 IMI plc COMPANY NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Continued C11. Transition to FRS 101 For all periods up to and including the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company prepared its financial statements in accordance with previously extant United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice (‘UK GAAP’). Accordingly, the Company has prepared individual financial statements which comply with FRS 101 and the significant accounting policies meeting those requirements are described in the relevant notes. In preparing these financial statements, the Company has started from an opening balance sheet as at 1 January 2014, the Company’s date of transition to FRS 101, and made those changes in accounting policies and other restatements required for the first-time adoption of FRS 101. As such, this note explains the principal adjustments made by the Company in restating its balance sheet as at 1 January 2014 prepared under previously extant UK GAAP and its previously published UK GAAP financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. On transition to FRS 101, the Company has applied the requirements of paragraphs 6-33 of IFRS1 ‘First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards’. Reconciliation of equity at 1 January 2014 FRS 101 reclassifications and UK GAAP re-measurements FRS 101 £m £m £m Fixed assets Investments 573.4 (334.3) 239.1 Current assets Debtors 88.0 334.3 422.3 Deferred tax assets Cash at bank and in hand 88.0 334.3 422.3 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Bank overdraft (2.5) (2.5) Borrowings (19.0) (19.0) Other creditors (41.0) (41.0) Net current assets 25.5 334.3 359.8 Total assets less current liabilities 598.9 598.9 Net assets 598.9 598.9 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 85.3 85.3 Share premium account 171.8 171.8 Capital redemption reserve 7.9 7.9 Profit and loss account 333.9 333.9 Equity shareholders’ funds 598.9 598.9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 151 Reconciliation of equity at 31 December 2014 FRS 101 reclassifications and UK GAAP re-measurements FRS 101 £m £m £m Fixed assets Investments 507.5 (334.3) 173.2 Current assets Debtors 43.0 404.3 447.3 Deferred tax assets 3.5 0.8 4.3 Cash at bank and in hand 3.4 3.4 49.9 405.1 455.0 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Other creditors (41.2) (41.2) Net current assets 8.7 405.1 413.8 Total assets less current liabilities 516.2 70.8 587.0 Net assets 516.2 70.8 587.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 81.7 81.7 Share premium account 10.8 10.8 Capital redemption reserve 174.4 174.4 Profit and loss account 249.3 70.8 320.1 Equity shareholders’ funds 516.2 70.8 587.0 a) Loans to subsidiary undertakings Under UK GAAP at 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2014, the Company recognised £334.3m of long-term loans to subsidiary undertakings as fixed asset investments in accordance with FRS15. Under FRS 101, these amounts have been reclassified as debtors falling due after more than one year. b) Defined benefit pension costs Under UK GAAP, the Company was unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the IMI UK Funds and consequently was required to account for pension costs as if the schemes were defined contribution schemes in accordance with FRS17 paragraph 9(b). As a result of a contractual arrangement, the total net defined benefit obligation of these Funds are now borne by a subsidiary undertaking and therefore in accordance with IAS19, no net defined benefit costs are recognised in the Company’s financial statements. The £70.0m pension costs recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2014 have been restated to comply with IAS19. c) Deferred tax asset Under UK GAAP, the Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2014 of £0.8m relating to future tax relief for pension contributions paid in 2014. Upon transition to FRS 101, this deferred tax asset has been recognised. 152 IMI plc SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS A full list of the Group’s subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2015 is included below. Except where indicated, the undertakings are subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom and the share capital consists of ordinary shares only. The principal country in which each subsidiary operates is the country of incorporation. IMI plc’s effective interest in the undertakings listed is 100%, except where indicated, and is held in each case by a subsidiary undertaking, except for IMI Group Ltd which is held directly by IMI plc. The Group has an interest in a partnership, the IMI Scottish Limited Partnership, which is fully consolidated into these Group accounts. The Group has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by regulation 7 of the Partnerships (Accounts) Regulations 2008 and has, therefore, not appended the accounts of this qualifying partnership to these accounts. Separate accounts for the partnership are not required to be and have not been filed at Companies House. Aero Dynamiek B.V. Netherlands Fluid Automation Systems Technologies SA IMI Hydronic Engineering Limited Switzerland Aero-Dynamiek BVBA Belgium IMI Hydronic Engineering Ltda Brazil Heimeier GmbH Germany Anson Cast Products Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering NV Belgium Herion Systemtechnik GmbH Germany Ashford Valves Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering OY Finland Holford Estates Limited B&R Holding GmbH Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Pte Ltd Singapore IMI Americas Inc United States Bopp & Reuther Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter IMI Hydronic Engineering s.r.l. Italy Haftung Austria IMI Australia Pty Limited Australia IMI Hydronic Engineering SA France Bopp & Reuther Sicherheitsund Regelarmaturen IMI CIF Trustee Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Spain GmbH Germany IMI Components Inc United States IMI Hydronic Engineering UAB Lithuania Bopp & Reuther Zikesch Maintenance Group s.r.l. IMI Components Limited Romania IMI Hydronic Engineering Switzerland AG IMI Consulting (Shanghai) Co Limited China Switzerland Brookvale International Insurance Limited Bermuda IMI Critical Engineering Holding GmbH Germany IMI Indoor Climate AB Sweden Buschjost GmbH Germany IMI Deutschland II GmbH & Co KG Germany IMI Indoor Climate Trading (Shanghai) Co Ltd China C.H. Zikesch Armaturen GmbH Germany IMI Deutschland Limited IMI Interamerica Inc. United States CCI (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd Singapore IMI Deutschland Verwaltungs GmbH Germany IMI International EOOD Bulgaria CCI AG Switzerland IMI Euro Finance Limited IMI International Co Srl Romania CCI America do Sul Comercio de Equipamentos Industriais Ltda Brazil IMI Fluid Controls (Finance) Limited IMI International d.o.o Slovenia CCI Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic IMI Fluid Controls Holdings Inc United States IMI International d.o.o. Beograd Serbia and Montenegro CCI Flow Control (Shanghai) Co Ltd China IMI France SARL France IMI International d.o.o. Croatia CCI International Limited IMI Germany Holding Limited & Co. KG Germany IMI International Kft. Hungary CCI Italy Srl Italy IMI Germany Limited IMI International LLC Russian Federation CCI KK Japan IMI Group Inc United States IMI International s.r.o. Czech Republic CCI Limited Korea, Republic of IMI Group Limited IMI International Sp. z.o.o. Poland CCI Switzerland AG Switzerland IMI Group Services Limited IMI Kynoch Limited CCI Valve Technology AB Sweden IMI Hidronik Muhendislik Iklimlendirme Sistemleri Ltd Sti Turkey IMI Lakeside Five Limited CCI Valve Technology GmbH Austria IMI Holdings Limited IMI Lakeside Four Limited Charles Baynes Netherlands BV Netherlands IMI Holdings LLC United States IMI Lakeside Ireland Limited Ireland Church Bell Financial Services Limited IMI Holland Limited IMI Lakeside NZ Limited New Zealand Commtech Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering SA Luxembourg IMI Lakeside One Limited Control Component India Pvt Limited India IMI Hydronic Engineering A/S Denmark IMI Lakeside Three Limited Control Components Inc United States IMI Hydronic Engineering AB Sweden IMI Lakeside Two Limited Deeside Titanium Limited (18%) IMI Hydronic Engineering AS Norway IMI Marston Limited Engineering Appliances Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering BV Netherlands IMI Netherlands Holdings BV Netherlands EVU Energi & VVS Utveckling AB Sweden IMI Hydronic Engineering Deutschland IMI Norgren Herion PVT Limited India FAS Medic SA Switzerland GmbH Germany IMI Norgren Limited Ireland FCX Ireland Limited Ireland IMI Hydronic Engineering FZE IMI Norgren Limited Canada FCX North America Limited United Arab Emirates IMI Norgren Pneumatics (Shanghai) Co Limited FCX Pension Trustees Limited IMI Hydronic Engineering GesmbH Austria China Fluid Automation Systems GmbH Germany IMI Hydronic Engineering Inc United States IMI Norgren SA (Sociedad Unipersonal Spain Fluid Automation Systems SA Switzerland IMI Hydronic Engineering International SA IMI Norgren Terracco S.L. Spain Switzerland Annual Report and Accounts 2015 153 IMI Overseas Investments Limited Norgren B.V. Netherlands Quanta Fluid Solutions Limited (24%) IMI Pensions Trust Limited Norgren Co Limited China Remosa Service & Construction Srl Italy IMI plc Norgren Co Limited Thailand Remosa Srl Italy IMI Property Investments Limited Norgren European Logistics Company Limited SAIC CCI Valve Co., Ltd. China (44%) IMI Refiners Limited Norgren Finland OY Finland Shanghai CCI Power Control Equipment Co Ltd China (70%) IMI Retirement Savings Trust Limited Norgren Ges.m.b.H Austria Stainless Steel Fasteners Limited IMI Scotland Limited Norgren GmbH Germany STI s.r.l. Italy IMI Sweden AB Sweden Norgren GT Development Corporation United States TA Hydronics Holding AG Switzerland IMI Sweden Finance Limited Norgren Inc United States TA Hydronics LLC Ukraine IMI Systems Limited Norgren Kloehn, Inc. United States TA Regulator d.o.o. Slovenia IMI Vision Limited Norgren Limited New Zealand TH Jansen Armaturen GmbH Germany IMI Watson Smith Limited Norgren Limited Hong Kong The Commtech Group Limited IMI Webber Limited Norgren Limited The IMI Scottish Limited Partnership Industrie Mecanique Pour Les Fluides SA France Norgren Ltda Brazil Thompson Valves Limited Interativa Indústria, Comércio e Representações Ltda Brazil Norgren Manufacturing Co Ltd China Transpal Limited Ireland Kynoch Sweden Holding AB Sweden Norgren Manufacturing De Mexico SA DE CV Truflo Group Limited Mexico Lakeside Finance Ireland Truflo International Limited Norgren NV Belgium Lakeside Treasury Ireland Truflo Investments Limited Norgren Pte. Limited Singapore Liquick 200 Limited Truflo Marine Limited Norgren Pty Limited Australia Liquick 211 Limited Truflo Rona S.A. Belgium Norgren SA de CV Mexico Liquick 213 Limited Truflo Rona S.r.l. Italy Norgren SAS France Martonair International Limited Tube Fittings Sales Pty Limited Australia Norgren SDN BHD Malaysia Martonair Limited Valves Holding GmbH Germany Norgren SpA Italy Middlepark Z&J High Temperature Equipment (Shanghai) Co Norgren Sweden AB Sweden Ltd China Newman Hattersley Limited Canada Norgren Taiwan Co Limited Taiwan Z&J Technologies GmbH Germany Norgren A/S Denmark Oldpeg Limited Ireland Zimmermann & Jansen Inc United States Norgren AG Switzerland Orton S.R.L, Italy Norgren AS Norway Pneumatex GmbH Germany Norgren Automation Solutions LLC United States Premier Profiles Limited GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES The following table shows the geographic distribution of employees as at 31 December 2015 and is not required to be audited. UK 1,439 Continental Europe 6,160 Americas 2,187 Asia Pacific 1,469 Rest of World 45 Total 11,300 154 IMI plc FIVE YEAR SUMMARY Reported revenue £m Reported profit before tax* £m Group revenue by geography 2015 Rest of the World 4% 1,744 298 1,696 1,686 1,649 281 278 275 UK 1,557 6% 219 Westen Europe 36% North America 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emerging 21% Markets * Before exceptional items. 33% Income statement 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 £m £m £m £m £m Statutory revenue 1,645 1,694 1,743 1,692 1,567 Reported revenue* 1,649 1,696 1,744 1,686 1,557 Reported operating profit* 307.6 300.1 321.6 295.5 236.9 Reported profit before tax* 280.9 274.8 297.7 278.1 218.7 Special pension events 10.9 7.0 9.1 Restructuring costs (21.4) (18.9) (14.2) (8.6) (27.1) Acquired intangible amortisation and impairment (32.3) (29.6) (21.9) (60.4) (32.2) Acquisition and disposal costs (6.3) (9.9) (1.8) (Loss)/gain on disposal of subsidiaries 34.2 (8.4) Financial instruments excluding economic hedge contract gains/losses (6.2) (1.0) (2.4) (2.8) 2.6 Profit before tax from continuing operations 221.0 229.9 249.3 245.7 162.7 EBITDA† 321 318 332 371 263 * Before exceptional items. † Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and impairment. Group revenue by geography 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 £m £m £m £m £m UK 91 101 104 98 90 Western Europe 744 694 686 644 563 North America 297 306 338 318 334 Emerging Markets 396 462 504 544 505 Rest of World 121 133 112 82 65 1,649 1,696 1,744 1,686 1,557 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 155 Earnings and dividends 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Adjusted earnings per share (continuing) 64.5p 64.7p 72.6p 78.0p 62.2p Basic earnings per share (continuing) 50.5p 53.9p 60.4p 69.2p 44.7p Ordinary dividend per share 30.0p 32.5p 35.3p 37.6p 38.4p Balance sheet 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 £m £m £m £m £m Segmental net assets Continuing 806 906 897 849 926 Discontinued 192 189 196 Other net non-operating liabilities excluding borrowings (gross) (275) (267) (246) (95) (100) Net debt Continuing (127) (160) (226) (200) (237) Discontinued (18) (16) (27) Net assets 614 684 648 554 589 Statistics 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental revenue 18.7% 17.7% 18.4% 17.5% 15.4% Segmental operating profit as a percentage of segmental net assets 38.2% 33.1% 35.9% 34.8% 25.9% Effective tax rate on adjusted profit before tax 26.0% 24.0% 22.0% 22.0% 22.0% Net assets per share (excluding treasury and EBT shares) 193.5p 214.0p 210.0p 218.4p 217.3p Net debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds 20.7% 23.4% 34.9% 36.1% 40.2% Net debt: EBITDA* 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.9 EBITDA*: Interest 19 18 21 23 15 * EBITDA before exceptional items. 156 IMI plc SHAREHOLDER AND GENERAL INFORMATION Announcement of trading results Corporate website American Depository Receipts The trading results for the Group for the first half The IMI plc website provides a wealth of useful IMI plc has an American Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) of 2016 will be announced on 29 July 2016. information for shareholders and should be your programme that trades on the Over-The-Counter The trading results for the full year ending 31 first port of call for general queries relating to the (‘OTC’) market in the USA, using the symbol IMIAY. December 2016 will be announced in early 2017. Company and your shares. As well as providing ADR enquiries should be directed to Citibank share price data and financial history, the site Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence, Interim management statements will be issued in also provides background information about the RI 02940-3077, USA. Toll-free number in the May and November 2016. Company. USA is 1-877-CITI-ADR (877-248-4237) and from outside the USA is 1-781-575-4555. You can also Shareholders are also encouraged to sign up to email citibank@shareholders-online.com. Dividend payment receive news alerts by email in the Investors section Final: 20 May 2016 of the website. These include all of the financial Interim: September 2016 news releases from throughout the year that are Headquarters and registered office not sent to shareholders by post. You can access Lakeside the corporate website at www.imiplc.com Solihull Parkway Share prices and capital gains tax Birmingham Business Park The closing price of the Company’s ordinary shares Birmingham Annual General Meeting 2016 B37 7XZ on the London Stock Exchange on 31 December 2015 was 862.00p (2014: 1,263.00p). The market This year’s AGM will be held at the Hilton Telephone: +44 121 717 3700 value of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 Birmingham Metropole, National Exhibition Centre, IMI plc is registered in England March 1982, as calculated for capital gains tax Birmingham B40 1PP on Thursday 5 May 2016 at No.714275 purposes, was 53.5p per share. 10am. For further information, please refer to the Registrars Notice of Meeting which appears on the corporate Equiniti The Company’s SEAQ number is 51443. website. Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing Enquiries about shareholdings Individual Savings Account (‘ISA’) West Sussex For enquiries concerning shareholders’ personal IMI‘s ordinary shares can be held in an ISA. BN99 6DA holdings, please contact the Company’s Registrar: For information about the ISA operated by our Telephone: 0371 384 2916 Equiniti (contact details appear below). Registrar, Equiniti, please call the Equiniti ISA or from overseas +44 121 415 7047 Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house, helpline on 0345 300 0430. Lines are open from Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, change bank details or if there is any other change 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Monday to Friday (excluding UK public holidays) to your account information. UK public holidays. Stockbrokers Managing your shares on-line Share dealing service JPMorgan Cazenove Shareholders can manage their holdings on-line Managed by Equiniti, the Company’s registrar, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch by registering with Shareview, the internet based IMI plc Share dealing service provides shareholders platform provided by Equiniti. Registration is a with a simple way of buying and selling IMI ordinary straightforward process and allows shareholders to: shares. Telephone: 0345 603 7037. Full written Auditor • help us to reduce print, paper and postage costs details can be obtained from Equiniti (contact Ernst & Young LLP and the associated environmental impact of these; details appear below). • cast your AGM vote electronically; • receive an email alert when important shareholder Cautionary statement Share fraud documents are available on-line such as Annual This Annual Report may contain forward-looking Reports and Notices of General Meetings; Share fraud includes scams where investors are statements that may or may not prove accurate. called out of the blue and offered shares that often For example, statements regarding expected • access details of your individual shareholding turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an quickly and securely; revenue growth and operating margins, market inflated price for shares they own. These calls come trends and our product pipeline are forward-looking • set up a dividend mandate on-line; and from fraudsters operating in ‘boiler rooms’ that are statements. It is believed that the expectations • change your registered postal address or your mostly based abroad. Further information on how reflected in these statements are reasonable but dividend mandate details. to spot share fraud or report a scam can be found they may be affected by a number of risks and on our corporate website. uncertainties that are inherent in any forwardTo find out more information about the services offered by Shareview and to register, please visit looking statement which could cause actual www.shareview.co.uk. results to differ materially from those currently anticipated. Any forward-looking statement is made in good faith and based on information available to IMI plc as of the date of the preparation of this Annual Report. All written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to IMI plc are qualified by this caution. IMI plc does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in circumstances or in IMI plc’s expectations. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 157 Designed and produced by Design Motive Ltd Printed and bound in the UK by CPI Colour Ltd IMI plc Lakeside Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ United Kingdom www.imiplc.com
