Anheuser-Busch InBev 2015 Global Citizenship Report r o w i n G G g ether Troa fo Bet World t e r ther Responsible Toge Delivering Our Dream Together r Caring Togethe Committing r Togethe hiev ing Ac or e Together M Contents 2 Welcome to Our 2015 Global Citizenship Report 4 Our Dream 6 Brewing Beer the Better World Way 8 Growing Together 10 Growing a Sustainable Future with SmartBarley 14 Reducing Carbon Emissions in Our Brewing and Logistics Operations 18 Cultivating Water Stewardship 22 Getting Smart about Drinking 26 Our Commitment to Safety 30 Bringing Our Better World Commitment to Life through Our Brands 34 Volunteering to Build a Better World 36 Fostering Family Talk to Prevent Underage Drinking 38 Creating a Better World through Economic Empowerment 40 Championing Collective Action on Global Beer Responsibility Day 42 A Snapshot of Our Awards & Recognitions 43 About this Report 44 Global Citizenship Reporting at AB InBev ≥ Materiality Assessment & Report ≥ GRI Index & UNGC Communications on Progress ≥ Global Standards ≥ Environmental Management System ≥ Environmental Technical Advisory Committee ≥ People Data Learning Together 45 Independent Assurance Report o our w e l co me t gl ob a l 2 0 15 p iz e n s hi c i t o r t rep 2015 Global Citizenship Report At AB InBev, our Dream to be the Best Beer Company Bringing People Together For a Better World is rooted in our company’s culture, and an important part of that culture is transparency. Transparency with stakeholders, partners and colleagues. Transparency on our impacts and lessons learned. And, transparency on where we’re heading. Because through transparency, we are able to grow together, in a way that helps us achieve our collective goals. That’s why we continue to evolve our approach to reporting. This year, AB InBev’s global citizenship reporting includes this self-contained PDF document and content on our corporate website. The PDF document primarily summarizes our 2015 activities, initiatives, achievements and challenges, while the website, housed within the “Social Responsibility” section, provides further information on our Better World strategy and ongoing activities. Taken together, the PDF and website content constitute our sustainability reporting for 2015. 2 3 Our Dream is to be: The Best Beer Company Bringing People Together For a Better World. Dream-People-Culture Bringing People Together builds common Our Dream-People-Culture platform is not only our ground, strengthens human connections and allows driving force; it also represents everything we stand for us to achieve something together that cannot be as a company, which is rooted in our 10 Principles. accomplished alone. Our Dream also fosters a culture Read more about our Dream-People-Culture platform. that unites us as one and provides the energy and focus to achieve our goals. DREAM Our 10 Principles 1 Our shared dream energizes everyone to work in the same direction to be the: Best Beer Company Bringing People Together For a Better World. PEOPLE PEOPLE CULTURE Our greatest strength is our people. Great People grow at the pace of their talent and are rewarded 2 We recruit, develop and retain people who can be better than ourselves. We will be judged by 3 We are never completely satisfied with our results, which are the fuel of our company. Focus and zero-complacency 4 accordingly. the quality of our teams. guarantee lasting competitive advantage. CULTURE CULTURE CULTURE 5 6 7 The consumer is the Boss. We are a company We believe common sense We serve our consumers by of owners. Owners take and simplicity are usually offering brand experiences results personally. better guidelines than that play a meaningful unnecessary sophistication role in their lives, and always and complexity. in a responsible way. CULTURE CULTURE CULTURE 8 9 10 We manage our costs tightly, Leadership by personal We never take shortcuts. to free up resources that example is at the core of our Integrity, hard work, will support sustainable and culture. We do what we say. quality, and responsibility profitable top line growth. are key to building our company. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Bringing People Together Our Better World focus promotes a global culture of smart drinking, helps to protect and preserve the environment For a Better World and aims to make a difference in our communities, which is all made possible through our people. Learn more about our Better World platform and pillars. Pillar Pillar Pillar Smart Drinking Environment Community We aim to foster a global culture We have set ambitious environmental We take pride in giving back to the of smart drinking by empowering targets in water conservation, communities where we live and work. consumers to make smart drinking watershed protection, sustainable Whether it’s by creating jobs, paying choices and investing in evidenceagriculture, and energy use/ wages and taxes or encouraging based programs that positively greenhouse gas emissions. We share our employees to volunteer, we shift social norms and behaviors to responsibility for meeting these goals continually look for new ways to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. throughout the entire company. make a sustained impact. Our People Underlying and supporting these three pillars are our people. We must continue to attract and retain the best and brightest people, provide a safe workplace, and always hold one another to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. 4 5 br e w i n g B eE r t Bet h e t e r W o r l d See highlights of how our Better World strategy is integrated across our value chain. Way Colleagues & Community Crop Cultivation Water Stewardship Over 71 000 colleagues have More than 3 200 growers have Our global water use ratio volunteered, contributing to nearly participated in the SmartBarley is 3.14 hl per hl of production 371 000 hours of volunteer program through 2015, helping our and we continue to invest service together with our partners. local teams and agronomists in restoration and conservation identify a portfolio of technology projects to protect watersheds and management solutions for in high stress areas. regional gaps. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Powerhouse Retailers Brand Integration Industry 10.9% of our With an approximately & Consumers In collaboration with 2015 global energy 84.2% global average Through its Buy a Lady peers and industry use was from of eco-friendly cooler a Drink cause marketing associations, we continue renewable sources, purchases, we’re campaign, Stella Artois to promote responsible helping us reduce helping our retailers has helped Water.org sales and consumption our emissions reduce their carbon provide clean water to of our products and and energy costs. emissions. 290 000 people around protect environmental the world in 2015. resources. COLD BEER Brewing Packaging Distribution Our Brewmaster Program uses virtual Our product packaging We continue to identify ways to classroom software, in combination with includes recyclable distribute our products in the most hands-on training, allowing us to share our materials such as glass, efficient manner to reduce emissions highest quality, most efficient brewing cardboard and aluminum, and cost. More than 85% of our practices from Zone to Zone and consistently and we are working global truck fleets have been fitted train the best brewmasters in the world. to minimize packaging with telemetry systems to track In 2015 there were no product safety materials overall. driver behaviors while on the road. recalls and our recycling rate was 99.01%. 6 7 Growing At AB InBev, we are committed to using our global resources—and our ability to bring people together— Together to make a difference in areas such as responsible or “smart” drinking, environmental stewardship and the communities in which we operate. 2015 was marked by a particular focus Global Be(er) Responsible Day (GBRD) yet on growing a Better World together, in with the participation of more than 66 000 collaboration with our colleagues, partners, colleagues and through the expansion stakeholders and consumers. While the of our industry-wide celebrations from company as a whole saw a year of solid one country in 2014 to eight countries in growth and progress against our commercial 2015. Our colleagues, partners and stake­ priorities, we also expanded our efforts to holders also came together for our World invest in the wellbeing of the communities Environment Day activities. Specifically in which we live and work. our Global Walk for Water initiative brought together over 14 000 colleagues to log steps and charitable donations to water Responsible together NGOs in local markets. After delivering on our previous Global Responsible Drinking Goals in 2014, we Caring together launched our new Global Smart Drinking Goals in 2015 to be achieved by the end Our Stella Artois brand has launched of 2025 which reflect our evolved approach a campaign called Buy A Lady A Drink, in through collaboration with partners and partnership with Water.org, to help stakeholders. This new approach has taken tackle the global water crisis that affects us from a focus on raising awareness to hundreds of millions of people around driving impact by investing in longer-term, the world. The crisis disproportionately evidence-based initiatives that positively affects women who spend millions of change behavior to reduce harmful drinking. hours collecting water for their families. It was also our emphasis on collaboration Our campaign raised awareness and urged that allowed us to have our most successful consumers to do their part to end these 2015 Global Citizenship Report journeys so that these women could Committing together start new journeys of their own. In 2015, In 2015, we saw the announcement the campaign helped provide clean of the United Nations Sustainable water for more than 290 000 people in Development Goals. We’re excited about the developing world. the opportunity to further advance this global development agenda through some Learning together of our signature initiatives, such as Together For Safer Roads, a cross-sector coalition We faced drought and water scarcity of 14 member companies to improve road in some of our brewery locations around safety and SmartBarley, our agricultural the world, which has encouraged us to development program, as well as the take new and innovative approaches to our robust resource efficiency initiatives in our water efficiency resulting in savings of facilities. The UN SDGs offer a common over 14 million hectoliters between 2014 language and framework for governments, and 2015. Furthermore, we continued to civil society and the private sector to partner with local stakeholders and tackle some of the world’s most pressing invest in the long-term conservation and global issues. At AB InBev we are restoration of stressed watersheds as an committed to drive progress through integral part of our water stewardship partnership and help achieve the UN strategy. Additionally, as a result of some Sustainable Development Goals, sharing gaps that surfaced in our existing best practices not only across our Responsible Marketing & Communications own global footprint, but also with other Code, we have revisited and strengthened industries and stakeholders. the Code and our internal control processes to reinforce the priority we place on reaching zero violations. Through Delivering our Dream together all of these challenges, we work to see A passionate commitment to Bringing opportunities for improvement to our People Together is at the very heart Better World strategy which will make our of our Dream. We believe that together partners, communities and our business we can achieve more. Whether we’re stronger in the long-term. providing water to communities in need, encouraging smart drinking, enhancing Achieving more together farmers’ livelihoods, or contributing to the economic growth of our communities, In November 2015 we announced a proposal we can always achieve more together. to acquire SABMiller. We believe that a There are incredible opportunities and combination of our two companies would inevitable challenges that lie ahead. build the first truly global brewer and But our Dream remains the same: each that this transaction would be in the best day, we will bring new partnerships and interests of both companies’ consumers, transformational ideas to the table, shareholders, employees, wholesalers, to build the Best Beer Company Bringing business partners and the communities we People Together For a Better World. serve. Bringing together our resources and expertise, we also would be able to make an even greater and more positive impact on the communities in which we live and work, by providing opportunities along the supply chain and aspiring to the highest standards of corporate social responsibility. In particular, we are very Carlos Brito, excited about the prospects of making a Chief Executive Officer significant investment and commitment to the African continent. 8 9 Growing a Sustainable Future with SmartBarley Brewing can be traced back growers, SmartBarley remains guided by to ancient times 7 000 three defining principles: years ago, making beer one • Investing in growers; of the oldest beverages • Innovating our supply chain; and • Transforming global agriculture. ever produced. And while specific brews and varieties have Investing in Growers emerged since then, beer is still made AB InBev partners with growers around the up of four main ingredients: water, barley, world to produce high-quality malt barley. hops and yeast. That’s why, as one of provide access to quality seeds and inputs, Through 2015, more than 3 200 growers the primary ingredients in our world-class develop improved varieties with higher have participated in SmartBarley, utilizing beers, we place such a high priority on barley yields and increased water efficiency, the program to compare their crop cultivating quality barley. and assist growers in the art of producing performance against advanced productivity malt barley. Through our SmartBarley program, we are and key environmental performance building on our long-standing history of As our work in barley cultivation continues metrics from similar growers and global working collaboratively with our network to evolve, leveraging global data and barley benchmarks. The information within of barley growers around the world to expertise to create greater value for our SmartBarley also helps our local teams 2017 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS / 2015 Progress Reduce water risks and improve water management in 100% of our Reduce global energy usage per hectoliter of production** Operational water and energy goals are measured against a 2012 baseline; key barley-growing regions, in partnership with local stakeholders* by 10% our logistics goal is measured against a 2013 baseline. 2012 2015 2017 2012 2015 2017 Energy and water data to the left represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 0% 62.5% 100% 0% 8.8% 10% goal—established in 2012, the baseline for the water and energy goals. Data from previous years are not adjusted in the case of a divestments and Engage in watershed protection measures at 100% of our facilities acquisitions of beverage facilities. located in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Reduce packaging materials by 100 000 tons*** An external assurance provider was engaged by AB InBev to verify the data Peru and the United States, in partnership with local stakeholders for all of the Environment goals to 2012 2015 2017 the left with the exception of the goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 2012 2015 2017 in logistics operations by 15% per 90.7K hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline. 100 000T The data in scope in relation to these 0% 86% 100% goals can be found on page 45. * In 2014 we introduced pilot programs in 78% of our key barley regions, and expanded to 100% key region Reduce global water usage to a leading-edge 3.2 hectoliters Reach a 70% global average of eco-friendly cooler pilot coverage in 2015. However, we of water per hectoliter of production purchases annually measure our progress based on the transition of these pilot programs into implemented initiatives within the 2012 2015/2017 2012 2017 2015 region. As of 2015, we have graduated pilot programs into implemented initiatives within 62.5% of our key 3.5 hl/hl 3.1hl/hl 70% 84.2% barley regions. 3.2hl/hl ** Data is from the plants in the business footprint at the end of 2012 when the goal was established. *** The reduction in packaging Reduce global greenhouse gas emissions per hectoliter of production Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operations by materials is calculated based on by 10%, including a 15% reduction per hectoliter in China** 15% per hectoliter sold from our 2013 baseline**** budgeted production volumes of these packaging materials. Differences can exist between actual 2012 2017 2015 2013 2015 2017 and budgeted production volumes. **** Our logistics goal was added in 0% 10% 18.6% 0% 7.4% 15% 2014 to formalize our aspiration to be the sustainable logistics leader in the brewing industry. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Pillars Lessons Learned: SmartBarley Represented SmartBarley began in 2013, when we invited 340 growers to participate in Top Markets US, Brazil, China, a benchmarking pilot coordinated through our local agronomists in Argentina, Referenced Mexico, Argentina, Russia, Brazil, Canada, China, Russia, the United States and Uruguay. The pilot allowed Canada, UK participating growers to compare their growing practices anonymously with one another, and work with our agronomists to learn how they could grow barley more efficiently and productively. After scaling the pilot in 2014 to incorporate Excellence over 1 800 growers, in 2015, we expanded our SmartBarley program to include Particularly in Latin America, many of our not only benchmarking, but also a portfolio of grower-centric programs focused growers are organized in cooperatives or on research, technology, innovation and general education on best practices. market their barley through a local distributor. Throughout the past two years, we have learned how critical it is to work side-byThese distributors play an important role in side with our growers, focus on benchmarking, demonstrate tangible results, providing financial resources and inputs to and emphasize collective action in order to shift long-standing farming practices growers as well as facilitating the relationship towards more efficient use of resources. with AB InBev. Our Excellence Program— currently active in Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay—aligns operational, quality, environidentify the most pressing challenges facing value to our growers. We will also expand mental and financial goals among growers, the our growers, helping direct our portfolio the program to new countries and new distributors and AB InBev. The goal of Excellence of initiatives to address those challenges growers, incorporating third party barley is to improve performance and resilience that most influence grower productivity, sourcing partners and malt suppliers across the agricultural value chain, enabling resource use efficiency and profitability. in order to scale the benefits and impact our agronomists to develop improved busiof the program. Scaling our efforts and ness and operational management systems To help facilitate knowledge sharing among recruiting more growers into the program amongst our key barley supply partners. barley growers and our agronomists, 2015 will be a priority to make real strides at saw nine local agronomist-hosted Grower “Excellence is a program designed to foster fully integrating SmartBarley into our longField Days in China, the United Kingdom, collaboration with our growers and distribterm business strategy and thinking. Mexico, the United States (Idaho, North utors. Working closely with our agronomists, Dakota, and Montana), Argentina, Brazil and they really see the value in adopting our Uruguay. These events brought together Innovating our Supply Chain metrics as a way to align objectives and more than 2 000 growers and agricultural achieve greater results in their operations,” In 2015, the SmartBarley program comprised stakeholders to discuss best crop mansaid Caio Batista, AB InBev Agronomist, 18 local, regional and global initiatives, agement practices, learn about new barley Brazil. “We have plans to expand the program ranging across information technology, varieties and crop management research, from 32 to 54 distributors in Argentina, field technology and crop management and participate in live demonstrations Brazil and Uruguay in 2016.” innovations. of SmartBarley technologies and programs. “The Grower Field Days are a good way to connect with other growers and hear about improvements being made through technology and research in my region. It’s also great to learn more about the brands that my barley is used to brew.” Leobardo Domínguez Ramírez, AB InBev Grower, Mexico As we look ahead to 2016, we will continue to explore and test innovations that can deliver value across the farm production system and that strengthen SmartBarley’s 10 11 Día de Campo Awarded the winner of the AB InBev 2015 global Grower Field Day competition, Argentina wowed with its event coordination, grower appreciation components, partner incorporation, media attendance and coverage, and branding. It was an opportunity for our teams to engage with and educate over 500 farmers, stake­holders and media about our sustainable agriculture practices and our approach to making beer at our Tres Arroyos malt plant. Our agronomist team shared barley production best practices, crucial for brewing the best quality beer. And the brew master and cytology expert at our Quilmes Brewery in Argentina both shared information with media on the importance of barley in the brewing process. Partners from Facultad de Agronomía de la Universidad de Buenos Aires, Universidad Nacional del Sur, Bayer, BASF, Syngenta, John Deere and Toyota all joined us to help educate growers on technology and crop management improvements. Our partners played a crucial role in helping attendees understand the full scope of the brewing process. By the end of the day, participants had a much better understanding of our agricultural practices, sustainability efforts, the regional economy, the quality of our products and our use of natural ingredients. Similar to our other celebrations around the world, our growers in Argentina brought their families along to Grower Field Day, where the local community was also educated on the latest barley innovations that we’ve uncovered through barley field trials and on the brewing and malting process. Our teams in Argentina also involved our marketing team and local beer brands, in order to reach consumers with information on the process used to brew beer and bring it to homes everywhere. One of our Argentina growers shared, “As a grower, I know I have a large role to play in the brewing of quality beer, but during our event, we focused on ways we could emphasize the importance of quality throughout the process to everyone who came out to join us.” Juan Ouwerkerk, Cooperativa Rural Alfa, Tres Arroyos We plan to expand these efforts to share best practices, highlight the great work of our growers and agronomists and engage senior leadership to build longer-term relationships across our agricultural supply chain. 2015 Global Citizenship Report “By creating a granular view of a grower’s success, we are piloting the technology in rotation by our growers. Improvements field through satellite imagery and with growers in the United States in 2016. facilitated by SmartBarley—such as prediction models, I am better able to advancements in nutrition management help the grower identify opportunities and soil health or improved irrigation Transforming Global Agriculture to adjust crop management practices technologies and scheduling—apply throughout the growing season to SmartBarley aims to deliver unique value to not only to barley but to the entire farm improve yield and quality.” our barley growers and our supply chain, production. Thus we will continue to including upholding our shared responsibility partner with established agriculture Oleg Stishenko, AB InBev Agronomist, Russia to improve natural resource use efficiency companies, entrepreneurial agricultural in agriculture. The program helps drive technology startups, and progressive our commitment of reducing water risks civil society organizations to bring inno­ Satellite Imagery and Modeling and improving water management in 100% vation and value to the entire agricultural of key barley growing regions by the end system through SmartBarley. In Russia, we partnered with a leading of 2017, in partnership with local stake­ satellite technology company to utilize holders. More than 90% of our water use imagery that helps growers identify areas goes into growing barley and other agriculwithin their fields where barley yield and tural inputs used in the brewing process, quality can be improved. The technology is which is why the portfolio of SmartBarley also utilized for yield and protein forecasts, initiatives focuses on generating the most continually updating growers on the health “crop per drop.” of their production. Our local agronomist, Oleg Stishenko led the development of the SmartBarley is not only delivering technology across more than 8 000 hectares improved technologies and practices for of barley production. Given the program’s barley, but also for other crops produced Global Barley Research AgriMet and Irrigation Research Our Global Barley Research team—headquartered in We’re driving irrigation best practices and Fort Collins, Colorado, USA with field researchers working technologies across Idaho and Montana that allow our across the globe—is responsible for developing new malt network of growers to produce greater barley yields barley varieties that increase growers’ productivity while with less water. driving the quality we need to brew our world class beers. In a program developed in partnership with the With global agriculture facing increasing pressures U.S. Bureau of Reclamations, we have funded a network like water scarcity and climate volatility, Global Barley of agriculturally-based weather stations located Research is focused on developing varieties that are throughout the Pacific Northwest of the United States more climate resilient, require less water, and maintain called AgriMet. The data generated by the six AgriMet greater resistance to pests and disease. stations is free to download and informs growers “What we’re trying to do is identify those varieties that of relevant climate conditions to better manage their can maintain agronomic yield, when we apply as much irrigation. We have also worked with the University as a 40% reduction in water,” explained Gary Hanning, of Idaho and Washington State University as part of Director of Global Barley Research, Anheuser-Busch. the AgriMet program to develop and test an irrigation “Our role as barley breeders is to reduce the amount of scheduler, providing a tool that guides growers on when water being used, from seed to sip.” and how much water to apply to their fields. Global Barley Research manages variety and crop In 2016, we are expanding the scope of this project management trials in over ten countries. Through the to include research on improved irrigation methods that, help of this team, our growers have access to high quality when used in conjunction with the AgriMet data and locally adapted malt barley varieties and improved crop irrigation scheduler, will provide growers a robust management practices that strengthen our supply chain toolset to reduce their water usage while still maintaining now and into the future. or increasing their crop yields. 12 13 Reducing Carbon Emissions in Our Brewing and Logistics Operations Brewing and distribution with our logistics suppliers to reduce fuel 2015 Recycling Rate is an energy-intensive consumption and supply retailers in many parts of the world with eco-friendly coolers. process, and we are Our culture of ownership and making significant strides accountability, entrepreneurial attitude in reducing our energy and innovative techniques are helping 99.01% our breweries use less energy for every consumption and carbon beer we brew. Coupled with best-practice footprint across our sharing, these efforts have helped us make manufacturing and logistics significant progress toward achieving our global goal of reducing our energy use per operations as well as in hectoliter of production by 10%. In 2015 Fuels Mix 2015 our retailers. alone, we achieved a 1.5% reduction in energy use. Specifically, in China, we have Having already met our 2017 GHG emissions continued natural gas conversions of coalPurchased Steam 6% intensity goal three years in advance, in 2015, fired boilers which are much easier to use Liquid Fuels we have continued to improve the efficiency and more efficient in energy conservation 3.3% Coal of our operations, use cleaner fuels, work and emission reduction. 10.7% In July 2015, we signed an agreement with a third party renewable energy company to purchase over 21 000 megawatt hours of solar energy for our brewery in Baldwinsville, NY. The new solar installation will have over 17 megawatts (DC) in solar capacity across six locations, and will be the largest installation for any brewery in the U.S. Renewables Natural Gas 10.9% 69.1% 2015 Global Citizenship Report Pillars Lessons Learned: Carbon Emissions Represented Further to our carbon emission reduction efforts in our brewing operations, Top Markets we are committed to reducing our emissions in logistics operation through US, Belgium, Argentina Referenced improved routing efficiencies, alternative fuels, telematics, driver education and more efficient equipment. We continue to make measurable progress against our green logistics goal with the commitment of our internal teams and the support of many external partners; we have scaled our efforts to more than 90% of Since 2012, our China breweries have our operating markets and are working to standardize tracking and management reduced GHG emissions 35.3% per hectoliter systems globally. While capturing accurate estimates of carbon initiatives of production. Furthermore, in 2015, we across global operations is complicated we are focusing our efforts to achieve used more renewables than coal for fuel. consistency in our measurement and reporting tools. The moment we realized that not including a goal specific to greenhouse gas emissions in logistics operations in our set of Global Environmental Goals announced in 2013 was a missed opportunity, we immediately Eco-Coolers added this new target to our 2017 Environmental Goals in 2014. With the We hit our 2017 eco-cooler goal two years in advance, moving from our addition of this goal to reduce greenhouse 2012 baseline of only 6% of our cooler purchases meeting the requirements gas emissions by 15% in our logistics of our goal, to approximately 84.2% of our 2015 cooler purchases. To be counted operations, we formalized our aspiration against our goal, a cooler must have at least two of these three features: to be a sustainable logistics leader in long-lasting, energy-efficient LED lighting; energy-saving controllers; or an the brewing industry. And in 2015, we eco-friendly refrigerant gas that has much lower GHG impacts. We were able to implemented programs to accelerate our achieve and go beyond our goal of 70% by implementing new initiatives across progress toward this goal. all our Zones. In China, for example, we switched to a more eco-friendly cooler that uses R600a refrigerant gas, which improved our eco-cooler purchases from Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Power 16% in 2014 to 89% in 2015. Looking ahead, we are aiming for 100% green coolers in China. And in Brazil, over 70% of our purchases will include electronic Nearly 100 diesel tractors in our St. Louis controllers with energy-saving features that will save around 30% of the electric brewery fleet were replaced with tractors usage for our retailers. We are continuing to push for increased eco-cooler powered by compressed natural gas (CNG) purchases all around the world. in 2015. This move makes AB InBev one of the few heavy-haul fleet owners to employ the latest in cleaner-burning fuel vehicles. 14 15 Approximately, 30% of our US fleet now uses CNG. The new engines are expected to emit 23% less greenhouse gases (compared to diesel), which is the equivalent of taking more than 500 passenger vehicles off the road. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Approximately, 30% of our US fleet process. For example, we began using river resource. As of the end of 2015, we had now uses CNG. The new engines are barges instead of trucks to transport empty 50 trucks running on “B50,” which represents expected to emit 23% less greenhouse bottles between our facilities in Leuven 50% petroleum and 50% biodiesel blend. gases (compared to diesel), which is and Jupille. This fuel causes 35% less CO2 emissions. the equivalent of taking more than 500 And in 2016, we look forward to seeing the passenger vehicles off the road. additional environmental benefit that will Use of B50 Fuel in Zarate come from our recently operational station in We introduced a 50 000-liter biodiesel Buenos Aires. Notably, this station is located Boats in Belgium station in the Zarate brewery in Argentina at our main distribution facility in Buenos In Europe, we launched several Green to refuel delivery trucks. This traditional Aires. The facility has upgraded technology, Logistics initiatives to reduce energy usage fuel alternative does not contain sulfur allowing us to increase the number of trucks and emissions in the supply and logistics and is obtained from soybean oil, a natural running on this B50 fuel blend. Materials Recycled and Waste Disposed (Metric Tons) AB InBev Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Materials recycled 5 619 408 5 836 743 6 602 430 6 713 512 Total Direct and Indirect 5.32 5.90 6.08 5.20 and composted GHG Emissions (million metric tons of CO₂e) Materials used 10 434 98 240 43 364 13 705 as fuel GHG Emissions per Hectoliter 10.16 10.07 9.10 8.27 of Product (kilograms of CO₂e per Incinerated waste 22 0 809 63 hectoliter [kg/hl]) Landfill waste 43 608 150 963 96 668 66 954 Total Energy Consumption 58.6 54.3 54.9 55.0 (million gigajoules of energy) Hazardous waste 225 724 984 565 Energy Consumption per 129.0 124.6 119.4 116.9 Hectoliter of Product Total 5 673 697 6 086 670 6 744 255 6 794 799 (megajoules per hectoliter [Mj/hl]) Assured Metric Our per-hectoliter goals on GHG emissions and energy pertain to our Packaging beverage facilities only and do not encompass our vertical operations such as malt plants and packaging facilities. In order to allow for increased accuracy, meaningful comparisons and determination of goal achievement, absolute and normalized GHG emissions data from previous years has been adjusted using the latest emission factors and reporting methodologies. After identifying new and innovative packaging alternatives, including Specific data tables contain other footnotes about environmental performance data. extensive PET and glass lightweighting projects across Latin America, we Scope 1 accounts for 65% of our emissions and includes CO₂ equivalent continued to reduce our environmental impact and the cost of our packaging. (CO₂e) from fuel used in our manufacturing processes and in cogeneration plants that generate on-site electricity. Scope 2 accounts for about 35% and We made great progress towards our packaging reduction target of 100 000 tons represents emissions from purchased electricity.” Total GHG emissions data encompass beverage facilities and most vertical by 2017. In addition to meeting quality standards and consumer expectations, operations, including malt plants and packaging facilities. our product packaging includes recyclable materials such as glass, cardboard Emissions arising from the combustion of biomass, biogas and landfill gas are not included in our GHG emissions, per the WBCSD/WRI protocol. and aluminum; and on a global basis about 71% of our packed glass products are Biomass and biogas are considered carbon neutral because the fuel sources served as an atmospheric carbon sink before being burned. Burning returnable, which includes both beer and soft drinks. For packaging that is not landfill gas, or methane, is considered beneficial because its combustion dramatically reduces GHGs emitted when compared to simply allowing it to returnable, we support consumer recycling initiatives around the globe, including enter the atmosphere unburned. 2013 reflects the first year of the inclusion of Grupo Modelo vertical Keep America Beautiful in the United States and the Ambev Recicla project in operations. Brazil which benefits consumers, cooperatives, society and the environment by Energy data above represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012, the baseline year for the improving waste disposal, sorting and recycling of post-consumer packaging. energy use intensity goal. Data from previous years are not adjusted in the case of adjustments and acquisitions of beverage facilities. In line with our culture of continuous improvement, we aim to continuously raise the bar by reducing the amount of material we use, recycling everything we can, integrating the use of recycled inputs into our packaging and ensuring that our packaging is recyclable whenever possible. 16 17 Cultivating Water Stewardship Water is the key ingredient minimizing our water use throughout To ensure that we integrate innovative in all of our products and our value chain—from helping farmers and fresh perspectives into our use enhanced irrigation technology environmental strategy, in 2013, we a scarce resource in many and drought-resistant seeds to grow more convened a panel of three outside parts of the world. barley with less water, to improving our experts. Namely, Stuart Orr, Head of water efficiency, to providing our effluent Water Stewardship, World Wildlife Fund As the world’s leading brewer, we have for community needs across nearly 40 for Nature (WWF International), Hal the opportunity to use our scale and breweries and leading ambitious multiHamilton, Founder and Co-Director, expertise to address the global water crisis, stakeholder partnerships that help protect Sustainable Food Lab and Howard one of the most pressing issues of our watersheds and ecosystems in waterNeibling, Associate Professor, Department time. That is why we are focused on stressed regions. of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, University of Idaho, help us shape and Water resource challenges are increasingly magnified by climate evaluate our approach, with a particular pressures, inadequate infrastructure and poor governance. focus on watersheds, water systems and sustainable agriculture. Please see The growing scarcity of fresh water is not just an issue for the Environmental Technical Advisory our company. It is a global risk to the economic, social and Committee section of our website for environmental well-being of our communities. more information on our advisors. Lessons Learned: Water Stewardship While progress has been made by the private sector towards water stewardship, the scale of transformation needed for improved basin governance demands significantly more. We know we cannot solve the global water crisis alone, and advancing global dialogue and identifying alternative sources of financing can parlay the growing awareness of the shared risk into coordinated efforts and greater positive impact. This is why transformative partnerships will continue to be at the heart of our water stewardship efforts. 2015 Global Citizenship Report 2017 Environmental Goals Progress 120 hectares (40% of the total from the original pilot area) of forests remnants. The Pillars In 2015, we continued to improve our water Represented impact of this work has been strengthened management and stewardship efforts. through collaborations with not only We further reduced our global water usage The Nature Conservancy, but also the area Top Markets to 3.14 hectoliters of water per hectoliter Brazil Mayor’s office, the Jaguariúna Bureau of Referenced of production and engaged in watershed the Environment, the Brazilian Agricultural protection measures, in partnership with Research Corporation, the Brazilian local stakeholders, in 86% of our facilities National Water Agency and the Piracicaba, located in water-stressed regions in Capivari and Jundiaí Watershed Committees. Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, By collaborating with a variety of partners Peru and the United States. Water and considering the full spectrum savings from of stakeholders, we have been able to Our water basin work in Brazil simultaneously align efforts and leverage 2013 40 In 2014, we launched the Projeto Bacias in available resources to make a larger impact. TO billion cans partnership with The Nature Conservancy, in order to better manage critical water We are now replicating this model across our company in water-stressed areas. 2015 of our beer basins near Jaguariúna to improve the Because only through coordinated collective are enough to fill quality and quantity of available water. In action can we mitigate long-term risks and 2015, we invited the local landowners at protect water supplies for all. farms within the basin to take part in our project, and five of them signed on. These World Environment Day farms cover one third of the pilot area that we mapped in 2014, which provides the Every World Environment Day, we look Global Walk for Water opportunity to make a significant impact. forward to joining together with colleagues around the world to stress the importance From start to finish, water plays a critical Through the program, we provide farmers of environmental sustainability. role in the brewing process and is the main and landowners financial incentives, known ingredient in our beer. In addition to being as Payment for Environmental Services Despite being our seventh consecutive year absolutely vital for our agricultural inputs, (PES), that encourage environmentally joining with environmental stewards around it is an essential resource for the social, responsible land management and the the world to celebrate this global moment economic and environmental wellbeing conservation of natural resources in order to of action, 5 June 2015 was particularly of the communities where we live and prevent erosion and sediments. We provided meaningful because we celebrated the early work. Our Global Walk for Water served as the first PES to the Sao Joao do Atibaia achievement of our 2017 water efficiency a symbol for the emphasis we place on our farm at the end of 2015. By 2016, we plan goal, and we organized a special Global environmental work. During these events, to recover 100 hectares (50% of the Walk for Water to bring our people in our our colleagues logged their steps and total in the original pilot area) of degraded communities together. tracked charitable donations in order to areas and local forests and preserve drive awareness of the water issues that are most critical in their communities, and to support the work of important local non-profit partners. Over 22 000 people participated in the Walk for Water to benefit local water NGOs, including over 14 000 colleagues and 8 400 family members and friends. In total, we walked almost 60 000 kilometers and we raised over 100 000 USD in the United States for Water.org. 18 19 Over 52 000 global colleagues and more than 35 000 family members and friends participated in World Environment Day activities around the world. 2015 Global Citizenship Report BRAZIL SOUTH KOREA UNITED STATES AB InBev Water Use Year-Over-Year Our Walk for Water is just one illustration of how we deploy resources, technologies 2012 2013 2014 2015 % Change 2015 and cross-functional teams both within our vs 2012 baseline facilities and across our global footprint to Water Use Ratio 3.54 3.35 3.23 3.14 11.30% help solve environmental challenges such (hl/hl) as water management. We also invest in partnerships and initiatives that address Total Water Use 1.566 1.461 1.489 1.382 11.75% the whole water ecosystem, such as facility (billion hl) improvements, new grower technologies, Assured Metric community forums and watershed cleanups. Water data above represents all beverage operations within the original scope of our 2017 goal—established in 2012, the baseline for the water and energy goals. Our strong legacy of water stewardship Data from previous years are not adjusted in the case of a divestments and acquisitions of beverage facilities. across our value chain and within our global communities exemplifies our Dream to 2015 AB InBev Water Sources be the Best Beer Company Bringing People Together For a Better World in action. In addition, we completed 926 projects to clean up watersheds and beaches, clear trash, plant trees and beautify areas near 43.5% 13.7% 42.6% our offices, facilities and breweries. We also engaged over 2 000 non-profit partners around the world to help realize these efforts. Ground Water Surface Water Municipal Water In the year ahead, we look forward to continue to engage our colleagues, 0.0% 0.1% communities, partners and local stakeholders to scale these efforts and convene innovative and impactful partnerships for freshwater challenges. Rain Water Imported Steam 20 21 Getting Smart about Drinking In 2015, we started a new chapter in our commitment Lessons Learned: to smart drinking with the Our Journey to Smart Drinking launch of our new Global in 2015, after four years of working towards the achievement of Smart Drinking Goals and our original Global Responsible Drinking Goals (2011–2014), and after the release of our ‘Celebrate more than 30 years of investing in efforts to promote responsible Tomorrow’ video, a consumer drinking and discourage the harmful use of alcohol, we reflected on our progress and lessons learned through our experiences. We recognize the call to action. accomplishments that we made through strategic partnerships, public education initiatives, and joint efforts with retailers, all focused on driving In a video featuring people from six cities awareness of alcohol responsibility. But we also acknowledged that there around the world—Shanghai, Buenos Aires, is still a lot of work to be done. As a result we determined that, by taking an São Paulo, Mexico City, Brussels and New evolved approach to positively changing behavior by investing in longerYork City—sharing celebratory moments with term, evidence-based approaches, we had an opportunity to make a more friends and family, we bring to life what smart lasting and meaningful impact on underage drinking, binge drinking and drinking choices can look like, illuminates drink driving globally. With these areas in mind, we narrowed our focus to how they affect everyone every day, and ensure we could make a real impact where it matters. underscores our commitment to help foster a With this as our vision, in 2015 we launched our new set of Global Smart global culture of smart drinking. Drinking Goals, which we aim to achieve by the end of 2025. These In order to achieve our vision of a global goals, which are reflective of the evolution of our approach to alcohol culture of smart drinking, we will implement responsibility, focus on two key areas: changing behaviors through social effective and collaborative solutions through norms, and empowering consumers through choice. our four established goals. 2015 Global Citizenship Report “Publishing the results [of the city pilots] regardless of whether they achieve the full targets is itself going to be an Pillars Represented enormous gain for the company and a gain for public health.” Dr. Derek Yach, Chief Health Officer, Vitality Institute and member of AB InBev’s Top Markets US, Brazil, China, Mexico, Global Advisory Council Referenced Argentina, Belgium We are launching multi-year pilots practices and learnings from these cities marketing campaigns and related programs to reduce the harmful use of alcohol to develop local implementation plans for as we look to influence social norms and by at least 10% in six cities around additional markets worldwide. Strategically individual behaviors. the world by the end of 2020 and will selected, these cities represent each of our implement the best practices globally six geographic Zones. “I think spending one billion by the end of 2025. ≥ Watch the Celebrate Tomorrow video USD setting out to change These projects will explore collaborative people’s behavior is enormous and innovative approaches and identify best practices to implement across all of We are investing at least 1 billion USD because obviously (a) one billion across our markets in dedicated social our markets by the end 2025. USD is a lot of money, and (b) marketing campaigns and related In 2015, we launched our first two pilots, programs to influence social norms and the power you have today to one in Brazil (in collaboration with the individual behaviors to reduce harmful drive and effect positive change trade association CervBrasil) and the other alcohol use. is enormous.” in Mexico. We will launch two more City In partnership with governments, law David Jones, Founder, One Young World and Projects in 2016 in North America and in enforcement, NGOs and other key stakemember of AB InBev’s Global Advisory Council Europe, and the final two in 2017 in Asia holders, and with guidance from experts, and in South America. We’ll use best ≥ Watch our GAC video we will support science-based social GLOBAL SMART DRINKING GOALS 2015–2025 2015 Pilot City Profile: Our vision is to foster a culture of smart drinking Zacatecas, Mexico globally to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. Zacatecas is one of the six cities serving as a pilot for the CHANGING BEHAVIORS THROUGH SOCIAL NORMS Global Smart Drinking Goals. It is labeled “Ciudad Modelo,” MULTI-YEAR PILOTS SOCIAL NORMS a model city. Reduce the harmful use As a first step, we completed a of alcohol by at least 10% and individual behaviors in six cities by end 2020 to reduce harmful alcohol use by baseline study in Zacatecas to investing at least 1 billion USD assess the current situation with $1B Implement the best practices across our markets in dedicated globally by end 2025 social marketing campaigns and related programs by end 2025 regard to harmful consumption of alcohol, both among adults and adolescents. Equipped with EMPOWERING CONSUMERS THROUGH CHOICE this data, we are now working with a variety of partners on PRODUCT PORTFOLIO ALCOHOL HEALTH LITERACY programs and initiatives toward the goal of reducing harmful Ensure Noor LowerPlace a Guidance Label on all consumption of alcohol in Alcohol beer products of our beer products in all of our represent at least markets by the end of 2020 Zacatecas by at least 10% by 20% of AB InBev’s global beer volume by Increase alcohol health literacy by the end of 2025 the end of 2020. the end of 2025 22 23 We will expand our product portfolio to ensure that Noand Lower-Alcohol beer “If you take a company like AB InBev and you say, okay, we’re no longer a products represent at least 20% of neighborhood’s beer or a country’s beer, we are in fact a corporation representing AB InBev’s global beer volume by the end the world, you want your populous to enjoy your product, but be healthy of 2025. enough for tomorrow. So the message in these goals, which are very ambitious, We believe that consumers in all of is to drink smart, but celebrate tomorrow.” our markets should have access to high Dr. Nancy Snyderman, Former Chief Medical Editor, NBC News and member quality, great tasting Noand Lowerof AB InBev’s Global Advisory Council Alcohol beer products. We will develop and launch new high quality, great tasting Noand Lower-Alcohol offerings and establish them as desirable alternatives for consumers through marketing and education efforts. “The private sector has to play a big role, government cannot do everything, and we have to achieve these goals. And I think a big corporation like the one that we work with is in a very good position, because the problem is global.” Jean Chrétien, Former Prime Minister, Canada and member of AB InBev’s Global Advisory Council We will place a Guidance Label on all of our beer products in all of our markets by the end of 2020 and increase alcohol health literacy by the end of 2025. For consumers to make smart choices, they need information. The content on the label and the labeling format will be developed by an independent group of technical experts (in alcohol labeling, alcohol epidemiology, health communications, health literacy, marketing, and other related fields) using a rigorous process and working under the oversight of a Global Steering Committee. us and many new partners, including and to implement our smart drinking Our new Global Smart Drinking Goals are our consumers, who have been inspired programs in partnership with our global ambitious by design. We know we’ll need by our ‘Celebrate Tomorrow’ video to communities in 2016 and beyond. To to enlist the help of partners and join the effort. Within one month of the view our ‘Celebrate Tomorrow’ video visit: collaborate with diverse stakeholders to launch of our Global Smart Drinking www.ab-inbev.com/social-responsibility/ achieve the impact we envision. We are Goals, we amassed nine million views smart-drinking.html. proud to have so many existing partners across Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. We committed to taking this journey with are excited to build on this momentum 2015 Global Citizenship Report CHANGING BEHAVIORS THROUGH SOCIAL NORMS The Importance of External Perspectives MULTI-YEAR PILOTS Harmful use of alcohol is reduced by at least 10% in six cities by the end of 2020 Best practices in reducing harmful use of alcohol are implemented in all of our at ab inbev we recognize the value that outside markets by the end of 2025 experts bring to our work. That’s why we consulted with TIMELINE accomplished and reputable public and private sector 2015 2020 2025 leaders on the development of our new Global Smart Drinking Goals. These thought leaders make up our SOCIAL NORMS Invest at least 400 million USD in social marketing campaigns and programs to Global Advisory Council, and are visionary experts reduce the harmful use of alcohol by the end of 2020 (2015–2020) Invest at least 1 billion USD in social marketing campaigns and programs to in policy, health and corporate responsibility who were reduce the harmful use of alcohol by the end of 2025 (2015–2020) invited to offer their independent perspectives on Social norms and individual behaviors are measurably influenced toward reducing harmful use of alcohol by the end of 2025 the development of our final set of goals. The quotes TIMELINE are perspectives from the Council members that were offered as a reaction to our final set of Global Smart 2015 2020 2025 Drinking Goals. EMPOWERING CONSUMERS THROUGH CHOICE Similarly, we will be forming a Global Steering Committee made up of outside experts who will advise PRODUCT PORTFOLIO us on the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Noor Lower-Alcohol beer products are at least 20% of AB InBev’s global beer volume by the end of 2025 progress against our goals. Availability of No-Alcohol beer in all of our markets by the end of 2025 TIMELINE 2015 2020 2025 ALCOHOL HEALTH LITERACY $1B Guidance Label implemented in all of our beer products by the end of 2020 (Yes/No by Market) Alcohol literacy is increased by the end of 2025 TIMELINE 2015 2020 2025 24 25 Our Commitment to Safety The World Health Organization estimates that, without intervention, road traffic crashes could become the fifth leading cause of death globally by 2030.1 So we asked ourselves what we could do to help address this critical public health challenge. In 2014, we came together with other leading global companies to create a coalition called Together for Safer Roads (TSR), dedicated to improving road safety and reducing deaths and injuries from road traffic collisions. Together for Safer Roads had its first full year in 2015 during which time we worked together to further hone in on our three key focus areas: advancing safer vehicles and roads through data and technology, creating a culture of traffic safety built on a safe systems approach, and raising awareness about the importance of safety. “Together for Safer Roads brings together global industry leaders, including AB InBev, who believe business can drive change that will help reduce the number of casualties and injuries due to road traffic accidents.” Carlos Brito, CEO of AB InBev and Chairman of Together for Safer Roads 2015 Global Citizenship Report TSR Shanghai Launch Pillars A key element of TSR’s work is the Safer Represented Roads Challenge, which represents local demonstration projects where member Top Markets companies work with local governments Brazil, China, Mexico Referenced and other partners to address a city’s most pressing road safety challenges. Together with our partners, we launched the Shanghai city project on 2 December including the Shanghai Municipal Public with a ceremony coinciding with China’s Security Bureau, Shanghai Municipal National Road Safety Day. During the event, Bureau of Justice, Shanghai Traffic Police the city government presented awards Bureau, the Joint International Research to the top ten best policemen and top Laboratory of Transportation Safety of ten best professional drivers in Shanghai. Tongji University, Xinmin Evening News, Through TSR, we are collaborating with The event was attended by high level China Alcoholic Drinks Association and the other leading companies—including AIG, government officials and local partners, Shanghai Traffic Engineering Association. AT&T, Chevron, Ericsson, Facebook, IBM, iHeartMedia, Octo Telematics, PepsiCo, Republic Waste Services, Ryder, UPS and Walmart—to improve road safety and reduce deaths and injuries from road traffic collisions. Advised by an independent expert panel of eminent leaders in road safety, we are combining our knowledge and expertise to identify and implement solutions that promote safer roads, vehicles and systems. Amplifying Awareness As part of World Safety Day in April 2015, our employees across North America, Europe, China, Mexico, Argentina and Brazil engaged in a range of activities. As a company, we offered an opportunity to make an employee pledge, posted signage in our offices, hosted employee gatherings and engaged our company on social channels. As part of the pledge, employees signed their name on a banner confirming their commitment to the “Five Life-Saving Rules:” 1) Don’t text and drive—It can Country Spotlight: Mexico wait!; 2) Respect the speed limits; 3) Buckle up your seatbelts; 4) Be visible in traffic— AB InBev also played a key role in Mexico’s special focus on road safety, always!; and 5) Don’t drink and drive. working with the government to launch a national road safety campaign targeted at college students. A total of 61 365 college students received the World Safety Day was TSR’s first awareness message at 43 different universities across 19 Mexican cities, including via initiative as a coalition. And five of our social media. The volunteers disseminated materials about not drinking other member companies joined us in and driving and also about the importance of wearing seatbelts. And our Grupo these efforts: AIG, AT&T, PepsiCo, Ryder Modelo team and partners in Cervceros de México used cats in the No Te Hagas and Walmart. Güey (Don’t Fool Yourself) campaign to catch the public’s attention and raise awareness for this important issue. 1. “The Global Status Report on Road Safety,” World Health Organization (2013) 26 27 As part of the launch event, we showcased our new Designated Driver mini-movie starring basketball legend Yao Ming and Olympic-champion sprinter Liu Xiang, both of whom received Road Safety Ambassador certificates from the Shanghai government and from TSR at the launch. “The efforts we’ve been making in responsible drinking in China have entered their 8th year and we’ve seen that the incidents of drunk driving have been reduced. As an important stakeholder, AB InBev has been helping people improve driving behavior.” Michel Doukeris, zone president and CEO of Asia Pacific at AB InBev Zero Raspones Turning Ideas Into Action Through Zero Raspones (No Scratches) initiative in Asunción, Paraguay, When it comes to road safety, our we gave all our warehouse forklift trucks a new paint job to track the number commitment is to continue to identify and of scratches on each and kept count every 24 hours which fostered a friendly disseminate best practices, and ultimately competition and a sense of pride amongst each team of three employees to do more of what works. On 11 November, (one per each 8-hour shift). Not only did Zero Raspones greatly decrease the TSR hosted a virtual press conference number of scratches on our forklifts, we also saw less wasted product and to launch a white paper, titled “Investing in fewer broken bottles. Road Safety: A Global Imperative for the Private Sector.” The white paper provides Distribution Safety More than 85% of our truck fleets have been fitted with telemetry INVESTING IN systems to track driver behaviors while on the road, such as speed, rapid ROAD SAFETY acceleration/deceleration, quick turns and seatbelt use. Through the real-time A GLOBAL IMPERATIVE FOR THE PRIVATE data that these telemetry systems provide, our managers know immediately SECTOR when someone on their teams is exhibiting unsafe behaviors. This level of accountability has resulted in significant reductions in speeding and safer fleet operations. We have also introduced new motorcycles with disc brakes that assist in shorter stopping distances, better ergonomic designs to reduce fatigue, special models for off-road routes, and electric starters. We’ve also replaced our more hazardous routes with cars. Key Findings and Recommendations of the Together for Safer Roads Expert Panel 2015 Global Citizenship Report expert recommendations to private sector Safety Performance Results Key companies and offers a robust platform Lost Time Injuries (LTI) for taking action on nine key road safety Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 2012 2013* 2014** 2015*** Occupational injury resulting in more than one priorities. Supply Employees (own) 521 291 151 126 day absence from work. Additionally, released in connection with Total Recordable Injuries World Safety Day in 2016, the TSR Fleet Second Tier/Sales Employees 2 353 1 728 898 568 LTI + modified duty injuries + medical treatment injuries. Safety Best Practices Report leverages the Global Severity Rate cumulative knowledge and insight of Contractors (all) 244 358 211 147 Lost days per 1 000 000 TSR’s member companies to develop a set hours worked. Lost days only TRI of best practice guidelines for fleet delivery include the days that are effectively lost in the year and employee transportation programs. Supply Employees (own) 2 448 1 189 644 544 due to LTI in this year. It draws upon the first-hand experience Supply Employees of our member companies to identify Second Tier/Sales Employees 1 948 Brewery and manufacturing the areas where commercial entities facility employees, including Fatalities first-tier logistics. can enhance safe driving practices and manage road-related risk. Supply Employees (own) 0 4 0 0 Second Tier/ Sales Employees Going forward, we will continue working Second-tier logistics, Second Tier/Sales Employees 6 4 4 4 sales, Zone and global with fellow TSR member companies to (own) corporate employees. turn these priorities into real-world action, Assured Metric driving us ever closer to our goal of safer Contractors (all) 9 11 12 8 * AB InBev took management control of roadways for all worldwide. Grupo Modelo following the combination on June 4, 2013. 2012 and 2013 data includes Mexico in order to allow for Days Lost Due to Injury (supply own) comparison and show progress since the combination. Supply Employees (own) 20 090 11 561 9 229 6 180 **2014 data does not include Oriental Breweries, South Korea, or additional Country Spotlight: Global Severity Rate Asia-Pacific Zone breweries acquired during the course of the year, as we did not have operational control Brazil for the entire year. *** 2015 data only cover sites for which Supply Employees (own) 127 73 64 43 AB InBev has full management control Together with our partners, we since 01 Jan 2015. are working with the government to promote road safety in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro States, with a goal to save 20 000 lives in Safety in Our Operations São Paulo and 12 000 lives in Rio by 2020. It is with deep regret that we report four second-tier/sales employee and eight contractor fatalities in 2015. In each case, we undertook an in-depth investigation and implemented measures to reduce the likelihood of similar incidents in the future. In addition, we continued to improve our already robust safety standards by making updates to our Voyager Plant Optimization (VPO) and our Distribution Process Optimization (DPO) programs after we went through an external benchmarking process that helped identify best practices to improve behavior-specific procedures. These efforts stress our emphasis on safe technology and incorporate information and training on safe behaviors to improve employee awareness and engagement. We have seen a marked increase in the awareness of safe behaviors scoring 87% across Working Environment and Safety metrics in our annual employee engagement survey up from 83% in 2014. This score takes into account elements such as the safeness and cleanliness of facilities, manager reinforcement of safe work practices and the provision of personal protective equipment. This 2015 favorable percentage reflects the opinions of over 55 000 employees worldwide, which represents a 92% response rate from the 61 000 survey invitations sent. 28 29 Bringing Our Better World Commitment to Life through Our Brands As the leading beer In Mexico, where Corona has the strongest sustainable development through company in the world, our brand recognition, we gathered 2 924 local environmental education), we organized community volunteers and employees a clean-up on 20 June where over portfolio consists of over to clean 40 beaches between March and 50 volunteers took part and helped keep 200 beer brands that span July. As part of Movimiento Playa Corona, Cattolica Beach clean and accessible for the name of our beach clean-ups in tourists all summer long. local and international Mexico, volunteers helped pick up litter, Building from 2015’s momentum, Corona markets. including bottles, cans, paper and other will continue to inspire community action miscellaneous items totaling 45 223 kg. towards beach cleanup efforts. In 2016, This reach enables us to build strong In Italy, we engaged our consumers we are excited to elevate our Movimiento connections with diverse consumers in identifying priority beaches through Playa Corona beach clean-up initiative around the world and join together with an online contest. More than 350 000 in Mexico, which will now include an communities to be the agents of change consumers voted on eight different educational component and provide local for environmental and social stewardship. beaches, and the Cattolica Beach, in the volunteers with the necessary materials Below are just a few examples of brand Province of Rimini, emerged as the beach to make clean-ups more efficient. In line partnerships in 2015. that the majority of voters wanted to adopt. with this initiative, our Corona team will In partnership with Bandiera Blu (the also be rolling out new Corona packaging Corona Save the Beach Italian branch of the Blue Flag Program— that will help drive awareness and support a nonprofit organization promoting for the continued beach recovery efforts. Over the past 80 years, our Corona brand has developed a deep emotional connection with the beach in the hearts Economic Contributions and minds of consumers around the world. Continuing along its journey to Approximately 3.7 billion USD in wages and salaries paid to employees honor the world’s beaches, Corona expanded its Save the Beach initiative— 4.3 billion USD in capital expenditures on our facilities, distribution network and a program to improve beach accessibility systems around the world—investments that generate jobs and local economic growth and increase environmental protection of ecologically sensitive areas—to five countries in 2015. 13.7 billion USD in excise and income taxes paid 2015 Global Citizenship Report Stella Artois Buy A Lady A Drink baskets from Ethiopia and pottery from Honduras. Every specially designed Pillars Water has been a key ingredient in Represented chalice purchased helped provide one Stella Artois’s 600-year brewing heritage. woman in the developing world with five Yet today, 663 million people live without years of clean water. All 20 000 chalices Top Markets US, Brazil, Mexico, access to clean water, and this problem produced for initial sales sold out within a Referenced South Korea, Belgium disproportionately affects women. Every month of the campaign announcement, day, women spend a combined 125 million and then, we went on to sell nearly 95 000 hours collecting water for their families. chalices in 2015. Stella Artois partnered with Water.org to develop Buy a Lady a Drink—a campaign Stella Artois contributed to help end these long journeys for water so women can focus on new journeys 1.2 million USD to the effort, of their own. We kicked off the 2015 which helped Water.org campaign in January at the Sundance Film provide more than 290 000 Festival in Utah, United States with a video people in the developing series illuminating the nuances of these individual struggles around the globe. The world with five years of series was hosted on a specially designed clean water. microsite to help bring the stories of these women to life. In addition to highlighting the global In 2016, we plan to continue the sale water crisis through a creative web of these chalices in partnership with platform, we also encouraged customers Water.org in order to help more people Cass Forest of Hope around the world to purchase a limitedaround the world who don’t have access edition Stella Artois chalice. These chalices to clean water. Our goal is to continue According to Green Asia Network, desertfeatured artwork inspired by traditional to leverage the strength of Stella Artois’s ification has spread across Northeast, handcrafted objects from three developing brand to make a continued impact on Central, West, and South Asia; and in countries, such as textiles from India, the global water crisis. Mongolia specifically, 90% of the land has been affected by desertification. The Mongolian Government cited that over 18% of the nation’s rivers and streams, 20% of the creeks and 30% of the lakes have disappeared in recent decades. Additionally, almost 75% of Mongolia’s wildlife has diminished. In 2015, we continued our Cass Forest of Hope program to help address this issue of desertification in Mongolia. Cass, our local South Korean brand, partnered with the Green Asia Network—a nongovernmental environmental protection group—to plant 5 000 trees with the help of hundreds of college students from South Korea and Mongolia. In addition to greening the landscape, we supported eco-refugees (people displaced by environmental conditions) by renovating infrastructure (wall painting and home repairs), providing education opportunities, organizing environmental activities, and building greenhouses. 30 31 Our Make a Plan to Make It Home set-up in Times Square attracted more than 20 000 consumers and resulted in the redemption of more than 750 free UBER rides. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Before 2015, we had planted 35 000 trees event provided an opportunity for 30 through the Cass Forest of Hope program amateur players, one from each of the fields and with the 5 000 additional trees improved by Brahma throughout 2015, to planted in 2015, we have planted 40 000 compete to earn a six-month contract with trees total in Mongolia since the beginning the Strikers. The 30 people were divided of the program in 2010. into two teams, and were invited to play under FIFA World Cup Champion coaches Cafú, Edmílson, Ricardo Rocha, and Zetti. Upon the completion of the game, Ronaldo And in 2015, the United Nations personally selected the winner of the Convention to Combat Desertification competition, based on his assessment of (UNCCD) awarded Green Asia Network the their skill and passion. ‘Land for Life’ award, recognizing Cass Forest of Hope as a model campaign. With such incredible success in 2015, Complete with a DJ, decorated UBER cars Brahma will continue to build its connection on display and a green screen for the perfect As climate change and desertification with communities across Brazil by developselfie, our Make a Plan to Make it Home continue to impact the lives of vulnerable ing fields and programs in the years ahead. set-up in Times Square attracted more than populations, we have a responsibility Brahma has set an ambitious goal to revive 20 000 consumers and resulted in the to continue our on-the-ground efforts. 300 fields by 2018. In addition to the field redemption of more than 750 free UBER rides. Moving forward, we will continue to work improvement work Brahma led, Guaraná towards our goal of planting 150 000 Throughout the U.S., 3 500 colleagues in Antarctica organized soccer tournaments to additional trees by 2020, in those areas more than 78 markets joined together to bring together local people in various areas. most affected by desertification. visit popular bars during peak times to Our colleagues helped spearhead these Taça distribute Budweiser Make a Plan to Make It das Favelas across the country. Home materials—promoting safe rides Brahma Viva o Campinho home. Our Budweiser Make a Plan to Make It It’s no secret that in Brazil, the sport of Budweiser Make a Plan Home activities engaged MLB fans, NASCAR soccer is a key part of the country’s heritage to Make It Home fans (through a special paint scheme and culture. Children start learning the on Kevin Harvick’s #4 Budweiser Chevrolet), To mark Global Be(er) Responsible Day fundamentals of the game at a very young consumers at retail accounts, corporate (GBRD) on 18 September 2015, our U.S. team age, and most see it every day on TV and in partners, elected officials, congressional engaged with consumers, key stakeholders, the streets and parks within their commustaffers, and non-profit partners. Through and other audiences delivering Budweiser’s nities. This is why Brahma, one of our local this activation, we realized the real impact Make a Plan to Make it Home message through brands in Brazil, formed a partnership with we can make by leveraging our brand various events and activities. Specifically, Love.Fútbol, an internationally recognized awareness and our colleagues’ enthusiasm the team released a Budweiser digital video non-profit organization known for its to truly engage the public about promoting reminding consumers of the importance efforts to improve amateur soccer fields. the securing of a safe ride home. of always making a plan to make it home Through this partnership, we launched the safely—no matter what. The video was Viva o Campinho (Live the Pitch) campaign, inspired by Budweiser’s successful “Brewed which aims to recover amateur soccer the Hard Way” Super Bowl spot and At AB InBev, our ability to deliver our fields and champion the game of soccer in borrowed the Make a Plan to Make it Home Dream is based, in part, on the combined poor communities throughout Brazil. message from the 2014 GBRD video, success of our brands’ efforts. We In 2015, we built a custom microsite to “Friends Are Waiting”. Titled “Two Things”, believe that by aligning social causes— engage audiences on this important cultural the video, which racked up more than 52.4 whether they are alcohol responsibility, issue and showcase the process to revive million impressions, delivered the message environmental protection or community 30 fields across the country. To further that Budweiser cares about two things— development—with relevant brands, underscore the positive impact the revived brewing great beer and seeing everyone geographies and consumers, we can pitches can have on poor communities, get home safely. That same day, employees leverage our unique reach and scale for we collaborated with the Fort Lauderdale, across the country engaged retailers and profound collective impact. This is one Florida Strikers and its club co-owner consumers at local partner businesses, of the ways we’re continuing to innovate Ronaldo, to introduce the O Fenômeno sporting events, popular bars, restaurants, and partner in pursuit of our Dream Dos Campinhos (The Phenomenon of the stores, and even in New York City’s Times to be the Best Beer Company Bringing Little Pitch) competition. This competitive Square to share our message. People Together For a Better World. 32 33 Volunteering to Build a Better World Our Dream energizes our and previous engagements with local comIn the first full year of the system’s people to work together, munity organizations in the region allowed implementation, we engaged over 150 000 this system to stay consistently populated volunteers, who logged over 822 000 as they help build our with opportunities for our employees and hours of service across 409 initiatives business and support the local volunteers in the community. supporting over 555 non-profit partners. communities where we Evolving Voluntarios Modelo Incorporating International live and work. Volunteer Day Since its inception and launch, Voluntarios At AB InBev, we are committed to helping Modelo has evolved into a highly impactful While 5 December marked the second year our diverse workforce raise the bar in their community engagement program due, in that we celebrated International Volunteer communities by providing a volunteer large part, to the user-friendly, accessible Day in Mexico, it was the first year where structure that empowers them to online volunteer system. One of our we utilized our online system to amplify undertake community projects aligned to colleagues, shared, and accurately track our volunteer efforts their personal passions. and invite other companies to participate “Volunteering is for everybody. I feel very with us. According to Grupo Modelo CEO In 2015, as part of our efforts to provide proud to be part of a company where Ricardo Tadeu, “Our International Volunteer more convenient ways to volunteer, our I can contribute to a Better World by Day is one of the national activities that we Mexico team took the initiative to launch donating my time with my family friends have throughout the year and it is a great a new online volunteer management and interacting with my community.” way to connect with our family and friends, system to better match eager volunteers meet new people, feel happier, help others to projects addressing causes they were Paula Alejandra Escobal, Project Coordinator, Grupo Modelo. and do our part to make a positive impact. passionate about. These volunteers I see volunteering as one of the key trends included both AB InBev employees and for the future.” community members. In addition to the benefits the system In 2015—through targeted outreach Through the system, prospective volunteers provides to our colleagues and community across print, digital and broadcast media— can log on, develop a personal profile members, the system also allows us we welcomed passionate employees, identifying issue areas of focus, and explore to more effectively manage employee family and friends to explore our online non-profit partners and local volunteer volunteers, understand the issues they platform and engage with those causes opportunities in an organized and usercare about, and measure their impacts. most meaningful to them. friendly way. Our long-standing relationships 2015 Global Citizenship Report We have also invited other companies to relationships in the communities where we use the platform as a means of establishing live and work. Mexico took this opportunity Pillars Represented their own corporate volunteer programs, to create Voluntarios Modelo, and each and currently representatives from 15 of our Zones also continued to create different companies have created profiles programs and donate their time to causes Top Markets Mexico and donated their time through the digital throughout the year. To that end, in 2015, Referenced platform. In 2016, we are looking forward our company-wide volunteer efforts to bringing on more companies to join our resulted in 370 911 hours of service to volunteer efforts. others in these various communities from over 76 000 employees. Grounded in this At AB InBev, we strive to always operate service to others, our efforts in Mexico as one company, with one Dream and are tangible examples of how we’re using one culture that unites us, while maintaining our work to drive us forward and enable a clear focus on building lasting the achievement of our Dream. Employee Volunteering and Training Employee Engagement 370 911 Number of hours of volunteer 92% Response rate to employee service by our employees and partners opinion survey in December 2015 85% Employee engagement index, Over 71 000 Number of employees an increase of two percentage points globally who volunteered their time over 2014 and talents to our communities 89% Percentage of employees who Nearly 3.1 Million hours of employee believe our company acts in a socially training responsible way 34 35 Fostering Family Talk to Prevent Underage Drinking Talking to their children According to a GfK Roper Consulting is designed to encourage conversations about drinking can be multi-country survey, parents are the leading between parents and children in order to influence among youth ages 15–19 promote healthy drinking attitudes and difficult for many parents. with regard to decisions about alcohol. At habits and help prevent underage drinking. The topic is complex AB InBev, we saw the unique opportunity Initially, we were focused on providing a to act as the convener of this conversation variety of free materials that helped coach and personal and can be and the mediator who could help break parents through tough conversations and hard for parents to the ice to make the discussion around broach proactively before smart choices less taboo and more effective in preventing underage drinking. children are confronted The desire to provide meaningful tools by real life situations and resources inspired the creation that require responsible of Family Talk. First launched in the United States over 20 years ago, Family Talk decisions and habits. is available in all of our key markets worldwide. First and foremost, Family Talk 2015 Global Citizenship Report encourage direct questions and discussion which built on the momentum from Pillars with their children. But in 2015, we aimed our successful Family Talk launch in South Represented to reach teenagers in ways that would Korea in 2014. most resonate with them, and that meant With the help of Mr. Chunsuk Seo, Top Markets using creative digital content and live South Korea a well-known child psychologist in Referenced performances. South Korea and a Family Talk Ambassador In South Korea, which has a wide-spread and advisor, our team created ‘Family in prevalence of underage drinking, the the Ring,’ a stage play that portrays family the use of tools available to parents and challenge was to bring the conversation members battling in the boxing ring due children. Throughout 2015, the team put off the page and onto a more public to a lack of communication, but ultimately on regular performances in five cities and platform so that parents could become coming together for a constructive and then organized encore performances in more familiar with what a successful positive conversation about alcohol. The select cities. The performances ultimately conversation with children about drinking play brings to life the potential of the reached more than 1 000 attendees. could look like. To this end, our local program, showing the types of productive Our message also resonated with audiences team developed a stage performance, conversations that can take place through beyond the stage. In addition to the development of the stage production, we broadened our approach in South Korea by offering lectures, updating our Family Talk booklets, and sharing seven original video clips, which were posted online to Facebook, YouTube and Kakao Story. We distributed Family Talk parent guide booklets to the audience members at the various stage plays, garnered more than half a million views of the video clips and joined the national conversation through the national media in South Korea. The topic hit close to home with many parents. Kim Joo-hoon, a father who took to social media after attending the performance, said, “I could really empathize a lot with the content and it made me think a lot about where I should start. Thank you for creating this opportunity.” 36 37 Creating a Better World through Economic Empowerment At AB InBev, we know that having a Dream is just the first step to creating a Better World. That’s why we’re proud to partner with the end, the twenty teams presented their The first place Better World Project Enactus, a nonprofit organization final projects and we selected first, second Partnership team in the United States, from that inspires students to live out their and third place winners from each country Gulf Coast State College, realized that their entrepreneurial dreams to improve their to be awarded the National Grand Prizes. community in Panama City, Florida did communities. Launched at the end of not have any facilities that accepted glass, 2014, the AB InBev Better World Project so they created an innovative pilot project Partnering to accelerate commercial Partnership works to empower students that turned discarded glass into tumbled recycling to create and implement community sea glass. Using a concrete glass mixer, the development projects that improve In the United States, the ten teams team combined recycled glass, sand and livelihoods. In this first year of the Better partnered with environmental organizations seawater to create the new sea glass, and World Project Partnership, we engaged to design and implement solutions to helped sell it for landscaping, aquarium students from the United States and China increase recycling at businesses that floor cover and other craft purposes. by inviting ten teams from each country create significant on-site waste, such as As a result of the team’s efforts, glass was to propose innovative solutions to the most restaurants and bars. The teams began kept out of landfills and recycling increased pressing economic problems facing their by conducting a needs assessment that by 30% during the duration of the project. local communities. The selected teams revealed three key challenges facing committed to help advance the economic local store owners as they seek to adopt The Gulf Coast State College students are progress of their regions by implementing recycling practices, including cost, time currently working to expand the initiative programs to improve business and career and lack of local services. With these to further increase recycling and create training, create new jobs, and increase findings in hand, teams worked to develop larger volumes of glass. local business and/or household income. In ways to overcome these challenges. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Through all ten projects in The first place Better World Project the United States, students Partnership team in China focused their Pillars Represented efforts on the Zhangzhou AB InBev Primary collectively improved recycling School and the nearby Longqiao Village. practices at 20 businesses Approximately half of the residents Top Markets US, China, Mexico by training 156 business in the village make their living by selling Referenced owners and employees and raw bamboo shoots, however up to 5% of the plants are not sold due to their diverted over five additional appearance, despite the bamboo still tons of aluminum, cardboard, Making a lasting change being edible. paper and plastic waste The team of students developed a Through our partnership with Enactus, we’ve that were recycled instead solution to dehydrate, process and package been able to make a positive contribution to local economies across Zones. Not only of landfilled. the leftover produce and turn it into have students gained experience and a new marketable product to sell in local professional development by engaging markets and online. Over the course their entrepreneurial spirit; they have also of the project, 200 pounds of bamboo made a positive impact in the areas where Improving local livelihoods in global shoots were repurposed and sold by five they, and our colleagues and consumers, communities local merchants, decreasing waste in the live and work. community and increasing the income In China, the ten teams were tasked with of households. In the first three months In November 2015, we began the second finding ways to improve livelihoods in alone, the house­holds took home an year of our programming in China and the low-income communities surrounding additional income of more than 550 USD expanded the reach of our partnership with five select Primary Hope Schools in Harbin, (average of 110 USD per household). Enactus to Mexico, where teams will help Zhangzhou, Xinxiang, Lezhi and Suquian. local residents make a living and positively Overall, the ten Better World teams These schools were built through a impact the environment by selling goods in China helped to provide business and partnership between AB InBev and the made from discarded brewery materials. We career training to over 100 people, China Youth Development Foundation look forward to sharing results from both assisted in the creation of 12 new (CYDF), an organization whose “Project China and Mexico later in 2016. businesses, empowered the improvement Hope” initiative seeks to help school of three existing businesses and helped Learn more about our project partnership dropouts in poor, remote regions return to over 40 people gain employment. here: www.abinbevbetterworld.org. school and complete at least an elementary education. Since 2012, AB InBev has assisted CYDF with the construction of 14 Hope primary schools, five Dream football pitches and two Happy playgrounds. Teacher Trainings at Lezhi AB InBev Hope Primary School We have also supported the revitalization of a multimedia classroom in Yingkou City, Quality teaching methods are not a widespread practice in rural schools Liaoning Province. in China. In order to equip teachers with better instructional techniques, we sponsored a two-day training for 213 teachers in Lezhi, Sichan in October 2015. On the first day, Mr. Shizhong Huang, a top national math teacher, trained 103 teachers from 66 rural schools in Lezhi County on standardized and effective math teaching methods through classroom simulations and role-play scenarios. The next day, Mr. Denning Zhu conducted similar trainings related to physical education on the playground and demonstrated better ways to engage students through basketball and other sports. Because this first training was so successful, additional trainings were subsequently conducted in other cities around the country. Throughout 2015, 2 186 teachers from 421 elementary schools received the special teacher instruction, logging 18 396 total training hours. 38 39 Championing Collective Action on Global Beer Responsibility Day Imagine the impact that the leading global At AB InBev, we began our annual Global In 2015, colleagues from AB InBev, brewer and one of the world’s top five Be(er) Responsible Day (GBRD) in 2010, representatives from local beer associations consumer product companies can have when colleagues in more than 20 markets and employees from our global and local when we connect with consumers on an around the world came together to promote brewer peers came together to celebrate issue like alcohol responsibility. our alcohol responsibility programs in even more joint industry celebrations local communities. It soon became an in select countries. The aim of these Now, imagine the ways annual celebration for our family of more industry-wide Global Beer Responsibility that we can multiply that than 150 000 colleagues around the world, Day celebrations was to increase impact bringing our message of smart drinking to through collaborative drink driving and impact by collaborating our communities in a variety of powerful underage consumption prevention with global industry peers, ways. Then, in 2014, our Mexico team initiatives, server and seller trainings, the local brewers and beer evolved our company-wide celebratory day into a joint industry effort. associations from around Following the 2014 Mexico event, our CEO In the end, the partnering the world to encourage Carlos Brito challenged AB InBev to organize brewers collectively engaged alcohol responsibility. additional industry-wide celebrations more than 650 000 retailers, globally, in order to expand the reach and Together. the impact of the program. reached over eight million consumers directly, as well as over 300 million consumers indirectly through various communications activities worldwide. 2015 Global Citizenship Report providing of consumer education tools messages in more than ten cities across and brand-led responsibility campaigns, the country. The event culminated in the Pillars Represented among many other initiatives. center of Buenos Aires to celebrate the day’s accomplishments with an outdoor Representative of the activations in many concert for thousands of music fans. Top Markets Mexico, Argentina, Russia, participating countries, here’s a look at the Referenced Ukraine, Canada, Brazil celebrations that took place in Canada, Argentina, Russia, Ukraine and Brazil on 18 Russia and Ukraine September and in Mexico on 22 September. In Russia and Ukraine, our local AB InBev CANADA team joined forces with Carlsberg, EFES Canada and Heineken to celebrate Global Beer Responsibility Day in over 170 cities across On Global Beer Responsibility Day, our Labatt both countries. With a focus on underage Brewing Company’s team spearheaded drinking prevention, an ID-checking Partners for Safer Communities, Canada’s program was executed at more than first-ever industry-wide initiative to promote 160 000 retail accounts and more than the use of designated drivers, reduce 12 500 000 consumers were reached the incidence of drinking and driving, and with smart drinking messages. BRAZIL prevent underage drinking. The initiative included the Canadian industry association, Beer Canada, which represents 32 brewers Mexico across Canada. Various brewer employees Our Grupo Modelo team, Heineken and visited licensees across Canada to raise various craft brewers inspired retailers awareness of correct ID-checking and to commit to requiring young adults to to support servers with tips and materials show an ID before selling or serving them to carry out their Duty of Care in the alcohol. The industry also focused on responsible service of alcohol. driving awareness for the No Te Hagas Güey ARGENTINA (Don’t Fool Yourself) campaign, which Brazil directly engages consumers by encouraging them not to be ignorant about the harm Under the umbrella of CervBrasil, the that can come from underage alcohol Brazilian brewers’ association, the consumption. It also puts the accountability industry came together to celebrate Día on servers and sellers to check IDs reliably. de Responsa. More than 12 000 of our The campaign is organized by Cerveceros own Ambev colleagues visited 257 000 de México, the national Beer Chamber retail outlets across the country with the RUSSIA & UKRAINE made up of Mexican brewers representing goal to help prevent underage drinking the majority of the beers sold in the and drink driving. Through a variety of country. In its second year, more than communications efforts, over 21 million 30 000 industry employees took the consumers aged 18+ were reached with No Te Hagas Güey message to the streets, smart drinking messages. visited retail accounts in 32 states and inspired more than 200 000 ID-checking Argentina pledges from retailers. Our own Cervecería y Maltería Quilmes We’re excited about the work we’ve done MEXICO team came together with CCU Argentina in these six years to evolve our Global and Cervecería Argentina Isenbeck to Be(er) Responsible Day celebration into celebrate Global Beer Responsibility Global Beer Responsibility Day. And, Day for the first time ever as an industry. together with our industry peers, we are Under the umbrella of the national Beer dreaming bigger about the impact we Chamber, Cerveceros Argentinos, the can make in the years to come. activities included a variety of initiatives to communicate alcohol responsibility 40 41 A Snapshot of Our Awards & Recognitions Asia-Pacific ≥ China Association of Enterprises with Foreign Investment (CAEFI) selected China’s Reclaimed Water program as a CSR Best Practice. ≥ We were named a Top 100 Job Creating Companies’ by Ministry of Employment and Labor in South Korea. Europe ≥ Management Today’s Most Admired Companies named AB InBev the Top Beverage Company. Latin America North ≥ Valor 1000 named AB InBev 1st place in Food & Beverage sector. ≥ In IstoÉ Magazine’s “Most Sustainable Companies” issue, we received 4th place in the overall ranking and 3rd place in Environmental Stewardship. Latin America South ≥ CBN won the 1st place and Quilmes won the 5th place in Best Corporate Reputation Companies list by Merco (Corporate Reputation Business Monitor). Mexico ≥ Three of our breweries (Zacatecas, Tropico and Guadalajara) received Excelencia Ambiental awards for their environmental stewardship efforts. ≥ We ranked 7th on Forbes’ list of 45 top companies with an environmental commitment. North America ≥ AB InBev was named #2 Most Admired Beverage Company by Fortune. ≥ We were also named to Canada’s Top 100 Employers, Canada’s Top Employers for Young People and Canada’s Greenest Employers. 2015 Global Citizenship Report About this Report This report, in conjunction with content ensure accurate and consistent reporting and reporting methodologies. Specific on our corporate website, presents of smart drinking and environment goal data tables contain other footnotes about Anheuser-Busch InBev’s annual update performance data, and key performance environmental performance data. on key performance data and information indicators. We have noted which This report contains “forward-looking for calendar year 2015 and provides data environmental and social metrics have statements”, which generally include the on specific targets in our Better World been externally assured by KPMG in the words or phrases “will likely result”, “are Plan approved annually by our Board of Independent Assurance Report here, in key expected to”, “will continue”, “is anticipated”, Directors. This report is intended to provide locations throughout the report and in our “anticipate”, “estimate”, “project”, “may”, meaningful updates to stakeholders online GRI Index referenced above. “might”, “could”, “believe”, “expect”, “plan”, around the world, including investors, For information included in our consolidated “potential” or similar expressions. These employees, governments, NGOs, financial statements, AB InBev’s Statutory statements are subject to certain risks and and customers and consumers in the auditor is PricewaterhouseCoopers (see uncertainties. Actual results may differ 26 countries where we operate. pages 67–69 of the AB InBev 2015 Annual materially from those suggested by these This year, AB InBev’s global citizenship Report). statements due to, among others, the reporting is comprised of this self-contained impact of water availability, climate change, Our report structure parallels our PDF document and content on our corporate economic recession, negative publicity, our Better World focus areas—Smart Drinking, website. The PDF document primarily ability to hire and retain the best talent, Environment and Community—our summarizes our 2015 activities, initiatives government regulations, the reputation of three pillars of global citizenship. Our and achievements, while the website, our brands, the ability to make acquisitions achievements within these pillars would housed with the “Social Responsibility” or divest divisions, access to capital, not be possible without the commitment, section, provides further information volatility in the stock market, exposure to dedication and diligence of our people on our Better World strategy and ongoing litigation and other associated risks, as well around the world. activities, and offers in depth exploration as the risks described under Item 3.D of key data and metrics. Taken together, Information presented in our report of our Annual Report on Form 20-F filed the PDF and website content constitute our encompasses AB InBev’s company-wide with the U.S. Securities and Exchange citizenship reporting for 2015. wholly owned operations, including Commission on 14 March 2016. Additional 141 global breweries and soft drink information about AB InBev’s GHG and AB InBev prepared this reporting facilities represented in global goal water risks, management and performance (across the PDF report and the website) performance for water and energy use, is available through CDP. in accordance with the Global Reporting unless otherwise noted. Initiative’s (GRI) G4 “Core” level. To help Future SEC Filings and This Filing: determine the content for our reporting Some newer beverage facilities that were Important Information we worked with Business for Social acquired during the course of 2015 are In the event that AB InBev and SABMiller Responsibility (BSR) in 2014 to conduct not yet included in our Voyager Plant implement a transaction relating to a materiality assessment that helped Optimization management system, and the acquisition of SABMiller by AB InBev, identify the issues most important to therefore data may not currently being AB InBev or Newco (a Belgian limited our stakeholders and our company. For collected. These facilities will be included liability company to be formed for the a summary of the process taken and the in future reporting, which typically takes purposes of such transaction) may be resulting Boundary Analysis Table, see six months to a year after acquisition. required to file relevant materials with the here. To see where the impacts occur along Our per-hectoliter goals on GHG SEC. Such documents, however, are not our value chain, see the infographic on emissions, energy and water pertain currently available. INVESTORS ARE URGED pages six and seven of the PDF and here. to our beverage facilities only and do TO READ ANY DOCUMENTS REGARDING A more detailed look at our materiality not encompass our vertical operations SUCH POTENTIAL TRANSACTION IF process is available here, and a GRI Index such as malt plants and packaging AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE, for this year’s report can be found here. facilities. In order to allow for increased BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN The data and stories presented were accuracy, meaningful comparisons and IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors gathered and verified with the assistance determination of goal achievement, will be able to obtain a free copy of of content owners across all functions absolute and normalized GHG emissions such filings without charge, at the SEC’s and geographic Zones. The company has data from previous years has been website (http://www.sec.gov) once such established a Data Management Plan to adjusted using the latest emission factors documents are filed with the SEC. Copies 42 43 about this report continued Global Citizenship Reporting at AB InBev of such documents may also be obtained Learn more about our Global Citizenship Initiatives and Reporting efforts: from AB InBev, without charge, once they are filed with the SEC. ≥ Materiality Assessment & Report Notice to US investors ≥ GRI Index & UNGC Communications on Progress US holders of SABMiller shares should note that the steps of any transaction requiring ≥ Global Standards approval by SABMiller shareholders may be implemented under a UK scheme ≥ Environmental Management System of arrangement provided for under English company law. If so, it is expected that any ≥ Environmental Technical Advisory Committee shares to be issued under the transaction to SABMiller shareholders would be issued ≥ People Data in reliance upon the exemption from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933, provided by Section 3(a)(10) thereof and would be subject to UK disclosure requirements (which are different from those of the United States). The transaction may instead be implemented by way of a takeover offer under English law. If so, any securities to be issued under the transaction to SABMiller shareholders will be registered under the US Securities Act, absent an applicable exemption from registration. If the transaction is implemented by way of UK takeover offer, it will be done in compliance with the applicable rules under the US Exchange Act of 1934, including any applicable exemptions provided under Rule 14d–1(d) thereunder. This filing shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. For questions regarding the content of this report, please contact us at betterworld@ab-inbev.com. 2015 Global Citizenship Report Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the AB InBev 2015 Our engagement has been performed with What did we do to reach our conclusions? Global Citizenship Report a limited level of assurance. Procedures Our procedures included the following: performed in a limited assurance We were engaged by the Executive Board engagement are aimed at determining the • A risk analysis, including a media search, of Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (further to identify relevant sustainability issues for plausibility of information and therefore ‘AB InBev’) to provide assurance on selected AB InBev in the reporting period with vary in nature and timing from—and information in the AB InBev Global specific emphasis on responsible drinking, are less extensive than—a reasonable environmental, and safety related topics. Citizenship Report 2015 (further ‘The assurance engagement. Report’). The Executive Board is responsible • Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting for the preparation of The Report, including Which reporting criteria did AB InBev use criteria, including conversion factors used. the identification of material issues. Our and which assurance standard did we use? • Evaluating the design and implementation responsibility is to issue an assurance report of the systems and processes for the collection, For the information covered by our processing and control of the selected based on the engagement outlined below. engagement scope AB InBev applies internally information in the Report, including the What was included in the scope of our developed criteria as detailed in the ‘About consolidation of the data for The Report. assurance engagement? this Report’section (page 43). It is important • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate to view the assured information in the level responsible for providing the information Our assurance engagement was designed in The Report, carrying out internal control context of these criteria. We believe that to provide limited assurance on whether the procedures on the data and consolidating the these criteria are suitable in view of the data in The Report. data for the following aspects are presented, purpose of our assurance engagement. in all material respects, in accordance with • Visits to seven production sites in Argentina, the reporting criteria used by AB InBev: We conducted our engagement in Brazil, China, Germany, Mexico, the United accordance with the International Standard States of America (two sites) to review the • Reduce water risks and improve water source data and the design and implementation management in 100% of key barley-growing on Assurance Engagement (ISAE) 3000: of validation procedures at local level. regions, in partnership with local stakeholders “Assurance Engagement other than (page 10) • An analytical review of the selected environmenAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial tal and safety data submitted by all production • Engage in watershed protection measures Information”. sites for consolidation at corporate level . at 100% of facilities located in key areas in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Mexico, Peru We are independent of Anheuser-Busch • Evaluating internal and external documentation, and the United States, in partnership with InBev NV in accordance with the Regulation based on sampling, to determine whether the selected information in The Report is supported local stakeholders (page 10) regarding the independence of auditors by sufficient evidence. • Water Use Ratio and Total Water Use (page 21) in case of assurance engagements • Total Energy Consumption, Energy Consumption (“Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid Conclusion per Hectoliter of Product, Total Direct and van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten” Based on the procedures performed, as Indirect GHG Emissions and GHG Emissions per (ViO)) and other relevant independence Hectoliter of Product (page 17) described above, nothing has come to requirements in The Netherlands. our attention to indicate that the selected • Packaging material (page 10) Furthermore we have complied with information is not presented, in all • Eco-friendly cooler purchases (page 15) the Regulation code of conduct and material respects, in accordance with the professional practice for auditors • Lost-time Injuries (LTI) – Supply, second tier reporting criteria and sales Employees (own) for 2015 (page 29) (“Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants” (VGBA)). • Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) – Supply Amsterdam, Belgium, Employees (own) for 2015 (page 29) We apply the Further Regulations 27 April 2016 27 April 2016 • Days Lost due to injury Supply Employees for Audit Firms Regarding Assurance KPMG Sustainability, KPMG Bedrijfsrevisoren (own) for 2015 (page 29) Engagements (“Nadere voorschriften Part of KPMG Burg. CVBA, Advisory N.V. Represented by • Fatalities for 2015 (page 29) accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten”) and accordingly Wim Bartels, RA Mike Boonen, The above data reviewed as part of our Partner Partner maintain a comprehensive system of assurance engagement has been indicated quality control including documented throughout The Report with the symbol ‘ ’. policies and procedures regarding We do not provide any assurance on the compliance with ethical requirements, achievability of the objectives, targets and professional standards and applicable legal expectations of AB InBev. and regulatory requirements. 44 45 Thank you for reading our report—now we want to hear from you. Please take a moment to tell us what you think of this report by contacting us at betterworld@ab-inbev.com. We refer all readers of the AB InBev Global Citizenship Report to all of AB InBev’s public filings (including, but not limited to, its Annual Report, its annual report on Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Risk Factors included therein, its current reports filed on Form 6-K with the SEC and its press releases). Before making any investment or other decision relating to the Company based on this Global Citizenship Report, all such public filings should be considered in detail. ab-inbev.com
