A Y2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report «Kazkommertsbank» JSC TABLE OF CONTENTS Reference of the Management ................................................................................ 3 Observance of human rights .................................................................................... 4 Observance of labor law........................................................................................... 5 Environment protection ......................................................................................... 10 Corruption control.................................................................................................. 12 Charity .................................................................................................................... 13 Observance of human rights I am glad to present the Y2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of Kazkommertsbank to all the parties concerned. The detailed list of taken measures and results achieved in our social activities during the last reporting period is represented in this document. Along the entire 25‐year history of Kazkommertsbank, its shareholders, management and staff have been aware of their responsibilities to the country, they have tried to play an active role in the life of Kazakhstani community and constantly do their bests for improving its citizens’ lives. The entire philosophy of Kazkommertsbank’s business, its mission, values and principles are based on the social responsibility concept, and we consider the strategy for development of our company in this light exactly. Supporting efforts of the global community on observance of human rights, observance of labor law, environment protection and corruption control, Kazkommertsbank joined the Global Agreement on UNO Development Program in 2005 and since then it has strictly followed these principles in its everyday activities. Sharing ideas of all Global Agreement participants related to accountability and transparency in activities, Bank submits annual reports to its counteragents on the progress achieved in this area. A number of important social projects targeted at encouragement of entrepreneurship activity among disabled citizens, decreasing both infant and maternal mortality, providing children suffering from different diseases with emergency first aid have been implemented for many years at the initiative of “Kus Zholy” Charity Fund founded by KKB shareholders in 2004 and under the Bank’s financial support. It is a pleasure to know that all our efforts are not vain. Acting consciously and disinterestedly, we really help to improve the life of those, who cannot help themselves. The best award for us is the eyes of a starting disabled entrepreneur, who stopped being the burden for his/her family with our help and could ensure decent living standards for him/herself. Or happy eyes of young parents, who could fight their child’s heavy disease with our help. We help not only those who are not able to help themselves, but in a broader extent, we help our clients, employees, business partners, and the entire Kazakhstani community represented by them. I personally think that the intension to help others is an integral feature of a strong and developed personality. In any case, the biggest financial institution in the country cannot stay aside when so many people need our help. We will continue our active work in this important stream, and ask everyone, who is not indifferent to the fate of our community, to follow our example. Marc Holtzman, CEO Observvance of human rigghts S haring thee most impo internation ortant principples of the Global Kazkommeertsbank striictly observees, protects and supportts the huma n rights proclaimed on the e nal level by ensuring the right for lab G Agreeement on UN c bor through creation NO Development Prograam, of vvacancies. Bank is govverned by CCode of Cond duct and other internal regulatory documentts; princip ples legislated byb the Consstitution and d Labor Law w of Kazakhstan; Internationnal Labor Orrganization and a UNO convventions; oother international law principles taargeted at oobservance of o human rigghts in its daily activities a booth at staff re ecruitment anda work of em mployees. Baank does not support the human righ hts violating activities, annd refrain frrom collaboratio on with orrganizations,, where su uch violations were w revealed. Gendeer-based stru ucture of KK KB staff1 Any job seeker meeting m certa ain qualificat ion requirem ments of Bank to 6403 candiidates for an ny vacant po osition can bbe employed d to Bank. BankB has no internaal regulations and prractices, which someh how discriiminate its employees due d to thei r race, natio onality, gender, 2691 social status, religgion, languagge and otherr. Resppecting and supporting s gender equal ity principless, Bank provides женщины мужчины equal carrier opportunities an nd salaries b oth for men and women. Natioonality-baseed structuree of KKB staaff1 Over O e 70% of 9094 Bank employees 1 are казахи women, w who work on all position levvels, русские ncluding the Bank’s Management Board in уйгуры and the Boardd of Directorrs. татары кореййцы 7133 3 Representativves of 34 na ationalities and a украиинцы different religgions freely work in Baank. 1285 немцы The Bank’s sttaff is mostly composed d of узбекки белоррусы Kazakhs (778,44%) a and Russians азерббайджанцы (1 14,13%). In addition, Uighurs, U Tataars, Koreans, Ukrrainians, Gerrmans, Uzbeeks, 131 дунгане башки иры Belarusians, Azerbaijanis, Bashhkir, 124 In ngush, Kirghiiz and otherss work in Ban nk. 47 53 110 111 ингуш ши 1 As of 31.12.2015. Currently, C Bank is optimizing itts staff number. 535 FTEs were exclu uded from the Bank’s staff as of 15.04.2016. Observance of labor law A s one of the largest commercial employers in Kazakhstan, Kazkommertsbank is governed by Constitutional provisions and Labor Law of Kazakhstan, as well as International Labor Organization conventions and other international legislation principles targeted at observance of the right of employees. Bank supports high standards of international conventions and agreements, Constitution and Labor Law of Kazakhstan, including the right of employees for the collective protection. Rights of employees A Collective Labor Agreement was concluded between the Bank’s Management and its employees. In addition, Bank concludes an Individual Labor Agreement with each employee, where all rights and obligations of the parties, as well as work, vacation/rest, salary and other material conditions are described. Employees being recruited are entitled to amend the Labor Agreement clauses. In this context, they represent a competent party of social and economic legal relations. Parties to the Agreement discuss all Labor Agreement clauses, which is to be signed by parties thereafter. Bank does not start any commercial and partnership relations with the organizations, which violate the Constitution and Labor Laws of Kazakhstan in respect of using the involuntary and compulsory labor. No child and juvenile labor is permitted in Bank. When concluding labor agreements with the salaried employees, Bank establishes a minimal age limit – 18 years. Bank does not start any commercial and partnership relations with the organizations, which violate the Constitution and Labor Laws of Kazakhstan in respect of using the child and juvenile labor. Bank does not practice any kind of discrimination. According to internal regulations on labor relations, all candidates for any of the Bank’s vacant position are provided with equal selection opportunities. This principle is equally applied both to external candidates and Bank employees. When recruited to Bank each employee is obligatorily interviewed. The Bank’s labor protection activities are carried out in compliance with requirements of labor laws of Kazakhstan, industrial and inter‐industrial labor protection rules, as well as the Bank’s internal regulatory documents. Before starting the actual work in Bank, each new employee shall have mandatory inductions on safety and restricted document management. Bank shall provide its employees with the health protection, by using different ways, for example, through creation of labor conditions for its employees, which are compliant with the effective legislation of Kazakhstan, as well as a voluntary franchise health insurance for Bank employees. Each Bank employee shall have the right for: Observance of labor law − regular delay‐free salary. Employees are paid on a monthly basis the latest on the 5th day of each completed month of service.; − convenient way of receiving salary – using the payment card, where employee can encash his/her salary in the vast network of ATMs and POS‐terminals of both Kazkommertsbank and other banks as well, whereupon Kazkom cancelled the encashment fee for Bank employees within the network of its ATMs; − additional payment for working overtime and on weekends and holidays, which is accrued by Bank according to labor laws of Kazakhstan, or if desired by the employee he/she will be given a compensatory leave; − additional medical services according to different voluntary health insurance programs, which provide with the list of medical institutions and services to choose from; − bank‐sponsored professional development and trainings. A special training center has been created in Bank for these purposes. This training center is aimed at professional development of Bank employees through arrangement of specialized trainings and seminars; − annual leave (24 calendar days) with opportunity of choosing the time of leave (depending on the position and work experience the annual leave may last 26 calendar days), as well as the paid maternity leave and child‐care leave with the guaranteed working place upon returning from leave and uninterrupted length of service during the entire leave in a full compliance with requirements of labor laws of Kazakhstan; − social package and other benefits. Social package Bank provides its employees with the social package, including provision of: − additional days to the annual leave (exceeding the number of days established by labor laws); − additional pay leaves in case of marriage, death of a close relative; − payment of health allowances to the annual leave; − benefits on voluntary health insurance; − material aid for marriage, birth of child, jubilee, death of close relatives, in certain cases – for payment of medical services not covered by the insurance; − parking area for the personal vehicle; − annual bonus and other material incentives depending on individual KPIs achieved by the employee; − bonuses paid from the Supervisor Fund; − supplements to the employee’s salary for the experience of working in Bank. Employee incentive program Bank has developed and regularly improves different employee incentive programs. Front‐office employees, whose efficiency directly influences the Bank’s profitability, participate in a special incentive program. This program determines the conditions and order of paying bonuses to employees for attraction of clients and sale of Bank products. In addition, practically all Bank employees, except the Management, participate in the Best Bank Employee contest, where valuable prizes are envisaged. The Observance of labor law cellular calls and petrol is compensated to Unit directors. The main purpose of the project ‐ stimulating Bank employees for a high‐quality fulfillment of their obligations and motivating those, who make their bests for improving the Bank’s results. The bank employees’ Y2015 salary increased the average salary paid in other banks of Kazakhstan. The salary of Bank employees will be increased during Y2016 due to implementation of the balanced KPIs of employees. When terminating individual labor agreements, all settlements with Bank employees shall be performed in the order and within the timelines established by labor laws of Kazakhstan. Training of employees Bank pays a great attention to the staff training. It arranges specialized trainings, seminars and other educational activities aimed at professional development of employees, extension of their professional knowledge and skills, strengthening of a team spirit and development of the corporate culture in Bank. The training with attraction of external and internal trainers was arranged in Bank in Y2015 for the following Bank structural units: Unit Training/Seminar Dates Place 04.12.2015 – Board Administration Finances for non‐financiers 05.12.2015 Astana Financing 2.0 – financial SME Development 10.06.2015 – products based on movable 11.06.2015 Almaty Department assets Financial Institutes Participation in the annual 12.05.2015 – Tbilisi, Georgia Department business‐forum of EBRD 16.05.2015 Typology of clients and drilling skills on dealing with objections 28.09.2015 – Department on provision of clients by taking into account 23.10.2015 Almaty of services to VIP‐clients the personality» 04.11.2015 – Private Banking 06.11.2015 03.05.2015 – Accounting Department Accountant Development 16.06.2015 Almaty Observance of labor law Program Chief Operations Accountant Development 03.05.2015 – Almaty Department Program 16.06.2015 International seminar on 14.09.2015 – compliance issues Luxemburg 24.09.2015 AML/KYC AML/KYC by taking into account 19.10.2015 – the Kazakhstani experience Almaty 10.12.2015 09.11.2015 – 13.11.2015 10.12.2015 – Work with WAY 4, 11.12.2015 Saint‐Petersburg, Bank Cards Department customization of products 14.12.2015 – Russia 18.12.2015 21.12.2015 – 22.12.2015 13.05.2015 – 15.05.2015 Oracle Database 11g: SQL Almaty Tuning Workshop 22.06.2015 – 24.06.2015 Raising of the corporate spirit and team consolidation 04.07.2015‐05.07.2015 Almaty Innovational Technologies 16.10.2015 – Department 22.10.2015 Project management based on 20.11.2015 – ANSI PMI PMBOK Guide 2013. 26.11.2015 Almaty Part 2 16.11.2015 – 26.11.2015 16.11.2015 – Speaker instruments 29.03.2016 Almaty Modern staff incentive and salary technologies in 19.02.2015 – accordance with KPI and grading Almaty 20.02.2015 HR Department system 24.10.2015 – Effective work in Excel 25.10.2015 Almaty 04.12.2015 – HR‐analyst 05.12.2015 Almaty Seminar on collection of retail 19.02.2015 – loans Almaty 20.02.2015 Branch network Micro‐seminar for SME departments 18.03.2015 – managers. Almaty 20.03.2015 Effective methods of collecting 02.04.2015 – Almaty debt both from individuals and 03.04.2015 Observance of labor law legal entities – practical examples in complex issues Seminar for deputy directors of branches responsible for SME 28.05.2015 – unit Almaty 29.05.2015 Seminar for heads of SME divisions/units of the branch 15.10.2015 – Almaty 16.10.2015 network Environment protection B ank performs its commercial and administrative activities without damaging environment. Bank is extremely responsible for treating environmental issues, and it does its bests for securing natural resources and improving the environmental situation in Kazakhstan. Bank takes all necessary measures envisaged by the environment protection legislation. Bank does not produce any dangerous waste and has officially registered the limits for placing of waste and permissions for atmospheric pollutant emission. For lighting both internal premises and faces, Bank uses low energy luminescent and LED light bulbs. Upon expiration of these light bulbs’ service period, the Bank collects and transfers them to specialized organizations for their further safe reprocessing (demercuration and etc.). Bank takes measures for decreasing the noise and vibration produced by diesel‐generators, which are used for the backup power supply. Premises with diesel‐generators are equipped with the soundproof materials, aggregates themselves have vibro‐ and noise absorbing parts. Bank makes maximum efforts for protecting environment and arranges daily waste removal in the adjacent territory, and also observes all technical requirements to the Bank’s vehicle fleet by conducting regular technical examination of vehicles and checking the content of harmful substances in their exhaustion systems. Bank follows main standards of safe construction and re‐construction of own buildings and erections and guarantees that construction and erection works performed by Bank and contractors being involved do not damage the environment. City inhabitants, where the Bank buildings and erections are being constructed or re‐constructed, may feel free to get familiarized with all necessary documentation, which confirms the ecological safety and cleanness of works being performed. A concept of the Bank’s social responsibility enables each employee to participate in the Bank’s charity programs. It constantly carries out the propaganda among the employees for caring about the environment and encourages arrangement of Community Cleanup Days and other public activities. One of the Bank’s last initiatives as per protection of the environment became the “Plant a tree” ecological campaign in April, Y2016. Within the framework of this campaign, the Bank employees collected a paperstock and made charity contributions to the special account. So, they managed to collect KZT 758 400, which were used for purchasing of 70 deciduous nursery transplants and 20 – coniferous species. These trees were planted within the framework of creation of the green alley near Head Bank. About 200 Head Bank employees and their family members took part in this campaign. Species of trees were selected in accordance with Almaty region’s climate and professional recommendations. This noble initiative was seriously encouraged by the Bank’s staff – from minor executives up to the top‐management representatives. Participation in Community Cleanup Days and other public activities is one of the planned steps within the framework of implementation of the Bank’s new strategic goals, thus such campaign related to planting of trees will become an annual tradition. Environment protection Work specifics, and also the legislative norms of Kazakhstan do not allow the Bank to act as an initiator of projects based on ecologically safe technologies. However, the Bank does not finance the projects, which are based on environment ruining technologies. Following the social responsibility principles of the business related to environment protection, Bank is planning to continue supporting development and extension of ecological activities in future as well. Environment protection T o control corruption Bank shall be governed with laws of Kazakhstan “On corruption control”, Criminal Code of Kazakhstan, as well as internal regulatory documents of Bank – Corporate Management Code and Code of Conduct, which have the provisions encouraging the Bank employees for controlling any type of corruption. Bank actively controls all types of corruption by using all available methods. When any fraud (loan‐ related) is revealed, the Bank’s Security Service shall carry out an official check, where, in addition to identification of violators, the conditions and reasons for such violations, as well as involvement of Bank employees to fraud shall be revealed. For controlling all types of corruption and establishing feedbacks with clients and employees, a special Call Center (hotline) was implemented in Bank. This Service is created for making maximum operative solutions in respect of all issues arising with clients and employees. Anyone may apply to Bank with his/her issue and be sure that the Bank will not leave his/her issue unattended. The same opportunity has been implemented in the Bank’s web‐siteFor controlling all types of corruption and establishing feedbacks with clients and employees, a special Call Center (hotline) was implemented in Bank. This Service is created for making maximum operative solutions in respect of all issues Taxes, duties, social and other obligatory state budget arising with clients and employees. Anyone payments made by Bank in Y2015 (vs. Y2014) may apply to Bank with his/her issue and be sure that the Bank will not leave his/her issue in KZT ths. Expenditures 2 014 2 015 unattended. The same opportunity has been VAT of resident 1 591 694 1 716 270 implemented in the Bank’s web‐site. VAT for non‐resident 184 413 165 141 Withholding tax of resident 4 079 846 4 909 300 Bank regularly arranges an explanatory work Withholding tax of non‐ 1 582 628 1 291 737 with the front‐office employees, who are resident responsible for the work with clients, in order Individual Income Tax 1 240 259 1 831 197 to avoid violations and malfunctions when Pension contributions 1 195 929 1 342 860 providing services to clients, as well as Social tax 641 923 965 665 preventing any damages to Bank. During such Social payments 393 509 506 917 explanatory work, employees are Transportation 8 358 8 379 communicated on the necessity of developing Property 575 033 667 801 Land tax 168 319 70 080 a professional approach to work with clients, Auction fee – 29 and their omissions are unveiled. Environment Protection 1 798 1 641 Fund Bank directly follows all requirements of state Advertising 73 794 94 340 bodies and immediately eliminates all Private economy 2 346 2 666 development violations revealed in its activities. Bank pays Land rental 1 081 1 356 all taxes and makes all obligatory state budget Duties and other fees 1 543 2 546 payments. Bank discourages using of “shady” Corporate Income Tax 13 385 372 0 schemes and illegal optimization of taxes. Bank TOTAL 25 127 845 13 577 925 makes all payments to employees officially via accounting, no “envelope” payments. Charityy A for su long its entire histo commun nity, assisted ory Kazkom mertsbank took d in develop ment of Kazzakhstani culture, and al so helped disabled peop Bank finances both social s upporting ch harity projects related too motivation t the most active ppart in life of Kazakhsttani and cuultural projeccts on an ann nual basis, annd also donaates large funds n of disabled entreprene urs, ensuring maternal and ple. a child health, prevvention and treatment t off serious child diseases, social s initiativves. “Kus Zholy” corporate fund founded f by KKB top managers in May of 2014 iis the main operator o of the Bank’’s charity prrojects. The fund practiices active exploitation e of Bank prooducts and technologies t s in charitty. This matterially saves the time of people, who w is inten nding to maake charity donations, and a enables them to use funds as intended . More and more clientts and KKB eemployees are a involved d to charitty projects thank to Bankk technologi es. Kus Zholy projjects Todayy Kus Zholy is concentrated in threee main areaas: guaranteeing healthyy youth for children, social adapttation of disabled people e and suppoort of public initiatives. i und generatees own and supports public Fu charitty projects by b involving non‐governm n ment organizzations and KKB es based on the K clients t o its activitie equal social partnnership princciples. Guarrdian‐Angell Children, who need an emerggency aid in the first hou urs of their lives, are born evvery day in Kazakhstan. SSuch children n need the Guard dian‐Angel. Anyone can n become suuch a Guard dian‐Angel. To doo so, one neeeds to applyy for a Visa ppayment card d designed with children paintings, which h is participaating in the “Guardian‐ “ Angel” charity pro oject and heelps to decreaase both maaternal and infant mortality inn Kazakhstann. o pays for goods and services at the trade and EEach time one a sservice enteerprises, inccluding interrnet‐paymen nts, by ussing tthese cards, 0,15% off the transsaction amo ounts shall be ttransferred to account of the “Guuardian‐Angel” project for ffurther purchase of the required in tensive care e equipmentt to tthe neediesst hospitals in towns, villages an nd districts in ddifferent regions of Kazakhstan. Bank clients havee opened 15 000 cards (aabout 8 000 of o them are in circulationn now) for th he several yeears mplementing the “Guardian‐Angel” pproject. Than of im nk to this KK KB and “Kus Zholy” fund d equipped five f medical institutioons of the coountry with the intensive care, treattment and ooperating equipment to the amou unt of KZT 1442,6 mln., wh hich was thee equivalent of USD 1,04 mln. Fromm 2011 through 2014 the infant morttality decreased by 46% in Balkhash central hosp pital, where the intensive care eq quipment wa as installed; aand in Urdzh har district hospital of thhe East Kazakhstan regio on – by 355% since Y2 2012. In 201 13 the vital equipment was installe ed in both m maternity department and a surgeery of Merkee district hosppital in Zhammbyl region. AtA present th he mortality has decreassed by 26,8% %. Charity During the last two years the efforts of “Kus Zholy” fund upon participation of Almaty Eye Diseases Research Institute were directed to solving prematurity retinopathy problems (eye vessel failure to thrive, which may result to complete loss of the eyesight). The number of surviving children with a very (up to 1500 grams) and extreme (up to 1000 grams) low body weight has increased in line with implementation of the international live birth criteria in Kazakhstan. Invalidity frequency among premature newborns is 22 times higher compared to the ones delivered at term. The most popular pathology of premature infants is the retinopathy. It may cause the bilateral blindness. An emergency surgery and the relevant equipment, namely, the special ophthalmological laser can prevent this disease. The fund purchased ophthalmological lasers for 7 perinatal centers of Kazakhstan in Astana, Almaty, Ust‐Kamenogorsk, Shymkent, Atyrau, Pavlodar and Karaganda to the total amount of KZT 59 660 000. Over 220 neonate eyesight recovery operations have been performed for two years. ‐ Thank to the laser received via “Kus Zholy” charity fund upon KKB’s support it became possible to operate children on site in the hospital, ‐ Anastasia Dudko, the children’s oculist of Pavlodar regional perinatal center No1 says – We received an ophthalmological endophotocongelating laser. We have been operating tots since October of Y2015. All operations were successful and the disease regressed. We would like to cordially thank “Kus Zholy” charity fund and KKB for such an expensive gift – now we have an opportunity to help children, improve their lives and make Kazakhstani families happy. Look at stars A “Look at stars” competition‐based charity project is targeted at disabled people and supporting the people’s strive to overcome the social disparity with the help of entrepreneurship by issuing grants for the targeted development of own business ideas. In 2015 within the framework of the project the fund supported 71 disabled entrepreneurs. Total grants amounted KZT 15 mln. Project coverage: 14 regions, Astana and Almaty. 192 applications were submitted for the competition. Selection criteria are: a grammatically correct business plan, social value and public benefit from the business and creation of new positions. The “Look at stars” project has been implemented in partnership with the state structure “Damu” Entrepreneurship Development Fund” JSC since Y2012. By having an extended branch network along the entire country, the “Damu” fund arranges free trainings on business skills, accounting and leadership for all competition nominees. Media sponsors – local mass media entity. Each mass media entity in its region informs the public on the project progress and describes previous successes of project winners. Here are only three of them. Charity Kenzhetai Zhumagaliyeva – a woman, who became invalid due to certain life circumstances, but she has her business and she loves it. According to Kenzhetai, there is a big competition among grocery stores now, and in addition to the equipment, your store should look appropriately for making people to return exactly to your store. She says that the store is her life, where she can work and communicate with other people. Only the store makes her feel to be in demand. Of course she had to go through many difficulties, nothing is easy and simple, but now her business is prospering and finally gives its fruits. Bauyrzhan Abdullayev teaches playing the wind instruments, and also develops the pop genre. The population in small towns is always lack of the specialized additional education. Most parents had either to refuse from creative development of their children or spend big money for private tuitions. Bauyrzhan arranged repeated charity concerts in the Blind Association. Preschool childhood is a unique period in the life of human‐being, thus adults should create necessary conditions for discovering every child’s potential. A child should not necessarily become a singer, but the acquired knowledge can be useful to the child almost in every area. Yerlan Smadiyarov – a young man, who dreamt to turn his wishes to reality, and finally implement his hand‐made blanket (korpe) production plans. It is too long and non‐ beneficial to make such blankets manually, thus Yerlan dreamt of special equipment. He was born completely deaf, but it does not prevent him from working with hands. Famous Kazakh hand‐made blankets (korpe), which were made by Kazakh remote ancestors, are ultimate in each Kazakh house so far. The sheep wool is used for making korpe and the camel wool is used for filling in the inside of korpe. The wool is cleaned, washed, dried and combed before being used. When Yerlan noticed that his mother makes very good korpe, he asked her to teach him so that he could help his mother. There are enough orders now, and the hobby started bringing in a stable income. Grant children with the gift of life Since Y2007 KKB has been a partner of the “Grant children with the gift of life” charity campaign, which was arranged by “Mercifulness” voluntary society headed by Aruzhan Sain, public character. Charity This campaign is aimed at collection of funds for providing children, who suffer from different diseases which still cannot be treated in Kazakhstan, with the emergency first aid. Please go to www.detdom.kz to see the list of child disease records. Every such record is a call for help, appeal for mercifulness and sympathy. KKB organized collection of funds through online banking in Homebank financial portal. As a result of Y2015, the portal users (bank clients and employees) transferred about KZT 28 mln. online. It is less compared to the previous year. Such decrease was caused by an economic downfall in the country and two KZT devaluations. However, every third Homebank user donated more than twice a year. These most active citizens exactly accumulate most charity collections ‐ around 80% of total amount. In addition, Bank has a special account of the “Mercifulness” voluntary society, which is free from all bank fees. The Bank and fund guarantee the target use of the collected charity donations in this campaign. 1 086 children lives have already been saved thank to this campaign. Victory Day Annually the “Kus Zholy” fund volunteers – KKB employees – visit veterans – participants of the Great Patriotic War, labor theater and minor prisoners of concentration camps, who cannot visit bank offices and public events due to their weak health condition. Veterans receive food and medication, as well as warm greetings and care. The “Kus Zholy” fund together with volunteers greeted over 1000 veterans with the Victory Day in Y2015. Donations to veterans totaled KZT 5,6 mln. Bank employees share their impressions from meeting the World War II veterans: Sergey Tsybikov, IT Department: ‐ Our the Great Patriotic War veteran under the patronage – Anisim Zhikharev – will be 100 years old this year! On behalf of the “Komandarm” International public fund representative he was awarded with the service medal of “The Victory Commanders in the “Red Star” format” series. Anisim Zhikharev personally knew Georgiy Zhukov, Marshall – he served in his regiment. It is so amazing what a great memory this person has, how kind and friendly he is. Marina Vinichenko, Marketing Department: «This is already the third year that we have visited and greeted Lyudmila Pluzhnikova with different holidays as if we congratulate our relatives – Marina Vinichenko says. – We have become big friends with Charity Lyudmila Pluzhnikova and Larissa (her daughter ‐ pensioner) – we call them often and forward them our New Year and Women’s Day, and of course Victory Day greetings». Lyudmila Pluzhnikova worked at a hospital during the war – she had no medical education, but she helped to take care of wounded soldiers answering the call of her heart. In additions, we would like to mention that when she was a young beautiful woman she met her boyfriend while she was working at the hospital. Her boyfriend lost both legs during military actions. Lyudmila Pluzhnikova took care of him, married him, they gave birth to two children and had lived the joint happy life. Galiya Zhumasheva, Director of Kostanai branch of Kazkommertsbank: ‐ We have been patronizing two World War II veterans (Kassymkhan Aldabergenov and Khazhi Mamanov) for several years. ‐ Veterans spoke about the years they spent in the battle fields in the meeting. Khazhi Mamanov – an honored citizen of Kostanai, he fought in the 2nd Belorussian front line of the 65th army of the 69th rifle division. He took part in the number of Poland liberation battles. Khazhi Mamanov, the submachine gunner met Victory on the shore of the Baltic Sea. Kassymkhan Aldabergenov left for the battle field when he was seventeen. He was recruited to assault forces as soon as he graduated from the specialized school, where he mastered the anti‐tank rifle. «We used to run a 15‐20 km cross‐country running for 1,5–2 hours or had combat drills for the distance of 40 km. We spent winter nights in the forest, slept on the snow, warmed ourselves at the fire. The flush of victories has been mixed with the pain of losses. The Victory – is like a patchwork quilt was composed of small joys, which uplifted the fighting spirit», – Kassymkhan Aldabergenov said. In his 90s he writes verses and articles, where he tries to introduce the peace, mutual understanding and kindness ideals to the young generation. Kassymkhan Aldabergenov published the book of verses and memoirs. According to Kassymkhan Aldabergenov, the honored veteran, the young people must learn that nothing is as important as the peace on Earth. The State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai The opera and ballet art school in Kazakhstan has a proud history. The Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai was built during World War II. Galina Ulanova, the great ballet dancer, who was evacuated from Moscow with other opera and ballet actors, used to dance on its stage. The national opera and ballet school basis was laid that time. As one of the leading financial institutions in Kazakhstan, Kazkommertsbank takes the partnership in the State Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai as a great honor. The Bank has sponsored some new performances (“Lucia di Charity Lammermoor” and “The Love Potion” operas by Gaetano Donizetti, “Abai” opera by A. Zhubanov, “The Sleeping Beauty” ballet by Pavel Tchaikovski) starting from Y2008. Also, KKB sponsored four opera and ballet art festivals in Almaty and the theater’s tour to Russia. In 2015 Bank sponsored production of the new reading of “Carmen” opera by Zh. Bizet. For the first time at the Kazakhstan stage the classical plot of the opera was forwarded to the 21st century. Lyailim Imangazina, Director forwarded the new “Carmen” act to “present days”. Besides the modern scenery she also used the modern stage props, costumes and decorations. Alan Buribayev was the bandleader‐director. Joel Montero, the Mexican tenor performed as Don Jose, the title men’s role on the premiere. Vyacheslav Okunev, the famous Russian artist was invited for working over the new reading. Bank initiated a promo‐campaign within one month prior to the premiere for increasing attractiveness of the classical art and attracting young audience to the theater. Bank sponsored development of the new performance’s visual characters, which were published both in the external advertising and internet. Under the Bank’s sponsorship, a “virus” promotional commercial was made on the premiere’s eve with participation of principal performers and ensemble of the State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai, and Almaty bikers as well. Shortly before the premiere of the “Carmen” opera’s new production the actors and musicians of the State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai appeared in front of the theater building together with Almaty bikers. According to the plot of the video commercial, Carmen performed by Oksana Davydenko fell in love with the biker performed by Vyacheslav Khloptsev (stunt performer), but not a toreador as in the original plot. Carmen was accompanied by both orchestra and choir of the State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abai, while bike stunts performed different tricks and stuntriding elements around Charity her. A Y2015 Report on exploitation of “Kus Zholy” Charity Fund” Public Fund, the KKB’s corporate fund’s property KZT Opening balance 13 427 770 № Cash inflow, including: 109 402 282 1 Inflows into the fund from Kazkommertsbank JSC 58 690 471 2 Inflows into the fund from entities, individuals on shares 7 584 391 3 Inflows into the fund from transactions on VISA Guardian-Angel card 3 748 405 4 Inflows into the fund from collection of funds via Homebank.kz financial portal on the “Guardian-Angel” 39 379 015 and “Grant children with the gift of life” projects Costs № Project Charity Aid recipients Amount Supporting decrease of the infant mortality in Kazakhstan, including 28 388 730 1 «Guardian-Angel» State Municipal Organization «Regional Perinatal Center» Public Health Department of Karagandy Region, State Municipal Organization with the right of economic management «Atyrau Regional Maternity Hospital» Public Health Department of Atryau Region, State Municipal Management Organization «Regional 27 300 000 Children’s Hospital» Public Health Department of the South Kazakhstan Region’s akimat, State Municipal Organization with the right of economic management «Pavlodar Regional Perinatal Center №1». 2 Payment of the “Guardian-Angel” 1 088 730 project’s advertising expenses Collection of funds for surgery 27 800 000 1 Grant children with the gift of life Public Fund “Mercifulness” Voluntary community 27 800 000 Sponsorship for disabled entrepreneurs 15 003 166 1 «Look at stars» Grudzinskaya Ye.V., Blagushin А.I., Public Association «Psychoanalytical Association» project «Training-cafe», Nosulich М.N., Momynova Т.Sh., Djaksybayev Zh.Т., Rempel V.V., Musabekov А.А., Djeksembiyev U.Zh.,Zhumagaliyeva К.N., Bekenov Zh.А., Magomedov R.А., Saukenov А.Т., Ganeyeva L.N., Kabdullin S.Т., Kamerdinov О.N., Batei S.А., Yesirkepova B.А., Abdullayev B.Zh.,Kolybayeva Zh.S., Tantakov Т.I., Roody Ye.V., Belousov N.G., Valiyev D.А., Sabiyeva К.М., Mulikov К.К., Khusainov B.М.,Musina Z.М., Rakhimbayeva D.Т., Moldasheva N.N., Smadiyarov Ye.Zh., Bryleva Т.V., Nurpazilova Z.К., Vorobyev P.V., Karymsakova М., Shtepin I.V., Tursunov S.S., 15 003 166 Pletnev V.V., Maruk S.V.,Suleimenov М.А.,Akhmetova А.К., Mukhanbetov А.А., Mukhanbetova М.К., Kuzekeshev М.G., Ishengaziyev К.R., Kurmashev К.S., Nayetova G.Sh., Uspanova B.I., Zhalmaganbetova К.I., Karzhauov А.К., Suleimenov N.К., Zhakupova G.О.,Mukhash Kh., Bakytkan Т.,Andosov G.S., Bagiyanov О.B., Aldashov Ye.I., Nurmagambet О.Т.,Abdullayev Ye.А., Sapko S.G., Borovko V.V., Khusainov B.S., Yesmanova А.К.,Kashafutdinov Т.R., Berdigulov А.B.,Khudaibergenova Kh.Т., Tleuov К.К., Togzhanov А.,Djumagaziyev R.U., Ikhmetov М.Zh., Nurmanov А.B. Sponsorship for the Great Patriotic War veterans 6 430 280 1 «Victory Day» Victory Day bonuses to KKB depositors – the Great Patriotic War veterans, labor line participants, juvenile prisoners of concentration camps, participants of the “Thank you for the right to 6 430 280 th live in peace” campaign devoted to the 60 anniversary of the Great Victory. Supporting social initiatives, including 8 695 430 1 Sponsorship for the modern art Republican State Institution «The National Picture Gallery 4 838 050 «Astana» Ministry of Culture and Sport of Kazakhstan 2 Sponsorship for saving the pieces of Repair and restoration works in the literature and memorial house 920 000 architecture and history of Kazakhstan museum of Mukhtar Auezov 3 Sponsoring creativity of young talents Trip of the «Mezzo» vocal group’s team to Great Britain for participating in a charity concert. Sadykov Zh.К., Nurbergenov 675 560 А.М., Seidakhmetov Zh.К., Zhanturganov М.К., Mukhtarov А.К. Charity 4 Greeting disabled children from social The State Municipal Organization «Children’s Pychoneurological institutions with the New Year specialized school» Employment and Social Programs Coordination Department of Kyzylorda Region, The State Municipal Organization «Kostanai Children’s Pychoneurological residential care home» Employment and Social Programs Coordination Department of Kostanai Region’s akimat, The State 945 340 Public Health Department «Regional specialized infant orphanage in Shelek» Almaty Region, The State Municipal Organization «Residential care home for mentally retarded children » Employment and Social Programs Coordination Department of Zhambyl Region’s akimat. 5 Sponsorship for disadvantaged Trip of children living in villages to “Zhezkazganets” sanatoriumsegment camp, Borovoye: Yertayev S.N., Musayeva М.М., Omirgazy N.B., 330 469 Bekmukhamet Т. Public Association «Kazakh Blind Association» North Kazakhstan Region 6 Helping to liquidate results of the Cleaning of Karibai akyn Street and outdoors of those who mudslide in Nauryzbai District of suffered from the mudslide 288 000 Almaty 7 Other social initiatives 698 011 Payment of the surgery and rehabilitation treatment 5 244 743 1 Payment of urgent surgeries and Bainiyetov Ye., Amrina S. 5 244 743 rehabilitation treatment Sponsorship for the volunteer movement 129 740 1 Other volunteer initiatives Volunteers of the Public Fund «Charity Fund «Kus Zholy» 129 740 Total charity costs 91 692 089 Administrative costs 6 316 760 Closing balance of cash funds 31 137 963 Charity To be continued As the participant of UN Global Agreement on the corporate social liability of business, Kazkommertsbank takes into account 17 new stable development goals, which were announced in September of Y2015 in New York. These goals are developed for making the World more happy, prosperous and integral. We are going to actively develop innovations in order to simplify and make it easier for Kazakhstani people to use banking and financial services, save their clients’ time and economize rare resources. We wish our Bank was viewed not only as the financial institution, but also as an advisor and caring corporate citizen. Common human values and moral principles are unique for all religions and cultures, and are fair for any historical era. Having been actively engaged in charity for 25 years already, we truly believe that the benefits from this activity are not limited only to those who were provided with the help. We are sure that jointly we return people their belief to the fairness and give them a hope for the happy future. One would hardly find the more honored activity in the World. This important activity will be obligatorily continued.
