CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT How we create value for people, business and environment 2015 CONTENTS 2015 IN BRIEF 54 % THIS IS SEB This is SEB Cover We reduced our total carbon CEO statement2–3 emissions with 54 per cent Value creation4–5 from 2008 to 2015. Page 24 APPROACH AND AMBITION Global outlook, challenges and opportunities  6–7 Our approach 8 We were involved in 70 entrepreneurial Our ambition 9 80 per cent activities and met 10,000 people. Page 31 Objectives and performance 10–11 of our employees RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible selling and advising12–15 highly Over 500 green bonds have been Tackling financial crime16 recommend SEB as a issued at a value of nearly USD 100 billion Responsible investments17–19 workplace. Page 26 of the approximately 100 issuers. Page 22 Sustainable finance20–23 ENVIRONMENT Reducing our footprint24–25 We decided to phase out coal. Page 20 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Valuing our people 26–28 Access to financial services  29 In the Baltics, We reached 15 Investing in communities 30–31 over 200 REPORTING Engaging with stakeholders  32 employees educated million people Our material issues  33 Human rights  Our approach to tax  34 35 5,500 youths About this report  35 about private Auditor’s report  36 finances. globally through our micro Awards and indices, contacts  Inside back cover Page 29 finance funds. Page 18 SEB SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING ANNUAL REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CS FACT BOOK, GRI-INDEX G4 CORPORATE WEBSITE A comprehensive guide to SEB’s SEB’s ninth sustainability report The Fact Book contains key data Full description of SEB’s sustainbusiness performance in 2015, describes performance in 2015 from SEB’s areas Responsible ability work. Visit to download strategy and vision going and future ambitions to create Business, People and Community reports, policies and other ­forward, risk management and value for people, business and and Environment, as well as ­documents. www.sebgroup.com/ corporate governance. the environment. Global Reporting Initiative Index. sustainability THIS IS SEB WHO WE ARE We are strongly committed to deliver customer value. We build on our heritage of entrepreneurship, international outlook and long-term perspective. Our purpose Our vision We believe that entrepreneurial To deliver world-class minds and innovative companies service to our are key to creating a better world. customers. We are here to enable them to achieve their aspirations and succeed through good times and bad. Our strategic Our strategic ambition priorities True customer centricity • Leading customer in a digitised world. experience • Maintaining resilience and flexibility • Growing in areas of strength SEB’s financial targets ≈160 OUTCOME 2015 OUTCOME 2014 Dividend payout ratio of >40 per cent of earnings per share 66 %1) 63 % Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 150 bps > requirement 18.8 %2) 16.3 % years in the service of enterprise Return on equity competitive with peers 12.9 % 3) 13.1 % 1) SEK 5.25 per share (4.75). Outcome excludes one-off item(s). Outcome incl. one-off item(s) is 69 % (54). 2) Regulatory requirement as of the fourth quarter of 2015: 16 %. 3) Outcome excludes one-off item(s). Outcome incl. one-off item(s) is 12.2 % (15.3). THIS IS SEB WHAT WE DO SEB plays an active part in the development of the societies in which it is operating. In Sweden and the Baltic countries we offer financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany, our operations have a strong focus on a full-service offering to corporate and institutional clients. SEB meets stakeholders needs... ....generating value... 30,896 23,614 18,788 Customers FINANCIAL STRATEGY RESILIENCE DISTRIBUTED VALUE SEK 59bn 11,515 Shareholders 10,382 CUSTOMER SERVICE • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 8,719 • Interest paid to customers 11,330 11,891 • Dividends paid to 11,189 270,000 shareholders Employees • Salaries, pensions and benefits to 15,500 employees 9,350 9,180 10,286 IT RISK CULTURE • Payments to 13,000 business partners and suppliers 7,847 8,031 7,152 Society at large • Taxes and fees ...via our services... ...and different channels IN AREAS LIKE: 252 branch offices in 158 • Commercial banking • Life insurance million visits • Investment banking • Payments Sweden and the online • Advisory services • Financing Baltic countries • Long-term savings 20 international 165 sites million mobile bank interactions 24/7 200 client executives telephone bank for large corporates services and institutions THIS IS SEB WHOM WE SERVE Customers always come first. Our deeply committed 15,500 employees work together as a team to serve our customers. LARGE 2,300 CORPORATIONS SEB’s corporate customers in the Nordic region are among the largest in their respective industries. In Germany they range from large large corporations mid-­corporates to large multinationals. FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS The institutional clients operate both in the Nordic countries and internationally. 700 financial institutions CORPORATE CUSTOMERS In all, SEB serves approximately 400,000 small and medium-sized companies in Sweden and the Baltic 257,000 home bank customers countries. Of these, some 257,000 are home bank customers. PRIVATE CUSTOMERS SEB has approximately 4 million private individuals among its customers in Sweden and the Baltic countries. Of these some 1.3 million are 1.3 million home bank home bank customers. In addition, SEB serves customers around 27,000 private banking customers. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 1 CEO STATEMENT “I am proud to say that we last year made clear progress and enhanced our efforts for a sustainable society in several ways.” Some 3,000 people joined when SEB employees were invited to dicuss SEB’s long-term vision. SEB was present at the UN headquarter in New York when the world agreed on the 17 sustainable development goals. Photo: Elisabeth Ohlson Wallin (above), Niklas Munter (mid) and UN Photo/Cia Pak (below). 2 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CEO STATEMENT ENHANCED EFFORTS FOR A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY For many years, we have worked to integrate sustainability into our business. This is a long journey with no end, but we are now starting to see clear results. We are determined to continue to create value in society. As a bank, we are naturally influenced by developments in RAISED AMBITION the world and the global economy. Looking back at 2015, We want to be a role model in sustainability within the it has been a year marked by severe challenges. Economic financial industry. To reach this, we will continue to focus growth is fragile and the markets volatile. The geo-political on promoting climate friendly and resource efficient solusituation and refugees from tions, sustainable investments, and instable and conflict-ridden on supporting entrepreneurship to regions have created tensions ”We aim to be drive economic development and and led to increasing pro­ tectionism. a role model in create new jobs. We will continue to reduce our own environmental footAt the same time, several events create hope for the future. sustainability within print, in particular reducing our CO2 emissions with 20 per cent by 2020. The climate agreement that was the financial industry.” These are now clearly stated goals in reached in Paris and the commitour business plan. ment to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals are key achievements which will hopeCOMMITTED EMPLOYEES fully urge the world’s nations to take action. For the first Our competent and committed employees are an absolute time, the business community was recognised as a driver prerequisite in achieving these goals. During the last years, for innovation and sustainable development. The financial the engagement from colleagues from all parts of the bank sector’s importance and large indirect impact is now has reached new levels. Our employee survey shows that widely acknowledged. there is an increased belief in the importance of sustainability We commit to initiatives like the UN Global Compact, in our business. I am also glad to see the great willingness the Principles for Responsible Investments and the Equator to contribute in daily work-life and to “do good” at special Principles and we work persistently to integrate sustainaoccasions, as in September when employees donated bility into our business strategy, processes and offerings. SEK 1.1 million to refugees and SEB matched with the With a long-term perspective and in close relationship with same amount. our customers, we support them to manage their challenges Looking ahead, we know that business conditions will and to seize opportunities. continue to change, both in terms of economic, social and environmental development. We cannot fully predict in MAKING CLEAR PROGRESS what direction and in what pace, but we know that we must I am proud to say that we at SEB last year enhanced our work intensely, with hearts and minds, to meet these new efforts and have made clear progress. We decided to phase conditions. Conducting our business responsibly while out coal, we signed the Montreal Pledge and reduced our enhancing our positive impact to societal development is CO2-emissions with 54 per cent from 2008 to 2015. Our a matter of course. new funds with positive selection, e.g. SEB Sustainability Fund Global, are unique in its kind, based on digitised analysis. Three micro finance funds reach more than 15 million Stockholm, February 2016 people, an increase with more than 70 per cent in a year. The market for green bonds has grown rapidly and is now an established part of the global capital market. The issuance of these bonds reached all-time high with USD 43.2 billion, of which SEB’s issuance accounted for USD 2.7 billion. Through our partnerships, we supported the Annika Falkengren development of local communities with MSEK 61.5. President and Chief Executive Officer SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 3 VALUE CREATION SEB CREATES VALUE customer centricity, Long-term perspectives and financial strength form the foundation for meeting the expectations of customers, employees and society at large. Ultimately, this creates value for the shareholders. STAKEHOLDERS SERVICES 1.6 MILLION CORPORATE 270,000 SHAREHOLDERS AND PRIVATE CUSTOMERS The capital provided by SEB’s The customers’ needs form the shareholders is a prerequisite for foundation for the bank’s busiconducting the bank’s business. ness. Customers’ high expectaThe shareholders expect a comtions on sustainable solutions petitive and sustainable return and quality advice and service on their capital. Many of the LONG-TERM STRATEGY drive the bank’s business devemajor owners have a long-term SEB’s strategy is built on lopment and offerings. perspective on their engagedeveloping deep customer ment in the bank. relationships with a longterm perspective. See Annual Report page 6. CUSTOMER-ORIENTED OFFER SEB provides proactive quality advice and a holistic offering at the customers’ convenience, based on customer insights. See Annual Report page 14. 15,500 EMPLOYEES SOCIETY AT LARGE SEB’s employees build Banks play an integral role in SECURE AND and deepen customer society and are vital for creating FUNCTIONAL IT relationships. Their commiteconomic growth and social SEB’s IT structure ensures stabilment, skills and experience value. With this comes expectaity in the daily operation and agile are key success factors for the tions that the bank takes great development of digital products bank’s business and future responsibility in how it pursues and services. development. its business and thus acts to enable society to continue to develop in a long-term sustainable way. 4 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 VALUE CREATION 30,896 23,614 18,788 VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS Customers benefit from proactive advice and a wide range of financial services. SEB supports its customers over the long term as a business FINANCIAL STRENGTH partner based on insight and trust. See Annual Report page 14. 11,515 Financial strength gives the 10,382 resilience and flexibility required 8,719 to serve customers over FOR SHAREHOLDERS the long-term. SEB strives for increased dividends See Annual Report page 29. and market value over time. Since 2011 the value of SEB’s Class A shares 11,330 11,891 more than doubled. The dividend per 11,189 share increased from SEK 1.75 in 2011 to the proposed SEK 5.25 for the GOOD CORPORATE year 2015. See Annual Report page 26. GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is based FOR EMPLOYEES on clear allocation of responsibility, The employees are highly motivated 10,286 9,350 9,180 a well developed structure for by SEB as a place to work and show a internal control and ownership strong commitment. They take part involvement. in and value the opportunities for See Annual Report learning and further development page 46. that are integrated in SEB’s business. 7,847 8,031 7,152 See page 26–28. SOUND RISK CULTURE FOR SOCIETY AT LARGE To meet customers’ needs SEB assumes and manages risks. The bank intermediates financial These are mitigated by prusolutions, provides payment services SEB’S VALUE DISTRIBUTION dence, risk awareness and and manages risks. SEB pays taxes SEK 59bn expertise throughout the and fees according to local requireorganisation. ments where it operates. SEB takes • Interest paid to customers responsibility in its roles as a pro• Dividends paid to shareholders See Annual Report page 40. vider of financing and as an asset • Salaries, pensions and benefits to employees manager and works proactively with environmental, social and • Payments to business partners and suppliers governance issues. See Annual Report page 24. • Taxes and fees SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 5 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION GLOBAL OUTLOOK – RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES The world is rapidly changing. Growing social imbalances, economic uncertainties, climate change and rapid digitisation are all affecting people and businesses. The business community can contribute by acting responsibly and focusing on opportunities. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TO IMPROVE THE FUTURE The commitment from the world’s nations to the Sustainable Development Goals provides an important step forward. For the first time, the important role of business in contributing to a sustainable world was acknowledged. We have done an initial analysis of the 17 goals and mapped them towards our eight priorities. This work will continue as we define how to integrate them into the bank’s operations and decide what actions to take. 6 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION SOCIAL THE GREENING Migration from countries and regions in distress and afflicted by conflicts Unemployment is unevenly distributed and causes risks for social unrest. OF FINANCIAL has implications at all levels. Welcoming societies face increasing demands So do income inequalities. An ageing population also puts ­MARKETS for housing, schools, community serstrains on society and implies that vices and job creation, while successmore resources are allocated into Klas Eklund, Senior Economist ful integration can provide new soluhealth care and pension systems. tions to societal problems. Financial markets are instrumental in stopping environDIGITISATION mental degradation Rapid digital development leads to area of infrastructure, the intermediand global warmraised customer expectations on ary role, data management or cusing. Capital needs accessibility, efficiency and speed. tomer interfaces. to be directed New business models and new ways Increasing threats of terrorism and towards investment of interacting arise. This also opens cyber-crime highlights the need for in green technology, assets must be up for new forms of collaboration in crime prevention. managed in a sustainable way and all parts of the value chain, be it in the credits should go to responsible ­companies. Authorities can stimulate such actions. Two examples are the Paris ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE COP 21 agreement and the G7 com2015 was an important year for the In some large growth economies like mitment to phase out fossil fuels. The environment. In Paris, 195 states India and China, environmental conclusion is that companies whose reached an agreement to fight global de­gradation has reached dangerous balance sheets have included fossil warming and to keep the global temlevels. But action is now taken, e.g. reserves must now regard some of perature rise well below 2 degrees China’s inclusion of greening its finanthose assets as “stranded”. Celsius. Even though the agreement is cial system in the 13th five year plan. neither binding nor specified, it This also entails export possibilities Valuations of companies implies that business can be a driving for Nordic clean-tech companies and Financial analysts, consequently, force to reduce emissions through environmental leaders. must get better at including environtechnical change. mental factors in their analyses. How might global warming affect valuations of companies? How should FUNDING FOR DEVELOPMENT banks assess their corporate clients’ ability to handle challenges from Financial resources from the private resolve the financing required. In environmental stress? Is management sector will play an important role in most countries, tax collection is the up to the task? reaching the global sustainability most important source of public SEB is setting up guidelines for ambitions. Financial institutions can finance. how to deal with a number of environ­ support this development by for Companies operating in several mentally important sectors. New example supporting trade, private countries are increasingly being scrufinancial products are being born. enterprise as well as investments in tinised as regards their tax policies. The green bond market helps issuers infrastructure – transportation, Open disclosure about taxes paid per tap the immense resources of the energy, health and education. New country of operation is seen as an ­capital market for green investments. partnerships are established to important first step. Growing markets Sustainable investment management is being built on active portfolio SEB IN A TURBULENT WORLD selection. Our micro funds help many The world economy remains frail and We continuously work to improve our small entrepreneurs to innovate. development is uncertain. Besides the own governance and our way of Green financial markets are still still developing regulatory requireworking. We have increased our resilrelatively small – but they are growing ments, there is an ongoing discussion ience and flexibility by strengthening rapidly. SEB wants to be – and will be around the need to change the financial capital and cost efficiency. – a leader in this field. system so that it becomes better aligned Through active partnerships and with sustainable development. collaborations, SEB aims to contribSEB’s response to these various ute to societal development and to risks and challenges is to embrace support our customers as they change and explore opportunities address social and environmental while enhancing risk management. challenges. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 7 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION OUR APPROACH SEB’s sustainability approach targets three areas – Responsible Business, People and Community and Environment. We address sustainability issues that are relevant and meaningful for us as a bank and the markets in which we operate. on Kno uti wle rib dg nt eco ntribution Responsible no mi Business ic co Eth nom cc ics Eth o eco Knowledge nd ics and ea SEB’s vision To deliver world-class service to our customers WE SUPPORT People and We are committed to global Environment Community initiatives such as the UN Global Compact, the Principles for Responsible Investments, UN’s Kn Ethics tio n Guiding Principles on Business ow and Human Rights. For full list, le d g e and e t ri b u please see Inside Back Cover. co n o m i c co n GOVERNANCE OF SEB’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK good corporate governance is essential for how we run Corporate Sustainability Committee our business. This allows us to work effectively towards the An operational steering group assigned by the president same goals, also as regards sustainability aspects. and CEO. Sets the agenda for SEB’s sustainability work, folSEB’s sustainability work is based on Swedish laws and lows up on the development, practices and progress. regulations as well as the internationally recognised guideChaired by the Head of Group Communications, member lines and initiatives that we are committed to. The internal of the Group Executive ­Committee. framework primarily consists of our core values, SEB’s sustainability related policies, Ethics Policy and our Code of Group Corporate Sustainability Conduct. Coordinates and drives the overall sustainability agenda within SEB as well as reporting on annual progress. GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board of Directors Local sustainability committees Decides on SEB’s strategy and sustainability approach and Manage the sustainability work on a daily basis within the policy. specified division, country or staff function. Report on ­progress. President and Chief Executive Officer Decides in the Group Executive Committee on the develManagers and employees opment and the execution of the sustainability approach. Each head of division, business area and group function is Adopts the Environmental Policy, the Human Rights Policy responsible for ensuring that activities are carried out and as well as Position Statements and Sector Policies. instructions are in accordance with applicable policies, such as the Corporate Sustainability Policy. For information about corporate governance at SEB, please see the 2015 Annual Report, p 46–61. 8 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION OUR AMBITION SEB’s ambition is to create long-term value from governance, social, environmental and thus a financial perspective. We take responsibility for how our business affects customers, employees, shareholders and society at large. We are here to support our customers and aim to be a ments, financing, risk management and payments. knowledgeable and trustworthy partner. We are convinced We have raised our ambition. SEB aims to be a role model that a business that encompasses a sustainable perspective in sustainability within the financial industry. is more successful long-term. Although we have made progress in many areas, the journey has just begun and we To reach this, we will focus on: have much left to learn and do. • Green finance that promotes climate friendly and resource efficient solutions. • Sustainable investments, where value creation is SEB aims to be role model enhanced through products with positive impact. • Supporting entrepreneurship to drive sustainable in sustainability within economic development and contribute to new jobs. the financial industry. • Reducing our own environmental footprint, in particular our CO2 emissions, with 20 per cent by 2020. A prerequisite for achieving this is having engaged and As a bank and financial institution, we promote a knowledgeable employees as well as conducting our busisustainable society through the way we conduct investness in a responsible and transparent way. EIGHT BUSINESS PRIORITIES – OUR AMBITIONS THREE TO FIVE YEARS Responsible selling Sustainable finance Valuing our people and advising Drive change towards a Be the most attractive emTop customer loyalty. sustainable society in partployer with a top number of Facilitate customers’ own control nership with our customers. Increase engaged employees and leaders who and understanding of their financial share of positive impact financing inspire and drive change. Increased situation. Ensure quality advice based with initial focus on climate. Support diversity as a basis for innovation. on long-term needs. entrepreneurship. Investing in communities Tackling financial crime Reducing our footprint Continue to engage for Increase utilisation of existContinue managing our direct future generations. Support ing data in order to prevent, environmental impact. Be youth and entrepreneurs through detect and respond to fraud. resource effective, reduce energy conactive partnerships. sumption and CO2 emissions. In­crease Responsible investments focus on sustainability in relations with Access to financial services Ensure that we perform our suppliers and other business partners. Improve accessibility of our ownership role responsibly. banking services, using new Be the leading Nordic supplier within technology and innovation. Sharing responsible investments. our expertise to customers and the broader community. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 9 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION Responsible selling Tackling financial crime Responsible Sustainable and advising investments finance • Further enhance customer • Launch of new e-learning • Continued integration of • Continue to grow green experience and satisfaction tools to increase awareness environmental, social and product range. in all segments. of Know-Your-Customer governance aspects (ESG) in • Increase share of renewable • Secure relevant and holistic process and risks of money portfolio management. energy financing. advisory based on the laundering. • Enhance communication to • Enhanced trainings on susOBJECTIVES 2015 customer’s whole economy • Launch of documentary film support customers around tainability throughout SEB. and needs. on fraud and money launderesponsible investments. • Continued focus on ­dialogues • Taking further steps in ring cases. • Further development of ESG with clients around sustaisupporting entrepreneurs • Explore how big data can focused products, such as nability, to use this as a tool and engaging in local be used for early fraud green bond fund. for better under­standing of ­communities. detection. client needs. • Review and update of SEB’s Code of Conduct. STATUS • Slight decrease in Svenskt • Documentary film about • Launch of a third micro • Supported The Asian DeveKvalitetsindex, SKI, for prifraud and money laundering finance fund and SEB Green lopment Bank, The Province vate customers, flat for corlaunched successfully and Bond Fund. of Ontario and HSBC to the porates and large corporate with record view rates. • Signed Montreal Carbon green bond market. customers, declined among • Big data proof of concept Pledge and disclosed carbon • Issued first public green PERFORMANCE 2015 financial institutions. initiated. Start by looking at footprint of seven ethical and bond in the Baltics. • Overview of pension savings simple use cases. sustainable equity funds. • Hosted climate summits in on mobile app. • Developed scenarios for • Launch of funds with Frankfurt, Stockholm and • Launch of the advisory tool transaction monitoring. positive selection, focus New York City. for pensions. on water, toxic waste and • Position statement on • Met approx. 10,000 people carbon-emissions. ­climate change revised. in 70 entrepreneurship • 76 % of new proposed board • Workshops on sector policies activities. members were women. + position statements with • Code of Conduct updated 225 corp advisors in Retail div. Feb 2016. F urther enhance customer Prevent, detect and respond to • Disclose carbon footprint for • Identify and develop experience and satisfaction in fraud by: the majority of SEB managed methods to assess new all segments by: • Continue development equity funds. climate regulations, climate • Ensuring quality advice of big data for early fraud • Introduce ESG rating delivrelated investment trends based on long-term needs, detection. ered by Morningstar for all and assets exposed to OBJECTIVES 2016 while securing regulatory relevant funds. ­climate stress. • Develop new fraud compliance. e-learning. • Better ESG guidance in fund • Enhance transparency of • Facilitating customers’ own price list, using ”Sustainability credit portfolio composition control and increased under­ Profile” and Morningstar and ways of working. standing of own financial ratings, when available. • Revise three sector policies situation. • Increase share of positive and/or position statements. • Improving existing savings s­ election in traditional pension • Revise and identify areas of products from a sustainability equity portfolio, e.g. 50 % of improvements in lending and perspective. global equity portfolio. payment products. • Increase ESG engagement • Enhance sustainability eduin Finland, Denmark and cation throughout SEB. Norway. 10 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUR APPROACH AND AMBITION Reducing our footprint Valuing our people Investing in communities Access to financial services • Continue to assess our largest • Further improve Employee • Strengthen impact measures. • Further improvements and more suppliers to cover 70 % of ­Engagement (+1) through different • Further improve governance and accessibility for the customers’ our spend. initiatives encouraging dialogue enhance knowledge about our entire economy in all digital and • Continue CO2 reduction towards and collaboration cross organicommitments. mobile interfaces. –45 % by 2015. sation. • Further steps in improving custo• F urther steps into supporting en­ • Reduce electricity usage with 5% • Certification of OHSAS 18001, trepreneurs in local c­ ommunities. mer value through the multiper year on average. international occupational health channel concept with the aim to and safety management systems. further enhance accessibility and • Increase our renewable electricity • Implementation of development simplicity for the customer. consumption to over 90 % of total electricity consumption. program for potential leaders; Green House. • Reduce CO2 emissions from company cars by 10 % and paper • Increased gender balance at consumption by 11 % vs. 2014. senior managerial level. • Assessed largest suppliers cove• Insight result for overall employee • Support of El Sistema and the • Financial Literacy Roadshow ring 87 % of spend. engagement + 4 % from 2014. music festival “Side-by-side by El across the Baltics. • Delivered on the goal to reduce • Alignment in Sweden accomSistema” in Gothenburg. • ”Plain language project” launoverall CO2 emission and plished in order to meet OHSAS • Mentor activities in Sweden and ched in Estonia. achieved a reduction of 54 %, certification. the Baltics – Increase in “Pro• SEB’s experts engaged in from 2008. • Green House implemented. fessional mentors” where the Swedish network “Like Your • Reduced electricity usage with mentors visit school classes. Finances” – educational projects • New offerings of modern learning 10 % compared to 2014. methods, such as rapid-e, easy • Venture Cup – SEB provides in personal finance. • Renewable electricity 92 % of video, screen-recordings and financial support, services, advi• ”Voice over” and ”Dynamic Type” total. learning webinars. sing, hosted “SEB-boost” etc. in app, to both hear information • Reduced CO2 emission from • Slightly increased gender balance • Partnership with SUP46 to and change the font size. company cars with 14 %. at senior managerial level contribute to innovation driven • Increased number of customer (73/27). entrepreneurship – we support agreements available on Inter• Reduced paper consumption by with advising and free banking net bank. ~17 % compared to 2014. • Female mentoring program services. launched. • Secure sustainable supply • Maintain high level of employee • Ensure inclusion of education • Improve customer value through chain through continued risk engagement. and know-how in all partnership the multi-channel concept with assessements and work with low • Improve gender balance at programmes – measured by # of the aim to further enhance performers to improve. senior management level. educational hours held. accessibility and simplicity for • Reduce emissions and usage as • Maintain level of employee volthe customer. • Increase clarity around developappropriate to reach new 2020 ment and learning opportunities unteering hours at about 15,000 • Expand use of digital ­channels targets to reduce with 20 %. – launch SEB’s Campus Online, hours per year. among customer groups with low • Secure continued reduction of digital platform. • Facilitate and encourage employsuch usage. distance travelled by air. • Involve all staff in dialogue ees to donate skills and time • Maintain level of financial literacy around new vision, purpose and within partnership programmes. education. values. • Maintain # of youths reached at • Upgrade leadership training and about 10,000 per year. tools, in line with new vision. • Facilitate for employees, ­customers and partners to donate to charity partners – ex giving blood, winter clothing collections, etc. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 11 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE SELLING AND ADVISING our customers entrust us not only with their money but also with their aspirations and plans for the future. In a society where uncertainty and complexity increases, we want to be a trustful partner with a long-term perspective. 12 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The starting point for our business is built on our core ibility is key and we strive for clarity and transparency. ­values – customers first, commitment, collaboration and We have raised the ambition as regards customer focus simplicity. They shall permeate our way of working and as we know that we have more to do to meet their expectaform the foundation of our corporate culture. SEB’s ambition. Going forward, we want our customers to feel that the tion is to make it easy for customers to manage their advice we provide is insightful and relevant, convenient finances and plans for the future. Simplicity and access­ and accessible on their terms. ADVISORY Should a customer have repayment problems, we step in We strive to make sure that our customers understand the early in order to support with long-term viable solutions. consequences of our advice and we continuously deepen This can apply to both private and corporate customers. and broaden knowledge and understanding among We have local and global special units to handle these employees. Integrity and high ethical standards shall charissues, special credit management. In Sweden, Kreditstöd, acterise our way of working. Our Code of Conduct is an which cooperates with similar entities in Estonia, Latvia important tool that guides us in our business relations. and Lithuania, works directly with customers to establish A revision of the Code, initiated in 2015, was completed plans for full loan repayments. SEB does not resell poor in February 2016. Read more on page 15. loans to debt collection agencies. In Sweden, 3,494 employees have a SwedSec license, a proof that they have relevant experience in both investment COMPLAINTS FROM CUSTOMERS advisory and insurance broking. Should customers have complaints, we believe in addressIn the Baltic countries, SEB has ing them directly and as close to source as possible. If the taken the initiative to set up a cross case cannot be resolved immediately, we contact the cuscountry, cross bank group, with the tomer within two business days with information regardgoal of creating a similar solution. ing decisions to act or if the matter needs further investigation. There is a special customer relations team that RESPONSIBLE LENDING handles appeals in cases where the customer still does not SEB’s lending is based on the borfeel satisfied. rower’s repayment capacity. A key component of all All complaints are registered in SEB’s operating risk responsible lending is to know our customers well and information system. Every month, reports on selected ensure that they can afford to manage their debt. In 2015, products are presented and sent to the product and/or SEB’s credit loss level was 0.06 per cent. process owners. Analyses are made of areas for improveAs regards mortgage loans, SEB was the first Swedish ment. Each quarter, a larger report is produced with bank to introduce amortisation requirements for mort­comparisons to the previous year. In 2015, the number of gages with loan-to-value ratios above 70 per cent. At complaints among retail customers in Sweden decreased year-end 2015, 98 per cent of all new home mortgages by 25 per cent. in S­ weden with loan-to-values higher than 70 per cent included amortisation. AFFORDABLE HOUSING In 2015, SEB signed an agreement with Altum, a Latvian government-owned development bank, to issue statesupported mortgages to selected families with children. During the first two months, SEB issued 42 such loans with preferential terms. The objective of the state aid programme is to reduce the first down-payment. Families with one child can receive a state guarantee for 10 per cent of the loan amount for the purchase or construction of a property. Families with two children can obtain a state guarantee for 15 per cent and families with three or more children may receive a guarantee of 20 per cent of the loan value. Families are granted loans by commercial banks, while Altum is providing guarantees to banks. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 13 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS FACILITATING DAILY FINANCES SEB’s ambition is to provide solutions that simplify daily on their mobile devices. In the Baltic countries, the bank has life for private customers and give them control and an developed a digital advisory support function that helps overview of their personal financial needs. SEB provides customers gain a comprehensive picture of their personal advice and service 24 hours a day – digitally, by phone, or finances and to find the right risk diversification for their through the bank’s branch network in Sweden and the Balfinancial security. In Sweden, SEB developed a digital signatic countries. During 2015, the app for private customers ture for pension contracts, as well as a new advisory tool, has been upgraded. They now get a broad view of savings, Trygghetsplaneraren, that gives customers understanding home mortgages, insurance and card transactions directly of their future pension. PROMOTING INNOVATION The availability of accessible and digital services is becomPROMOTING INTERNAL INNOVATION ing increasingly important. In 2015, we have had several During 2015, SEB has also developed the concept Innovation activities within innovation and entrepreneurship. In SEB Lab in Sweden and the Employee Lab in the Baltics, to proInnovation Forum in Sweden entrepreneurs and innovamote innovative products, services and solutions. Within tors from universities and incubators got the opportunity the labs, employees with new ideas develop and visualize to present their innovations to established entrepreneurs their proposals in a creative environment. The outcomes and companies. These, in turn, brought expertise, networks included projects such as streamlining our leasing proand capital to the projects they choosed to support. Six cesses and creating digital solutions for improved customer meetings were held around Sweden with approximately experience. More than 300 employees participated and 320 prospective investors and with about 5–6 business over 30 projects were generated. ideas presented each time. In the Baltics, similar Innovation forums were held for small and medium business customers to support their growth ambitions. Innovation Forum was organised six times in SEB set up the Innovation Lab at Epicenter in SEB employees are behind an innovative app for ­Sweden in 2015, where around 320 prospective Stockholm, an office space designed for digital virtual apartment views. This was one of the first investors met entrepreneurs. innovators and entrepreneurs. launches from SEB’s Innovation Lab. 14 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS UPDATED CODE OF CONDUCT Values in society evolve over our core values and guides us in our relationships. In the time. SEB always aims to do Code, the importance of maintaining SEB’s culture as well business in a responsible as every employee’s individual responsibility for their manner and we strive to actions is underscored. make all employees aware of appropriate behaviour and THE PURPOSE OF THE CODE IS TO: of how we want to conduct • describe what the responsibilities are for employees our ­business. in SEB In 2015, the Bank • be a guide in business relationships revised its Code of • be a guide in solving potentially difficult situations ­Conduct, a document that • provide employees with a tool for whistleblowing describes and develops • describe to other concerned parties how we act. DILEMMA OF THE DAY although there are guidelines, it is sometimes difficult to make the correct decision. As a tool for reflection, SEB has developed Dilemma of the Day, a series of stories that present situations that are complex. The stories are published on the intranet where employees vote for the answer they believe is appropriate. A senior person in a relevant position later comments and motivates the ranking of the answers. The Dilemma of the Day provides a basis for discussions among managers and employees. WHISTLEBLOWING If employees or other persons should discover suspected during the subsequent follow-up, enquiries and discusirregularities within SEB, possible unethical or unlawful sions relating to the matter, provided that we are not behaviours, he or she should report their observations. obliged by law to disclose it. Notifications come from Most reports are made to local managers. However, reports employees, but issues can also be raised by customers, supare also regularly made to the Head of Compliance and pliers and other stakeholders. Head of Internal Audit, mostly via telephone or the specific All reported incidents or circumstances are promptly e-mail address. investigated and, when applicable, reported to the bank’s It is possible to contact these persons anonymously, via CEO and the Audit and Compliance Committee. an encrypted e-mail service. The identity is kept anonymous SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 15 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS TACKLING FINANCIAL CRIME Financial crime is a major global issue and preventing this is of high priority for us. SEB is a major provider of loans, payments and other financial services and we see it as our responsibility to protect our customers and the assets that we manage. SEB devotes considerable resources to prevent financial crime and its damaging effects on our customers, our COMBATTING MONEY LAUNDERING ­business and on local and global economies. We collaboSEB believes that a sound Know-Your-Customer (KYC) prorate with partners locally and internationally, train our gramme is the best method of preventing money launderemployees, monitor transactions and check our customers ing. We abide by European Union legislation on anti-money according to the Know-Your-Customer process (KYC) and laundering and KYC. We apply enhanced due diligence for against sanctions lists. customers, products and countries, where there is a perceived risk that the bank can be used for money laundering WE FOCUS ON THREE KEY AREAS: and financing of terrorism. •F raud prevention, -detection and -response. •A ctions to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism. AWARENESS •C ompliance with government sanctions against Many types of crime can only succeed if a control fails or if a criminal suspects. person is fooled. Because of this, awareness among employees is key in our efforts to prevent crime. In May 2015, SEB launched a new tool for increasing awareness, three short CYBERCRIME AND ID THEFT dramatized documentary films that highlighted important Cybercrime can be described as criminal activity that points when it comes to fraud and money laundering. involves the Internet, a computer system, or computer technology. Examples include computer viruses, phishing and identity theft. Financial institutions are a prime target, even though a shift has been seen toward online merchants, as security efforts within the financial sector have had a deterrent effect on cyber criminals’ ambitions. When it comes to ID theft, recent statistics by UC, Sweden’s leading business and credit reference agency, show that the turnover produced by ID thefts has increased by 37 per cent since 2013. TACKLING CRIME BY USING BIG DATA One way of tackling the crimes above is by using so called big data. This is often associated with marketing and customer service, understanding the customers’ needs better than themselves. But big data can also be used to identify possible fraudulent customers and transactions, and therefore promises to become one of the most prominent adversaries towards cybercrime and ID thefts, mainly because it forms a security layer, permeating all customer activities. Gathering and f­ ormatting relevant data from different data sources is a big task and we have started defining use cases and identifying data sources for the most typical frauds. We will have a prototype ready during 2016 from which we can continue development to a more full-fledged solution. In May 2015, SEB launched three short dramatized documentary films that highlighted important points when it comes to fraud and money laundering. 16 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS SEB is one of the largest institutional investors in the Nordic region with SEK 1,700 billion in asset under management for private and institutional clients. We increasingly invest in businesses that actively manage the environmental, social and governance aspects of their business as we believe they will be more successful over time. SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR FUND OFFERING In 2015, SEB has strengthened the role of sustainability aspects in management of all major asset classes. Information is available on www.sebgroup.com and on the SwedSEB Sustainability Fund ish site www.seb.se, the funds are green-labelled and have Global actively includes clear information about the current sustainability criteria. companies that perform EXCLUDE – NEGATIVE SCREENING All SEB funds exclude companies involved in production or well within the marketing of illegal weapons and in the development or environmental area. production phases of nuclear weapons programmes. Our sustainable and ethical funds do not invest in companies that do not align with international conventions and guidelines, such as UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines within environmental areas. In 2015, we launched two for Multinational Enterprises on environmental responsibility, such funds, SEB Sustainability Fund Global and SEB Sustainalabour rights, human rights, controversial weapons and bility Fund Sweden. These funds have stricter exclusion cricorruption. Other sectors that are excluded are alcohol, teria. No investments are made in companies directly weapons, tobacco and/or pornography. The funds also involved in the extraction of fossil fuels, oil, coal and gas. avoid companies with main revenues from gambling. In addition to this, we add positive screening, companies that perform well in three specific environmental INCLUDE – POSITIVE SELECTION areas: carbon emissions, water consumption and toxic SEB is increasingly using positive selection in fund manemissions. These companies are over-represented in the agement, and actively includes companies that perform well portfolio. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 17 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS MEASURING CARBON FOOTPRINT seb signed the montreal carbon pledge, where investors commit to measure and disclose the carbon footprint of WORKING FOR funds. By the year-end 2015, seven of SEB’s sustainability AC ­ OMMON STANDARD funds measured the carbon footprint, including SEB Sustainability Fund Global, SEB Sustainability Fund Sweden and The interest and engagement for sustainability-related Ethos Equity Fund. issues in investments has grown strongly in the Nordic For 2016, the objective is to disclose carbon footprint region, from customers, media and non-governmental for the majority of SEB’s equity funds. An external research organisations. Focus has been on fees versus return, the firm assesses the sustainable and ethical funds. proportion of active management and on which holdings the funds have, for example, as regards fossil fuels. Currently, there are varying criteria for sustainability funds, but many market actors are working for a common Seven of SEB’s sustainability standard. The Swedish Fund Association works actively funds measured the carbon for a common industry approach. SEB is also active in other networks such as Swesif, and corresponding organifootprint. sations in Finland and Denmark. BILLIONS IN MICROFINANCE FUNDS REACH MILLIONS OF PEOPLE Above: Ann Maina and her husband Patrick, provides quality health services to thousands of people outside Nairobi, Kenya. SEB’s micro finance funds made it possible. Left: Jane Wangechi’s strawberry farm in Kiaragana, Kenya, has grown and she has now employed one permanent person to assist her. SEB has in less than three years become one of the biggest actors in Europe. At year-end 2015, the SEK 2.1 billion invested reached more than 15 million micro-entrepreneurs in over 30 countries through microfinance institu2.1 billion invested 15 tions. SEB is the only bank in the Nordic market that can offer institutional customers this kind of investment. SEB’s million microtraditional life insurance company invests in microfinance funds which thereby become available for private pension entrepreneurs customers. Read more about micro finance funds at sebgroup.com/ microfinance +30 countries 18 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS INFLUENCING OUR HOLDINGS We use our influence as shareholders in the companies we ACTIVE OWNERSHIP invest in. We have direct and indirect dialogues with the For our equities investments, we practice active ownership companies, and we are part of nominating committees in by voting at company annual general meetings (AGM) and the companies in which we are relatively large owners. by participating in the Nomination Committee in Swedish companies. During 2014 – 2015 we participated in 31 such SUSTAINABILITY DIALOGUES committees, in companies where we are one of the largest We have direct dialogues with corporate management shareholders. We focus on topics such as board evaluagroups and boards of Swedish companies, where we often tions, board compositions and board diversity with a parare among the largest owners. In 2015, we had discussions ticular focus on female board representation. In 2015, 17 with portfolio companies around issues such as child new board members were nominated of which 13 (76 per labour and corruption. In total, we held 214 dialogues, cent) were women, and of which 11 were new in their role. direct and indirect, with portfolio companies. As regards international companies we cooperate with other investors through, for example PRI Clearinghouse (for more information see www.unpri.org). COLLABORATION AGAINST CORRUPTION Since 2010, SEB has via PRI been part of an international initiative on anti-corruption and has worked to influence companies where there is a lack of clarity regarding the SEB signed the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) company’s anti-corruption work. in 2008. By the end of 2015 100 per cent of assets in SEB’s In one of the initiatives, which started in 2013, 34 invesfund company were managed according to the PRI. SEB’s tors engaged in dialogues with 32 companies in areas such fund company represents 32 % of our total assets under as governance, policies and guidelines. In June 2015, when management, SEK 1,700 billion. When selecting and evalthis round of dialogues had come to an end, 28 of the 32 uating external fund managers, we also want them to have companies had improved. The average rating went up signed the PRI. In 2015, 87 percent of our external mananearly 22 percent. gers had signed the PRI. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 19 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE FINANCE we are convinced that we can influence the development towards a more sustainable economy by improving our own work and by collaborating with our clients and support them as they develop. RESPONSIBLE LENDING AND SUSTAINABILITY One of a bank’s primary contributions to a sustainable society is responsible credit granting, i.e. not lending more than customers have the capacity to repay. SEB takes on risk only to create customer value and long term shareholder value. Our risk culture is based on long experience, strong customer relations and sound banking principles. Read about Risk management in Annual Report, page 40–45. Sustainability aspects are part of our business and credit decisions and we engage with clients around social, environmental and governance issues. Our aim is to understand our clients’ strengths and weaknesses as well as challenges and opportunities so that we can be the business partner they need. As the importance of sustainability aspects increases, we have the ambition to enhance our support also to midsized and small corporate customers, especially in light of the forthcoming EU regulatory reporting requirements 2017. SHIFTING AWAY FROM COAL Global climate change is one of today’s most serious chalwill not enter into new business relations with companies lenges. SEB recognises the importance of limiting the averwith major business in coal mining, nor provide finance for age global temperature rise to below the 2°C target, which new coal power plants. The latter will only be considered makes a transition to a low-carbon economy vital. for new coal power plants using special technologies, SEB has revised and thereby strengthened its ­Climate which substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We Change Position Statement and as a consequence we have can support legacy clients in making beneficial improvedecided to gradually shift away from coal. From now, we ments in their transformation away from coal. POLICIES – SEB’S POSITION SEB has three position statements – on child labour, fresh water and climate – and six industry sector policies – on arms and defence, forestry, fossil fuels, mining and metals, renewable energy and shipping. The purpose of these statements and policies is to provide a common framework for strategic dialogues around key issues with ­clients. They are a natural part of decisions in the business committees and an integral part of the credit policy. Read more about our policies at sebgroup.com/about-seb/sustainability/how-we-work/policies 20 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS FINLAND TAKING DETERMINED STEPS IN S ­ USTAINABILITY IMPLEMENTATION In SEB Finland, a group of sustainability ambassadors was formed, joining colleagues working with financial institutions and large corporate clients. The ambassadors have “When adopting gathered regularly during the year to develop the sustainasustainability as one of the bility actions for SEB Finland. Generating dialogue and raising the awareness has focus areas, our conclusion been a priority– what does sustainability mean from the was to start by educating bank’s perspective and why is it important? How could we better discuss the topic with clients and stakeholders? ourselves.” “When adopting sustainability as one of the focus areas, our conclusion was to start by educating ourselves. The journeys has been great, we’ve learned a great deal and feel bility is participation in local networks such as the cooperthat our colleagues have truly developed into ambassadors ation with FIBS (Finnish Business & Society), the leading with a lot of genuine insight to take forward to the rest of non-profit corporate responsibility network in Finland. the organisation, and ultimately to the clients”, says Jukka Founded in 2000, the network has currently nearly 300 Honkaniemi, Head of Corporate Coverage in Finland. members, most of them large companies. FIBS’ mission is to promote financially, socially and ecologically sustainaJOINING FORCES ble business in Finland by supporting its members’ CR A good step in building sustainability know-how and visistrategy and initiatives. SUSTAINABILITY DIALOGUES WITH BALTIC CLIENTS do. Targets and goals were compared, they shared what SEB’s Baltic division held a number of meetings with clidrives and inspires, making also SEB more sustainable and ents, discussing the long-term success of their businesses therefore more successful. Taking the three dimensions from a sustainability perspective. Employees took the time from our sustainability approach we reviewed businesses to reflect and share experience with customers, also being from the environmental, people and governance perspecopen about the areas in which SEB Baltic aims to improve. tives. They talked through what the clients purchase, what interThe result has been a much better understanding of the nal processes have evolved and the end result of what they customers’ business and, more importantly, their needs. FORWARD-LOOKING REVIEW OF ENERGY RELATED CREDIT PORTFOLIO In line with SEB’s updated position statement on climate change, SEB’s energy related credit portfolio is gradually Transparency and green finance shifting to include more renewables, infrastructure and disTo meet increasing expectations of transparency as trict heating and less fossil fuel related, with coal only 1 per regards sustainability in credit granting, we are investigatcent. Renewable energy covers wind, bio-energy, hydro, ing alternatives on how to enhance transparency about our waste disposal and solar. The portfolio, which is monitored credit portfolio and its environmental footprint, as well as on a regular basis from both a business and risk perspecon standards we adhere to and our way of working. Some tive, represents about 6 per cent of the total credit portfolio, of this work is done in collaboration with the Bankers’ or about SEK 130 (125) billion. Association to facilitate compatibility and comparisons – without limiting competition in any way. Interested parties include supervisory authorities, professional analysts as TOTAL ENERGY PORTFOLIO (%) well as consumers. One of our focus areas is green finance. We aim to identify the best ways to promote climate friendly and resource 20 % 25 % efficient solutions. Building on our experience as a pioneer 27 % 27 % for green bonds, we take a long-term perspective on how we can contribute. Within the context of a financial system 2014 2015 that is aligned with sustainable developments we will develop the green bond concept and spin off new products for the capital markets. 53 % 48 % Renewables Fossil fuels  ther, mainly infrastructure and O district heating SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 21 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GREEN BONDS – AN ESTABLISHED PART OF THE CAPITAL MARKET The green bond market was developed by SEB and the World Bank with a number of forward-thinking Swedish investors in 2007 and 2008. Since then, the market has grown and is now an established part of the global capital market. Companies and organisations seek funding for specific environmental investments, and i­ nvestors integrate sustainability into their daily portfolio allocation. Altogether, over 500 green bonds were issued until year-end 2015 at a value of nearly USD 100 billion of the approximately 100 issuers, in all continents, in over 20 different currencies and structured in a variety of ways. In 2015, green bonds were issued to a value of USD 43.2 billion, according to data from Bloomberg. Since its Uppsalahem has invested in Frodeparken, an apartment building with the inception, SEB has been involved in the issuance of 10.8 per largest integrated solar panel front in the Nordic countries. SEB assisted in raising the funding – green bonds amounting to SEK 500 million. cent of all green bonds globally. SEB’s share in 2015 was Photo: Anders Tukler. 7.6 per cent. 40 per cent of the total volume of green bonds has been issued on the basis of frameworks where SEB has mental reporting and in July our cooperation partner the been the structural advisor. World Bank published a Green Bond Impact Report for the Established issuers like the World Bank, NWB, City of 77 projects they have funded with green bonds. Also during Gothenburg and Vasakronan continued in 2015 to finance 2015, CICERO launched its Shades of Green methodology their environmental investments through green bond with to offer investors better insights to the “greenness” of their SEB help. Among the transactions are: Second Opinions. The climate conference in Paris last year • F ortum Värme’s green bond, the largest green bond transpointed out the direction for how global capital flows must action in SEK to date, finances a biomass-fired CHP plant, be reallocated towards environmental and climate investthe biggest in the Sweden and one of the largest in the ments. Green bonds is an vital instrument to realize this. world. The biofuel will annually be converted to 750 GWh of electricity and 1,700 GWh of heat, equivalent to Total issuance of green bonds (cumulative), USD billion the warming of about 190,000 flats, leading to a global reduction of Co2emissions by 650,000 tons per year. 100 • KfW’s transaction in October, which was the largest s­ ingle green bonds during the year (EUR 1.5 billion) 80 • Latvenergo AS, which was the first investment grade-rated company in Eastern Europe to issue a green bond 60 • HSBC where SEB was structural advisor In 2015, the green bond market infrastructure was fur40 ther strengthened. SEB launched a dedicated Green Bond Fund to private individuals to finance environmental and 20 climate-friendly investments and a sustainable future without compromising on performance. Four multilateral 0 development banks (AfDB, EIB, IFC and the World Bank) 20 20 20 07 08 09 launched an initiative for the harmonisation of environ20 20 20 20 10 11 12 20 20 13 14 15 EQUATOR PRINCIPLES POSITIVE IMPACT MANIFESTO In 2007, SEB adopted the Equator Principles (EP), a volWithin the framework of United Nations’ untary set of guidelines used by financial institutions to Environmental Program, SEB has joined assess the social and environmental impact of large pronine other banks around the world in issujects and to help their customers to manage them. ing a Positive Impact Manifesto. The maniWe have for 2015 had four project finance transaction festo calls for an impact-based approach under the Equator Principles, one category A (projects to banking, offering a vision of the bankwith potential significant adverse environmental and social ing sector’s central role in achieving sustainable risks) two category B (projects with potential limited development. adverse environmental and social risks) and one category Over the next couple of years the ten banks, will be C (projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and working with peers, clients, and other stakeholders to social risks). As regards project related corporate loans, deliver a set of Positive Impact Principles that will guide SEB was involved in one category A transaction. providers of financial services in their efforts to increase their positive impact on the economy, society and the broader environment. Among the other banks are ING (NL), Westpac (AU), and Societe Generale (F). 22 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PROJECTS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT WINDFARM SUPPLYING GERMAN CITY “National G­ erman Sustainability Award” in the category SEB is one of the financers of Stadtwerke München GmbH “Germany’s most sustainable future-oriented strategy” (SWM) and Entega AG, one of the largest green energy supand its production of green electricity as well as the climate pliers in Germany. In 2008, SWM set a target to generate compensated natural gas are strictly and independently green energy in its own plants to supply all of Munich’s controlled and certified. ­private households, subways and trams. This was achieved The Global Tech I offshore wind park is built 180 km off in 2015. SWM also has set the target to supply the entire the coast of Bremerhaven in the North Sea. 85 megawatts municipality with renewable energy by 2025. These two turbines with a combined output of 400 megawatts genetargets have an overall budget of around nine billion euro. rate environmentally friendly wind energy amounting to One of the energy supplying wind farms is the Global more than 1.4 billion kilowatt hours per year. The annual Tech I, a deal that SEB first described in the 2011 CS report. savings of CO2 amount to 1.2 million tonnes compared to This is one of the first off shore wind parks in G ­ ermany and traditional coal-fired power stations. SWM’s share of the came into operation in September 2015. wind park corresponds to the annual consumption of Two of the shareholder and key sponsors are SWM and around 140,000 Munich households. SEB is the mandated Entega AG. Entega was in 2013 awarded with the lead arranger of the EUR 1.9 wind park billion deal. HIGH-TECH CLUSTER – LITHUANIA RECYCLING OF BOTTLES AND CANS – SWEDEN SEB has issued a guarantee for Hidrostatyba UAB. The Returpack is a privately-owned company company has finished the construction of the National cenwhich aims to increase the recycling of tre of physical and technology sciences in Vilnius. The new metal cans and PET bottles in Sweden. science centre, together with new Life sciences centre and This mission derives from the Swedish new modern Vilnius university library will form a high-tech government, as well as from the owners of the company, cluster in Saulėtekis valley in Vilnius that will allow for synwho consist of representatives from the trading and brewergies in-between science, studies and business. ery sectors company. In Sweden, almost 90 % of sold aluminium cans and PET bottles are recycled, corresponding to 15,000 tonnes and 20,000 tonnes respectively. SEB conDECREASING USE OF ACID – LATVIA tributes to the hedging of raw material as well as currency SEB financed an acid neutralization and recovery line for prices related to these flows of materials. AS Valmieras Stikla Šķiedra, a leading European manufacturer of glass fiber-based products. Implementation of this project will allow to recover up to 80 % of used recycled BIO PRODUCT MILL – FINLAND acid and to reduce sulphate emissions up to 9 times. SEB has taken part in the financing of the Metsä Fibre bio product mill in Äänekoski, Finland. The bio product mill is the largest investment in the history of the Finnish forest GALLOPER WIND FARM – UNITED KINGDOM industry. When completed, it is expected to have an annual Galloper Wind Farm is a new offshore wind farm located impact of more than EUR 0.5 billion on Finland’s income. approximately 27 km off the coast of Suffolk, England that After the new bio product mill is fully operational it is SEB has been part of the financing for during 2015. The wind expected to lead to 1,500 new jobs within the mill and its farm will have a capacity of 336 MW and is expected to value chain. The mill will also increase the share of renewable generate enough energy to power approximately 330 000 energy in Finland by more than two percentage points. homes and reduce annual greenhouse gas emissions by more than 190 000 tonnes CO2, corresponding the removal of 85 000 cars from the road. Up to 700 jobs will be created during construction and around 90 during operation. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 23 ENVIRONMENT REDUCING OUR FOOTPRINT Climate change is one of today’s most serious challenges. SEB recognises the importance of limiting the average global temperature rise to well below the 2°C target and works also to reduce our direct environmental footprint. – 54% SEB welcomes the adoption of a new, universal climate agreement at COP 21 in Paris, which is a critical step on the path to solving climate change. We therefore actively work to reduce our direct environmental impact, in addition to our efforts as regards our indirect impact. 2015, THE YEAR TO DELIVER In SEB 2009, set an ambitious target to reduce the annual Our ambitious target has been met with good margin. By CO2 emissions by 45 per cent by 2015, compared to 2008 the end of 2015, SEB’s total CO2 emissions amounted to baseline. Our baseline analysis showed that energy use and 19,118 tonnes. That means that our annual CO2 emissions business travel represented the most material direct impact have been reduced by 54 per cent compared to emissions of our operations on the environment. for 2008. FOCUS AREAS BUSINESS TRAVEL PAPER CONSUMPTION From a carbon footprint perspective, busiWe have continued our efforts to reduce paper ness travel remains the most challenging. consumption including internal printing and More than half of our emissions are related to this. In 2015 external physical mailing. Besides using less resources, this we saw a small decline, 4 per cent, in emissions from busiis important from a customer satisfaction perspective. Our ness travel. However, when comparing 2015 to the 2008 total paper consumption was reduced by a further 17 per cent baseline, our distance travelled has increased by 25 per in 2015 compared to 2014. Compared to the 2008 baseline, cent and an increase in emissions with 10 per cent. Over the paper consumption has been reduced by 75 per cent. last 3 years we have seen an 10 per cent increase in the disAs an example, we have reduced our physical mailing to tance travelled caused by business expansion as well as clients with over 10 million papers during 2015. 10 million internal re-organisations. However, thanks to more effipapers correspond to a 1000 meter high pile when papers cient airplanes SEB’s carbon emission from travelling has are laid on top of each other. remained stable since 2012, despite increased travel distance. However, we have more to do in this area. For the ENERGY USE coming years we will increase efforts to offer alternatives Energy use in our offices and branch offices to travel. This is also an important aspect in the planning of has decreased by 32 per cent since 2008. SEB’s new offices in Arenastaden. At the same time, carbon emissions from our facilities have The use of video conference and PC video for Sweden been reduced by 82 per cent. This due to more energy has increased 12 per cent and 156 per cent, respectively, ­efficient buildings and increased use of renewable energy when comparing 2015 to 2014. sources in many of the countries of operation. For 2015, 92 per cent of our electricity supply is based on renewable COMPANY CARS sources. CO2 emissions from company cars were In 2015, our electricity consumption was reduced by 10 reduced by 14 per cent in 2015, compared to per cent compared to the year before. Compared to 2008, 2014. Compared to the 2008 baseline, the reduction was our electricity consumption has decreased 39 per cent. 58 per cent. During the same period, the SEB average car has reduced emitted carbon dioxide by 32 per cent, calculated for the whole fleet. 24 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT RENEWED ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS Although we have reduced our emissions with 54 per cent the overall CO2 reduction, the targets for 2020 include a and achieved significant reductions in all areas except busi20 per cent reduction of emissions from business travel, ness travel, there is more to do. from company cars, paper usage as well as from energy. We will continue to work with minimising our direct We also have set a target to reduce our electricity consumption footprint. We will further optimise our energy consumpwith 20 per cent by 2020. tion, reduce our use of paper and improve our company car 2020 fleet. Special focus will be put on air travel in order to further reduce emissions related to business travel, as this area now accounts for the major part of our carbon footprint. Our target for 2020 is to reduce our carbon footprint – 20% with another 20 per cent and to improve resource efficiency. A new baseline has been established for 2015 including countries and processes that previously have not been accounted for due to limited data availability. Thus besides RESPONSIBLE SOURCING – ASSESSING OUR SUPPLIERS SEB has a strong ambition to contribute to sustainable managing enhanced assessment and rating of our suppliers. growth. In our Supplier Code of Conduct we express the The result from the monitoring is used by SEB as an important importance of having a sustainable supply chain and what input in the supplier selection, as well as for measuring and we expect from our suppliers. developing current suppliers’ sustainability performance. For suppliers that receive low rating, SEB will support the SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY RISK supplier in driving a positive development of the scoring, ASSESSMENT MODEL with the ambition to improve the rating year to year. To identify the sustainability risks among our suppliers, SEB The risk assessment model and the EcoVadis sustainastarts with an initial assessment. The sustainability risk level bility monitoring platform is also part of SEB’s sourcing for each supplier is determined by: ­initiatives and qualification process for new suppliers. • Country • Industry sector RESULTS FOR 2015 • Business criticality (SEB spend with supplier, outsourcing, We have during 2015 made a risk assessment of suppliers etcetera) representing 87 per cent of our suppliers spend. Enhanced third party risk assessments have been finalized for nearly The risk levels for specific countries and industry sector are 200 company groups, representing approximately 600 of provided to SEB by an external partner with extensive experour suppliers. These 600 suppliers correspond to 63 pertise on the subject. Suppliers identified in the initial supplier cent of our annual spend. Of these suppliers only one suprisk assessment as having a potential increased risk level, plier is to be seen as a high risk supplier based on the third will be further scrutinized in an enhanced assessment. party enhanced assessment, due to limitations in policies and performance. SEB will during 2016 continue to moniSUSTAINABILITY MONITORING PLATFORM tor our supply chain for potential risks and work with low We use EcoVadis sustainability monitoring platform for performing suppliers to improve their performance. A BRIEF ABOUT OUR SUPPLIERS Top five per cent of our suppliers represent 79 per cent of total spend. Our largest suppliers are mainly within Professional serWe have a long tail of small suppliers. Suppliers with less than 500,000 SEK represent 87 per cent of total number 79 vices, Facility management, Information technology and Banking services. These are mostly global and Nordic/ ­Baltic regional ­companies. of suppliers and about 6 per cent of total spend. 5 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 25 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Photo: Niklas Munter. VALUING OUR PEOPLE SEB strives to be a workplace that attracts and retains people who want to grow and develop, and who are committed to supporting our customers to reach their goals. We provide scope for development and want our people to feel valued, included and engaged. The banking sector is undergoing fundamental change. and being part of a team. Employees, who are encouraged, Customer and stakeholder expectations, new technology challenged and who take responsibility for their personal and the regulatory framework will continue to transform development, will grow and contribute to the long-term our business. This makes it increasingly important to success of our business. In order to create an effective attract and develop employees with the right competences organisation, SEB focuses on developing leaders as and values. well as building and strengthening teams along with Working at SEB means both individual commitment cross-collaboration. EMPLOYEE SURVEY In the employee survey Insight, we to work. 84 per cent say they feel proud development paths within the Bank. measure Employee Engagement and to work at SEB, an increase of 10 perIn open meetings and with supPerformance Excellence. The scores centage points compared with 2013. porting tools for dialogue and collabincreased for the third year in a row Among the improvement areas oration, managers and employees in and were once again higher than the were effective systems and processes all divisions and countries have worked average for the financial sector. 80 per for supporting customers, stronger with the survey results based on their cent recommend SEB as a good place internal cooperation, and clearer respective strengths and weaknesses. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PERFORMANCE EXCELLENCE AMBASSADORSHIP Engagement Index Financial Efficiency and trust Index Financial sector sector 2015 2014 0 30 60 90 0 30 60 90 I am very satisfied with 2013 70 71 2013 74 74 SEB as a place to work 89 86 I would highly recommend 2014 75 2014 78 71 74 SEB as a place to work 80 76 79 80 2015 71 2015 75 26 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY SEB’s people strategy is built on four cornerstones through which we aim to ensure that SEB has the organisational capabilities to meet a changing environment. Professional people. SEB professionals Great leaders in SEB induce a strong take pride in serving customers and show sense of purpose to the business. They accountability and responsiveness. They know care about and develop their people, they matter, are dedicated, ready to help, operate with and through teams, are role contribute and collaborate. models and promote the right mind set and behaviours. Effective organisation. SEB is an High performing teams. We build inclusive, business-driven organisation and acknowledge interaction between where people feel respected and valued teams and reward behaviours that as professionals. SEB is an agile organidrive to add value. Leaders and team sation that has the capacity to adapt to members work in a dynamic, mature changing market needs. and trustful way, collaborating towards common goals. REVISED CORE VALUES In order to meet future needs, SEB has revised its core valCustomers first – we naturally put our customer’s needs ues. These provide the foundation for everything we do and first, always seeking to understand how to deliver real value. they give us an inner compass to follow in our daily work. Commitment – we are personally dedicated to the success of our customers and are accountable for our actions. Customers first Collaboration – we achieve more because we work Commitment together. We share, challenge and learn from our experiences as a team. Collaboration Simplicity Simplicity – we strive to simplify what’s complex. We value our customers’ time by being accessible, straightforward and transparent. TALENT ATTRACTION SEB works strategically to attract the best people with the Summer Internship. These programmes are important skills, experiences and behaviours we need in order to channels for SEB to attract new competencies, views and remain successful. We build relations with potential mind-sets in the bank. employees at selected universities and networks through SEB strives to increase internal mobility to retain and seminars, workshops and dialogues. Social media is imporinspire present employees. An internal career web page, tant for communication with targeted groups and to build career days and shadowing days aim to show examples of relations and talent pools for recruitment. Three career paths and development opportunities, and highlight ­programmes aim to attract and recruit students and young vacancies. A yearly process is used to identify and develop ­professionals; The International Trainee Programme, talents as well as monitor progress on how people develop IT Young Professionals Programme and Merchant Banking within SEB. LEADERSHIP AND LEARNING SEB offers several global development programmes and adapt to new circumstances, such as new customer expecmakes it possible for employees to build necessary leadertations or changing demands from regulators and lawmakship qualities and develop both personally and as team ers. To facilitate learning, modern methods and effective members. Managers in the bank are increasingly involving tools are used, such as short films, interactive presentations employees and are better at driving change, collaborating, and web-based trainings. and communicating; this is visible in the Insight results. During 2015, SEB developed its own internal campus. In Continuous learning through day-to-day activities is a spring 2016, this will be launched on a digital platform that key prerequisite for our ability to effectively and smoothly will be easily accessible for all employees. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 27 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY HEALTH AND WORK ENVIRONMENT An engaging and sound work environment encourages the dimension ‘work life ­balance’ in order to support the high quality performance as well as high employee satisfacorganisation. tion and loyalty. SEB’s health strategy focuses on preventive measures. It aims to motivate employees and raise knowledge about the significance of lifestyle and the work EMPLOYEE STATISTICS 1) environment for them as individuals. The strategy is based on the latest research findings and incorporates recommen2015 2014 2013 dations from SEB’s health science council. Total headcount, incl part-time 16,4322) 16,767 16,717 Total sickness-related absenteeism at SEB in Sweden is Sweden 8,298 8,383 8,558 2.8 per cent, a slight increase since 2014 (2.4 %), but still Germany 707 838 1,003 low compared with other industries and peers. We have Baltic 5,097 5,198 5,015 strengthened our focus on stress-related absenteeism, for Employee turnover, % 9 8.9 11.1 example by having stress prevention as a main topic in our Sick leave, % (in Sweden) 2.8 2.4 2.4 leadership trainings. We have also created a ‘health and work environment index’ in our employee survey linked to 1) End of year 2) Average number of full-time equivalents 15,605. DIVERSITY We believe that different perspectives enhance creativity and conferences. The activities are coordinated by the Estoand problem-solving, and contribute to good decisions. In nian Human Rights Centre, an independent human rights turn, this benefits our customers and society at large. We advocacy NGO dedicated to the advancement of protection continuously strive to improve our processes – from how of human rights in Estonia and abroad. we advertise and recruit to how we develop and communicate with our employees. LABOUR RIGHTS The ongoing cooperation with the European Works CounSEB MEMBER OF ESTONIAN DIVERSITY CHARTER cil (EWC) has increased further and we have initiated negoSEB is a member of Estonian Diversity Charter, uniting tiations for a new agreement. Concerning labour rights SEB 68 members. In this value-based document, companies and follows local collective agreements and national legislation public sector organisations pledge to uphold the principles in the countries where we are present. of diversity and equal treatment among employees, customers and cooperation partners. The members share best practices and organise trainings MANAGEMENT BY GENDER 2015 2014 Male Female Male Female Senior managers 73 % 27 % 75 % 25 % Middle managers 59 % 41 % 62 % 38 % First line managers 49 % 51 % 48 % 52 % All managers 56 % 44 % 57 % 43 % Staff 42 % 58 % 41 % 59 % 28 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES Access to finance and banking services are crucial for economic growth. By sharing our specialist knowledge, we empower people to make more informed financial decisions and contribute to better functioning societies. During SEB’s Financial Literacy Roadshow across the Baltics, 213 employSHARING OUR KNOWLEDGE ees visited 190 schools and met around 5,500 youths. 150 expert reports We continuously work to improve financial literacy in society. were published in Sweden and the Baltic countries. Our experts produce several reports every year and involve in activities where they meet and interact with the general public. Examples include chats on public web sites, TwitACCESSIBLE TO ALL ter, educational YouTube-films or through our blog portal Our ambition is that all banking services that we provide in Green Room. our digital platforms and branch offices should be adapted In 2015, SEB organized a Financial Literacy Road Show and accessible to all individuals with their different needs across the Baltics with the aim to educate youths to deal with and abilities. Basically all our branch offices are suitable for their private finances and to inspire them for the future. So disabled persons and SEB’s telephone customer service is far, 213 employees have visited 190 schools and met around open 24 hours a day, all year. 5,500 youths. SEB has also developed the documentary In Sweden, personal customer service is available in 25 drama “Tomorrow came yesterday” in the Baltics, about languages. Our apps have the support of so-called “Voice the changes we might experience over the next 30 years by over” and “Dynamic Type” to enable listening to informatranslating future scenarios into clear and everyday life sittion and to change the font size. We offer our security tool uations. Around 290,000 people watched the drama. Digipass adjusted for customers that are visually impaired In Sweden, SEB engages in Like Your Finances, a netto facilitate banking services via the Internet, the telephone work that conducts educational projects in personal finance bank and the self-service Bank by Phone. for different target groups like employees, pensioners, ­­students and immigrants. The aim is to increase consumer personal financial skills and boost the personal financial confidence. In November 2015, around 90 teachers and FORWARD-LOOKING FORWARD-LOOKING school managers gathered at SEB to discuss youth’s attitude to finance. As a bank, we see the need for making our services available to all groups in society, from new immigrants, PENSIONS IN PLAIN LANGUAGE to people who for various reasons have limited access to SEB Life and Pension in Estonia has launched a “plain lan­digital services. By increasing the availability of our guage project” where they have created new contract terms ­services, we want to support people who otherwise might and conditions which are both legally viable and easy to not be able to take part in society to the full extent. understand. The project promotes both financial literacy and increased transparency. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 29 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES seb wants to contribute to building a society we all want to, and can, be part of. In addition to the role that our business plays, we support local communities. We share both time and money and work with carefully chosen partners. At SEB, we engage for future generations. We support the • Sports and culture 27.0 MSEK 44% • Youth 7.3 MSEK 12% development of local communities, in active partnership 61.5 MSEK • Entrepreneurship 12.1 MSEK 20% with organisations and institutions in our home markets. • Education 4.6 MSEK 7% We focus on innovation and entrepreneurship, c­ hildren • Donations 7.3 MSEK 12% and youth as well as education and know-how. • Memberships and in kind giving 3.2 MSEK 5% 2,2 A clear proof that SEB’s employees want to the employees in the Nordic countries, Germany and the engage is our collection for the Syrian refuUK donated a total of 1.1 million Swedish kronor, after gees that took place in early September 2015 which SEB matched with the same amount. In total, SEB MILLION through Save the Children. Within a week, donated SEK 2.2 million. EDUCATION AND YOUTH In SEB we actively support research, education and innovaover the three years and around 150 students during 2015. tion. We engage in several programmes with universities, both by contributing to professorships and research projects ENGAGEMENT FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH and by partnerships for students in Sweden, around the SEB contributes to children and youth in need of extra sup­Nordics and the Baltics. In Latvia, we support and cooperate port. SEB Charity Fund is among the largest charity foundawith Stockholm School of Economics SSE Riga and SSE Riga tion in Estonia with over 7,000 regular donors that are able Sustainable Business Centre where we are involved in the to help more than 1,000 children from shelters and foster production of the Shadow Economy Index and the Retirefamilies. In Latvia, SEB partners with the SOS Children Vilment Readiness Index. We have granted scholarships to lages that provide support for young people and engage 25 students in Latvia for the school year 2015/2016, through both employees and customers in volunteering and our partnerships with the social rehabilitation NGO’s ­donations. In Lithuania, SEB is main supporter of the larg“Livslust”and the Vītols Fund. In Sweden, SEB engaged in est nationwide fundraising campaign “Dreams Come True” World Values day, a meeting point where students and profesin order to raise money and provide support for ill children. sionals built values and self-awareness. Since 2013, SEB has BUILDING TRUST AS MENTORS Since 1997, SEB has partnered with Mentor, a foundation Over 7,000 donors help more focusing on drug prevention among youth, aiming to create relationships and build trust between young people and than 1,000 children adults. Employees are involved as mentors, either individually for one young person, in school classes on several occasions, or for just one day at a school. Students visit SEB’s organized the contest Dream Challenge in different schools offices, to get a glimpse of how it might be to work in a around Stockholm together with the organization A Million bank. Through Mentor, our employees are given the opporMinds with the aim to encourage students to set up goals tunity to make a contribution to society, while developing for the future. The programme has engaged 650 students themselves and their own leadership. 30 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURS SEB has a long tradition of supporting entrepreneurs and small companies. We have partnerships at all levels, illustrated by the “entrepreneur staircase”. In Sweden, we were involved in 70 activities where we met around 10,000 people. 275 SEB employees were engaged and invested 1,700 hours. Among our partnerships are Swedish Prince Daniels Fellowship, Brain Hunt, I­ FS, Entrepreneur of the Year, Business Challenge, Vega Fund and many more. For start-ups in Sweden, Nyföretagarcentrum is the leading organisation to support the creation of new viable businesses. The organisation provides free advice to people who aspire to start their own business. We also partner with the start-up incubation hubs STING and SUP46 (Start-up People) where we offer business advice and free banking services. In 2015, SUP46’s 50 member companies created 125 new jobs. Four people from SEB have been engaged in SUP46 for 75 hours. PROMOTING NEW BUSINESS IDEAS SEB is a national partner to Venture Cup, which is the leading contest for those who want to develop their business idea into a successful business concept. During the year, “Few people probably realise how SEB has provided financial support, awarded prizes in the much hard work is needed to create Venture Cup finals and hosted an event where all Sweden innovative products and services. But finalists had the opportunity to get inspiration and advice. start-ups get lot of energy when large SEB is also engaged in the competition “Settler of the Year” companies like SEB show that they for people of foreign origin that live in Sweden and started support and believe in us. This is a c­ ompany with limited resources. In addition, SEB works what makes us rise again after defeats actively with Junior Achievement, both in Sweden and the and continue to change the world. “ Baltics. It is a programme for high school students who Rosie Linder, Peppy Pals get the opportunity to run their own business during a school year. PROMOTION OF MUSIC AND LEARNING Since 2005, we support the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra in Stockholm and the Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra. Through these partnerships, we support the school concert concept El Sistema, a non-profit organisation that uses music education as a tool for development of children and youths. The collaboration with El Sistema is a long-term commitment. In June 2015, the music festival “Side-by-Side by El Sistema” was held in Gothenburg, where more than 3,000 children and youths from around the world met to play music and sing together. SEB and the Stockholm Concert Hall have also developed Konserthuset Play, a web portal with recorded concerts with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and educational films about music instruments for children and youths. The aim is to make the concerts more accessible More than 3,000 children and young people from around the world met to play and inspire to music and learning. and sing together at “Side-by-Side by El Sistema”. Photo: Alejandra Fernandez. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 31 STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGING WITH STAKEHOLDERS rnments & regulators stakeholdeRs’ views and expectations are critical for our Gove continuous development and ability to create long-term value. Engaging with SEB’s stakeholders and incorporating s Mo Cus ee re tha to their feedback is therefore instrumental to the success of oy 00 n 5 ers n Em p SEB’s sustainability work. , 15 l 4 m millio We identified our key stakeholders in 2009, through a n e rs thorough analysis which we review every year. Customers & b u si n e s s p a r t remain in focus, but we continue to have an active dialogue with all key stakeholder groups. We use a range of mechaMedia nisms for engagement, gathering and monitoring of important feedback across our business. oun e tr i e s Stakeholder dialogues help us develop our approach to Sup p li e r s Sh g sustainability and to integrate sustainability throughout lar eh , 0c ar 270 ol at the business. ty e2 00 de c i e so m 0 rs S o t i ng i n ra Ope C iv il s o c i e t y o rg a n i s a t i o n s STAKEHOLDERS AND ENGAGEMENT CHANNELS MAIN ISSUES DURING 2015 CUSTOMERS • Customer experience and service • Business ethics Customer insight surveys, focus groups, feedback and complaints received • Proactivity •T  ransparency and via our customer advisors and relationship managers, telephone banks and • Customer service across all openness local branch teams, social media, surveys such as Prospera, Needscope, meeting points • Sustainability in product SEB Brand Tracking, Reputation Index, SKI (Swe), Finansbarometern (Swe). • Accessibility of e-services offering EMPLOYEES •D evelopment/career opportunities • Social engagement Annual employee survey, open internal chats with executive management, • Organisation and culture • Remuneration town hall meetings, value dialogues, SEB Way transformations and weekly • Leadership • Work methods and IT continuous development meetings, leadership development programmes, • Transparency and openness systems Workers Councils meetings; annual workplace, health and safety reviews. • Health/work life balance • Working with sustainability SHAREHOLDERS, INVESTORS AND ANALYSTS • Sustainable growth and return • Human capital Surveys such as Bloomberg, RobecoSAM, Vigeo, Sustainalytics, Oekom and • Financial strength and resilience development Imug. Road-shows, investor meetings, briefings, engagement dialogues, • Risk management • Transparency questions received prior to and during AGM’s and in connection with result • Sustainability management presentations. performance GOVERNMENT AND REGULATORS • Regulation • Personal integrity issues Economic and policy trend analysis, industry forums, bi-lateral and • Consumer debt levels • Sustainability in credit ­multi-lateral meetings. • Anti-money laundering granting and in invest• Investment advice ment management SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS • Strategic partnerships Questionnaires and individual meetings, supplier screening process. • Accountability COMMUNITIES, CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS, • Job-creation • Local community CONSUMER ADVOCATE GROUPS, MEDIA • Ethical behaviour, transparency support Research – general public, local community engagements, round table dis• Sustainability in financing and •P  rofitability versus cussions, regular meetings with NGO’s, mentoring, volunteering, CS forums, investments customer value research papers, media coverage. • Climate change 32 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MATERIALITY OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Materiality is about identifying the issues that are of most concern to our stakeholders as well as to our own business. They influence stakeholders’ perception of our performance and impact our ability to create and sustain value. SEB’s process on identifying the most material issues is based on on a three to five year perspective. This input forms our strategic an on-going engagement with our stakeholders in combination approach and guides our focus for reporting. with our own assessment of issues that are of strategic importance Although many issues remain material over time, we have idenfor our business. The essential input gained from stakeholders is tified a few issues that have become more important during 2015. complemented by desk research on emerging societal, economic, The main movers are Resource efficiency in society, Data protecenvironmental and business trends impacting our business. Issues tion, Capacity for innovation and Business ethics and culture. For identified are evaluated from both a stakeholder perspective and more information about material aspects and boundaries in how they influence with SEB´s ability to create and sustain value accordance with GRI G4, please see page 14–21 in CS Fact Book. 1 Very high 2+3 4 7 5+6 8 9+10 11+A B Importance to SEB’s stakeholders C D E+F G High H I Medium Medium High Very high Importance to SEB’s business IMPORTANT FOR MULTIPLE STAKEHOLDER GROUPS IMPORTANT FOR SOME STAKEHOLDER GROUPS 1. Customer experience and service A. Resource efficiency in society 2. Financial strength and resilience B Sustainability profiled products and services 3. Business ethics and culture C. Tax transparency and public affairs etc 4. Digitisation and automation D. Supporting entrepreneurship 5. Data protection E. Responsible sourcing 6. Risk management F. Working conditions, diversity and d­ iscrimination 7. Capacity for innovation G. Engaging in local communities 8. Sustainability in financing and investments incl climate change H. Financial inclusion 9. Responsible and proactive advice I. Direct environmental impact 10. Talent management and competence development 11. Employee engagement SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 33 HUMAN RIGHTS. YEARS OF ACTION HUMAN RIGHTS SEB is committed to human rights as set out in interna• Improving financial literacy in society is one way to tional commitments such as the UN Guiding Principles on enhance the ability for individuals to lead a dignified life. Business and Human Rights and the UN Global Compact. SEB therefore is engaged in a range of activities aimed at Code of Conduct is a key instrument in ensure that everyincreasing the understanding of personal finance as well one at SEB acts in accordance with our standards, includas economics, see p 29 for details. ing areas such as diversity and equal opportunities. • A number of specialists have participated in human rights and children’s rights training. Human rights is included in TRAINING AND PRECAUTIONARY ACTIONS a number of different training within SEB, e.g. on Code of • Risk assessment processes have been strengthened as Conduct, sustainability, sector policies, equator principles additional sectors and customers have been marked for and leadership training. Next step is to develop additional extra due diligence. The potential for human right concerns guidance notes to complement our strong ­policy framework. have been raised in certain cases and specific discussions • Mapping of human rights and labour standard practices and action plans have been established with a number of across all SEB sites in 2012. organisations. SEB is an active member of the Swedish Financial • Integration of position statements and sector policies into ­Coalition against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of risk framework for business and credit decisions relevant ­Children since 2009. to country, sector and company is continuously evolving. Decisions are made by the established decision fora such POLICIES AND GUIDELINES as business and credit committees. When applicable, • UN Global Compact signatory since 2004 Group Corporate Sustainability is engaged and/or matters • Code of Conduct since 2006 are escalated. • Equator Principles signatory 2007 • All investments and funds managed by SEB are screened. • Group wide position statements since 2011; position on We exclude companies involved in certain activities such climate change revised in 2015 as the production or marketing of illegal weapons (anti• Group wide sector policies since 2011; policy for arms personnel landmines, cluster munitions, chemical and defence revised in 2014 with a clear stance against and biological weapons) and in the development or nuclear weapons, and an increased focus on human rights. ­production phases of nuclear weapons programmes. • Human Rights Policy since 2013 Human rights related risks are one of the areas for active • Code of Conduct for Suppliers since 2014 ownership. • Credit Policy on Corporate Sustainability revised in 2014, with an increased emphasis on human rights. YEARS OF ACTION 2006 2008 2010 SEB published • Adoption of the UN Principles for • Support Young Code of Business Responsible Investments. ­Enterprising Conduct. • Signatory of the Carbon Disclosure (Ung Företagsamhet). Project. • Support Mentor in • First issue of green bonds – developed Latvia and Lithuania. Code of in co-operation between the World • E xternal web site business conduct Bank and SEB. Sustainable ­Perspective launched. 2004 2004 2007 2009 SEB signed • First Nordic Bank to adopt the • Joined the Swedish Financial Coalition the UN Global Equator Principles. against child pornography. Compact. • SEB’s first Corporate Sustainability • First group-wide CS strategy and WE SUPPORT Report published. framework decided upon by the Group Executive Committee. • C S Report in line with Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. 34 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT THIS REPORT OUR APPROACH TO TAX ABOUT THIS REPORT As a bank, SEB plays an integral role in society and conThis report describes SEB’s approach and present targets, tributes to creating economic growth and social value. guidelines, measures and key achievements related to the Running a profitable and sustainable business enables SEB Group’s contribution to sustainable development. The proto contribute to the societies in which we operate by paying cess to define what to include in this report includes feedback corporate income tax, social security contributions as well from previous reports from internal and external stakeas bank levies. As a large company, the procurement of supholders, the identification of material issues (described on plies for the business is substantial. However, VAT is not pages 33), best practice within sustainability reporting and recoverable for financial services and VAT therefor is a large important events during the year. cost for SEB. In addition, SEB has an important role in the The reporting organisation’s name is Skandinaviska collection, reporting and payment of taxes on dividends Enskilda Banken AB (Publ) (“SEB”), headquartered in and interest for customers. SEB therefore sees tax as an Stockholm, Sweden. The report comprises the entire important part of SEB’s contribution to society. organisation of the SEB Group, except as specifically stated in connection with certain indicators. TRANSPARENT AND PROFESSIONAL SEB has published a Corporate Sustainability report SEB pays taxes in accordance with local regulations in all annually since 2007. The report covers the preceding fiscal countries where we operate and it is SEB’s policy to mainyear, January to December 2015. In some cases informatain a good relationship with tax authorities by acting tion for early 2016 is included. The previous report was pubtransparent and professional. lished in March 2015. There has been no significant change SEB has adopted a transfer pricing policy to comply from the previous report in scope and boundary. Applicawith OECD guidelines for Transfer Pricing in order to ble organisational changes for the SEB Group are described secure that profits are allocated and taxed where the value in the Annual Report 2015 (AR), page 9. For details on is created. SEB has implemented transfer pricing documenaccounting policies, please see AR pages 72. tation to support methods applied and show transparency Our main reporting framework is the Global Reporting towards tax authorities. Initiative, GRI, G4 guidelines for the Financial Services SEB is committed to meeting the raised expectations on Sector. SEB reports in accordance with the G4 core. Key transparency in respect of our tax management and continaspects of SEB’s sustainability work, such as risk manageuously work to enhance the scope of our communication ment, corporate governance and staff composition, remuaround tax. In 2015, SEB’s income tax expense amounted neration and benefits, are included in the annual accounts to SEK 4,284 million (SEK 4,129 million in 2014) globally. of SEB. SEB’s auditor PwC has been engaged to perform a Please see CS Fact Book p 1 for a more detailed breakdown limited review of the full report, including a GRI applicaof taxes paid per country. The SEB Group also paid social tion check. Our GRI index is found in Sustainability Fact security fees of SEK 2,546 million and stability fees and Book (CS Fact Book) on pages 14 – 21, at http://sebgroup.com/ deposit insurance amounting to SEK 1,201 million in 2015. about-seb/sustainability/how-we-work/annual-reporting. 2011 2013 2015 • Sector policies and • SEB launched microfinance fund. • Reduced CO 2 emissions with 54 %, position statements • Facilitated first ever corporate green bond exceeding the target. approved by the GEC. as well as first green bond for a Nordic • Strengthened position statement on • OECD Guidelines for municipality. climate change. Multinational Enter• Human Rights policy approved by the GEC. • Launch of third micro finance fund. prises, revised. • Increased index for employee ­engagement for third year in a row. 2016 2012 2014 • Updated Code of Business Conduct. • Launch of second micro • Launch of whistle-blowing process. finance fund. • Renewed agreement with Mentor. • Sector policy on Arms and defence revised. • 300 employees attend CS Summit 2014. • Engagement with El Sistema. SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 35 AUDITOR’S REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TO SKANDINAVISKA ENSKILDA BANKEN AB (PUBL) INTRODUCTION a­ ssurance that we would become aware of all significant We have been engaged by the Group Management of matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) (“SEB”) to engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable undertake an examination of SEB’s Corporate Sustainability assurance conclusion. (CS) Report for the year 2015 with corresponding SustainaThe firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality bility Fact Book and GRI index on SEB’s website (www. Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system sebgroup.com). We refer to these publications collectively of quality control including documented policies and proas the “Sustainability Report”. cedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD AND requirements. ­MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the The Board of Directors and the Group Management are Board of Directors and the Group Management as described responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation in accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on of the Sustainability Report. page 35 in the CS Report, and are the parts of the SustainabilWe believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient ity Reporting Guidelines (published by Global Reporting Initiand appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. ative, GRI) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles CONCLUSION that the Company has developed. This responsibility Based on the limited assurance procedures we have perincludes the internal control relevant to the preparation of formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to a Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatebelieve that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all ments, whether due to fraud or error. material respects, in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group Management. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. Stockholm, 1st March 2016 We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports PricewaterhouseCoopers AB issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procePeter Nyllinge dures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in Authorized Public Accountant nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures Fredrik Ljungdahl performed consequently do not enable us to obtain Expert member of FAR 36 SEB CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 2015/2016 AWARDED BY Included in The Sustainability Yearbook 2015 and 2016 RobecoSAM Global 100, 2015 and 2016 Corporate Knights Global Woman’s Index Fund Pax Ellevate SUSTAINABILITY INDEXES INDEX PROVIDER OMX GES SUSTAINABILITY SWEDEN AND NORDIC INDEX NASDAQ OMX/GES SIX SWEDEN SRI INDEX SIX FINANC. INFORMATION FTSE4GOOD FTSE ECPI INDICES ECPI STOXX GLOBAL ESG LEADERS INDICES STOXX ETHIBEL EXCELLENCE INVESTMENT REGISTER FORUM ETHIBEL INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENTS UN Global Compact Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Equator Principles Please United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and CDP Water Disclosure recycle me! This report is associated with a carbon ICC Business Charter on Sustainable Development footprint of 61 g CO2-equivalents Montreal Carbon Pledge per m2 printed product, corresponSwedish Financial Coalition Against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children (national) ding to 0.14 kg CO2-equivalents per report. The selected printing company is climate compensated and has ISO14001 environmental certification. If you no longer have CONTACT US use for this report, please recycle it. Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability Contact: Tel: +46 8 763 50 00, e-mail: cs@seb.se Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Name and Head office Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB Postal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden The FSC logo identifies products Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 ­accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council. © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, 2016. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. Inside back cover II SEGR0103 2016.03 Production: SEB and Rewir Printing: Elanders All photos, unless otherwise specified: Joachim Lundgren ABOUT SEB Welcome to SEB. Our vision is to deliver world-class service to our customers. We assist 2,300 large corporations, 700 financial institutions, 257,000 small and medium-sized companies and 1.3 million private individuals with advice and financial solutions. In Sweden and the Baltic countries, we offer comprehensive financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany, we have a strong focus on a full-service offering to large corporate and institutional customers. The international scope of the operations is reflected in SEB’s presence in some 20 countries with 15,500 employees. We have a long-term perspective in all of our operations and contribute to the development of markets and communities. OUR RESPONSIBILITY We know that the way we act affects the world in which we operate. It is our responsibility to make sure that we do business in an ethical and sustainable way, attending to our customers’ needs and protecting people and the environment. By being a well-managed and profitable company, we can use our resources, time, money and knowledge of our people to contribute to society. This report presents our company from a sustainable perspective and covers our performance 2015 – how we govern and manage our business responsibly in order to create value for our stakeholders. Our actions span the spectrum from small details to complex questions on the global business agenda. Visit us: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability, contact us: cs@sebgroup.com
