1347 North Alma School Road, Suite 220 Chandler, AZ USA 85225 August 24, 2016 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Mr. Secretary General I write this letter to confirm that Everspin Technologies, Inc. is committed to supporting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, Labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact an integral part of our culture, operations, and strategy. I am not at all satisfied that this is our second attempt at establishing our Company as a committed member of the Global Compact. Simply put the effort failed to become reality as a member of my Staff left the Company without having executed to our commitment or his to insure the work was completed. I have since placed my Director of Human Resources, who believes in the UN Global Compact as zealously as I do, in a position to work closely with me to insure we are successful. We respectfully request that we be enabled to continue our work as a member of the Global Compact. We will not fail in our commitment or our duty. To demonstrate further our commitment to this effort, I have provided the attached Communication on Progress (COP) for Everspin Technologies, Inc. Even though we may have failed to deliver this document in the required timeframe, the value of the Global Compact was not lost on us as an organization. Please consider this letter a formal request to be reinstated into the Global Compact and as my commitment to insure success by my signature. Respectfully Submitted, Phillip LoPresti CEO Everspin Technologies, Inc. 1347 North Alma School Road, Suite 220 Chandler, AZ USA 85225 August 25, 2016 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Mr. Secretary General Even though Everspin Technologies, Inc. did not communicate our progress on various initiatives that go directly to our commitment to the Global Compact, we did none the less have them. We did significant work toward insuring the principles are embedded in our company culture and business strategies globally. Relative to our position on Corruption, Everspin's reputation for integrity is its most valuable asset and is directly related to the conduct of its officers and employees. We have set out a mandate in writing and as policy that employees must never use their positions with Everspin, or any of its customers, for private gain, to advance personal interests or to obtain favors or benefits for themselves, members of their families or any other individuals, corporations or business entities. Everspin also specifically requires adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards applicable in our business. Everspin's business is conducted in strict observance of both the letter and spirit of all applicable laws and the integrity of each employee is of utmost importance. In addition we proudly comply with the EICC Code of Conduct Compliance Statement and select our subcontractors only if they comply as well. We have done quite a lot of work in the area of Human Rights and Labor, both internal to our own organization, and to insure that from an external perspective we are known as a Company that supports Human Rights globally. We find this particularly relevant to our work outside of the United States as well. Everspin Technologies Inc. is firmly against forced labor practices of any age and as such does not participate in any such practice. Furthermore should Everspin become aware of such heinous labor practices perpetrated by a customer, supplier, competitor or by any other association, we will by policy immediately report such practices to the proper Law Enforcement Organization. We also abide by and zealously support the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act which defines labor trafficking as the recruitment, harboring, transportation, provision or obtaining of a person for labor or services through the use of force, fraud or coercion for the purposes of subjection to involuntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage or slavery. We also support the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act which governs the ages of workers, hours, and kinds of works minors can perform in the United States. Our efforts to insure we remain a solid World Citizen in environmental practices have been initialized as well. We have strict process and procedure to insure proper waste management in our manufacturing process which include waste water management, Industrial waste management, and exhaust filtration. We have regular meetings and discussions to promote continuous improvement in these areas. We also provide new hire training as well as refresher training in Pollution Prevention, Chemical Safety, and Recycling. Although we have indeed made progress in these areas we also believe there is always room for improvement. We shall continue forward with the goal of being a leader in our industry in practicing these important principles. It is my sincere hope that you can see through this writing that although Everspin Technologies, Inc. admits to having done a poor job of Communicating our Progress to the Global Compact, we have taken significant action towards living up to our commitment. Best Regards, Phillip LoPresti Chief Executive Officer Everspin Technologies, Inc.
