Concrete Solutions for a Sustainable Future Sustainable Development Report 2015 TABLE OF Table of Contents CONTENTS Anchoring Sustainability to Our Business 9 1 1.1 CEMEX ‘s Sustainability Approach 10 1.2 Progress and Challenges Towards Our Targets 16 Introduction 1.3 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 19 Company Snapshot 3 Message to Our Stakeholders 6 Creating Resilient and Efficient Infrastructure and Buildings 22 Sustainability Reporting 2 2.1 Providing Sustainable Products, Solutions and Services 23 Highlights 8 2.2 Implementing Resilient and Low-Impact Infrastructure 29 2.3 Delivering Solutions for Affordable Housing and Efficient Buildings 31 Our External Advisory Panel Implementing a High-Impact Social Strategy 34 Panel Members and Statement 81 3 3.1 Promoting the Development of Sustainable Communities 35 3.2 Generating Empowerment, Diversity and Capacity-Building 38 3.3 Creating Social and Inclusive Business Opportunities 42 Additional Pursuing Excellence in Environmental Management 46 Information 4 4.1 Optimizing Our Carbon Footprint 47 Our Performance in Detail 83 4.2 From Waste to Fuel 51 Independent Assurance Report 88 4.3 Minimizing Air Emissions and Enhancing Our Environmental Management 54 About This Report 90 4.4 Preserving Land, Biodiversity and Water 57 Embedding Our Core Values into Every Action 62 5 5.1 Placing Health and Safety First 63 5.2 Satisfied Customers and Responsible Suppliers 67 5.3 Engaging and Retaining Our Talent 70 5.4 Strengthening Business Ethics, Compliance and Transparency 73 Our Cover: Enhancing our Engagement with Stakeholders 77 6 Mulini Beach in Croatia, a CEMEX Building Awards infrastructure and urbanism construction project. 2 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Company USA Northern Europe Our Sustainability Credentials Snapshot 17.1 Mexico 10,183 11.1 Mediterranean 8,846 CDP Climate Disclosure Leadership Index CEMEX is a global building materials Asia Recognized for the 28.3 9,504 18.2 4,052 company that provides high quality products 4th consecutive year 5.7 1,139 and reliable service to customers and as one of the best Latin American companies in communities in more than 50 countries. South, Central America terms of Climate Change data disclosure. Celebrating its 110th anniversary, CEMEX has and the Caribbean (SCAC) a rich history of improving the well-being of 12.5 6,046 Other 3,347 (including Corporate) Mexican Stock those it serves through innovative building Exchange solutions, efficiency advancements, and Sustainability Index cement production capacity employees efforts to promote a sustainable future. (million tons/year) CEMEX has been selected since the Index’s inception in 2011. The assessment includes performance, impact Employees around the world Annual cement Annual production of and responses to emerging environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues. production capacity ready-mix concrete As of April 2016, 53 CEMEX was scored 43,000 More than 93 million tons million cubic meters the highest in ESG disclosure by Bloomberg among the peers in the international cement industry as well as within the constituents of the Mexican Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. Aggregates annual Cement plants Ready-mix concrete plants UNGC 100 Index production level CEMEX remains the 148 56 1,608 sole Mexico-based company selected for the UN Global Compact 100, a global stock million tons +12 with minority index that combines sustain­ability and financial performance. participation Fortune’s Aggregate quarries Land distribution centers Marine terminals Change the World List CEMEX ranked 16th in this list recognizing 50 companies that have made a sizable 61 impact on major global social 305 242 or environmental problems as part of their competitive strategy. 3 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Financial Highlights (In millions of US dollars1, except per-ADS data) 20153 20143 % Variation 1 For the reader´s convenience figures are Net sales 14,127 15,288 (8%) presented in US dollars. For statements of Sales by Product (%) operations accounts, these figures result from Operating earnings before other expenses, net 1,674 1,637 2% translating the local currency amounts into US dollars at the average exchange rate for Operating EBITDA 2,636 2,696 (2%) 15 the year, which approximates a convenience translation of the Mexican peso results for Controlling interest net income (loss) 75 (507) 115% 2015 and 2014 using the average exchange rates of the year of 15.98 MXN/US$ and 46 Earnings (loss) per ADS 2 0.06 (0.39) 13.37 MXN/US$, respectively. For balance Earnings (loss) of continued operations per ADS2 0.02 sheet accounts, US dollar figures result from 39 translating the local currency amounts into US Earnings (loss) of discontinuing operations per ADS2 0.04 dollars at the closing exchange rate for the year, which approximates a convenience translation Free cash flow after maintenance capital expenditures 881 401 N/A of the Mexican peso amounts at the end of Cement each year using the end-of-year exchange Total assets 31,472 34,936 (10%) rate of 17.23 MXN/US$ and 14.74 MXN/US$, Ready-mix concrete Total debt and perpetual notes 15,327 16,291 (6%) respectively. Aggregates 2 Based on an average of 1,353 and 1,256 Total controlling stockholders’ equity 8,327 8,894 (6%) million American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for 2015 and 2014, respectively. 3 Figures are under IFRS. Direct Economic Impacts IFRS Sales by Region (%) (In millions of US dollars) 2015 2014 2013 5 11 28 1 Excludes sales of assets. Customers: Net sales1 14,127 15,288 14,815 2 Excludes depreciation and amortization. 14 Suppliers: Cost of sales and operating expenses2 9,328 10,312 9,898 3 Wages and benefits include non-operational and operational employees. Employees and their families: Wages and benefits3 2,162 2,279 2,314 4 Capital expenditures for maintenance and 20 expansion. 22 Investments: CAPEX plus working capital 4 471 704 807 5 Donations as percentage of pre-tax income. Creditors: Net financial expense 1,151 1,334 1,418 6 Dividends paid in cash. Government: Taxes 486 558 511 7 Free Cash Flow from Austria, Hungary and USA Croatia operations. Northern Europe Communities: Donations5 (1.73%) (0.97%) (0.53%) Mexico Shareholders: Dividends6 0 0 0 SCAC Mediterranean Others (79) (87) 102 Asia Free cash flow from discontinued operations7 (24) (23) (31) Consolidated free cash flow 628 210 (206) Net income (loss) before taxes & non controlling interest 215 (137) (276) 4 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Our Offering Portfolio Products ON S l u tions and Service CO N CEMENT. Gray Ordinary Portland Cement, White Portland TI So s Cement, Masonry or Mortar, Oil-well Cement, Blended REA EM Cement, and others. GS DY OL -M AV EP READY-MIX CONCRETE. Made from a mixture of U T IX EN ET cement, aggregates, water and admixtures, ready-mix BU I L concrete is an extremely durable building material that can CR CE DI N be cast into many different shapes. M N AGGREGATES. Materials such as stone, sand and gravel CO TE ENTS are the primary ingredients in ready-mix concrete. Others CRE include asphalt and mortar. OTHER PRODUCTS. Includes granulated blast furnace slag, gypsum, fly ash, asphalt, concrete blocks, roof tiles, architectural products, concrete pipes and other precast products. Products TS GR OD AG UC EG R Solutions and Services AT P ES E R OTH BUILDING SOLUTIONS. Development of customized energy efficient building solutions and affordable housing solutions such as ICF, EPS panels, monolithic cast in place, and others. Sol es ution r vic CONCRETE PAVEMENTS. Conventional Concrete Pavement, Short Slabs Pavement, Roller Compacted s and Se Concrete, Concrete Overlay/Whitetopping, Cement GRE I CES E N BU V ILDING SER Treated Base, Soil Cement, and others. GREEN BUILDING SERVICES. Bioclimatic architecture and engineering, modeling of buildings energy performance, international green building certifications, and others. 5 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Concrete Solutions for a Sustainable Future Dear fellow Stakeholders: constrained world we must optimize our Providing concrete solutions to the Our concrete pavement efforts are an environmental footprint and work to improve challenges of urbanization and climate attractive business for the company, As 2015 drew to a close, the world the quality of life in the communities in which change involves both building materials generating US$190 million in sales. witnessed 195 countries adopting, for we operate. In that spirit, we are raising the and innovative thinking that considers the the first time, a legally binding agreement bar with a goal to positively impact more holistic needs of a community. We provide We also continue to deliver solutions for to fight climate change. Also, last year, than 15 million people by 2020. To do so, products, services, solutions and expertise affordable housing and energy efficient the UN adopted a set of Sustainable we have also committed to strengthen our that meet the most demanding standards of buildings. In 2015, CEMEX contributed to Development Goals (SDGs) focused on sustainability model, in part by using the UN’s construction and sustainability performance. the construction of 2,400 units in ending poverty, protecting the planet, and SDGs as a guiding template, under the overall One-third of our ready-mix concrete sales 13 countries, equivalent to more than ensuring prosperity. All of those laudable leadership of our Board of Directors, who are derived from products with outstanding 147,000 m2 of living space. initiatives can only be realized through have established a Sustainability Committee sustainability attributes. collaboration among governments, the to guide and evaluate our efforts. For more than 15 years, our corporate private sector and civil society—and that During 2015, we completed more than social programs have created significant is why CEMEX has made sustainability one At CEMEX, we have embedded 430 resilient infrastructure projects value for CEMEX and our stakeholders. of our top corporate priorities. sustainability in every aspect of our representing more than 7.3 million m2 Benefiting more than nine million people business. Our efforts provide growth of concrete pavement in 19 countries, worldwide, our focus on high impact As a leading global supplier of building opportunities, reduce risks and costs, and including highways, mass transit projects, social initiatives that promote inclusive, materials and solutions, we know we strengthen our license to operate, creating airport runways and city streets. This is resilient, eco-friendly and self-sufficient have a responsibility to support society’s value for both our stakeholders and equivalent to a 450 km, four-lane communities contributes to the ongoing development needs. In a resourceshareholders. concrete highway. sustainability of our business. 6 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION At CEMEX, we endeavor to work with Panel for their valuable contributions. our stakeholders – including universities, We also want to thank the individuals, governments, NGOs, communities, organizations and communities we work employees, customers and suppliers – to with on a daily basis, for taking an interest identify and address opportunities for, in the sustainable development of our and challenges to, sustainable growth. company and in the solutions we provide. Corporate citizenship is embedded in our organization and in the decisions that guide Sincerely, our business success. The sustainability agenda is a pillar of our business strategy and we are committed to ensuring our success contributes to the health Rogelio Zambrano and wellbeing of our communities and Chairman of the Board ultimately of our planet and its inhabitants. On behalf of CEMEX’s Board of Directors, our management team and our employees, Fernando A. González we want to thank our external Advisory Chief Executive Officer Rogelio Zambrano Fernando A. González Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Our highest priority continues to be equivalent to the average yearly emissions health and safety and we have a collective of 1.4 million cars – thanks to our alternative personal commitment to achieve ZERO fuel usage, clinker factor reduction and injuries in all of our operations. In 2015, additional clean energy efforts. This we continued making significant progress, represents a reduction of approximately 22% reducing our employee Lost-Time Injury in specific net CO2 emissions. Converting frequency rate by 50% compared to waste to fuel continues to be an important 2014. However, we still have much work part of our approach. In 2015, 92% of our to do. Regrettably, there were 19 fatalities active cement plants consumed alternative involving one employee, ten contractors fuels. Overall, alternative fuels represented and eight third-parties. The loss of any close to 27% of our fuel mix including individual associated with our operations biomass, refuse-derived fuels, tires and is completely unacceptable and the only other materials. This achievement yielded number we will ever celebrate is the savings of more than US$100 million. achievement of ZERO. Additionally, our clean energy projects and supply agreements represented more than In 2015, we avoided around 7.5 million tons 16% of our total power consumption in of CO2 compared to our 1990 baseline – cement operations. 7 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX Sustainability Reporting Highlights ••Release of a Sustainable Development Report for 13 consecutive years ••Has followed the GRI reporting guidelines for 8 consecutive years. From 2008 to 2013 CEMEX met an application level of A+ using GRI-G3. As of 2014 we migrated to the GRI-G4 guidelines, using the ‘in accordance’ comprehensive option ••As a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2004 CEMEX aligns its operations and strategies with the 10 UNGC Principles and annually communicates its progress at the Advanced Level ••This report showcases CEMEX’s commitment and contributions to the recently launched 2030 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ••Since 2007, an independent audit for our main sustainability KPIs is yearly conducted ••As a founding member of the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) we operate in compliance with its guidelines and protocols ••Since 2008, CEMEX engages an External Advisory Panel to provide formal input on our reporting process, helping us continuously improve the quality and comprehensiveness of our information 8 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 1 Anchoring Sustainability to Our Business Our Sustainability CEMEX applauds the UN Committee assesses the Sustainable Development We strive to efforts and challenges to Goals and commits progress towards our fully integrate sustainability to contribute to their sustainability core KPIs in the business strategy achievement 2020 targets 9 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX’s Sustainability As our global population rises 1.1 Approach and urban infrastructure expands, building sustainable cities is both a challenge and a priority. As a global company, we have the power to make a real impact through our innovative services and solutions. To do this, everyone at CEMEX must be onboard. That’s why we make it a top priority to share our sustainability goals, programs and initiatives with all employees, including our Board of Directors. With their support and guidance, we are empowering our communities and promoting well-being for all. At CEMEX, sustainability starts with our Board of Directors and then is rolled out across the entire organization. 10 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Reporting directly to the Board of Directors The Board-aligned Sustainability Committee Sustainability Management Structure 1 along with the Audit and the Corporate is responsible for: Practices & Finance Committees, our Armando J. García Segovia 2 •• Embedding sustainability in CEMEX’s Roberto L. Zambrano Villareal Sustainability Committee is comprised of strategy Board of Directors Ian C. Amstrong Zambrano three board members and one secretary and •• Assisting the Board in its sustainabilityRamiro G. Villareal Morales 3 is supported by our Corporate Sustainability related responsibilities to shareholders 1 As of 31 December, 2015 function, who reports to a member of the 2 President •• Endorsing CEMEX’s Sustainability Model, Audit Secretary (not a member of the Board) Executive Committee. To ensure sustainability 3 Priorities and Core KPIs is embedded into the entire business, we Committee have coordinators representing each of •• Assessing the effectiveness of the geographical regions where CEMEX sustainability initiatives and the progress of Sustainability operates. In parallel, under the guidance implementation Committee •• Guiding the CEO and the Executive Corporate of Corporate Sustainability, our Global Committee on key strategic sustainability Practices & Finance Sustainability Functional Network integrated Committee by employees from all countries and different decisions expertise, work together to implement our During 2015, the CEMEX Sustainability core sustainability initiatives at each of our Committee held quarterly meetings and CEO and business units. With this integrated approach, discussed a range of topics including Executive Committee we’re making sure sustainability reaches all core KPI performance and benchmarking, operations and business lines. sustainability reporting, CO2 strategy, health and safety, stakeholder engagement, Regional Corporate environmental management, human rights, Sustainability Coordinators Sustainability conservation, biodiversity and overall sustainable development. Country Sustainability Our Strategy is supported by four main Teams pillars, being Sustainability one of them. •• Planning •• Product Development •• Controllership •• Health and Safety •• Enterprise Risk Management •• Technology & Operations Operating Purpose Mission Strategy Model Values •• Legal •• Environmental Global Sustainability Functional Network 1 Value Our People 2 Help Our 3 Pursue Markets 4 Ensure •• Procurement •• Public Affairs as Our Main Customers that Offer Sustainability is •• Commercial •• Social Responsibility Competitive Succeed Long-Term Fully Embedded in •• Human Resources •• Communications Advantage Profitability Our Business •• Energy •• Finance 11 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX Sustainability Material Issues Surveys were completed by: This analysis facilitated the identification the material issues by region please refer Our Sustainability Materiality Matrix allows 1. Key CEMEX directors/managers of our 20 most relevant sustainabilityto our website. This report focuses on us to identify issues of highest importance 2. Four main stakeholder categories related issues, which we have classified issues of higher and highest materiality to CEMEX and our stakeholders, define risks, •• CEMEX Employees into three categories: high, higher and and reflects our top priorities based on our opportunities and KPIs, and report and set highest materiality. For further details on comprehensive stakeholder consultation. •• CEMEX Clients targets. That’s why it’s essential we foster an inclusive dialogue with our worldwide •• CEMEX Suppliers stakeholders including employees, customers, •• Non-market stakeholders Materiality Matrix suppliers, investors, universities, government (divided in four sub-categories): 1. Economic value creation + and community leaders to ensure their Community/Communication leaders 2. Customer engagement High Higher Highest materiality materiality materiality and satisfaction top priorities are our top priorities. Basing Analysts/Investors/Shareholders 3. Health and safety for our Sustainability Materiality Matrix Government/Administrations 3 our employees, contractors on stakeholder analysis ensures we are NGOs/Associations/Foundations/ and third parties aligning our time, resources and investment Universities 1 4. Climate change and CO2 emissions management accordingly. 14 Stakeholder concern 11 4 2 5. Renewable and alternative Results from the four main stakeholder energy sourcing 8 6 For our latest survey, 11,000 invitations categories – employee, client, supplier 17 6. Corporate governance and were issued to stakeholders in all and community – were used to construct 15 9 5 transparency 12 7 7. Employee relations and geographical regions where CEMEX has the vertical axis within the Materiality 16 engagement presence. This sample was determined Matrix weighting them equally (25% each). 18 10 8. Products, services and 19 based on the total sales of each of The results of the CEMEX key directors’/ 13 solutions to improve lifestyle these groups. The survey was translated managers’ surveys were analyzed as a whole in cities 20 9. Air quality management into seven languages and we received and represented on the horizontal axis of (SOx, NOx and other emissions) approximately 1,500 responses that shaped the Matrix. 10. Human rights and ethics in a new Materiality Matrix. business Impact on CEMEX + 11. Products, services and solutions for high energy CEMEX Sustainability Material Issues Survey efficiency Sample description 12. Community engagement and development 13. Risk management Total Mexico Asia Northern USA Mediterranean SCAC 14. Quarry rehabilitation, Stakeholders Europe biodiversity preservation and ecosystems management 14% 13% 18% 11% 9% 15. Responsible and sustainable 27% 20% 16% management of the supply 20% 19% 16% 5% Employee 37% chain 12% Client 16. Products, services and solutions 43% 53% 50% Supplier for low income families 46% 49% 45% 45% Community In 2016, we will conduct 17. Water use and recycling 20% 25% 21% 22% 23% (NGO, academia, etc.) another round of 18. Waste generation, disposal 12% 9% and recycling stakeholder surveys 19. Transport and logistics 1,414 386 57 388 127 202 254 Number of responses and update this matrix optimization 20. Environmental incidents accordingly. management G4-18, G4-19, G4-24, G4-26 12 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Sustainability Material Issues Across Our Value Chain Corporate Logistics and Supply Energy and Raw Materials Sourcing Production Use of Products and Building We have integrated our materiality matrix Our materiality issues classified by the sustainability pillars into our business strategy by identifying where the issues of highest importance to Economic Value Creation Renewable and Alternative Energy Sourcing Responsible and sustainable management our stakeholders have the greatest impact on Products, services and solutions Water use and recycling of the supply chain our value chain. In addition, each of these 20 to improve lifestyle in cities Waste generation, disposal and recycling Transport and logistics optimization material issues have been classified under the appropriate sustainability pillar – Economic, Products, services and solutions Community engagement and development Corporate Governance and Transparency for high energy efficiency Environmental, Social and Governance – Products, services and solutions for low Human rights and ethics in business to ensure we align our strategy with our Air Quality Management income families sustainability model. Risk management Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity preservation and ecosystems management Health & Safety Environmental Incidents and Management Employee Relations and Engagement Blue: Economic Green: Environmental Climate Change and CO2 Emissions Customer Engagement and Satisfaction Orange: Social Gray: Governance G4-20, G4-21 13 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Risks and Opportunities Top 10 risks in terms of likelihood Top 10 risks in terms of impact Top 10 Risks Matrix In 2011, CEMEX created an Enterprise 1 Business disruption due to tightening regulations 1 Fines and reputational damage due to stricter air + Risk Management (ERM) function under on land use & biodiversity management quality regulations the umbrella of our Strategic Intelligence 2 Labor activism and unrest, or failure to maintain 2 Business disruption due to tightening regulations on 6 Unit (SIU). Since then, risk management satisfactory labor relations land use & biodiversity management has become an essential part of how we 3 Reputational damage due to increasing social 3 Increasing costs due to new carbon regulations & 9 concern surrounding public health issues in our taxes and the unpredictability of carbon pricing 1 4 8 Impact respond to a global climate full of increasing industry 4 Increasing energy costs due to limited competitive 7 competitiveness and emerging risks and 5 10 4 Increasing energy costs due to limited sources competitive sources 5 Potential fines and reputational damage due to 2 uncertainty. Through the ERM process, we 5 Fines and reputational damage due to stricter air human rights, antitrust or bribery negligence – 3 identify risks and gather timely information, quality regulations ethical governance allowing us to implement mitigation, reporting 6 Reputational damage and increasing costs due to 6 Reputational damage due to increasing social and monitoring measures and assign roles and fatalities & LTIs among our employees, contractors concern surrounding public health issues in our and third parties health & safety industry responsibilities. With these practices in place, 7 Increasing costs due to new carbon regulations & 7 Reputational damage and increasing costs due to we are becoming a more resilient organization. taxes and the unpredictability of carbon pricing fatalities & LTIs among our employees, contractors 8 Business disruption and reduced sales due to and third parties health & safety Likelihood + economic and social instability within our local 8 Labor activism and unrest, or failure to maintain Due to the increasing importance of communities satisfactory labor relations 1. Ethical Governance sustainability-related risks, we launched a 9 Increasing costs due to climate change and the 9 Business strategy implementation risk derived from not 2. Stakeholder Management sustainability-specific ERM in 2015 led by increasing impact of natural disasters having broad stakeholder management systems 3. Natural Disasters 10 Fines and reputational damage due to stricter 10 Increasing costs due to climate change and the 4. Carbon Regulation & Taxes both our Corporate ERM and Sustainability noise-related regulations increasing impact of natural disasters 5. Health & Safety Teams. Within this process, global, regional 6. Air Quality Regulations and country-specific risks were identified 7. Energy Costs 8. Public Health and classified into 25 categories that aligned Sustainability Risk Map 9. Land Use & Biodiversity with our CEMEX Sustainability Model. A Regional Perspective 10. Labor These risks were then ranked according to their economic and reputational impact Labor At CEMEX, we take a and likelihood of occurrence. From here, we established priorities focusing on those risks Air Quality Regulations Health & Safety positive perspective Carbon Regulation & Taxes when evaluating our risks. most relevant to our operations worldwide. Labor Natural Disasters Natural Disasters Energy Costs Environmental Incidents Through the ERM process, Land Use & Biodiversity From this assessment executed in 2015, the Stakeholder Management Energy Costs our Top Management sustainability-related risks of greatest impact Ethical Governance Public Health and likelihood of occurrence resulted: identifies actions to Air Quality Regulations •• Business disruption due to tightening transform some of regulations on land use and biodiversity Land Use & Biodiversity these risks into business •• Labor activism and unrest, or failure to Public Health opportunities that help maintain satisfactory labor relations Sustainable & Affordable Construction generate greater revenue •• Reputational damage due to increasing and reduce costs. social concern surrounding public health issues in the industry Economic Social 1st Ranking position •• Increasing costs due to climate change and 2nd in each region the increasing impact of natural disasters Environmental Governance 3rd 14 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Our Sustainability Model An extensive process of both internal and external consultation and a deep analysis of the major global societal challenges where CEMEX can have a significant contribution informed our sustainability model. Anchored by four main objectives under economic, economic environmental social governance environmental, social and governance, the model is supported by 13 top priorities that ensure sustainability is embedded into our business and value is created for our stakeholders. Poverty, Income Increasing Expectations Climate Change, Relentless Population Inequality, Aging for Private Sector Global Societal Challenges Resource Scarcity and Growth and Urbanization Population and to Act Responsibly Biodiversity Loss Unemployment and be Proactive Provide Resilient Implement a Enable a Low-Carbon Embed Our Core Our Sustainability Infrastructure and High-Impact Social and Resource-Efficient Values into Objectives Energy-Efficient Strategy to Empower Industry Every Action Building Solutions Communities Our Sustainability Priorities •• Providing sustainable •• Optimizing our carbon •• Actively participating •• Placing health & safety products and services footprint through the in the development first •• Delivering solutions use of alternative fuels of sustainable •• Ensuring satisfied for affordable and and raw materials as communities customers and resource/energy well as clean energy •• Creating social and responsible suppliers efficient buildings •• Minimizing air inclusive business •• Engaging and retaining •• Implementing resilient emissions and opportunities our talent and low-impact enhancing our •• Promoting environmental •• Strengthening business infrastructure empowerment, ethics, compliance and management diversity and transparency •• Conserving land, community capacitybiodiversity and water building Sustainability at CEMEX G4-18, G4-19 15 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Progress and Challenges To keep our sustainability 1.2 Towards Our Targets objectives on track, we have set targets for our core KPIs that are strategically aligned to our sustainability model and linked to the material issues identified by the company. 2020 targets were established for our core sustainability indicators except for those requiring to yearly comply with a specific level of performance, for which ambitious annual goals were assigned. All these targets allow us to track our progress and adjust our plans as needed to ensure we meet our goals. 16 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Progress Against Our Targets Economic 2014 2015 2020 Target Annual Target Green building projects under certification where CEMEX is involved (million m ) 2 7.08 6.42 TBD Annual ready-mix sales derived from products with outstanding sustainable attributes (%) 30 33 N/A ≥ 25 Affordable and/or resource-efficient building projects where CEMEX is involved (million m ) 2 0.18 0.15 TBD Installed concrete pavement area (million m2) 8.14 7.32 TBD Environmental Alternative fuel rate (%) 27.7 26.6 35 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious product from 1990 baseline (%) 22.6 21.6 25 Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of major emissions: dust, NOx, SOx (%) 84 84 100 Annual reduction in dust emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 55 70 N/A ≥ 50 Annual reduction in NOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 42 46 N/A ≥ 30 Annual reduction in SOx emissions per ton of clinker from 2005 baseline (%) 60 57 N/A ≥ 20 Active quarries with high biodiversity where BAPs are actively implemented (%) 55 61 100 Specific water consumption: Cement (l/ton) | Ready-mix (l/m ) | Aggregates (l/ton) 3 360 | 185 | 132 346 | 207 | 134 TBD Social Total number of individuals benefited from our social and inclusive businesses (million) 2.6 2.9 TBD Total number of individuals benefited from our social initiatives (million) 6.9 9.7 ≥ 15* Governance Total fatalities (employees, contractors and third parties) 27 19 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTI FR), employees (per million hours worked) 1.2 0.6 0.3 Countries that conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys (%) 78 85 ≥ 90 Global procurement spend assessed under the Supplier Sustainability Program (%) 12 13 ≥ 55 Employees that perceive they are enabled to perform their job effectively (%) 79 76 83 Employees that are engaged to the company (%) 77 76 80 Executives and employees actively aware of our Code of Ethics (%) 80 80 ≥ 90 Target countries that participated on the Global Compliance Program 90 100 N/A ≥ 90 covering antitrust, anti-bribery and insider trading (%) Ethics and compliance cases reported during the year that were investigated and closed (%) 91 74 N/A ≥ 90 TBD (To Be Defined): For some indicators, we are still benchmarking performance in order to obtain a robust baseline to define sufficiently ambitious 2020 targets. * Given that our former goal of benefiting ≥10 million people is about to be achieved, a new target for 2020 has been established. The main reasons of the significant increase in the beneficiaries from our social strategy are: 1) Update of our methodology to estimate this figure in order to integrate the individuals benefited from our community infrastructure initiatives 2) Scalability of some of our existing social projects 3) New social initiatives and businesses added to our portfolio 17 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Challenges Ahead •• Continue to develop •• Improve our •• Expand the scope •• Fulfill our Zero4Life innovative technology operations’ Energy of our programs commitment and solutions that Efficiency by: and further further advance Increasing empower our the sustainability of communities our alternative fuels commercial, residential and industrial consumption rate buildings Decreasing our clinker factor •• Remove financing Reducing CO2 emissions roadblocks that •• Keep 100% our •• Create stronger, collaborative prevent many in our suppliers abreast relationships with experts across the local communities of all relevant construction value chain to optimize from building and sustainability sustainability results owning their homes policies •• Measure and quantify all of our •• Generate a greater impacts to ensure understanding we reduce our •• Preserve and nurture our alliances so among building and Environmental we can continue design professionals Footprint to generate shared as well as the local value and growth •• Provide our communities about opportunities to our employees with the value and long-term benefits of communities all of the support sustainable urbanism and resilient they need to feel infrastructure encouraged, engaged and set up for success •• Preserve the biodiversity in and around •• Create strategic partnerships to our quarries, increase our water chase green building efficiency and •• Extend strategic challenges such as control our water corporate citizenship LEED certifications, waste efforts including and zero energy to expand our employee volunteering consumption in conservation efforts •• Remain committed to buildings our Code of Ethics 18 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Contribution to the Over the past 15 years, the 1.3 UN Sustainable United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Development Goals provided a vital framework and focal point for driving progress against poverty and other development challenges the world’s most vulnerable populations are facing. In 2015, world leaders worked together once again to formally adopt a 2030 Agenda and establish a new set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 related targets that address the most important economic, social, environmental and governance challenges of our time. CEMEX recognizes that consistent collaboration among all parties is necessary to support these new goals, and that businesses are vital in the equation for long-term success. 19 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Setting New Ambitions around the world, all while improving our and sustainable. By building strong, highreport ”Business and the SDGs: Building for Sustainable Development environment and society’s quality life. quality infrastructure, undertaking actions Blocks for Success at Scale” published We are responsible for applying our to combat climate change, and offering in 2015 by the Harvard Kennedy innovative products, solutions and business As a clear commitment to the achievement sustainable products and solutions, we School CSR Initiative and Business models to solve challenges –ranging from of the SDGs, and after reaching more than 9 contribute to the SDGs and reinforce our Fight Poverty. climate, environment and energy issues, to million beneficiaries through our high-impact commitment to building a better future. poverty, lack of infrastructure and access to social programs, CEMEX has set a target of CEMEX promotes sustainable development Since 2008, we have used the Global quality education– to maximize our positive positively impact more than 15 million people on all levels –economic, social and Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines to impact on people and the planet while by the year 2020. To achieve this ambitious environmental– and our sustainability enhance our reporting, and this year is no minimizing any negative impacts. goal, we are working alongside organizations framework aims to tackle major exception. In fact this year our GRI Context such as Habitat for Humanity, the Interchallenges and contribute to the SDGs Index shows a cross check with the UN Helping achieve the SDGs is not only the American Development Bank, and the Clinton in several ways. Global Compact principles and with responsible thing to do, it is also strategically Global Initiative. the UN SDGs. We are also including details relevant from a risk and growth standpoint. Through our social approach, CEMEX on how our initiatives and activities The SDGs foster new business opportunities Our social initiatives aim to make cities and directly contributes to the implementation contribute to the achievement of the and build markets and relationships communities more inclusive, safe, resilient of several SDGs, as recognized by the Global SDG’s. ∞ SDGs How CEMEX contributes to their achievement SDGs How CEMEX contributes to their achievement •• Constructing Community Centers that develop the skills needed to secure •• Creating jobs in the communities where we operate employment or start a small business •• Developing high-impact social programs that target low-income families, •• Participating in New Employment Opportunities (NEO), a program focused on enabling access to housing through microfinance and promoting self-employment providing youth with opportunities to enhance their employability opportunities (e.g. Patrimonio Hoy, Construyo Contigo, etc.) •• Installing CEMEX sports and dance academies for children in vulnerable communities •• Offering training and development opportunities to our employees •• Contributing to the UN World Food Program in countries like Egypt •• Integrating disabled people as part of our workforce •• Implementing our Home Gardens initiative that provides vegetable cultivation skills to community members to produce food that enhances their family’s nutrition •• Establishing Corporate Lands for Learning program jointly with Wildlife Habitat Council in US •• Declaring health and safety the company’s top priority •• Implementing programs to empower women both in our workforce and in the communities (e.g. Todas Somos Esperanza, ANSPAC, CEMEX Women Forum, etc.) •• Promoting community health through educational programs •• Promoting diversity within our business units through flex-time for mothers, private •• Thermal mass of concrete is involved into inside comfort of the buildings which has a breastfeeding facilities, salary equality, etc. positive effect on inhabitants health 20 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION SDGs How CEMEX contributes to their achievement SDGs How CEMEX contributes to their achievement •• Designing ready-mix concrete products with superior sustainable qualities, including •• Tracking our water consumption and implementing sustainable water management a lower carbon footprint, water and energy efficiency, noise and temperature practices. 84% of our sites implement water recycling systems reduction, and others •• Improving communities sanitation and access to safe water through the distribution •• Ensuring a sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources is of green technologies such as dry toilets and the CEMEX eko-stove embedded in every phase our business •• Extending our sustainability approach to our supply chain through initiatives •• Sourcing more than 16% of our power in cement operations from sustainable energy including the Suppliers Sustainability Program •• CEMEX Energia to develop power projects in Mexico including clean energy •• Providing consumers with Green Building Services that deliver bioclimatic (e.g. Ventika Wind Farm) architecture and engineering, resource-efficient designs and sustainable materials •• Defining a clear Global CO2 Management strategy including carbon mitigation •• Providing a living wage to all CEMEX employees across the globe while protecting actions such as usage of alternative fuels, power from clean energy sources and their labor rights in a safe and respectful work environment decarbonated raw materials such as fly ash, slag, etc. •• Generating employment opportunities for local suppliers, who account for 95% of •• Creating a robust portfolio of CO2 reduction projects registered under the UN Clean our worldwide purchases Development Mechanism (CDM) and the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) •• Offering training opportunities to community members, especially youth and women, helping them secure employment and improve family income •• Developing high-impact social programs that promote economic growth and •• Executing a sustainable management of our marine terminals and minimizing impact generate employment opportunities on the oceans •• Delivering solutions for affordable housing and energy-efficient buildings •• Implementing Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) and Rehabilitation Plans in our •• Implementing resilient concrete pavements quarries. Currently the progress is 61% and we plan to reach 100% •• R&D dedicated to designing and engineering sustainable products •• Offsetting our sites impact through El Carmen nature reserve, where there are 8.4 hectares in conservation per each hectare affected by our operations •• Creating jobs in the communities where we operate making employment decisions •• Developing annual conservation books with recognized NGOs in addition to CEMEX based solely on merit regardless of age, race, ethnicity, religion, disability, political Nature website to promote our world’s natural diversity affiliation, marital status or sexual orientation •• Upholding the fundamental human rights of our people by complying with child and •• Implementing a Code of Ethics throughout all of our operations to ensure that forced labor prohibitions and avoiding any kind of discrimination employees abide by the same high standards of conduct in their daily interactions •• Collaborating with international organizations supporting human rights, labor, •• Encouraging our employees, stakeholders and the general public to submit environment and business ethics, such as the UN Global Compact suggestions, inquiries and report alleged ethics, compliance or governance violations •• Improving access to affordable housing for low-income families through our social through ETHOS Line, an open and confidential communication channel and inclusive businesses •• Establishing Human Rights policy aligned to the UN Global Compact Principles •• Providing vulnerable communities with access to basic services through sustainable initiatives, such as the CEMEX eko-stove •• Building a comprehensive list of strategic global and local partnerships and alliances •• Delivering solutions for resilient and energy-efficient infrastructure to multiply our sustainability efforts and move forward towards our targets •• Partnering with international organizations such as Habitat for Humanity and joining •• Participating in forums, coalitions and initiatives to support responsible growth and initiatives such as 100 Resilient Cities aiming to upgrade slums and improve people’s promote sustainable practices housing quality and safety 21 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 2 Creating Resilient and Efficient Infrastructure and Buildings 3 building projects obtained 13 the ecoperating™ certification by demonstrating superior energy performance and a 31 million m of concrete paving installed 2 countries where we offer affordable housing and energy sustainable design in the last 4 years efficient building solutions 22 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Providing Sustainable One of CEMEX’s main strategies 2.1 Products, Solutions for growth is ensuring that high-end concrete technology is adequately developed and and Services delivered to meet building and design challenges, while advancing the sustainability of structures. Leveraging years of experience from our experts around the globe, we offer a customer-centric approach to product development that enhances the value of our services through sustainable solutions. In 2015, CEMEX invested more than US$41 million in research and development (R&D) efforts for new construction solutions and products that address the challenges of urbanization and climate change. 23 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Building a Sustainable Future Leveraging years of experience, a worldwide with Emotional Appeal pool of knowledge, and state-of-the-art With an R&D philosophy driven by expertise, we offer a variety of cutting-edge industrialization, CEMEX’s Materials by products, services, and solutions that meet Design™ provides a new approach that the challenges of urbanization. Thanks to its encompasses the ready-mix production many sustainable attributes, our concrete process, making it easy to deliver innovative is a key component in the construction of concrete technologies and construction durable, energy-efficient buildings improving solutions to our customers. CEMEX product the overall ecological design and symbiosis development encompasses a group of of cities. Among its benefits, our concrete specialists and researchers that range from solutions help improve land use, water material scientists, to commercial strategists management and energy efficiency, mitigate and anthropologists. A mix that allows noise pollution and lower buildings’ carbon CEMEX to uniquely introduce additional footprint. In 2015, our portfolio of concrete dimensions to our novel technologies. products with outstanding sustainability attributes accounted for approximately 33% CEMEX is engineering and designing of our ready-mix revenues. technologies for a sustainable future by making sure that the materials, production Our experts from the CEMEX Research processes, and performance of products Group AG in Switzerland and the CEMEX promote an efficient use of resources. Cement and Ready-Mix Technology Center demanding performance requirements, while emotional ties to a material that has long This includes using recycled materials and in Mexico design products that fulfill incorporating customer-centered strategies. been considered “dull,” but is an integral part constituents with low CO2 footprint. the construction industry’s increasingly These strategies focus on creating strong of sustainable construction. CEMEX Celebrates Concrete in the City of Lights In 2015, CEMEX presented a dynamic exhibition at the World of Concrete Europe, held in Paris. Specialty concretes were presented in unexpected ways to show how CEMEX is not only designing advanced materials, but also finding alternative, more sustainable uses and applications. A booth constructed of 100% concrete was assembled, celebrating the material’s relationship to the four Pervia Insularis basic elements: Earth, wind, fire and water. CEMEX global brands, including Resilia, Pervia and Insularis, were showcased and allowed customers to interact with the technology first-hand. Water permeability attribute in concrete 24 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Highlighted Projects contributes to healthy living as it doesn’t CEMEX provides technologies that allow support mold formation caused by many customers to connect with concrete in normal activities in a home. unique physical and emotional ways. Here are some highlights from 2015: Panorama Tower in Bratislava, Slovakia, was constructed using the light-weight thermal Water Drainage Solutions insulating floor. Poroflow foam concrete We contribute to reduce athlete injuries served as the filling of the steel deck and with our innovative new water management was the only technology capable of being solutions. Pervia technology, a sub-base pumped to 85 m without losing performance concrete floor, finishes with a polyurethane properties. texture, allowing water to drain from the court while providing a non-slip surface Insularis Showcases Versatility of Concrete during rainy conditions. Lightweight and high performance, CEMEX Insularis provided the winning combination Poroflow Technology Provides for the Ataraxia project in Tour, France. The Energy Efficiency at Panorama Tower construction of the prestigious collective Santa María de los Caballeros Chapel | Bogota, Colombia Poroflow is a cast leveling and insulating building fulfilled thermal regulation RT 2012 mixture-based foam concrete that allows while also achieving the architectural finish easy and fast heat insulation. It also envisioned in the design. Hidratium, our unique, compensates for any surface irregularities ready-mix concrete with Ayala Bridge | Manila, –no matter the size and scope– or White Insularis technology was also used to self-curing properties has Philippines installation wiring. Breathable, Poroflow create the state-of-the-art Oak House in permeated other markets, Barcelona, Spain. While providing the desired aesthetic finish, it also enhanced its thermal including Mexico, France, Panorama Tower | Bratislava, insulation. Czech Rep. and Germany. Slovakia Hidratium Technology Enhances Innovative Public Safety Improved with Promptis Church Design in Colombia Promptis, the rapid hardening and Builders constructing the Santa María de control-set concrete solution los Caballeros Chapel in Bogota, Colombia, manufactured by CEMEX EcoCrete, was turned to CEMEX’s Hidratium to achieve selected for a major government repair the distinctive design elements envisioned project in Manila at the Philippines. The by the architect. The innovative rehabilitation of the Ayala Bridge was technology helps maintain adequate critical to ensure the safety of public levels of moisture –reducing water infrastructure that serves as an important evaporation by approximately 80%– while path for vehicles traversing Manila’s maintaining the color of the concrete, major roads. Unlike conventional ready-mix as well as curing and enhancing the concrete, Promptis technology makes this finished texture. product an ideal option for any one-day concrete application in public road works. 25 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Green Building Solutions R&D Efforts with Syracuse University Further Demonstrate CEMEX Products Assist in At CEMEX, we believe in leading by example. Creativity with Concrete Recently, our CEO signed a new Green Building Green Building Following a presentation by CEMEX to professors Management and Certification Policy to mitigate For years, the perception of green and students at Syracuse University School of potential negative impacts associated with building has been changing in Architecture, Professors Julie Larson and Roger the design, construction and operation of our Poland. With the growing interest, Hubeli submitted a proposal to work with CEMEX on buildings, with a special focus on new industrial CEMEX Poland provides customers two projects: and office buildings, that are company owned, with a “green card products” listing •• The Pavilion project focused on thinness and rented or leased. The new policy mandates for concrete and aggregates. The showcased a pavilion built with Insularis and that new facilities achieve a green building card contains all the relevant data Resilia. The lightweight, high-performance with respect to LEED and BREEAM certification, such as green building programs properties made it possible to cast the complex certifications to help customers LEED and BREEAM. shape instead of wood or cardboard. The project make informed product choices. clearly demonstrated opportunities to create CEMEX product attributes include We also work collaboratively across the reducing CO2 emissions, minimizing thinner and lighter designs, while optimizing visual construction value chain to optimize results and construction waste and enhancing aspects and living areas maximize profits as we partner with national heat stability, allowing for innovative •• In a project to redefine the spirit of place, a and international experts to complement our and energy-efficient climate control. “Tower of Tiles” was constructed using Resilia, skills and provide a complete array of specialized Insularis and Promptis technologies. The CEMEX services in sustainable construction. technologies allowed for the construction to take place in an extremely short amount of time (demolding after four hours) and showcased the CEMEX is working to ensure a pipeline opportunity to improve productivity in a very Further details at: of Green Building certified projects that complex precast design Tower of tiles represent more than 6.42 million m2. Our Green Building Services offering includes: CEMEX product’s innovations for sustainable •• Ready Wallform is a practical and energyconstruction also included: efficient construction solution suited for all building applications. The insulated concrete system is quick to construct but offers Green Building Bioclimatic Energy Efficient •• Supaflo C, a new cement-based, selflevels of energy performance significantly Certifications Architecture Engineering leveling screed that is easy to pump and better than slower, more traditional (LEED, BREEAM, significantly improves productivity for approaches to building. etc.) contractors. It can be used in areas subject to wet conditions. •• Pervia concrete addresses the building and construction need for a structural permeable concrete product that can be used in large areas of surfacing and For a full list of our products, their minimizes water runoff. Pervia can help Sustainable ecoperating™ Urban outstanding sustainability attributes and Materials Building Development prevent possible flash flooding and pollution safety data sheets, please visit our webpage. and Solutions Certification and Consultancy of water tables and other water sources. Development Product Seal 26 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Expanding ecoperating™ ecoperating™ certified buildings demonstrate Green Building Certification Service Projects Portfolio in Mexico Launched in 2012 to help identify the superior efficiency on energy and water most sustainable products, services and consumption as well as a reduction of the heat Buildable Certification Project Location solutions in construction projects, the island effect. Area Target visibility of the ecoperating™ seal has continued to grow. By expanding the scope In 2015, the number of projects grew and 3 ICA Reserva Monterrey, N. L. Residential 22,584 m2 LEED Certified of the seal to buildings, ecoperating™ allows more buildings were certified with ecoperating™. Escondida us to acknowledge the efforts of our clients To date, the ecoperating™ Building Certification to deliver sustainable projects that go beyond and Product Seal have been rolled out in Mexico City, SEMARNAT 223 Offices 32,000 m2 LEED Certified Mexico business-as-usual. nine countries on four continents: Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Panama, the Dominican Republic, Croatia, Egypt, the United Arab PEMEX B2 Monterrey, N. L. Offices 15,000 m2 LEED Certified Emirates and the Philippines. Sofia Residential San Pedro, Garza Mixed use 98,600 m2 LEED Gold Tower Garcia, N. L. ecoperating™ Building Certification System for Residential and Commercial Buildings Campus ICA Mexico City, Offices 17,000 m2 LEED Gold Certification Levels Categories and Requirements Mineria Mexico ef fic ien cy + sustain ab l Energy efficiency Sustainable design Esfera Oficinas Monterrey, N. L. Offices 7,000 m2 LEED Gold Mandatory Elective e ene sign rgy de Energy Water consumption consumption savings Percentage of low water savings Esfera Residencial Monterrey, N. L. Residential 75,000 m2 LEED Gold er n >10% Energy consumption and/or watifi l di c g e d b ui consumption terless sanitary fixtures. reduction against > 50% = 1 point | > 75% = For projects achieving > standards ASHRAE 90.1-2010. 2 points 10% energy consumption Esfera City Center Monterrey, N. L. Commercial 276,925 m2 LEED Platinum reduction under the Local sourcing energy efficiency category Using an energy simulation mode, Percentage of materials and the project must demonstrate extracted and manu> 3 points under at minimum a 10% energy factured within 500 km Torre LEED Platinum and the sustainable design efficiency against a baseline as radius of the project. Tijuana, B. C. Offices 13,950 m2 defined by US standard ASHRAE Cosmopolitan ecoperating™ category. > 10% = 1 point | > 20% = 90.1-2010 (American Society 2 points cy + sustain of Air Conditioning, Refrigeration ien ef fic ab l and Heating). Heat island effect San Pedro, Garza e reduction Lucena Residential 13,950 m2 ecoperating™ Plus ene rgy de sign Percentage of exterior Garcia, N. L. Standard ASHRAE 90.12010 establishes minimum horizontal surfaces with requirements for the efficient a Solar Reflectance Index PLUS energy design of buildings. [SRI] > 30 Casa 199–Sorteo Monterrey, N. L. Residential 528 m2 ecoperating™ er n > 50% = 1 point | > 75% = TEC tifi i c g e d b u il d By fulfilling this requirement, 2 points the project is simultaneously Innovative sustainable For projects achieving > complying with the official solution Casa 200–Sorteo 20% energy consumption Mexican standard NOM-020Inclusion of an innovative Monterrey, N. L. Residential 500 m2 ecoperating™ reduction under the ENER-2011, energy Efficiency in solution [IS] that genTEC energy efficiency category buildings–Building Envelopes for erates improvements/ and Residential Use. additional savings. > 5 points under 1 IS = 1 point | 2 IS = 2 Casa 201–Sorteo the sustainable design Monterrey, N. L. Residential 500 m2 ecoperating™ points TEC category. 27 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Recognizing Excellence in Sustainable This architectural project materializes the idea CEMEX’s Roller Compacted Concrete (RCC) Construction of creating a neutral space, one for socialization Honored at GAIA Awards In 2015, CEMEX held its XXIV Building Awards in and contemplation in harmony with the Chosen from more than 280 entries, CEMEX’s RCC was honored as a finalist at the Mexico City. A total of 637 projects competed in landscape. Middle East Concrete’s GAIA Awards in the “General Construction” category for its the national awards across 13 categories, while advantages and contributions to sustainability in the Middle East and North Africa 36 projects competed across five categories in The Cave benefits from local resources to region. RCC was chosen for a number benefits, including supporting sustainable the international awards. The Building Awards reduce environmental impact and maximize development, increasing the durability of a project, providing immunity to low or honor architecture and construction projects human value for the users. It also promotes high temperature extremes, offering savings of up to 30% over traditional pavement that use concrete technologies in creative and conservation of endangered species and helps construction, and reducing a similar share of CO2 footprint due to the integration of innovative ways and focus on sustainability and to disseminate environmental culture among ground granulated blast furnace slag. social well-being. local communities. The Cave, located in Some of its sustainable attributes include Torre Cosmopolitan Earns ecoperating Plus™ Certification wastewater treatment, reuse of materials, Mexico’s northern border, reduction of visual impact, free transit for Located in Tijuana, Mexico, Torre Cosmopolitan inside the National Park wild life, natural lighting and energy efficiency combined bioclimatic design, urban planning, innovative construction techniques and materials, “Maderas del Carmen” was through passive climate technologies and wind as well as advanced engineering to build a new selected as the winner for power generators. sustainable landmark in the region. the Sustainable Construction The project’s unique features allow it to be more Category in the CEMEX XXIV Visit www.cemex.com for a full list of projects water and energy efficient, contributing to its Building Awards. honored during the XXIV Building Awards. ecoperating Plus™ accreditation. Project highlights include: The Cave | Coahuila, Mexico •• Decrease in energy consumption by 21% •• Water consumption savings of 49% •• Materials of high solar reflectivity •• Grey water reuse •• Rainwater harvesting •• The use of native vegetation •• Implementation of solar panels •• LED lighting •• Water and energy consumption monitoring systems •• More than 75% of residual materials were recycled during construction Additionally, Torre Cosmopolitan is in the process of obtaining LEED Platinum certification. 28 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Implementing Resilient Around the globe the need 2.2 and Low-Impact for resilient infrastructure to support growing urban populations is critical, especially Infrastructure as more extreme weather is caused by climate change. CEMEX supports the development of durable infrastructure to serve the needs of our global society with quality products, construction practices and maintenance that have minimal impact on the environment. Key sustainable attributes of concrete: ••Strength and durability ••Low maintenance ••Fire-resistance ••Low heat conductivity ••Local production and use ••Less solar heat absorption 29 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION In 2015, CEMEX enabled the installation of more the city’s tramline extension to serve 35% supplementary cementitious material. San Francisco, USA the football stadium. CEMEX solutions than 7.32 million m2 of concrete pavement by The San Franciscan Transbay Transit included ready-mix concrete with metal supporting the construction of more than 430 Center underground structure required fibers to combat installation challenges infrastructure projects across 19 countries. around switches very stringent low permeability and low shrinkage concrete. •• In Saint-Etienne, CEMEX assisted in the Among other sustainability-related benefits, repair of one of the oldest tramlines in France. concrete paving reduces vehicles’ fuel Additionally, the Berryessa Rapid Transit Ready-made concrete was delivered for the consumption by around 3% compared to track’s foundation and helped expedite the System Bay Area extension into Silicon Valley asphalt. tram’s quick return to service also had sustainable components, including a concrete mix that CEMEX specially Recycled Concrete Tailor-Made Solutions designed using recycled material removed for Berlin Humboldt University for California Mass Transit Systems from the old rail beds and a concrete mix CEMEX helped Berlin Humboldt University San Francisco’s Transbay Transit Center for the massive foundations that included constructing a new research center and was designed to achieve LEED Gold 50% supplementary cementitious material. laboratory entirely built from recycled Certification by renowned architect firm, CEMEX worked closely with the client to concrete. For this, it incorporated ready-mix Pelli Architects. CEMEX worked closely develop, test and deliver 35 tailor-made concrete produced with aggregates from with the client to design concrete mixes concrete mix designs to meet the needs of recycled concrete, a material that requires for all the structures, which included up to each section of the line. substantial expertise in concrete technology and chemical admixtures. CEMEX supplied Torre Reforma: A Beautiful and Sustainable Concrete Giant 3,800 m3 of this recycled ready-mix have double the tolerance, and triple concrete for the four-story building. the permanence of traditional ones. In An architectural icon in Mexico City, the Torre Reforma was built using CEMEX concrete solutions and designed in gradient shades of grey to accentuate the building’s addition, concrete roads require less height. Designed by Benjamin Romano of LBR&A Architects, the tower reaches 807 The “Cairo Suez,” Egypt’s first concrete road periodical maintenance, and offer a higher feet with 57 levels and resembles an open book with walls of exposed concrete that The project used 332,000 m2 of concrete level of road safety. are both slim and strong. The properties of the CEMEX Fortis concrete allow it to bear pavement, 130,000 m3 of ready-mix the weight of the slabs with the support of the intertwined metallic structure. The concrete and 50,000 tons of cement. The Powering French Rail Renovations flexibility of the concrete, coupled with the wall and window design, dissipates telluric new road provides benefits that exceed and Expansions waves and releases energy in the event of an earthquake. those of traditional roads: Concrete roads Dedicated to improving all aspects of infrastructure, CEMEX contributed to the CEMEX also provided the special “In order to build the tower, extension and renovation of three urban rail pumping technology solution needed we seek advice from CEMEX during construction to allow for a systems in France. to pump concrete at high continuous, consistent concrete pour •• In Marseille, CEMEX was able to meet while adhering to strict safety measures altitudes which involves a great both the mechanical and aesthetic level of complexity. We needed and efficiency of cost and labor. The challenges of the project by providing sustainability approach of Torre Reforma to get the same level of quality 15 different formulas of high-strength, is aligned to the highest international on the ground floor as in the ready-mix concrete for the construction standards that allowed it to seek a LEED of the new underground metropolitan Platinum certificate from the US Green 50th floor” railway station Building Council. Julieta Boy/LRB&A •• CEMEX also supplied ready-mix concrete Cairo, Egypt in Lyon to fill the bed under 800 m of Further details at Torre Reforma 30 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Delivering Solutions for City planners are constantly 2.3 Affordable Housing and challenged to provide ways to efficiently and affordably house rapidly growing urban Efficient Buildings populations. CEMEX supports the social and economic development of communities around the globe. Providing unmatched expertise in building efficient homes with tailor-made and adaptable systems, we are delivering housing for all socioeconomic markets. CEMEX contributed to the construction of 2,400 affordable and/or energy efficiency buildings in 13 countries representing approximately 147,000 m2 of livable space. 31 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION New Flooring Plant ISO 9001 Certified Our Housing Solutions Attributes CEMEX UK has opened a new flooring production plant in Rochester, Kent, which could help the government achieve its target of one million new homes by 2020. The new plant has the capacity to manufacture more Flexible Thermal Minimum Fast than 500,000 linear meters of pre-cast design Resilient insulation waste building concrete T beam flooring a year, equivalent to Easily adapted Resilient to High thermal Less waste Significant flooring for approximately 4,000 houses. to construction natural disaster mass and at construction construction and design insulation site time reduction CEMEX Joins 100 Resilient Cities requirements CEMEX joined the Resilient Cities platform to promote sustainable urban construction UK T beam production plant in the cities where we operate. We offer solutions to help improve infrastructure of concern, prioritize issues and develop Our World-Class Wall Systems challenges and expertise to guide resilient municipal development plans that Our energy-efficient wall solutions provide multiple benefits that improve the infrastructure planning workshops. foster a sustainable and resilient urban sustainability, speed and economics of housing construction: environment. Energy, waste, transportation, •• Cast in place form works: The best for mass production and speed In Merida and Guadalajara, Mexico, we communications, housing and infrastructure •• Wired EPS panels (Expanded Polystyrene System): High flexibility to accommodate facilitated workshops to identify areas were all key topics discussed. design •• ICF (Insulated Concrete Form): Perfect for high performance energy efficiency Cuexomatitlán Pier | Jalisco, Mexico •• Precast Systems: Most rational and efficient manufacturing process Our Integrated Housing Solutions We integrate design, products, and walling systems into housing solutions that are flexible and replicable: •• Industrialized Housing: Fast, efficient, and largescale housing construction •• Disaster Relief Housing: The best response for reconstruction after natural disasters •• Energy Efficient Housing: Most competitive solution for high performance buildings •• Affordable Housing: The lowest possible cost without giving up quality •• Vertical Housing: Fast and efficient construction for high-rise & mid-rise residential 32 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Expanding Opportunities for Those in Extreme Poverty CEMEX Dominican Republic and TECHO, an NGO that fights extreme poverty in Latin America, have built the first two pilot models of a projected 100 homes. The team poured cement foundations for families living in poverty and in vulnerable areas, improving their health and wellbeing. The foundations can be expanded in stages as the family has access to more resources. CEMEX Mexico and National Civil Protection CEMEX Promotes Program for Sign Development Agreement Underprivileged Colombian Families The agreement aims to develop programs Led by the Colombian Government, Social that increase cities’ resilience to natural Interest Housing for Savers program (VIPA) disasters. Both parties also pledged to began construction of 70,000 houses for promote civil protection in the national lower-income families. Of the projects developers to ensure all have the access CEMEX and Habitat for Humanity Promote education system to create a greater level of awarded to date, CEMEX has a 14% stake they need. Homes developed with our Access to Adequate Housing understanding of what to do in the event of a as a facilitator for program development. solutions also provide sustainability benefits, CEMEX and Habitat for Humanity signed an natural disaster. The company estimates that 5.3 million including quality products and higher roofs agreement for a collaborative partnership to families in the country are unable to access to offer more comfort and better thermal promote access to adequate and affordable VIPA, so it is critical that CEMEX works with conditions. housing for disadvantaged social groups. The alliance between CEMEX and Habitat for Humanity will strengthen the sustainable growth of cities and the ecosystem. Priorities of the partnership include: •• Increasing access to adequate and affordable housing •• Developing new markets •• Promoting financial and social inclusion •• Building a volunteer program for creating adequate housing and social infrastructure CEMEX is currently evaluating and developing three projects with Habitat for Humanity that will impact more than 3,000 people during the first year of the partnership. Pilots are being run in the states of Nuevo Leon, Chiapas, Puebla and Queretaro. Once tested, CEMEX will look to replicate efforts in Mexico and other countries in Latin America and the Caribbean. ∞ “El Cielo” Residential Complex | Tabasco, Mexico 33 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 3 Implementing a High-Impact Social Strategy +200 worldwide +80 volunteering centers dedicated to facilitate access to resilient programs implemented in more than 70% of 3 million people have participated in our social and affordable housing CEMEX’s locations and inclusive businesses 34 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Promoting the CEMEX understands that 3.1 Development of our business’ sustainability is directly related to the wellbeing and development Sustainable Communities of our stakeholders and our surrounding communities. Our mission is to become and be perceived as a proactive and positive neighbor. We recognize that empowerment, creation of self-employment opportunities and resilience generation are the most durable forms of community support resulting more effective than just charitable donations. However, we also believe that through adequate corporate citizenship efforts and strategic philanthropy, companies can bring social and economic goals into alignment improving their long-term business prospects. More than just a company, we are part of the communities where we live and work, and their success represents our success. 35 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Recognizing the role of the private sector in Through our community-involvement implementing the Sustainable Development efforts across the globe, we have learned Goals (SDGs), after reaching more than that self-sufficiency and the development of nine million beneficiaries to-date through practical skills are integral to the long-term our social programs, we’re raising the bar prosperity of individuals and communities. with a goal to positively impact more than 15 million people by 2020. The significant In many of our markets, however, poor increase in the accumulated beneficiaries access to jobs, skills-training, and education from our social strategy is due to an update opportunities limit individuals’ ability to meet of our methodology to estimate this figure their basic needs. integrating now the individuals benefited from our community infrastructure initiatives, as To address this challenge, CEMEX has well as the scalability of some of our existing developed a number of programs that social projects, and new social initiatives and simultaneously increase communities’ access businesses added to our portfolio. to building materials for their homes, and provide mechanisms to improve training and To achieve this, we are strengthening our employment options. sustainability model and developing innovative programs and solutions that nurture economic We are generating progress in our communities deriving in the creation of 28 small and medium growth, empower communities to be more having as corporate citizenship priorities: enterprises (SMEs), which are currently being inclusive, and position us as a role model for 1. Investing in infrastructure development, disaster developed with the support of the Community the private sector. relief, environment and social innovation Centers’ social entrepreneurship team. A 2. Empowering key social groups through new CEMEX Community Center was also Community and Environmental Education Center | Huichapan, Mexico education and capacity-building inaugurated in Panama, to support impoverished 3. Generating cohesion between the families and those experiencing migration issues. community and the company through different efforts including employee In addition, in the volunteering second quarter of 2015, Community Centers CEMEX inaugurated the To improve household income among our first Community and neighbors, we have developed CEMEX Environmental Education Community Centers that serve as central locations for courses that teach skills needed Center in Huichapan, to secure employment or start a small Mexico. The center is business. In 2015, one of our most outstanding expected to benefit examples was having more than 34,000 1,500 people annually, people participating in 200 workshops in 17 Community Centers in Mexico. Moreover, offering capacity building around 1,300 women from fourteen different workshops that encourage communities participated in Productive Projects, self employment. 36 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Capacity-Building Initiatives expand. As a member of NEO, CEMEX has with specialized training in a number This project represents committed to enhance the employability of areas including construction, heavy of 32,000 young people in the next 3 machinery handling, industrial electrical a clear commitment to Employment Opportunities for Youth years generating equal opportunities for maintenance and welding, among others contribute to the eleventh Aligned with the fourth Sustainable Development Goal that is “Ensure inclusive women and men. Of this group, 4,000 Developing Sustainable and Resilient Sustainable Development graduated in 2015 from a training program and equitable quality education and promote focused on building the skills they need Communities Goal ‘Make cities and human lifelong learning opportunities for all”, at to enhance their employability, and nearly To minimize the impact of natural disasters settlements inclusive, safe, CEMEX, we lead numerous initiatives that 2,500 have already obtained a formal and create safer, more resilient communities, job. In addition, in 2015 CEMEX in the resilient and sustainable’. enhance employment opportunities for youth CEMEX collaborated with the United Nations in the areas where we operate. This effort Dominican Republic and the Business Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) includes generating the skills and capacities Action for Education (EDUCA) signed a and the Mexican Civil Protection Agency. required in the young people in order to be three-year agreement as part of the NEO Highlights of the team’s 2015 efforts include: Quisqueya Believes in You project, designed integrated to the workforce in our industry •• A joint effort between parents, teachers, to improve the infrastructure of technical and associated sectors. Some examples of principals, students and the Red Cross colleges in vulnerable areas and provide job our efforts in the different regions where opportunities to young people within these Mexico, preparing more than 5,200 CEMEX has presence are: communities. This alliance is expected to children in 70 schools with the skills they •• Launched in 2012 by the Multilateral improve the quality of life and employability need in case a disaster occurs Investment Fund (MIF), a member of of more than 302,000 at risk 15to •• Resilient Community Development Plans the Inter-American Development Bank 29-year-olds outlined for each of the 14 cement plants (IDB) Group along with the International •• In the case of Europe, our CEMEX UK identifying risks and establishing an action Youth Foundation, the IDB’s Social Sector Driving Apprenticeship Scheme, a year-long plan for prevention Department and corporate partners driving certification program for 18to •• More than 2,500 people participated in including CEMEX, the New Employment 24-year-olds, continues to flourish and 17 safety drills Opportunities for Youth (NEO) program for provide employment opportunities. In poor and low-income youth continues to 2015, our group of apprentices included the first female logistics apprentice •• Our CEMEX Philippines Experto Ako Contributing to the Reconstruction of Acuña program, a free 30-day masonry skills training course, has certified 200 young CEMEX donated building material for masons in the Philippines. In partnership the reconstruction and improvement with the Training Education and Skills of 100 households that were Development Authority (TESDA), the destroyed by a tornado in Acuña City program helps masons enhance their in Coahuila, Mexico. craft and improve their chances of employment with large construction In coordination with local authorities firms. Through such accreditation, a detailed evaluation was executed our masons have a competitive to identify the most affected families edge, increasing their employment in order to dedicate these resources opportunities locally and globally to building their homes. This support •• A clear example in our efforts in the SCAC benefited around 500 people in this region can be found in Colombia that since community. 2013 has provided nearly 2,000 people 37 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Generating As a global business, we believe 3.2 Empowerment, Diversity it is our duty to contribute to the top priorities outlined by the UN Sustainable Development and Capacity-Building Goals. Leveraging our business capabilities, worldwide network of employees and strategic alliances we can add public value, promote equal opportunity and provide vulnerable groups with numerous opportunities for growth. The values that underpin our relationship with communities are collaboration, citizen participation and co-responsibility. 38 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION In addition to foresee the employment and may have. This initiative encourages the encompasses 2,400 acres, 52 of which are self-sufficiency of the communities where we recruitment of professionals with some used for wildlife habitat. The wildlife team operate, CEMEX is committed to bolstering level of disability. In 2015, 65 employees is a dedicated group of site employees that communities’ fundamental capacities for long with disabilities were members of our work on projects that encompass a variety term self-sustenance and upward mobility. workforce, spanning Commercial, HR, of things ranging from birds to plants to Logistics and Operations departments. education and outreach. We support communities Promoting a Green Thumb Promoting a Healthy Lifestyle to improve culture, health, Reforestation is one of our main Whether it’s to expand the mind or improve social cohesion, and environmental care related efforts due to health, the benefits of exercise and cultural opportunities for economic the direct connection between our business activities are undeniable. To ensure this is an advancement. impact and our local community. In 2015, integral part of our communities, in Mexico, schools, agencies and NGOs in several Colombia and the Dominican Republic we countries joined forces with our employee have developed CEMEX athletic and dance Our Social Inclusion Programs volunteers to plant more than 270,000 trees academies that provide local children with from CEMEX greenhouses. the facilities, outfits, and coaching they Empowering Women need to practice different activities including Women’s economic equality is good for 35,000 purses crafted by more than 400 Aligned to our conservation efforts in Spain, football, basketball, baseball, kickball, business. Not only society in general but women with recycled material, which they we also celebrated 10 years of our joint swimming and dance. companies also greatly benefit from increasing then distributed at various branches. environmental campaign, Mallorca Natural, leadership opportunities for women. When a local environmental NGO, promoting More than 9,000 children more women work, economies grow at the We also maintain a strong relationship with workshops on environmental stewardship for time that society moves forward to the fifth ANSPAC, a non-profit organization that approximately 2,000 students across Spain. annually participate in our Sustainable Development Goal “Achieve gender provides technical training and guidance academies to promote a equality and empower all women and girls”. to women living near our cement plants. In 2015, we also consolidated our healthy lifestyle. In 2015, more than 6,000 people were Environmental Education Program to focus Several cases demonstrate CEMEX’s benefited from the workshops offered by on our top cement plants in Mexico. Through commitment to facilitate the integration CEMEX in partnership with ANSPAC. this initiative, we train young people to of women in our communities into the become promoters of environmental best labor market by empowering them through Empowering Disabled Individuals practices within their communities, building targeted skill development. One of these At CEMEX, we want everyone to feel awareness and helping restore the region. In examples was partnering with the Toks included. Through our UNIDOS program, 2015, 100 youth joined our effort. With this Foundation, an underpinning of Toks we foster relationships between volunteers program in place, we are working to obtain restaurant chain in Mexico, with the objective and those with disabilities to ensure they the Wildlife Habitat Council certification. to provide women the opportunity to earn are actively involved in all CEMEX events an income and help support their families as and projects. In 2015 the program reached Another example of our conservation part of the CEMEX Todas Somos Esperanza approximately 800 employees. programs, in this case certified by the Wildlife (We Are All Hope) initiative. In 2015, Toks Habitat Council since 2015, is the Balcones purchased 18,000 ornaments made by In addition, our Congruencia program Conservation Program in the US. CEMEX more than 500 women, embellishing 270 of recognizes employees’ unique talents and Balcones aggregates and cement plant is their various locations. Toks also purchased skills, regardless of any disability they located in New Braunfels, Texas. The site 39 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION “HERO” Our Volunteering Program in the Philippines CEMEX Philippines’ HERO (Help. Engage. Reach Out) program hosts the “Build Volunteerism” project, encouraging employees to invest time and effort in various corporate social responsibility initiatives. The project is an integral part of the company’s culture and has led to an increase in the number of employees volunteering their time to disaster relief operations, safety education, community outreach and many other causes. Expanding our Volunteering volunteered, planting more than 15,000 As part of the program, in 2015 CEMEX Volunteering Program for Programs native trees across locations, some of which Philippines partnered with the Provincial CEMEX Poland Employees We strongly believe that volunteering has a came directly from CEMEX greenhouses. Government of Rizal to undertake local Its goal is to build company employees’ meaningful, positive impact on communities. Overall, more than 6,200 individuals donated restoration and sustainability initiatives. involvement in the life of local communities and Strategic corporate volunteer programs approximately 16,000 hours of their time to Tree planting and river cleanups activities strengthen our relations with them. We aim to can contribute to increasing employee volunteer efforts organized through Manos have been scheduled. Key to the support initiatives, to provide assistance and engagement as well as improving the a la Obra, benefiting nearly 80,000 people. success of the HERO program is the manage relations with local communities. Since company’s visibility in the community’s This was a special year for CEMEX Colombia support of its employee volunteers and 2011, when the program was launched, we needs and concerns. Through our numerous in particular, which, after a detailed employee their families. have supported 78 Volunteer groups and we volunteer programs, our employees are giving survey to better understand volunteer needs have organized 6 Grant competitions. back to their communities. and interests, achieved a considerable increase in volunteers – from 60 in 2014 to 645 in More than 70% of the 2015 – participating in a total of 19 events. countries where we operate “Lend-a-Hand” have volunteering programs Our Volunteering Program in CEMEX UK in place. Through the UK’s Lend-a-Hand program, every employee is granted one community “Manos a la Obra” service day a year to spend with a charity Our Volunteering Program in Latin America close to their heart. Many employees Manos a la Obra (“Hands-on”) is a CEMEX choose to volunteer in groups, fostering program committed to improving the quality team building. The types of service vary of life of our communities and promoting greatly, from hospice decorating to sustainable practices. In 2015, the first Green refurbishing children’s playgrounds, and Day was held in Mexico, Colombia, Dominican touch every corner of our local community. Republic and Puerto Rico. CEMEX employees, In 2015, more than 520 UK employees community members and local organizations participated in 77 volunteering projects. 40 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX Foundations Focus Areas Flood Relief for Carlisle CEMEX encourages an active participation Supplier Development on the community development through CEMEX UK donated 5,000 £ to the innovative and sustainable solutions that Greystone Community Centre in Carlisle. Healthy Lifestyle Infrastructure & Country Foundation Name Health & Safety contribute to social mobility. The focus of The community centre was a key point Community Environment our social responsibility efforts are education for local families during the recent floods Education with over 30 people having to sleep Disaster Relief and skills development, empowerment of Development in the centre and hundreds of meals women and youth, respect and care for the provided to local families who were environment as well as community forced out of their homes. infrastructure. In short, joint projects that Colombia Fundación CEMEX Colombia • • • • • • generate shared value. US CEMEX Foundation • • • • • • • This is only one example of CEMEX’s philanthropic contributions, that in 2015 CEMEX Philippines Several business units in CEMEX have Philippines Foundation Inc. • • • • amounted more than US$5 million. established Foundations in order to facilitate a single point of focus for all of the company’s Egypt CEMEX Egypt Foundation • • • • • • charitable, community support and employee Spain Fundación CEMEX España • • • • • engagement activities. This ensures we are Building the Future using resources most effectively to bring Poland Foundation • • • • • • • assistance to those in need. Our Foundations are a key part of our CEMEX Sustainability UK CEMEX UK Foundation • • • • • Strategy and are dedicated to increasing Latvia CEMEX Opportunity Fund • • • • • • environmental awareness among community Building the Future members and employees and promoting Czech Republic Foundation • • • • • • athletics, healthy habits and education. CEMEX Philippines Participates in the Corporate Social CEMEX Poland’s Building the Future Foundation Responsibility Expo Supports Zaczytani Campaign CEMEX was an active participant and sponsor of the CEMEX Poland’s Building the Future Foundation runs a number of projects whose main Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expo organized by the goal is to help local communities through cooperation with local partners. Through grant League of Corporate Foundations (LCF), a premier network competitions, the Foundation encourages non-governmental organizations to engage in of more than 80 operating and grant-making corporate activities on behalf of the common good. Within the last six years, the Foundation has foundations and firms in the Philippines that promote and awarded 173 grants. enhance the strategic practices of CSR. In 2015, the Foundation joined the Great Collection of At the event, CEMEX Philippines highlighted their projects focused on eight clusters Books (Zaczytani) campaign in Warsaw, Poland. The of development: Skills and Livelihood, Health and Safety, Environment, Education, campaign provides young hospital patients and those in day Communities, Arts and Culture, Sustainable Partnerships, and Volunteerism. Through care centers, family care homes and hospices with books these efforts, CEMEX Philippines is helping to improve quality of life and build its to help nurture their curiosity and take their mind off of nation, block by block. stressful circumstances. CEMEX volunteers have been an active part of this effort. 41 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Creating Social and With the creation of the 3.3 Inclusive Business Sustainable Development Goals, the UN invited the private sector to play a key role in addressing Opportunities our world’s challenges. Across the globe, companies are stepping up to the plate with solutions and resources to help foster sustainable growth and improvement. To reach these goals, we believe that social and inclusive business opportunities are crucial. That’s why we are bringing citizens and local authorities together to participate in programs that foster empowerment and growth. Providing the tools and skills needed to achieve economic security in today’s society, communities are positioned for success – today and for years to come. 42 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Financial Basic inclusion Housing Employment Services •• Financial Inclusion Growing Platform Patrimonio Hoy Productive ConstruApoyo Construyo Social Green As cities continue to expand, urban •• Housing Centers of Contigo Franchise Technologies Self-Employment developers are running out of places to build, •• Employment (PCS) resulting in more houses constructed in areas •• Basic Services Inclusive prone to natural disasters. Unfortunately, Social Businesses Businesses these homes are often poorly constructed, Our inclusive and social business leaving hundreds of homeowners – many of opportunities go above and beyond selfwhich are low-income families – in turmoil construction schemes that allow millions of when a crisis arises. people to put a roof over their heads. They also tackle the many side effects of poverty, For more than 16 years, our high-impact social providing families with the space and privacy strategies have helped redefine community all humans need to live in harmony and foster development. Our Growing (“Crecimientos” in a peaceful, respectful home environment Spanish) platform encompasses the inception, that provides children with healthy living and development and promotion of social and learning conditions. inclusive business models that work with governments, think tanks, NGOs, low-income Through these high-impact communities and social entrepreneurs to help us achieve our goal of improving the quality of social models, CEMEX life of at least 15 million worldwide by 2020. clearly addresses several Working together as partners, consumers Sustainable Development and suppliers, our portfolio of programs cover Goals (SDGs). the following: 43 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Productive Centers of SelfIn 2015, we confirmed plans to create Employment (PCS) centers in some other countries including Our PCS are another example of our Guatemala, Bangladesh and the Philippines. commitment to creating self-sufficient, sustainable communities. At these centers, ConstruApoyo participants learn how to manufacture When money is tight but homes are in concrete blocks and other precast products, need of repair, our ConstruApoyo program half of which they can use to build, repair steps in. It provides families with a prepaid or expand their homes. The other half debit card, creating a transparent process is purchased by local governments for through which aid recipients can purchase infrastructure development, the proceeds of the building materials they need to fix which are reinvested into the centers. These damages to their homes due to natural partnerships with the government facilitate disasters. job creation and promote self-employment. We currently operate 125 To date, more than Patrimonio Hoy centers across Nicaragua, 33,000 families have Fortune Recognizes The lack of affordable housing is a severe Mexico, Colombia and benefited from the CEMEX´s Positive Impact problem for low-income families in many Costa Rica, and the program ConstruApoyo program. Thanks to the countries. Patrimonio Hoy, our flagship continues to grow. Patrimonio Hoy inclusive business, was founded to provide program, in these families with access to financing, 2015 CEMEX building materials, technical advice and was included logistical support, allowing them to build Evaluating and Quantifying the Benefits of our Social Initiatives in Fortune’s or expand their homes more quickly and Internal and external stakeholders want to Change the efficiently. Started in Mexico, Patrimonio have more than just a description of our World list, a Hoy has expanded through more than 100 programs, they seek quantification of their ranking that offices across Latin America to Costa Rica, positive impacts. recognizes Colombia, the Dominican Republic and 50 companies worldwide that have Nicaragua. At CEMEX, we have made great progress in made a sizable impact on major global the development of an approach that allows social or environmental problems as To date, more than 525,000 families have us to consistently quantify the benefits of our part of their strategy. Selected from received support from the program and high-impact social initiatives. The first pilot more than 200 nominees, CEMEX built homes at one-third of the cost and in application of this methodology was conducted secured 16th place and is the only one-third of the time. That’s 4.1 million m² with our Patrimonio Hoy initiative and indicated Latin-American based company on the that for every dollar that goes into the program, list and the only organization from the of livable space acquired through microUS$1.50 worth of additional benefits are construction materials sector. credits exceeding $300 million. generated in the communities. In 2015, only in Mexico this resulted in a social positive impact of US$65 million. 44 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Construyo Contigo •• Productive Centers of Based on closely coordinated public-private The CEMEX eko-stove is a clear example Self-Employment (PCS) (formerly PiAC) partnerships with governments, non-profit of these efforts. Made out of concrete, To empower low-income families •• ConstruApoyo organizations, universities, and communities, our unique prototype offers a 40% and improve their housing, Construyo •• Housing Construction Technical this business model offers training, funding larger cooking surface, uses a monolithic Contigo combines the following four Assistance & Training and technical assistance to ensure a combustion chamber instead of multiple programs and practices: •• Psychosocial Intervention & comprehensive approach to sustainable pieces and features cellular concrete Evaluation development. versus pumice stone. The eko-stove also requires less wood, meaning families save As of 2015, almost money while reducing CO2 and other harmful emissions. 28,000 people in Mexico and Colombia have Overall, the portable model is safer, more resulted beneficiaries from durable and requires less installation time Construyo Contigo. and maintenance than both traditional cooking methods and similar stoves on Green Technologies Provide Access the market. to Basic Services Green technology is a core pillar of our In 2015, 7,000 cookstoves were Growing platform. To fulfill our goals, we have installed in Mexico, helping us fulfill our joined forces with social entrepreneurs to commitments to the Global Alliance for develop innovative solutions that allow more Clean Cookstoves, an initiative that seeks members of our communities to have access to foster the adoption of clean cookstoves to basic services including clean water, waste and fuels in 100 million households globally management and energy. by 2020. ∞ CEMEX Recognized by Harvard for Contribution to UN Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the Harvard Kennedy School and the UK Department for International Development (DFID) released the report, Business and the Sustainable Development Goals – Building Blocks for Success at Scale, which listed CEMEX as an example of how the private sector can contribute to the achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The report recognized CEMEX’s Construyo Contigo Program and its clear ties to the SDG’s eight goal – Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all – and its eleventh goal – Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. CEMEX was recognized for its efforts to increase access to safe and affordable housing for low-income families, providing them the skills and materials they need to build their own homes and improve their quality of life, as well as the quality of the entire community. 45 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 4 Pursuing Excellence in Environmental Management 7.5 million tCO2 +3.1 avoided vs. 1990 comparable to offsetting the average yearly emissions million tons of waste used as alternative fuels in our 94% of our active quarries have a rehabilitation of Bogota’s vehicle fleet cement operations plan in place 46 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Optimizing Our CEMEX is committed and well 4.1 Carbon Footprint prepared to contributing to the mitigation of climate change and the adaptation to its consequences. We strive to optimize emission reductions and deliver innovative products that are key for mitigation and adaptation efforts. Our Carbon Strategy allowed us to deliver 21% more cement in 2015 increasing our absolute CO2 emissions only by 1% vs. 1990. 47 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION For decades, as part of our carbon emissions Avoided Direct and CEMEX Recognized for Environmental Preservation and Leadership reduction strategy we have focused on using Indirect CO2 Emissions low-emission alternatives to traditional fossil fuels, decreasing our clinker factor, promoting vs. 1990 Baseline CEMEX was recognized by the Thousand tons Secretariat of Environment and clean energy and increasing energy efficiency Natural Resources of Mexico in our operations. (SEMARNAT), the Federal Attorney Total 7,511 for Environmental Protection For this, we have significantly increased our (PROFEPA) and the State Government use of low-carbon alternative fuels that in 578 of Nuevo Leon for its leadership 2015 reached around 27%. and performance in environmental preservation, progress in reducing We contribute to a reduction in the CO2 emissions and use of alternative 2,704 fuels, especially in cement plants recognitions respectively. The award footprint of our cementitious products by Huichapan and Monterrey, that were represents the highest level of replacing traditional energy-intensive clinker awarded with the “Environmental environmental performance for a with alternative raw materials such as slag, Total Excellence”and the “GHG Mitigation” Mexican company. fly ash and pozzolans. In 2015, our overall 2,199 clinker factor was 78.6%, around 7 p.p. less than in 1990. Our emissions of CO2 per ton 256 of cementitious products dropped by 21.6% 4,229 compared to 1990. 1,943 2005 2015 Through renewable energy Through alternative fuels Through clinker factor Overall during the year we avoided more That is comparable to CEMEX was ranked second in the Latin than 7.5 million tons of CO2 emissions as a American Climate Disclosure Leadership offsetting the yearly result of our initiatives to reduce our clinker Index, a ranking compiled by CDP that factor, increase the use of alternative fuels average carbon emissions recognizes leading companies in the and reduce our indirect emissions through from 1.4 million passenger disclosure of data related to environmental the consumption of power from clean vehicles. and CO2 emissions performance. CEMEX energy sources. scored 99 out of 100 for the transparency and completeness of information provided. This is the fourth consecutive year that CEMEX was included in this ranking. 48 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Paris Agreement Adopted to Combat Climate Change Quantifying our impacts as a way to In December 2015, 195 countries better understand and manage them adopted the Paris Agreement created to What is the cost to society of a ton of CO2 that we emit? A kilogram of dust? An acre combat climate change. The agreement of land disturbed to extract minerals for our products? Likewise, what is the value requires countries to not only monitor of our high-impact social programs such as Patrimonio Hoy? Or the volunteering and report on GHG emissions, but also to work that many of our employees do around the world? Answering these questions define their own contributions towards in a consistent way will allow us to estimate the true net value that we contribute to a low-carbon economy in the form of society, and also significantly enhance our ability to optimize that value creation by Nationally Determined Contributions focusing on the levers that have the greatest impact. (NDCs). Although the agreement has drawn some criticism for not being At CEMEX, we realize the potential of quantifying impacts; apart from our participation aggressive enough, CEMEX believes this in two of the most notable projects in this field, the Natural Capital Coalition and is a large and necessary step in the right the Social Capital Protocol, we are co-chairing the Cement Sustainability Initiative’s direction. corresponding Task Force and have developed our own methodology and tool to account for all our material impacts – environmental and social ones, positive and In particular, CEMEX welcomes the negative – in a way that is in line with accepted best practices and emerging standards. prominent role that market mechanisms The tool, which enables better sustainability management choices to be made, has have in the Paris Agreement. For almost been piloted by our UK operations. While details will be published soon, preliminary a decade CEMEX has publicly supported calculations indicate that this new approach has helped CEMEX UK reduce their impact carbon markets as a key instrument per unit of sales year-on-year since the pilot started. to combat climate change. Moreover CEMEX is one of the initial members of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC), a World Bank-led initiative that integrates governments, the private sector and civil society in an effort to promote the use of well-designed carbon pricing mechanisms. Our Carbon Offsets Projects Portfolio In addition, as co-chair of the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI), CEMEX has also For more than a decade, CEMEX has been been a leading contributor to the Low-Carbon Technology Partnership initiative working to identify, document and register (LCTPi) of the cement sector. At COP21, the cement industry reaffirmed its projects that mitigate carbon emissions below commitment to help tackle climate change, releasing a set of action plans aimed business-as-usual and generate equivalent at reducing CO2 emissions by 20-25% by 2030, a reduction of 1 Gt compared to offsets. Currently, CEMEX has achieved the business as usual. The LCTPi Cement report identifies a range of actions to reduce approval for 19 CO2 offset projects registered emissions of the sector, including, among others, expanding the use of alternative under the Clean Development Mechanism fuels and substitutes for traditional cement clinker, and developing new low-carbon and four under the Verified Carbon Standard cements. representing a total reduction potential of nearly 3 million tons of CO2 per year. The initiatives are located in Colombia, Costa Rica, Mexico, Panama, Dominican Republic, Egypt and the United States. 49 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Expanding Our Clean Energy Share Riverstone Energy Limited (REL) is a closedat the Solid cement plant in Antipolo City, Seven CEMEX USA and Capturing Opportunities for ended investment company that invests Philippines. Excess heat captured from the Installations Earn ENERGY Additional Value Creation exclusively in the global energy industry, plant will produce up to 6MW of electricity, STAR® EPA Certification Rapid population growth and urbanization with a particular focus on the exploration which is equivalent to 25% of the cement will have a dramatic effect on the need & production and midstream sectors. plant’s total power requirement. Four CEMEX US cement plants earned for housing, energy, clean water and the U.S. Environmental Protection infrastructure. CEMEX is leveraging our Additionally, in 2015 CEMEX Philippines The facility serves as an example of exemplary Agency ENERGY STAR® certification, ranking among the top 25% of similar industry-leading technical expertise, skills and SINOMA Energy Conservation Ltd. energy efficiency and carbon footprint US facilities for energy conservation. and technologies to combat the impact (SINOMA-EC) inaugurated the US$20 reduction best practices. The recognized installations include: of increasing urbanization and related million Waste-Heat-to-Electricity Facility Miami, Florida (fifth consecutive construction that produce greenhouse gas certification), Clinchfield, Georgia emissions. This strong foundation of solutions (ninth consecutive certification, provides us with opportunities to further an achievement realized by only expand our renewable energy portfolio. one other cement plant in the US), Fairborn, Ohio, and Victorville, To contribute to this objective, CEMEX California (each receiving their fourth created CEMEX Energia, a new energy certifications). Additionally, three of business dedicated to develop a portfolio our Texan ready-mix plants, located in La Porte, Mission, and Rosenburg, of power projects in Mexico. For this, met the ENERGY STAR challenge by CEMEX Energia signed a joint venture with committing to the pre-established Pattern Development, a partner backed goal of reducing energy intensity by Riverstone, with strong and proven by 10% within five years or less. development expertise that will help Collectively, these recognized readyto put together a pipeline of renewable mix installations cut energy intensity energy projects in Mexico and share the by an average of 21% through the development costs, with the objective of use of more energy efficient parts and Waste-Heat-to-Electricity Facility Inauguration | CEMEX Philippines creating significant development value. equipment such as dust collectors, conveyor belt pulleys, and lighting. During the year more than 16% of our power supply for cement operations came from sustainable energy sources including: » 250 MW Eurus wind farm in Mexico » 7 MW wind portfolio in California » 30 MW waste-to-energy in Rüdersdorf, Germany » 1.5 MW solar project in the Dominican Republic » 6 MW hydro power portfolio in Colombia » 6 MW waste heat recovery in Solid, Philippines » All electricity in Panama cement plant supplied by a hydro plant 50 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION We are determined to find 4.2 From Waste to Fuel opportunities to meet the demands of a growing society through effective and secure ways to alleviate the social, economic and environmental issues associated with municipal waste management. At CEMEX, we lead by example. We are building support around the globe for enactment and enforcement of legislation that promotes co-processing of waste that cannot otherwise be reduced, reused or recycled. We are increasing our own use of environmentally friendly and economically sound alternative fuels. 51 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX has become the prominent advocate and user of alternative fuels in the cement Alternative Fuel Substitution Rate Tepeaca Cement Plant industry, displacing traditional fuels like Repurposes Municipal Waste petcoke and coal by low or even zero-carbon of Mexico City alternatives, such as municipal solid waste, To reach the current alternative fuels rate CEMEX has invested companywide around Rather than pay for the disposal of its tires, biomass residues, among others. US$230 million since 2005. 26.6% municipal waste in landfills, Mexico City government processes 800 In fact, we have raised our alternative tons of residues per day that are fuels substitution rates aggressively over used as fuel by the Tepeaca cement the past 10 years, from 5.1% in 2005 to plant in the Mexican State of Puebla. 26.6% in 2015. At year-end, 92% of our With an investment from CEMEX, cement plants burned alternative fuels, this co-processing installation will avoiding the use of 1.9 million tons of be expanded in 2016 to allocate coal. Of our 46 plants burning alternative 1,600 tons of waste every day to the fuels, eight surpassed this year a 50% cement kilns. 1990 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 substitution rate. Our top performers in alternative fuel use such as Broceni in Latvia, Chelm in Poland, Clinchfield in the U.S., Prachovice in Czech CEMEX UK Partners to Make Fuel from Waste Republic and Rüdersdorf in Germany, each SUEZ recycling and CEMEX UK launched a new dispose of 150 to 200 ktons per year of solid An internal shot of Suez’s Malpass facility to turn waste into fuel. The new Solid fuels in an environmentally friendly manner. Farm SRF facility in Rugby Recovered Fuel (SRF) facility will supply the CEMEX Our total alternative fuels usage generated Rugby Cement Plant with a sustainable alternative savings of US$106 million in 2015. to fossil fuels for the next 25 years, using nothing but regionally sourced waste from across CEMEX has the know-how to source, Warwickshire, Northamptonshire, and the wider process, store, and recover energy from Midlands Area. alternative fuels in a responsible way. Still, in many countries, our substitution rate The fuel, known as Climafuel®, replaces traditional is far below its real potential particularly coal as an energy supply and SUEZ will supply because national and local regulation CEMEX with up to 240,000 tons of the fuel every year to help meet the significant energy needs of often does not incentivize modern the CEMEX plant and improve its environmental waste management in the same way performance. as in many European countries; other challenges include current price levels for In 2015, this facility was recognized by the Global conventional fossil fuels, market dynamics, CemFuels Awards as CemFuel Project of the year. permitting issues, or logistics issues, among others. Nonetheless, CEMEX will Photo credit: Paul Box continue to make efforts to reach the 35% Alternative Fuels Target by 2020. 52 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Advancing towards CEMEX Latvia Creates a Valuable by-product from its Process Waste a Circular Economy With geographically diverse operations, Increased chlorine input at high alternative fuels use rates requires a Bypass System to ensure we dispose of waste generated in our a reliable kiln operation. A Bypass System drains a fraction of kiln gases along with calcined production processes in accordance with meal entering the kiln, which features a high concentration of salts and alkaline compounds local regulations. Cement-kiln dust represents that otherwise will create heavy buildups in the kiln and preheater. As part of this extracted material can be recycled into the production process, excess dust needs to be disposed. the greatest amount of waste produced. However, we try to reuse it in production Through an applied research-driven project (US $1.8 million) partially funded by the Latvian and other processes as much as possible. To Government and the European Union, CEMEX Latvia, in collaboration with CEMEX Research realize financial and environmental benefits of Group AG in Switzerland, developed a solution to properly handle bypass dust with the waste, we seek to monitor, minimize, reuse installation of a unit suitable to process up to 2,800 ton per year, and that separates salts and recycle all our wastes, whenever possible. from calcined meal that can be recycled into the cement production process. Extracted salts are of high quality and can in turn be used for several applications, such as for fertilizers and Our disposal efforts include: road de-icing, which offers a low-cost alternative to traditional salt derived products. This •• Monitoring of hazardous and nonbeneficiation unit features a water-based washing process which separates calcined meal hazardous waste generated in all of our from alkaline compounds, followed by a crystallization unit that extracts salts of different operations qualities whilst releasing a clean water throughput that can be recycled. •• Replacing primary aggregates with other The unit was successfully commissioned in CEMEX Latvia’s Broceni cement plant by the end of 2015. This development will help pave discarded materials, including demolished the way for added value solutions as part of CEMEX’s alternative fuels and waste management strategy. concrete •• Reusing and recycling fresh concrete returned from construction sites In 2015, 90% of the Moreover, the disposal of our non-hazardous waste generated by our waste, the most abundant waste we generate, decreased approximately 4% production processes compared to last year’s values, while our was recovered, reused or hazardous waste disposal lowered 0.6%. recycled. The remaining material was sent to disposal sites. 53 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Minimizing Air Reaching environmental 4.3 Emissions and Enhancing excellence for a sustainable growth is one of our main objectives as a company. Our Environmental In addition to the Board-level Management Sustainability Committee CEMEX relies on a Global Environmental Council to identify, inform and tackle the key environmental management concerns. We dedicate significant efforts to reduce our environmental footprint. 54 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Implementing CEMEX Environmental CEMEX EMS meets ISO 14001 and EU programs. As we approach full implementation major and minor emissions. Our 2020 target Management System Eco-Management and Audit Scheme of our global EMS in 2020, our goal is that all is to ensure 100% of our clinker is produced We use the CEMEX Environmental (EMAS) certification and applies to all CEMEX facilities be 100% compliant with our with continuous monitoring of major Management System (EMS) to evaluate CEMEX business activities, products and internal environmental criteria. emissions, a goal that involves an estimated and facilitate consistent, complete services globally including companies and additional investment of US$7.5 million. implementation of risk-based environmental joint ventures controlled by and/or operated Managing our Air Emissions management tools across our operations. by CEMEX. The requirements in this system CEMEX is committed to reducing our In 2015, we invested The CEMEX EMS consists of key mechanisms are met in addition to all applicable local environmental footprint, striving to: for environmental impact assessment, legislative requirements. US$86 million in •• Monitor major and minor emissions stakeholder engagement and accident sustainability-related •• Improve our measurement methods response based upon input from a range of At the end of 2015, 98% of our cement projects at our operations •• Adapt to new and more stringent air environmental and biodiversity specialists. plants, 73% of our ready-mix operations and emissions regulations, investing accordingly across the globe, including 88% of our aggregates quarries implemented either the CEMEX EMS or equivalent and executing required trainings more than 50 initiatives to •• Go beyond local regulations and set monitor and reduce our air ambitious targets for emissions mitigation emissions. The 12 Elements of the The release of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur Through our internal Environmental CEMEX Environmental 12 1 Management System compounds (SOx) and dust occurs during Management System (EMS), we monitor Framework cement manufacturing. Other emissions, major emissions to ensure we are below Management Leadership & 11 Review Leadership & Accountability including dioxins, furans, volatile organic local regulation limits. To further improve Accountability compounds and heavy metals, are released upon these efforts, we have set minimum 2 Aspects & in very small or negligible quantities. To performance levels to fulfill every year Internal Audit Impacts control our stack emissions and remain for major emissions. The targets compare compliant with local and national regulations, yearly emissions values to a 2005 baseline CEMEX has steadily expanded its emissions to determine the reduction percentage 10 3 Emergency Legal & other monitoring efforts at manufacturing for dust, NOx and SOx. These yearly goals Preparedness & Requirements operations. In 2015, 84% of our clinker was ensure CEMEX consistently performs below Response produced with continuous monitoring of required levels. Additionally, our major major emissions (dust, NOx and SOx), while emissions indicators are annually audited by Environmental Competency 80% was produced with monitoring of both an independent party. 9 Incident Reporting Enviromental Training Awareness 4 Policy Contractor Communication Manager & Consultation Annual Reduction Percentage vs. 2005 Levels Operational Document Yearly Target 2015 2014 2013 Control Control 5 8 Dust emissions per ton of clinker ≥ 50% 70% 55% 58% NOx emissions per ton of clinker ≥ 30% 46% 42% 39% 7 6 SOx emissions per ton of clinker ≥ 20% 57% 60% 67% 55 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX Environmental Incidents •• We consistently record and report incidents to identify reoccurring root causes and CEMEX USA Works Toward NESHAP Compliance Goals Management to share corrective actions based on best At CEMEX, we strive to minimize our practices The United States Environmental Protection Agency (US-EPA) is required by the Clean emissions and reduce the likelihood of spills and water contamination. We are prepared •• We monitor and track incidents at every Air Act to regulate hazardous air pollutants (HAP), through the National Emissions level of our business. In addition, the Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) program. In the three years since to respond to any emergency, natural or Corporate Environment, Health and the US Environmental Protection Agency finalized its NESHAP Maximum Achievable manmade, that may pose a potential threat to Safety team identifies trends and areas of Control Technology (MACT) rule for cement plants, CEMEX has installed Continuous our operations and local communities. opportunity and provides technical support Emissions Monitoring Systems, Data Acquisition Systems and other emission control •• We work with our neighbors, law to businesses that complements local technologies at 11 plants. enforcement officials, public agencies and action plans other stakeholders to develop contingency The rule imposes limits on emissions of mercury (Hg), total hydrocarbons (THC), plans at each of our sites, while also We believe it is important to inform our particulate matter (PM, i.e. dust), and hydrochloric acid (HCl). It requires installation contributing to each of our communities’ stakeholders of all environmental incidents. In of CEMS (Continuous Emissions Monitoring Systems) and appropriate control emergency preparedness strategies 2015, two Category 1 incidents occurred in technologies for compliance. For this, the NESHAP are some of the strictest emissions •• We created Emergency Response Teams the Philippines and Puerto Rico that impacted standards in the world. To meet these compliance goals required collaboration across that are specifically trained to address our operations. We have analyzed the causes CEMEX USA departments and an investment of more than US$100 million. environmental incidents and hold annual and taken steps to prevent these events from emergency drills happening again. •• In 2015, our Category 2 incidents •• The increase in NOx emissions is linked to •• In Puerto Rico, the Environmental increased significantly, from 39 in 2014 the plant’s change of fuels and is expected Protection Agency determined that CEMEX to 436. This drastic increase was mainly to decrease once the fuel combustion Environmental Incidents by Type (%) exceeded its nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission due to circumstances at our Assiut plant process is optimized. If these initial actions limits. CEMEX Puerto Rico has agreed to in Egypt that led to the plant exceeding do not result in the legal limits, secondary 3.9 1.3 pay the requested fine and will spend an the legal daily average limits for dust, NOx measures such as a NOx SNCR system will estimated US$1.7 million on pollution Dust and sulfur dioxide (SO2). CEMEX Egypt is be put into place 7.3 controls that will reduce NOx emissions, 46.2 Other currently working to address these issues: including the installation of a continuous 10.0 Site operating At CEMEX, we will maintain open conditions & emissions monitoring (CEM) system as •• For dust control, a CAPEX has been requested to convert one electrical communications to disclose our progress disturbance well as a selective non-catalytic reduction Fuel & chemical system (SNCR) submersible pump (ESP) bypass filter to a and continue working with governments Water bag filter and community groups that support 31.3 •• At our Solid plant in the Philippines, a tank Process waste environmental improvement. & material of fuel accidentally exceeded its storage capacity, causing the contents to spill. While the Emergency Response Team was able to contain a significant volume of the fuel, an estimated 2,000 liters ended up in a nearby river. Within the first two days of the clean2013 2014 2015 up operations, the response teams were Category 1 Incidents 0 0 2 able to recover approximately 1,600 liters Category 2 Incidents 87 39 436 of fuel, which was sent back to the plant Category 3 Incidents 357 313 227 for processing. Within the first week, the Philippine Coast Guard conducted a joint Complaints 136 81 88 assessment with CEMEX personnel and TOTAL 580 433 753 declared the water 100% clear 56 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Preserving Land, Protecting the natural 4.4 Biodiversity and Water resources society relies on is an important part of the sustainable development of urban environments. The preservation of land, biodiversity and water plays a key role in our long-term strategy for resource management. CEMEX aims to contribute to natural ecosystems conservation by partnering with leading NGOs. 57 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Managing Water to Minimize Use Water is critical to CEMEX operations, Reducing Track-Out Water Footprint (million m3) comprising nearly 25% of concrete mixtures. The CEMEX-Kosmos Facility in The MobyDick Wheelwash System 42 It is also used during the production process Louisville, Kentucky, has implemented is helping CEMEX meet increasingly 25 25 of cement, ready-mix and aggregates, as well a permanent wheel wash system strict regulations on air pollution with 22 17 12 11 as for cleaning plants, trucks and equipment. to better prevent the track-out of a 40,000-gallon closed-loop water 3 1 To protect this natural resource and help aggregate, cement, dirt and soil onto recycling and solids separation system, our business succeed, we must increase our local roads and minimize air pollution manual fire nozzle, hose wash and exit Cement Ready-mix Aggregates water efficiency and control our water waste. from truck traffic dust. area backwash. Total withdrawals In 2015, we continued implementation Total discharges of our Corporate Water Policy across Total consumption operations. This includes standardization of the most significant business impact. Our and systematically produce their own 2015 Specific Water Consumption our water measurement based on the Water work will allow us to ultimately set targets BAP, tailored to the particular biodiversity Protocol developed in coordination with that allow more efficient water management. values associated with the operations and Cement 346 l/ton the International Union for Conservation of challenges they face. This work is guided by Ready-mix 207 l/m3 Nature (IUCN). To date, we have reduced our For more information visit our website. our Corporate Biodiversity Policy, which is Aggregates 134 l/ton overall water consumption by 4% compared fully integrated into our business model in all to 2014. Implementing Biodiversity countries and operations, and aligned with Action Plans the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) 9% of CEMEX operations are located in Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs) are the and its Aichi Biodiversity Targets. CEMEX and Birdlife officially designated water stressed areas. We principal tool for CEMEX to achieve a net International Renew provide guidance to our operations through positive impact on biodiversity. CEMEX and For more information about our work and Partnership the creation of a holistic water management BirdLife International have created a standard how our policy aligns with the Aichi Targets, CEMEX and Birdlife International have plan that prioritizes countries and sites where for the development of BAPs to ensure please click here. renewed their global partnership for water-related risks are highest and there is individual operations are able to thoroughly a further three years to continue to promote and restore biodiversity of natural areas where mineral extraction takes place. During the nearly 10 CEMEX Dominican Republic Excels in Water Management years that BirdLife International has worked with CEMEX on a risk and Through the continuous reinforcement technology, and implementing a closed-loop Coalition and the Ministry of Environment opportunity scoping study, helped of water best practices, CEMEX cooling process. CEMEX has also established to clean up the river banks and improve develop a Biodiversity Action Plan Dominican Republic recovers more than a procedure for the management, use, water quality. The company also supports Standard and facilitated grassroots 19 million gallons of water annually at its control and disposal of sewage in the plant’s the Provincial Directorate of Environment partnership in every CEMEX global cement plant in San Pedro de Macoris, operations and administrative areas. and the Board Mallen Lagoon in their region to deliver outcomes for priority offsetting up to 40% of the plant’s water efforts to safeguard this protected area. species and habitats. The scope consumption. A number of factors go In addition, CEMEX is part of the of the agreement has extended to into the plant’s water recovery process, Multisectoral Coalition for Conservation supporting potentially all CEMEX including capturing rainwater, utilizing a of the Higuamo River Basin in San Pedro quarries around the world. state-of-the-art wastewater treatment de Macoris. CEMEX works alongside the 58 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION and protect areas where the Iguanas may 2015 Biodiversity Management and nest and feed. Quarry Rehabilitation Progress In 2015, we continued taking action to •• Innovation in restoring quarries and enhance the biodiversity in and around preventing flooding: CEMEX Spain our quarries located in or close to high introduced a Comprehensive Ecological Restoration plan for quarries located in biodiversity value areas while starting new Campredó (Spain). In collaboration with BAP projects at other key quarries. We local and regional governments, the also continued our work to develop quarry restoration plan will create a lush and rehabilitation plans for all active cement and viable landscape for wildlife habitats and aggregates quarries. facilitate the recovery of ecosystems. This restoration will provide flood control To date, 94% of our active quarries and climate regulation and allow local have a rehabilitation plan in place, and a species to thrive. significant percentage of these plans have •• CEMEX adds concrete rookeries in a biodiversity-focused end-use, given aggregates sites: CEMEX Czech Republic their proximity to key biodiversity areas. placed concrete islands in two gravel pits In addition, 61% of our 64 active quarries to help protect endangered birds that are located within or adjacent to high biodiversity in the nesting process, thereby increasing value areas also have a BAP in place besides offspring. Some species seek out the their rehabilitation plan. Some recent BAP communities in wildlife enhancement Developed a concept plan and rookeries because they need gravel initiatives and foster awareness of surfaces with low-cut vegetation amid projects include: positively engaged local government how industry and natural habitats can ponds for nesting sites. It is estimated •• Preserving habitats for key biodiversity to discuss sensitively developing the coexist. CEMEX maintains 14 facilities that 600 pairs of terns nest in the Czech species in Colombia: Under the umbrella area for eco-tourism Republic, approximately 60 of which built that have earned the WHC Conservation of the BirdLife Partnership, CEMEX Undertook an assessment to nests on the concrete islands. Certification for conservation education Colombia collaborates with the national ecosystem services of the IBA programs, superior management NGO Calidris to protect four globally and developed a communications of wildlife enhancement and land threatened bird and plant species, at strategy to raise the profile stewardship initiatives. least one of which triggers the Alliance of the importance of the IBA, for Zero Extinction site criteria. Together •• Enhancing a key biodiversity area in Malaysia: CEMEX Malaysia’s BAP project including through recognition as they are developing a land management with the Malaysian Nature Society took an East Asian-Australasian Flyway plan that will benefit local communities by providing focused areas for livestock a landscape-level approach to identifying Partnership site grazing as well as address one of the sites of conservation importance in •• Saving the Rhinoceros Iguana: CEMEX principal threats to the ecosystem – recognition of the limited opportunities Dominican Republic and Grupo Jaragua overgrazing. As part of our efforts to to restore or enhance habitats at the (one of the most prominent NGOs in the enhance the endemic cycad and tree, quarry. They identified the 7,200 Dominican Republic and the Caribbean) the area will be re-populated with seeds hectare ‘Teluk Air Tawar-Kuala Muda have co-facilitated community from a local botanical garden. Coast’ Important Bird & Biodiversity Area workshops to raise awareness of the (IBA) as the most important site in the globally threatened Rhinoceros Iguana. •• CEMEX Partnership with the Wildlife region to conserve and threatened with As a result of the workshops, community Habitat Council (WHC): Our partnership development. In 2015, the partnership members have joined the field team, has provided a valuable opportunity to achieved the following: working to manage nurseries, engage CEMEX employees and local monitor local habitat and identify 59 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Mineral Products Industry Plays Key Role in Building Natural Capital CEMEX UK was recognized by the Mineral Products Association (MPA) at the 2015 MPA Biodiversity & Restoration Awards, which showcase some of the best examples by member companies in quarry restoration and wildlife conservation. CEMEX MPA Restoration Award winners include: Photo credit: Marcello Sega Award Name Award Program Quarry Location Award Overview The turtle dove population has declined since 1970 and could be extinct by 2020. MPA Biodiversity Conservation of turtle Derbyshire and Award Innovation doves and twite Warwickshire The songbird twite faces a similar fate with its population Winner declining more than 90% over the last 20 years. Efforts at the CEMEX UK sites have provided habitat and food sources for the two important bird species. What used to be modest agricultural land now offers considerable wildlife benefits alongside the Trent and MPA Restoration Award Willington and Mersey Canal. Winner – Commended Restored site phase Derbyshire While the major benefits are for wildlife, the site has also helped the local parish council to define its territory with the planting of a row of black poplars along the village boundary. CEMEX UK’s restored Powburn quarry is home to swans, ducks, butterflies, foxes and otters, providing a great MPA Restoration resource for educational programs. The facilities include a Award Winner – Highly Partnership with Powburn and bird hide, interpretation boards, a dipping pond and disabled Commended land owner Northcumberland access. In total, 55 species of birds, 14 mammals, five reptiles and amphibians, and 21 butterflies and damselflies have been recorded. The grassland habitat is maintained by ponies. CEMEX has restored Goddards quarry from industrial MPA Restoration Award Blending a Goddards and operation to picturesque grassland complete with habitat Winner – Commended limestone quarry Derbyshire for newts, reptiles, rock bees, several species of butterflies and a badger’s sett. 60 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Preserving El Carmen We will be celebrating the 15th anniversary Measuring the Impact of As a result of extensive conversations with these renowned of continued conservation efforts at El Our Conservation Efforts organizations, CEMEX has reaffirmed its commitment to Carmen Nature Reserve in 2016. This private preserve nature: CEMEX supported the work of a trans-boundary conservation area, located Master’s in Science thesis1 focused along the border between Mexico and the As one of the industry’s leading and develop a culture of appreciation on determining the economic value companies in areas of environmental and respect for nature among its United States of America, is one of the most of our El Carmen ecosystem. The protection and land conservation, CEMEX stakeholders and, by extension, the important biodiversity hotspots and transthesis used the contingent valuation fully recognizes the need to protect the global community; and is also committed boundary ecosystems in the world. Through method, the most commonly used outstanding universal value of World to work with the relevant international El Carmen we are able to restore habitats method to estimate the value of public Heritage sites and that these sites should organizations, responsible local and manage wildlife in an area that is 8.4 goods and services. The dissertation be considered no-go areas and nothing authorities, corresponding statutory times larger in size than the total sum of the discovered that the social value of the should impinge their settings and buffer bodies and regulators so that the El Carmen biodiversity efforts is worth affected areas by our quarrying activities zones. As such, CEMEX is committed protection of these sites is maintained approximately US$25.7 to $58.7 worldwide. to building awareness of natural World and, where possible, access and amenity million per year. Heritage sites by helping to promote are improved. Its wilderness ecosystem provides numerous opportunities for conservation studies: •• Science & Education: In 2015, fifty conservation of our planet’s culturally and biology students from Nuevo Leon State naturally diverse World Heritage sites. CEMEX Nature Site University, Mexico, studied the site. With This year’s volume is presented in To further promote a culture of the support of a consultancy firm, deserts collaboration with the United Nations appreciation and respect for nature shrubs, grasslands and forests’ carbon Educational, Scientific and Cultural across the global community, CEMEX sequestration environmental services were Organization (UNESCO), the International is launching the CEMEX Nature Site, evaluated. Results show that El Carmen has Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), using the dynamics of social media helped to mitigate around 11 million tCO2 Conservation International, and the WILD channels to reinforce the impact of •• Wildlife Management: El Carmen Foundation. Through the World Heritage our published conservation books. continues its wildlife management program Convention, UNESCO has successfully The site will go beyond excerpts for the protection and enhancement of promoted international cooperation to from the most recent books to wildlife populations, such as desert bighorn include information about CEMEX’s protect the exceptional cultural and natural sheep, mule deer, pronghorn antelope and other biodiversity and environmental value of World Heritage sites for current and many other birds, mammals, reptiles and projects, including our commitment to amphibians Earth’s Legacy: Natural World Heritage future generations. ∞ UNESCO World Heritage sites. The third edition of the Nature Series Books. •• Habitat Restoration: With the support of This insightful and deeply informative For more information, visit more than 120 volunteers from CEMEX, series builds on the more than twowww.cemexnature.com the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department and the Texas Bighorn Society, three decade tradition of CEMEX’s celebrated and follow us at: new wildlife guzzlers were constructed 20-volume Conservation Book Series. This since water sources help support the new book combines splendid photography reintroduction of mule deer and other with expressive prose to enhance the native wildlife in El Carmen reader’s comprehension and concern for the 1. Lucio Contreras N. J. (2014). Valoración de los Servicios Ecosistémicos Provistos por Maderas del Carmen (Master in Science). Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Mexico 61 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 5 Embedding Our Core Values into Every Action 95% of our operations were fatality +2,800 suppliers assessed based 75% employee participation rate in the and Lost-Time Injury free on sustainability criteria 2015 Engagement Survey 62 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Placing Health and Safety is our top priority. To 5.1 Safety First ensure we’re meeting our goals, four core principles guide every decision we make and action we take: • Ensure nothing comes before the health and safety of our people, contractors and the community • Make health and safety a personal responsibility; look after yourself and each other • Strive to create a workplace with zero harm • Maintain accountability for health and safety practices To date, we have promoted more than 700 examples of positive health and safety practices through our Sharing Good Practices initiative. 63 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX is committed to conducting business that focuses on strategies for communicating in a manner that protects the health and 14 1 H&S commitments and positively influencing safety of our employees, contractors, visitors, Audits, employee H&S practices. Moreover, we Leadership & Inspections 2 13Incident customers and the communities in which we & Continuous Accountability are currently launching a Health and Safety operate. This commitment is documented in Improvement Academy for all levels of management. The Risk the CEMEX Health and Safety Policy and is Investigation, Management program consists of three modules focusing put into practice across all operations through Reporting & on our H&S model and overall HSMS. To Prevention a disciplined management framework called graduate from this program, attendees must the CEMEX Health and Safety Management 12 3 pass a written test. Emergency Regulation System (HSMS) based on the OHSAS Policies Management 18001:2007 standard. Our Zero4Life Commitment We are constantly working towards our Operational H&S 11 Control Driving Safety 4 ultimate target of zero injuries worldwide – what we call our Zero4Life commitment. In 2015, our Employee Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate improved 50%, from 1.2 to 0.6, bringing us closer to our goal to reduce the Employee LTI Rate to 0.3 or less by 2020. Standard Operating Procedures Policy Contractor Management We are encouraged to see that 95% of our 10 5 CEMEX operations were fatality and lostDocument Health time-injury free for the year. We recognize Control the remaining 5% is still considerable, People, however the overall direction is positive and 9 Communication Training & 6 In addition, all employees must complete in fact in 2015 time lost to injuries fell to & Consultation Behaviours E-LEGACY training – the “E” stands for The 14 elements of best-in-industry levels. “everyone.” This is a non-technical, interactive CEMEX H&S Management System Framework 8 7 program that helps front-line employees Also in 2015, the CEMEX Total Recordable assess risks and integrate safe and healthy Injury (TRI) Frequency Rate continued to practices into their day-to-day activities, decline, reaching 4.5 compared to 5.6 in promoting a strong H&S culture within our 2014 and 5.9 in 2013. Five regions and represented a 30% reduction compared to experience to perform their jobs safely organization. 18 countries reduced their TRI Rates, with 2014, but one fatality is one too many and through our investment in programs that nine countries maintaining a rate of zero. we will not be satisfied until we reach our provide employees at all levels with health Representing every position in our In addition, the global Employee Sickness goal of zero fatalities and injuries. To reach and safety (H&S) training. company, 61% of our employees – Absence Rate for CEMEX went from 2.2 to this goal, we are actively working to identify workers, line supervisors, managers and 2.1 in 2015. and mitigate risks. As part of our manger training program, we union representatives – are a part of H&S require every executive and supervisor to committees that meet regularly to We are deeply saddened to report that in Making H&S Training a Top Focus complete the LEGACY leadership training discuss employee concerns and review and 2015 there were 19 fatalities – 1 employee, At CEMEX, we ensure all of our employees course. We also offer our senior leaders a enforce health and safety practices 10 contractors and 8 third parties. This have the correct knowledge, skills and Visible Felt Leadership (VFL) training course and programs. 64 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Global Health & Safety Awards 2015 Winners by Country CEMEX UK Step-In Initiative Business Unit Size Award Type 1st Place 2nd Place 3rd Place In 2015, CEMEX UK’s ready-mix plants closed their doors for 90 minutes for Step-In training to Best Jamaica Costa Rica Nicaragua promote safe workplace practices at the operational 1-500 Performance level. The training was a success, reaching 600 Employees Most Malaysia Haiti Bangladesh CEMEX employees and 460 independent hauler Improved contractors. 500+ Most Croatia & Germany Spain Employees Improved Colombia The Step-In team also created a video, “Step in… Save a life!” The first of its kind in the building industry, the video features animated characters Promoting a Healthy Work Environment interacting with CEMEX employees to send vital of operations have an annual preventive health program planned H&S messages. 96% out every year. We invite you to watch this video of operations have a qualified professional onsite or have access 95% to an external health provider. of operations are provided with a document that details job-specific CEMEX All Safe Program Launched For this reason, we are 88% health risks and the exams needed to identify early signs of occupational diseases. All Safe is a new health and safety program pleased to announce the that was developed and launched in 2015 of operations provide prevention and counseling information related to winners of the CEMEX across our operations in Croatia, Egypt, 96% significant diseases to assist workforce members, their families Israel, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. 2015 Global Health & and community members. All Safe is designed to promote engagement Safety Awards. of operations have a formal process in place to identify, assess and teamwork among supervisors and their 100% and control operational safety risk. employees. Together, teams formally assess tasks and responsibilities, determine a list of “Do’s and Don’ts” and meet regularly to keep efforts on track. The program, which Supporting Breast Cancer Awareness painted one of their CEMEX ready-mix has significantly helped enhance safety To ensure the health and safety of our trucks pink as part of a social media cancer awareness competition communication and support a culture of employees, in 2015 we undertook a number accountability, is now being rolled out at of initiatives across our operations to join the •• In the UK, a number of fundraising CEMEX operations across the globe. battle against breast cancer. opportunities were organized, including the Great Pinking employee baking competition 2015 Health and Safety Awards •• Employees in Poland aligned with human At CEMEX, we are proud of the work we resources and their Women’s Forum to •• For one month, CEMEX Egypt covered have done and continue to do to promote a create an informational campaign mammogram fees for all female strong H&S culture. We believe it’s important employees •• CEMEX Panama hosted speakers at to share our successes, keeping all of our their community development center, employees up-to-date on their global CEMEX sent ANSPAC (National Association for colleagues and the most effective programs Personal Development) graduates to across our operations. CEMEX Breast Cancer Awareness Campaign local hospitals and neighborhoods, and 65 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Keeping our Drivers and our To keep the children and others in our Streets Safe communities out of harm’s way, several We go to great lengths to ensure our tucks are CEMEX locations have developed road safety in top condition and fitted with the latest safety programs: features. Examples of our efforts include: •• In the Philippines, the Listo Tayo! •• Equipping several operations’ vehicles with educational campaign for thirdand fourtha Vision Door that improves near-sided grade students features an animated video, vision informative games and interactive truck tours •• Promoting the standardization of a number of safety features on vehicles through •• CEMEX Poland organizes School Pupil, several worldwide initiatives Watch Out for Cars! meetings at their local Cultural Center, inviting kindergarteners and •• Trialing the new Mercedes-Benz Econic primary school children to meet with local Tipper, an innovative vehicle designed to police and watch a road safety performance give drivers an unrivalled field of vision through a low-entry cab and floor-to•• Our Croatia operation sent letters and flyers ceiling windowed door. You can see to all transport operators and local school more details in our dedicated video districts, reminding them of their close proximity and the need to be safe •• Performing H&S audits of our trucks to ensure all safety features, equipment and •• CEMEX UK is developing training programs documents are in line with local legislation that teach road safety best practices to and CEMEX standards drivers of our Large Goods Vehicles to help them avoid mishaps with cyclists CEMEX Mercedes Benz Econic •• Continuously promoting and enforcing our 12 CEMEX Safe Driving Essentials End-to-End Product Safety CEMEX Poland Performs Truck Audits Safety is considered in each and every phase CEMEX Poland regularly audits contractor of product development, from design to vehicles to ensure the safety of all disposal. We abide by all applicable legislation vehicle operators and CEMEX employees and H&S requirements when designing our during the loading, transportation and products and have developed Material Safety unloading of CEMEX products. Thanks to Data Sheets that describe potential hazards this program, we have seen a reduction and precautions to take when handling each in transport accidents and significant of our products. improvements in safe driving practices. In the 2015 audit, 90% of trucks and drivers received positive results. For those that did not meet expectations, key areas of improvement were identified. 66 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Satisfied Customers and Like us, our customers 5.2 Responsible Suppliers are determined to meet sustainability demands and demonstrate their commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For this reason, besides working to develop enduring relationships with them, we design, develop, and deliver products, services, and solutions that meet their expectations and needs for a responsible growth. We also take supplier responsibility seriously and that is why we extend our sustainability commitments, practices and beliefs across the supply chain through our Supplier Sustainability Program. 67 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Creating a Customer-Centric Climate The latter listed issue refers to an Service Sets Our goal is to be the most customerinnovative ecosystem of Digital oriented company in our industry. When our Solutions designed to create unique CEMEX UK Apart customers thrive, we thrive. It’s up to us customer experiences that scale at a In the UK, our six service standards to take the time to listen to our customers worldwide level, leveraged by disruptive help guide our customer-centric and build strong relationships based on WHAT ARE OUR technologies, breakthrough processes and approach: OBJECTIVES trust, understanding and respect. In 2015, methodologies focused on customers. 1. Impeccable professional conduct we conducted customer service surveys in 2. Personable service 85% of the countries in which we operate. WHERE TO PLAY We are identifying what 3. Results-driven teamwork With this feedback, we’re developing 4. In-depth customer knowledge new customer-centric plans and working transactions are key to our 5. Comprehensive product with supply chain partners on policies and WHAT TO customers and making them knowledge DO processes that meet their needs. easy to use. This approach 6. Accuracy in communication HOW TO WIN demands designing Thanks to our Global Networks, we have We have also developed Service the opportunity to work with and learn from processes from the outside Promises that emphasize our countless organizations. One example of this (customer) to the inside commitment to addressing all •»• The commercial and business objectives to customer queries and complaints is the Cement Commercial Network, a group set the direction for our choices (company). within 24 hours, meeting delivery that identifies and shares best practices •»• The sets of customers and channels to deadlines and ensuring we are in line trending in the industry. Leveraging this Using this model, our software and services with all applicable quality standards, information, we strive to better serve our focus on to achieve our objectives become key differentiators and help us among others. customers. •»• The products, services, and solutions to deliver greater value and improve our provide for each customer and channel set customer experience. Focusing on the customer, we are creating •»• The delivery of these products, services sustainable value through industry-leading and solutions to the market products and solutions that satisfy the construction needs of our customers around In 2015, we achieved many of our customerCEMEX Mexico Recognizes Customer Excellence the world. Through our Commercial Academy, centric goals: In 2015, CEMEX Mexico created we offer a unique approach to prepare our •• Built an Institutional Customer the C-Pro seal, a certification for people to make the key choices required to Segmentation Map and Methodology customers that demonstrate technical create the best customer experience. Our •• Produced an Institutional Catalog of more improvement, insurance quality Commercial Academy’s decision-making than 180 value propositions and standardization of production framework focuses on: processes in accordance with CEMEX •• Developed a Price Management Framework Where to play – Who are the right and industry-wide best practices. for our business units customers? Through this seal, CEMEX is recognizing How to win – What is important to them? •• Standardized commercial management companies dedicated to excellence. What to do – How to sell and deliver our practices •• Completed “Where to Play?” and Mega Block and Jaguar Ingenieros products and services? “What to Do?” modules Constructores are two of the companies How to empower – How to enable the that received this certification in 2015. organization to better serve our customers? •• Initiated a Digital Program to identify opportunities for customer experience improvement 68 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Promoting Supplier Sustainability “By synchronizing sustainability To date: economies near our areas of operation. In Our five-year Global Supplier Sustainability achievements amongst •• Countries representing 93% of CEMEX’s 2015, 95% of our purchases were from Program emphasizes the importance of suppliers and peers, the drive spend check for key subcontractors’ locally and nationally based suppliers. Our connecting with the entire value chain to for sustainable improvement compliance with the company’s H&S procurement teams participate regularly in communicate and promote sustainable standards regional events to identify new suppliers. becomes stronger” practices. Our goal is to evaluate at least 55% •• Countries representing 71% of CEMEX’s of the Company’s procurement and energy Jan van Rijn, General Manager X-ray Systems, Supply Chain Innovation Workshop spend have a formal program in place PANalytical B.V. spend by 2020. to train suppliers and contractors on Centro de Competitividad Monterrey sustainability issues and the CEMEX Mexico Procurement As part of the program, we strive to reinforce department launched a training program our suppliers’ awareness of specific policies to develop the technological capabilities of that pertain to sustainability, including our small and medium sized suppliers. As part Human Rights Policy, Code of Conduct when of the program, suppliers must use the new Doing Business with Us and Code of Ethics. skills and techniques they learn to develop We also work with third-party sustainability a project for CEMEX that improves the supply management firms that evaluate supplier-client relationship. In 2015, more suppliers in terms of social, environmental, than 20 suppliers were invited to participate. health and safety, ethical, and financial performance and provides individualized Integrating our Suppliers’ Ideas reports identifying areas for growth. Through our Suppliers Innovation Program, we developed Integrate Your Ideas, a supplier Based on the sustainability assessment results, competition that promotes out-of-the-box suppliers are expected to develop a plan of thinking to improve existing processes. action and improve their future performance. Customized scorecards are prepared to Out of the 22 international supplier track and reward suppliers that demonstrate participants, GE Industrial Solutions was advanced sustainability practices. selected as the 2015 first place winner. Their idea, “Electrical Products Bundle for Construrama Stores,” bundles electrical items such as safety switches, load centers In 2015, more than 2,800 suppliers were Taking an Active Leadership Role and breakers to provide clients with a assessed using sustainability criteria, which Our procurement team is an active member of complete and integrated offer in one concluded that 70% of the countries in the UN Global Compact’s Advisory Group on convenient place. We want to recognize the following which we operate use formally recognized Supply Chain Sustainability. We are also part of companies for their distinguished sustainability criteria in the selection of the Cement Sustainability Initiative’s supply chain In 2015, we once again performance in our 2015 Global Supplier suppliers and contractors. group, keeping us involved in changes of policies, Sustainability Program: metrics and practices within the industry. showcased a space to •• Repsol To ensure no area goes underserved, we have promote unique ideas that •• Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company included Human Rights, Labor, Antitrust and Sourcing Local Products and Services foster a climate of growth •• W.W. Grainger, Inc. Sustainability clauses in our contracts and CEMEX understands that local sourcing helps and innovation with our purchase orders. to create job opportunities and stimulate •• PANalytical B.V. supply chain. 69 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Engaging and Retaining Our strategy’s first objective 5.3 Our Talent is to Value Our People as Our Main Competitive Advantage. For this reason we hire the best, and we take care of them. When employees are supported, the entire company flourishes. For some, that means offering opportunities for growth and leadership development. For others, it’s fostering an open environment where dialogue is encouraged. Whatever their needs, we want them to be engaged. We have more than 43,000 employees across the globe. 70 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Enabling Continuing Education •• Our Manager Training Program is present in all CEMEX geographies. In 2015, it When employees feel supported by their provided nearly 780 managers with skills to company, they are inspired to excel. We help help them expand their teams facilitate our employees’ career goals through training and development opportunities •• The Commercial Academy is our internal university focused on commercial that teach them new skills in a number of excellence and our “Customer Centricity” critical areas including health and safety, goal. In 2015, the program covered all customer centric capabilities, environmental CEMEX regions, delivering institutional conservation and awareness, leadership training to approximately 2,000 executives development and stakeholder engagement. and customer-facing sales managers and representatives In 2015, CEMEX: Building a Better Workplace Together and enablement – are shared with our top •• Invested approximately US$19.4 million in Our online training catalog includes more With more than 43,000 employees management, functional leaders and HR staff employee training on a wide range of topics than 620 courses, most of which come at no around the world, it is essential we clearly to equip them with the knowledge they need •• Invested more than US$1.2 million in cost to employees, and in 2015 we offered understand what programs, benefits and to identify areas of improvement and better scholarships for 280 employees approximately 2,500 instructor-led courses. work environment matter the most to serve our dedicated team of employees them. Our Engagement Survey serves as a across the globe. Developing Effective Leaders In 2015, approximately standardized measurement tool to help us It takes sound, strong direction to propel a 25,000 employees collect feedback from our employees on a Based on our employees’ company our size forward and ensure we dedicated an average of number of topics including development, meet the needs of our global customers. compensation, leadership communication and feedback, in 2015 we That’s why we invest in development 22 hours each to training work-life balance, among others. In 2015, developed and implemented programs for leaders of all levels. including online and led75% of the 38,000 employees invited to 620 initiatives that reached instructor courses. take the survey responded. more than 50% of our •• ACHIEVE is for middle managers. The program reinforces team building and The results of this survey, structured total staff. leadership skills, bringing CEMEX leaders around two main themes – engagement from across the globe together to develop ideas focusing on customer centricity. In 2015, 57 participants from all CEMEX regions participated and presented their plans •• Leader-to-Leader is a unique initiative that connects current and future CEMEX leaders. Mentors from this program work with employees throughout the year and are present during ACHIEVE activities to offer support. During 2015, 46 senior management leaders enrolled in this mentoring program 71 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Fostering Positive, Productive Our 2015 Global Workforce 1 Interactions Open communication keeps everyone on the 5 11 17 15 same page and priorities on track. In 2015, 30 30 around 90% of our employees with access 31 25 to our online Performance Assessment Tool 64 38 used it to set goals, evaluate them and have a 17 89 99 28 discussion with their supervisors. Employees without access to a personal computer By Gender (%) By Type of Contract (%) By Age (%) By Seniority (%) By Level (%) worked with their supervisor directly to Male Full-Time Under 30 Less than 1 year Operational positions conduct evaluations and receive input. In Non-executive positions Female Part-Time 31-40 1-5 years addition, approximately 1,100 employees Executive positions 41-50 5-10 years 51 and over Over 10 years worldwide were evaluated through our Talent Review process. CEMEX Latvia Receives the Latvian Free Trade Union Partner Award The Latvian Free Trade Union (LBAS) presented CEMEX Latvia with its “Great Acorns” prize, highlighting the team’s dedication to being a socially responsible employer, developing open dialogue, taking care of employee’s socioeconomic conditions and improving workplace environment. This is CEMEX Latvia’s third LBAS recognition. Competitive Compensation Schemes above local requirements and more than 30% We know that if our employees have the of our operations receive additional funds for resources they need to live healthy, fulfilling disability than what is required by law. lives, they’ll bring their best to the workplace, and our competitive compensation and We regularly communicate employee benefit packages are a key contributor. these benefits, which span all organizational levels, to More than 86% of our global workforce our operations to ensure receives health and insurance benefits each and every employee is beyond those required by local law. In addition, approximately 50% of our global aware of the opportunities workforce receives pension scheme benefits available to them. 72 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Strengthening Business We strive to enhance our 5.4 Ethics, Compliance and reputation as a responsible and sustainable company to help attract and retain employees, Transparency customers, suppliers and investors, as well as maintain good relationships in the communities where we operate. That is why “Act with Integrity” is one of the five core values driving our company forward. Our Code of Ethics reinforces our values and promotes a culture that builds engagement and drives long-term business success. 73 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX’s Code of Ethics headquarters, were executed to promote Policy and Insider Trading Policy outline our Countering Corruption We established our Code of Ethics expected behaviors and reinforce our strict procedures and commitment to global and Business Conduct to ensure all of through Transparency institutional reporting mechanisms. expectations and standards. our employees abide by the same high Corruption devastates the reputation Moreover, nearly 6,800 employees standards of conduct. The Code governs of companies, eroding social trust dedicated almost 50,000 hours to training To further ensure our employees are acting in a our relationships with all of our stakeholders and threatening the business on business ethics-related topics including manner consistent with our values, the CEMEX and addresses workplace health and safety, environment. In 2015, CEMEX Czech our Code of Ethics and ETHOSline, antiLegal Compliance Department has permanently environmental responsibility, confidentiality Republic became a corporate member bribery, antitrust, confidential information, implemented the Global Compliance Program of the Transparency International terms, conflicts of interest, financial controls among others. Additionally, during the year with a focus on the most sensitive countries Club, a platform for companies who and records, and preservation of assets. 210 executives in 10 targeted business units related to corruption risks in our business encourage honest behavior and believe that integrity is a powerful received training on insider trading and antisystems and processes. Through this program, Through our ethics committees, training tool in the fight against corruption. bribery issues for a total of 630 dedicated internal legal audits (“dawn raids”) and legal programs and secure internal communications hours. trainings for employees are conducted with channels, we ensure awareness and a focus on antitrust, anti-bribery and insider enforcement of the Code. We periodically trading issues. As part of the program, in 2015 evaluate its provisions and update it as needed. Business Ethics-related Training Sessions approximately 150 internal legal audits were executed in 15 countries. Anti-Bribery 2,074 Our Reporting Mechanism – ETHOSline If there are concerns or suspected violations Code of Ethics & Business Human Rights 3,822 pertaining to ethics, governance or Conduct and ETHOSline We embrace the UN Guiding Principles on compliance, it’s important that employees Competition and Antitrust 2,069 Business and Human Rights. As a signatory and the general public have a trusted place member of the UN Global Compact, we align H&S (including Drug and to which they can turn. Managed by a third 10,391 our operations and strategies with the 10 Alcohol Policy) party, our ETHOSline provides an online Principles established around Human Rights, portal and phone line for sending comments, Protecting Confidential Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We 1,115 Information requesting advice and submitting complaints annually submit an Advanced Communication about these topics. This secure portal is Sarbanes-Oxley 10 of Progress (COP) to the Global Compact, available 24 hours a day, seven days a week Sustainability-Related demonstrating our strong commitment to the and is open to all. 1,665 adherence of these principles. Matters Business Ethics Training & Workplace Harassment 38 A total of 380 cases were Communication This framework and these principles shaped our All of our employees are informed of CEMEX Grand Total 21,184 updated Corporate Human Rights Policy, which reported in 2015. 359 were business ethics principles in various ways, was signed and released by our CEO in 2014. catalogued as potential including via our Code of Ethics, internal Global Compliance Program violations and the remaining communications and displays, face-toWe comply with all applicable laws and In addition, employees, stakeholders and as inquiries. From these face and on-line legal trainings through policies, without exception. CEMEX other third parties are encouraged to report our intranet Shift ETHOS Policy Center, abides by fair trade and competition principles any potential human rights violation to the investigations, 268 have legal audits, global compliance policies and we do not tolerate price-fixing, market Human Resources Department, the Local been closed and corrective and other activities. In 2015, more than allocation, predatory pricing or other illegal Ethics Committee or through our ETHOSline. actions were taken for 180 260 communications campaigns covering market practices. Our Anti-Bribery/Antifound true. 34 countries, including our corporate Corruption Policy, Antitrust Compliance 74 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION recruitment initiatives reach the members Approximately 64% of our Operating Responsibly in Occupied Territories of this community and that our facilities are employees are represented CEMEX has three ready-mix concrete plants located in Occupied Palestinian Territories designed to offer appropriate assistance. (Mishor Adumim, Mevoh Horon and Atarot). All operate in industrial zones with the by a union or covered under Approximately 47% of our operating permits and licenses required by local laws, and remain committed to the principles countries have specific programs designed a collective bargaining outlined by the UN Global Compact. The locations in which the concrete plants are for the disabled. agreement. situated, were defined in the interim agreements between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, signed in Oslo in 1993. The agreement states that these areas will be under the administrative responsibility of Israel until a permanent agreement is reached. Freedom to Associate Encouraging Employee Communication Therefore, these settlements are legal and compatible with the existing agreement CEMEX recognizes, supports and respects At CEMEX, we strongly encourage employee between the cited parties. Moreover, much of the facilities’ concrete production is the right of its employees to exercise participation and provide different avenues delivered to Jerusalem where it is used for residential and infrastructure projects, meeting freedom of association within our for listening to their opinions and involving the demands of all local communities, regardless of race or faith. operations. them in our decision-making processes. In 2015, as part of our asset sale strategy, we sold our portion of the Yatir quarry and Collective agreement clauses vary from In larger companies such as CEMEX, work no longer hold a partnership with the third party that manages and operates the quarry, country to country depending on the councils are often governed by trade unions. therefore we are not involved in natural resource extractive activities in the West Bank. negotiation reached. Basic contracts Through suggestion boxes, discussion forums, During the ten years we did own a portion of the quarry, we were never involved in its include labor conditions, compensation council meetings and engagement surveys – the management. Production, operations, logistics, sales, etc., were managed and operated and benefits. Other contracts also results of which are prioritized and appropriately exclusively by a local partner. include notice period, sick pay, overtime acted upon – our employees’ voices are heard. pay, maternity leave, retirement, travel Diversity To date, we have expenses and development, among Equal Opportunity and Fair Compensation We forbid all forms of discrimination initiatives and programs others. Employees are also encouraged Hiring decisions are made without regard including, but not limited to, race, creed, sex, for women in place in to participate in employee councils, to gender, race, color, age, religion, mental marital status, political affiliation and age, and company meetings and projects initiated or physical disability, sexual orientation, enforce a strict Diversity and Equality Policy. approximately 50% of our by employee groups. political affiliation or national origin. operating countries. As a predominantly male industry, we make it a top priority to create opportunities for women We are also committed to creating Women in the CEMEX workforce and openly welcome them to our team. opportunities for those with disabilities, ensuring our communication and Having a diverse workforce promotes new ideas. In an industry that remains predominantly male, we are pleased to announce the following CEMEX Poland Joins Ambassadors Equality in Business milestones in 2015: Poland created CEMEX Women Forum, a program dedicated to investigating what •• CEMEX UK Logistics Apprenticeship Scheme women need to develop professionally and launch their careers. The team conducted welcomed its first female apprentice surveys and organized meetings with women in six regions of the country, discussing •• The first female Master in the UK Marine expectations and ideas that guided the development of a 2015 action plan. Aggregate Dredging Sector completed her first tour of duty aboard a CEMEX unit In recognition of these efforts, the country’s Ministry of Labour and Social Policy invited CEMEX to join their Ambassadors Equality in Business group, which focuses on More details at video the promotion of gender equality in the workforce. 75 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION CEMEX offers a Job Posting Program seen as overtime and paid according to to give our employees opportunities to local law. In all the countries where we apply for open CEMEX positions. In 2015, operate, we have time attendance systems approximately 31% of new positions were and a policy regarding overtime. We filled with internal candidates. also comply with local laws governing the maximum amount of overtime allowed We also recruit from the neighborhoods that and have processes in place in each surround our operations. To date, 76% of country to monitor and control our senior management positions are held by overtime hours. people from the local community. More than 70% of the CEMEX offers competitive compensation packages based on the responsibility level of countries where we each position and designed considering: operate have initiatives to •• Representation of labor markets in which encourage an appropriate the business unit competes for talent work-life balance. •• Data from independent, professional, thirdChild Labor termination of employment, which assures party surveys We are strongly committed to the rules full independence in relation to the company. regarding child labor in every country where Nearly 250 related initiatives were •• Market-based pay and total cash we operate. We do not tolerate the use of Work-Life Balance implemented in 2015, reaching half of compensation of comparable companies child labor by anyone associated with our CEMEX abides by the labor laws of each our total employees. Examples include Comparative Wage Rate 2015 business, and require official governmentcountry in which we operate regarding programs that support child and/or elderly CEMEX entry level vs. issued identification as part of our hiring and employees’ weekly work hours. Working care, allow sabbaticals, and offer parental local minimum wage ratio selection process. hours exceeding legally stated norms are leave and other flexible benefits. ∞ Colombia 1.24 Croatia 148 Forced Labor & Safe Work Environment Egypt 2.27 At CEMEX no one is forced to perform any task that is hazardous or detrimental to their France 1.17 health or wellbeing. Our operations in every Germany 1.00 country comply with the local laws and we Israel 1.00 take measures to prevent workers from Latvia 2.06 falling into debt bondage through company Mexico 1.41 loans. All our employees are free to leave the Panama 1.00 company anytime and we do not offer any benefit used as a leverage to force labor. Philippines 1.29 Poland 1.02 We also have social labor inspectors Spain 1.87 responsible for following up on workplace UK 1.01 environment-related topics. Active social USA 1.32 parties (unions, social labor inspectors, employee council) are protected from Total 1.31 76 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 6 Enhancing our Engagement with Stakeholders +100 investors Our Stakeholder CEMEX’s Public Affairs Management Model and Stakeholder and bankers attended the continues to be rolled out Engagement Policy to be annual CEMEX Day event across our operations released this year 77 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION As a company, we understand that in order way we work with stakeholders. We have to solve many of the challenges we face as taken steps to become more proactive, a community and become truly impactful, communicate better and find more we need to tackle issues alongside other opportunities to collaborate directly. stakeholders. As stated previously, our global Public Stakeholders are at the heart of our Affairs network has established a unified Sustainability strategy and are directly Stakeholder Management Model that in linked to the most significant issues as effect identifies the main stakeholders described by our materiality assessment. that share common interests and sets an In recent years we have strengthened the engagement and communication roadmap. Stakeholder Engagement and Communication Mechanisms Stakeholders Key Concerns Communication Channels and Frequency Outcomes •• Health and safety •• Monthly newsletter •• Worldwide permanent efforts to reach our •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term •• Quarterly internal magazines zero fatalities and zero injuries goal •• Customer engagement and satisfaction •• Periodic site visits/dialogue sessions with management •• Better understanding of employees needs and professional growth expectations •• Career growth and development •• Periodic town halls and webcasts Top Managers and Employees •• Ongoing leadership engagement and communications, Shift (intranet), email, on-site, message boards, and training programs •• Annual performance appraisal mechanisms and dialogues •• Engagement survey (biennially) •• Customer engagement and satisfaction •• Ongoing customer relationship management through sales •• Customer centricity strategy •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term representative •• Clear understanding of our customers needs Clients •• Quality products, services and solutions •• Annual commercial events and concerns •• Sustainability management practices •• Annual customer-satisfaction surveys •• Customer service centers and help lines •• Health and safety •• Daily procurement interactions •• CEMEX Supplier Sustainability Program •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term •• Ongoing capacity building programs (i.e. Supplier portal) •• Inclusion of human rights, labor, antitrust and Suppliers •• Fair business conditions sustainability clauses in our contracts and •• Supplier sustainability guidance purchase orders •• Sustainability management practices •• Promotion of local suppliers •• Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity preservation and •• Annual sustainable development report and conservation books •• Knowledge generation and sharing NGOs and Academic ecosystem management •• Project specific and partnership collaboration •• Strategic partnerships and alliances to Institutions •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term multiply our efforts and achieve our goals G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 78 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Stakeholders Key Concerns Communication Channels and Frequency Outcomes •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term •• Ongoing one to one meetings with community leaders, government •• Creation of social and inclusive business •• Environmental impact mitigation and management officials and organizations •• Generation of empowerment, and •• Health and safety •• Quarterly community advisory panels, dialogue sessions and town capacity-building hall meetings •• Improvement to community infrastructure •• Human Rights •• Annual open house days at operating sites and well-being •• Quarry rehabilitation, biodiversity preservation and Communities ecosystem management •• Ongoing educational programs on sustainability and capacity and •• Development of learning opportunities skills training •• Open communication and feedback •• Transparent communication •• Participation in local career events •• Contribution to community well-being and development •• Development of community infrastructure, volunteering and social investment initiatives •• Local employment opportunities •• Development of inclusive business programs •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term •• Regular meetings, webcasts and conference calls •• Understanding of CEMEX financial position, •• Corporate Governance •• Quarterly financial updates and guidance performance and business perspectives and Analysts, Investors, risks •• Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) •• Annual Financial and sustainable development reports Shareholders disclosure and performance •• Understanding of management and corporate •• Ongoing website updates and press releases ESG practices •• Annual CEMEX Day investor event •• Environmental impact mitigation and management •• Annual sustainable development report and conservation books •• Collaboration and communication with •• Company’s economic performance in mid and long term •• Ongoing public policy discussions governments and regulatory bodies Local, National and •• Health and safety •• Long-term partnerships •• Successful adaptations to new local, national Regional Governments and regional regulations •• Climate change and CO2 emissions policy •• Periodic meetings and working groups and Regulatory Bodies •• Infrastructure and housing solutions •• Periodic plant visits •• Local employment opportunities •• Events and conferences •• Active engagement and guidance •• Periodic Meetings •• Development of coordinated initiatives with •• Annual conferences trade associations Business Associations and Trade Organizations •• Ongoing working groups •• Best practices sharing •• Ongoing research studies G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 79 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Strengthening Partnerships Public Policy considerations from relevant stakeholders. With the understanding that by working We are promoters of well-designed When we can, we provide independent with others we become more effective, economic, environmental, energy and research and guidance in our areas of during 2015 we continued our collaboration commercial regulations that address some expertise to support the creation of sound through partnerships with local and global of the trends and challenges our society and public policies and regulations. organizations. These include NGOs, business business environment are facing. We also and trade associations, academic institutions, promote policies that support economic European Union multilateral organizations and development development, community well-being, fair We play an active role in engaging with the agencies. market conditions and take into account institutions of the European Union. In 2015, we actively engaged in a number of policy areas, including the European Union Emissions Organizations we partnered with in 2015 included: Trading Scheme (EU ETS), and the Circular Env Economy scheme. CEMEX also provides iro ers nm members of the European Parliament with a a rtn en sP tP vital industry perspective on climate change e ar c tic tn and other environmental issues through we joined the Carbon Pricing Leadership Pra ers participation with GLOBE EU and the European Coalition (CPLC), a joint initiative led by the Best Parliament Intergroup on Climate Change, World Bank Group, which includes leaders Biodiversity and Sustainable Development. from government, business and civil society who support the establishment of policy for In addition, as part of our global relationship, price on carbon emissions based on global CEMEX works with BirdLife Europe and best practices. has participated in the review of the EU’s Nature Directives (on Birds and Habitats). Promoting Transparency CEMEX joined forces with the Royal Society with Investors for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) to speak We engage our investors, debt holders directly to the EU Commission on the value and research analysts through a variety of Partnerships of the Directives to industry and nature communication channels to ensure they conservation alike. CEMEX is also working are aware of all CEMEX activity. Our 2015 g Pa with BirdLife Europe on the ‘Flyways’ project financial results, corporate strategy and rtner designed to help the Turtle Dove, one of business outlook, as well as an update on s Europe’s most rapidly declining birds. our various regional operations, were shared Le during a CEMEX Day investor event held arn Finally, in 2015, CEMEX participated in the in New York on March 17. More than 100 in European collaborative project ‘RESTORE’, analysts, investors and bankers attended the ea nd an innovative quarry restoration and best event and almost 700 people followed via lI cia ed practice sharing project. webcast to hear what we had to say. So m l g pa o w ct Kn USA Pa rtn ers CEMEX has long supported carbon pricing To learn more about CEMEX Day, as a key policy instrument; consequently, please visit www.cemex.com ∞ 80 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Advisory Panel Members and Statement Irma Gómez Felipe Pich Robert Ruttmann Antonio Vives Ramón Pérez Gil Undersecretary for Founding Director Investment Office Principal Associate, Global Counselor, Management, Pich-Aguilera Director Julius Bär Cumpetere International Union Mexican Ministry of Architects Head of Competence Consulting Professor, for the Conservation Public Education Center for Stanford University, of Nature (IUCN) Sustainability Civil Engineering St. Gallen University Department We are pleased to note the continued progress earlier as it is the one that can point out areas While maintaining a core structure, the the activities and results of the Committee and the and commitment of CEMEX to sustainability of improvement in sustainability at CEMEX. sustainability report has been changing in style coordination and effectiveness of the Network. and how integral sustainability has become Reviewing the descriptive report constrains the through time, in part, we believe, to better to its business strategy and its willingness to Panel to mostly issues of presentation. CEMEX reflect the most important issues and in part to Regarding Ethics and Corruption we are pleased engage with the Advisory Panel and consider has committed to a review of the process as soon reflect feedback received for different readers. to notice the continuous efforts being made in its recommendations. We acknowledge the as the members are appointed or reappointed We would like to suggest that CEMEX decide raising awareness on these issues and the fact difficulties in incorporating our comments, in order to allow a more active and timely on a core style as it has a core structure, and that so many ethics and internal human rights many of which refer to activities to be participation. As part of the discussion the Panel move, progressively, to highlight the risks and cases are brought to the fore. While the number undertaken, beyond reporting language and would like to agree on its Terms of Reference, challenges that it faces in its sustainability of cases is included in the report, an analysis format, and appreciate the efforts to do outlining objectives, scope and responsibilities efforts. We believe that given the ubiquity and and reporting of the major causes and trends progressively, given the very large and diverse and process, before embarking on the next speed of information, stakeholders are coming in the disciplinary actions taken for violation scope of CEMEX operations. review. We understand this is also CEMEX desire. to appreciate the recognition of the difficulties of the code of ethics would be helpful to the faced, which place the progress achieved in readers to assess the severity of the issues and Scope of our review Reporting framework, style and a more positive light that just highlighting progress made in its avoidance. We are also As in previous years the Sustainability Reporting improvements achievements. encouraged by the internal process that CEMEX Advisory Panel reviewed an advanced draft of As the components of the sustainability model has established to collect information. the CEMEX 2015 Sustainable Development are being implemented we are pleased to notice The Panel noted with satisfaction significant Report: Concrete Solutions for a Sustainable the efforts that CEMEX is making to describe in a improvements in this report, in particular Regarding gender diversity the Panel continues Future. Individually we shared with management more integrated and summarized fashion its large the extensive analysis of CEMEX’s actual and to be concerned at the slow progress being our detailed comments and specific suggestions contribution to society’s wellbeing beyond the expected contribution to the Sustainable made in the appointment of women in leadership for improvement in reporting and by extension on description of its individual activities scattered Development Goals and look forward to positions and encourage CEMEX to analyze their activities. Given the nature of the current throughout the report. In order to capitalize of the reporting on yearly achievements. Also the explicit and implicit obstacles that may be process, most of our comments are expected this we suggest CEMEX consider the preparation particularly commendable is the extensive preventing progress and suggest the design to influence the future development of policies, of an integrated report along the lines of the coverage of the stakeholder engagements and implementation of a women’s executive processes, activities and information systems. We proposed framework of the International mechanism and their outcomes that show CEMEX development program. We urge CEMEX to appreciate the efforts to include our comments Integrated Reporting Council. Even if the effort concern and will serve as a guide to be even more consider the appointment of properly qualified in the current report in spite of the short period prove to be too costly, the process will enhance responsive to their expectations. The Panel also women to the Board of Directors, where of time available. Again, as in previous years, we CEMEX integrated thinking and strategy and will commends CEMEX on the statement regarding currently there are none. We understand the concentrate here on strategic aspects that will enhance its positive impact on society. World Heritage Sites and hopes that in the future difficulty of the task given the characteristics of further enhance the company’s activities and it will report on concrete actions beyond being the cement industry. reporting in the future. The Panel is pleased with the efforts of CEMEX committed to work with international institutions. to prepare the report in accordance to the Global We are also pleased with its efforts to put a value Material aspects Review process of reporting Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines, which will lead on its contribution to society and highlighting the The Panel notes the continued progress being During this year´s review process the Panel was the company to concentrate its reporting along key sustainable attributes of concrete. made during 2015 in determining the material limited to commenting on the proposed table of the major material aspects, even though the aspects with the help of an outside consultant contents and on the final draft. The Panel was report is not yet fully structured based on the Sustainability Governance and the inclusion of more than 11,000 not able to review the GRI G4 report, only the GRI G4. GRI G4 Content index does contribute The Panel notes with great satisfaction the stakeholders. Nevertheless while the results, in descriptive part. We are keen to be given the to appreciate the efforts in addressing the most operation of the Sustainability Network and general, confirm expectations there are some opportunity to review this part of the report material aspects. Committee and is looking forward the reporting of that give us concern that the sample, while 81 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Advisory Panel Members and Statement large, may have not been appropriately selected Furthermore, we would like to suggest adding The discussion on “avoided” emissions is immediate sphere of CEMEX’s action, that should and weighted. For instance we note the very some indicators related to local economic misleading, as it depends on the chosen alternative be taken advantage of to contribute to local low importance given both by CEMEX and its development, for instance empowerment, to compare. The important figure is emissions economic development. stakeholders to some environmental issues and capacity building and fostering local/communal reductions per unit of output year after year. We that some social issues are not mentioned (as business opportunities, including SME are encouraged by CEMEX commitment to explore Working conditions and social impact we comment below). We would suggest the development, and community support even alternative measures to convey the message. We are also pleased to see the progress sample be based on an assessment of the sets though these are not traditional reporting achieved by CEMEX in working conditions for of stakeholders that are critical for the company indicators. This would allow for a better We note with concern the significant increase their employees. Recognizing the complexity of (in terms of power, legitimacy and urgency) and appreciation of the efforts that CEMEX is making in moderate environmental incidents and working in so many countries with very different then assess the material aspects for each group in supporting local and community development. environmental noncompliance cases and hope cultures and standards, we nevertheless would and decide on the critical ones on the basis of that CEMEX will report on the measures taken to like to see more efforts in enhancing the number CEMEX priorities. We suggest that the selection The number of indicators on social issues is not reverse this trends. of countries where programs for child, dependent of respondents not be left to the vagaries representative of the contribution of CEMEX and and elderly care are available. We notice that 31% in responding to surveys but be proactively gives the impression of low priority and a narrow Energy and water consumption of sites do not conduct social impact assessment pursued according to the need to obtain a definition of its social impact. We were pleased We were pleased to learn of the successful efforts studies, with no progress from the previous year. sample that reflects their impact, even if the to learn that CEMEX will work on consolidating to continue the reduction of energy consumption This should be a source of concern for CEMEX resulting sample is smaller. We also suggest a more robust and standardized methodology and net water and are encouraged by the that has such a large economic, environmental that the issues posed be limited to social, to measure its high-impact social programs’ increased use of alternative sources of energy, and social footprint. environmental and governance issues, leaving impacts across the world and to develop the particularly from recycled waste, alternative fuel out commercial and financial issues, which push corresponding KPIs. and renewables (although the progress seems to Building solutions those other issues backwards. have peaked for some sources). The Panel considers timely to highlight that Safety the key attributes of cement give it a high Benchmarks and indicators We are encouraged that the Time Lost due Biodiversity potential to contribute to sustainable and green We note with satisfaction that CEMEX continues to Injuries has decreased, but, as in previous While there has been progress in the number of buildings in our built environment. In this sense to update the benchmarks and encourage the years, we are concerned about the number active sites with high biodiversity value where it is pleased to note that a global company like company to develop a full set for the year 2020 of fatalities, mostly on contractors and third Biodiversity Action Plans are implemented, there CEMEX is aware of this and invests in a strategy with a strategic path for their achievement. parties. We note that CEMEX has taken a are still 39% of sites that do not do so. This is an based on R+D, to search for new cement based Nevertheless we would like to reiterate our significant number of preventive actions, but important challenge. products and building systems, that can be used concern about some inconsistencies in the base we encourage CEMEX to further assess why in the market as highly sustainable performance year and the definitions of some indicators. We some of these measures have not produced the Supply Chain monitoring and development material in terms of energy savings, waste encourage CEMEX to also update all baselines expected results and to take corrective actions The Panel is very pleased to learn of the efforts reduction and resource productivity. ∞ for comparisons as some are rather old and no on those situation under their control. to enhance the sustainability of the supply chain, longer represent an appropriate starting point in particular the engagement of a consulting firm to measure progress. We understand that Human Rights to help with the efforts. Nevertheless we note some of the base years are dictated by industry The Panel is pleased to learn that CEMEX has that only 13% of procurement value is assessed associations for comparison purposes, but feel developed a Human Rights Policy and expect using the Supplier Sustainability program, with that they do not allow for an assessment of to read in future reports the measures taken to very little progress over the previous year. We progress. CEMEX should take the opportunity implement the Ruggie Principles, in particular the encourage CEMEX to identify the most critical of developing 2020 benchmarks to refine the assessment of the current situation and a plan of suppliers, not in terms of volume, but in terms of definitions and bases of the indicators. In this action to ensure their application. potential risks for CEMEX’ s sustainability efforts context we suggest the definitions be made and reputation. We would expect to see the as consistent as possible among indicators, Emissions and other environmental issues results of the assessment and the actions taken preferably reported as an annual increase or We encourage CEMEX to comment, in future in future reports. decrease over the previous year or average of reports, on the evolution of actual emissions previous years, some of them as a proportion of in recent years using more relevant indicators Procurement and the value chain offer new and an indicator of production, as needed, depending as mentioned above. The Panel is pleased to effective ways to expand, extend, enhance, on the goals of the indicators. This would allow note the reduction of dust emissions per unit of boost and multiply policies’ application, principles, for a more clear appreciation of progress. production. values, views and naturally impact far beyond the 82 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Our Performance in Detail Lead in sustainable construction 2013 2014 20151 Fuel mix (%) 2013 2014 2015 Production covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Total alternative fuels rate 28.4 27.7 26.6 100 100 100 Tool (%) Coal 21.8 22.5 23.8 Cement 100 100 100 Petroleum coke 37.6 38.2 39.0 Aggregates 100 100 100 Fuel oil 9.1 8.5 7.0 Ready-mix 100 100 100 Natural gas 3.1 3.0 3.7 Sites covered with CEMEX CO2 Footprint Tool (%) 100 100 100 Cement 100 100 100 Alternative fuels rate (%) 2013 2014 2015 Aggregates 100 100 100 Alternative fossil fuels rate 16.1 16.3 15.7 Ready-mix 100 100 100 Biomass fuels rate 12.3 11.4 10.9 CO2 Footprint Annual Average Cement (kg CO2e/ton) 770 769 769 Waste types used as alternative fuels (%) 2013 2014 2015 Aggregates (kg CO2e/ton) 5.0 4.7 4.7 Industrial and household waste 46.7 49.7 50.3 Ready-mix (kg CO2e/m3) 277 265 265 Tires 10.1 9.0 8.8 Animal meal 3.0 2.5 2.0 Resilient and efficient building solutions 2013 2014 2015 Agricultural organic waste 8.5 7.2 7.3 Affordable and/or resource-efficient buildings Other biomass 31.7 31.6 31.6 7,513 3,150 2,400 where CEMEX is involved (#) Affordable and/or resource-efficient buildings Other carbon strategy indicators 2013 2014 2015 0.40 0.18 0.15 where CEMEX is involved (million m2) Alternative raw material rate (%) 2 11.6 11.2 6.0 Installed concrete pavement area (million m2) 7.42 8.14 7.32 Sustainable raw material rate (%) 14.0 13.6 12.7 Green building projects under certification where Clinker/Cement factor (%) 76.9 76.5 78.6 3.46 7.08 6.42 CEMEX is involved (million m2) Indirect energy consumption (GWh) 7,266 7,562 7,643 Annual ready-mix sales derived from products with Specific energy consumption, cement (kWh/ton) 118 116 119 26.8 29.7 33.0 outstanding sustainable attributes (%) Specific energy consumption, ready-mix (kWh/m3) 3.4 3.2 3.2 Specific energy consumption, aggregates (kWh/ton) 4.8 4.4 4.6 Carbon strategy 2013 2014 2015 Direct energy consumption (TJ) 185,261 196,510 202,598 Absolute gross CO2 emissions (million ton) 40.3 42.8 43.7 Absolute net CO2 emissions (million ton) 37.6 40.1 40.8 Air quality 2013 2014 2015 Specific gross CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of Clinker produced with continuous monitoring of 648 653 672 81 84 84 cementitious product) major emissions (dust, NOx and SOx) (%) Specific net CO2 emissions (kg CO2/ton of Clinker produced with monitoring of major 607 613 630 cementitious product) and minor emissions (dust, NOx, SOx, Hg, Cd, TI, 81 81 80 Reduction in CO2 emissions per ton of cementitious VOC, PCDD/F) (%) 23.4 22.6 21.6 product from 1990 baseline (%) Absolute dust emissions (ton/year) 5,866 6,147 4,095 Thermal energy efficiency of clinker production Specific dust emissions (g/ton clinker) 127 134 90 3,812 3,854 3,897 (MJ/ton clinker) Absolute NOx emissions (ton/year) 59,391 59,620 55,318 83 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Air quality 2013 2014 2015 Water management 2013 2014 2015 Specific NOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 1,261 1,205 1,122 Sea water 0.2 0.2 0.1 Absolute SOx emissions (ton/year) 10,127 12,711 13,640 Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 Specific SOx emissions (g/ton clinker) 215 257 279 Total water discharge by destination (million m3) 32.7 32.9 29.3 Annual reduction in dust emissions per ton of Surface water 21.1 19.2 17.9 58 55 70 clinker from 2005 baseline (%) Ground water 9.7 11.8 10.0 Annual reduction in NOx emissions per ton of clinker Municipal water 1.0 0.8 0.8 39 42 46 from 2005 baseline (%) Sea water 0.2 0.1 0.1 Annual reduction in SOx emissions per ton of clinker Other 0.8 1.0 0.4 67 60 57 from 2005 baseline (%) Cement (million m3) 4.2 3.3 3.2 Surface water 3.3 2.4 2.6 Water management 2013 2014 2015 Ground water 0.1 0.0 0.0 Total water withdrawals by source (million m3) 87.9 84.6 79.1 Municipal water 0.2 0.3 0.3 Surface water 28.6 37.3 27.0 Sea water 0.2 0.1 0.1 Ground water 45.6 35.6 37.9 Other 0.4 0.5 0.2 Municipal water 10.7 8.8 10.0 Ready-mix (million m3) 0.7 0.7 0.9 Rain water 0.8 0.9 0.8 Surface water 0.0 0.0 0.3 Sea water 0.5 0.2 0.1 Ground water 0.2 0.2 0.1 Other 1.8 1.8 3.3 Municipal water 0.6 0.4 0.5 Cement (million m3) 26.9 25.9 25.0 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Surface water 11.6 10.9 7.3 Other 0.0 0.1 0.0 Ground water 13.1 13.0 15.5 Aggregates (million m3) 27.8 28.9 25.3 Municipal water 1.2 1.1 1.4 Surface water 17.8 16.8 15.1 Rain water 0.3 0.3 0.3 Ground water 9.4 11.6 9.9 Sea water 0.3 0.0 0.0 Municipal water 0.2 0.1 0.1 Other 0.3 0.6 0.5 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Ready-mix (million m3) 11.1 11.0 12.1 Other 0.4 0.4 0.3 Surface water 0.2 0.3 0.5 Total consumption (million m3) 55 52 50 Ground water 2.2 3.6 2.0 Cement 23 23 22 Municipal water 7.2 5.6 6.6 Ready-mix 10 10 11 Rain water 0.1 0.1 0.1 Aggregates 22 19 17 Sea water 0.0 0.0 0.0 Specific Water Consumption Other 1.5 1.3 2.9 Cement (l/ton) 376 360 346 Aggregates (million m3) 49.9 47.8 42.0 Ready-mix (l/m3) 197 185 207 Surface water 16.8 26.1 19.2 Aggregates (l/ton) 168 132 134 Ground water 30.2 18.9 20.4 Sites with water recycling systems (%) 86 84 84 Municipal water 2.3 2.1 1.9 Cement 78 80 77 Rain water 0.5 0.5 0.3 Ready-mix 86 83 83 Aggregates 3 91 89 93 84 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Waste management 2013 2014 2015 Environmental management 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous waste disposal (ton) 80,065 104,909 104,254 Sites with ISO 14001 certification (#) 605 690 759 Cement 77,125 102,036 101,811 Sites with ISO 14001 certification (%) 32 37 44 Ready-mix 2,477 2,348 2,171 Environmental investment (US million) 95 85 86 Aggregates 325 403 271 Major environmental incidents Category 1 (#) 0 0 2 Others 138 122 0.35 Moderate environmental incidents Category 2 (#) 87 39 436 Non-hazardous waste disposal (ton) 637,145 483,404 464,493 Minor environmental incidents Category 3 (#) 357 313 227 Cement 238,394 130,507 102,504 Environmental non-compliance cases (#) 97 276 453 Ready-mix 386,816 335,402 344,958 Associated fines (US million) 0.7 0.5 0.3 Aggregates 3,152 11,325 13,178 Others 8,782 6,171 3,853 Health and Safety 2013 2014 2015 Volume of returned ready-mix from total delivered Total fatalities 21 27 19 % 1.00 1.27 0.98 Employees, total 3 4 1 m3 525,733 712,152 522,859 Cement 1 2 0 Secondary and recycled aggregates used as a direct replacement of primary aggregates Ready-mix 2 1 0 % 0.21 0.21 0.26 Aggregates 0 0 1 Ton 194,353 221,676 257,761 Other businesses 0 1 0 Contractors, total 11 17 10 Biodiversity management 2013 2014 2015 Cement 5 12 5 Active sites with quarry rehabilitation plans (%) 92 94 94 Ready-mix 1 3 1 Cement 91 86 84 Aggregates 1 0 2 Aggregates 93 96 98 Other businesses 4 2 2 Active quarries within or adjacent to high Third-parties, total 7 6 8 91 80 64 biodiversity value areas (#) Cement 3 2 5 Cement 11 10 9 Ready-mix 4 3 2 Aggregates 80 70 55 Aggregates 0 1 1 Active sites with high biodiversity value where Other businesses 0 0 0 Biodiversity Action Plans are actively implemented 51 55 61 Fatality rate, employees (per 10,000 employed) 0.7 0.7 0.2 (%) Cement 0.8 1.5 0.0 Cement 64 60 89 Ready-mix 1.4 0.4 0.0 Aggregates 49 54 56 Aggregates 0.0 0.0 2.0 Other businesses 0.0 0.8 0.0 Environmental management 2013 2014 2015 Sites with CEMEX Environmental Management Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2013 2014 2015 68 74 76 System (EMS) implemented (%) Employees, total 176 124 67 Cement 96 97 98 Cement 33 32 23 Ready-mix 65 70 73 Ready-mix 111 70 32 Aggregates 73 90 88 Aggregates 13 9 4 85 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) 2013 2014 2015 Corporate governance 2013 2014 2015 Other businesses 19 13 8 Reports related to a form of harassment 42 63 28 Contractors, total 90 69 67 Reports related to discrimination 5 7 8 Cement 39 27 28 Disciplinary actions taken as a result of reports Ready-mix 30 19 9 of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics, other 178 177 180 Aggregates 4 6 10 policies or the law (#) Other businesses 17 17 20 Target countries that participated on the Global Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTI FR), Compliance Program including antitrust, 93 90 100 1.8 1.2 0.6 employees (per million hours worked) anti-bribery and insider trading (%) Cement 1.2 1.0 0.8 Countries with local mechanisms to promote Ready-mix 3.1 1.9 0.9 employee awareness of procedures to identify and 100 100 100 Aggregates 1.3 0.9 0.4 report incidences of internal fraud, kick-backs, Other businesses 0.7 0.5 0.3 among others (%) Compliance with CSI Driving Safety Recommended Investigated incidents reported and found to be 84 87 89 Practices (%) true related to fraud, kick-backs among others 0 0 0 Compliance with CSI Contractor Safety corruption incidents to government officials (#) 88 88 89 Recommended Practices (%) Sites with a Health and Safety Management Partnership with key stakeholders 2013 2014 2015 100 99 100 System implemented (%) Workforce 43,087 44,241 43,117 Cement 99 100 100 Mexico 9,597 9,854 9,504 Ready-mix 100 99 100 United States 9,432 9,752 10,183 Aggregates 99 100 100 Northern Europe 10,025 10,000 8,846 Sites certified with OHSAS 18001:2007 (%) 8 9 10 Mediterranean 3,826 3,815 4,052 Cement 38 40 61 Asia 1,178 1,138 1,139 Ready-mix 7 6 8 South, Central America and the Caribbean 5,793 6,272 6,046 Aggregates 11 15 13 Others (including Corporate and Neoris) 3,236 3,410 3,347 Sickness Absence Rate (%) 2.2 2.2 2.1 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract (%) Sites with health professional onsite or external Full time 99 99 99 93 93 95 health provider (%) Part time 1 1 1 Breakdown of workforce by level (%) Corporate governance 2013 2014 2015 Executive positions 5 5 5 Executives and employees actively aware of our Non-executive positions 35 32 31 80 80 80 Code of Ethics (%) Operational positions 60 63 64 Ethics and compliance cases reported during the Breakdown of workforce by age (%) 96 91 74 year that were investigated and closed (%) Under 30 16 17 17 Reports of alleged breaches to the Code of Ethics 31-40 31 30 30 324 394 359 received by local ethics committees (#) 41-50 29 29 28 Reports related to employee relations 60 79 69 51 and over 24 24 25 86 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Partnership with key stakeholders 2013 2014 2015 Partnership with key stakeholders 2013 2014 2015 Breakdown of workforce by gender (%) Purchases sourced from locally-based suppliers (%) 95 95 95 Male 89 89 89 Countries with a process to screen suppliers in 72 86 86 Female 11 11 11 relation to social and environmental aspects (%) Female employees by level (%) Global procurement spend assessed under the 10 12 13 Executive positions 14 12 13 Supplier Sustainability Program (%) Non-executive positions 24 26 38 Operational positions 3 3 3 Strengthen local communities 6 2013 2014 2015 Male to female wage ratio 1.03 1.05 1.07 Families participating in Patrimonio Hoy (#) 426,569 470,749 525,941 Employees that perceive they are enabled to Individuals benefited from Patrimonio Hoy (#) 2,063,767 2,274,630 2,536,466 perform their job effectively (PEI Performance 79 79 76 Square meters built by Patrimonio Hoy 3,315,863 3,693,073 4,115,392 Enablement Index) (%) Families participating in Construapoyo and PCS (#) 67,211 73,154 77,510 Employees that are engaged to the company Families participating within our social initiatives (#) 493,780 543,903 627,307 77 77 76 (EEI Employee Engagement Index) (%) Individuals benefited from our social and inclusive 2,363,867 2,601,157 2,994,453 Participation rate in engagement survey (%) 78 78 75 businesses (#) Empoyee turnover rate (%) 4 5.0 6.9 6.6 Individuals benefited from our social initiatives (#) 6,331,396 6,937,176 9,655,198 7 Employee represented by an independent union or 46 45 45 covered by a collective bargaining agreement (%) 5 Notice to employees regarding operational changes 40 34 36 (average days) Countries with practices to promote local hiring (%) 88 90 100 Training provided by operations (average hours) Footnotes: Executive positions 26 27 18 1 Every CEMEX country decides according to their market and customer needs to calculate the carbon footprint at a yearly basis. However, CEMEX is committed to do the complete calculation exercise for 100% of its facilities every 2 years. Non-executive and operational positions 27 29 15 2 2015 figure reflects current CEMEX operations’ portfolio after the assets’ transactions during the year. Online courses through CEMEX Learning 3 Considering sites that use water for aggregates production (including wet screening and aggregate washing). 832 545 626 4 Voluntary turnover. Management System (LMS) (#) 5 Total employees including executive and non-executive positions. Considering only operations positions coverage is 64%. Employees with access to CEMEX Learning 6 Accumulated figures since 1998. 18,041 10,104 25,656 7 The significant increase in the accumulated beneficiaries from our social strategy is due to an update of our methodology Management System (LMS) (#) to estimate this figure integrating now the individuals benefited from our community infrastructure initiatives; the Sites conducting social impact assessments (%) 68 68 69 scalability of some of our existing social projects as well as new social initiatives and businesses added to our portfolio. Cement 75 75 77 Ready-mix 67 67 69 Aggregates 70 70 69 Sites with community engagement plans (%) 97 98 98 Cement 96 97 97 Aggregates 97 98 98 Sites with employee volunteering programs (%) 67 67 73 Countries that conduct regular customer 79 78 85 satisfaction surveys (%) G4-22 87 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION Independent Assurance Report 88 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION 89 TABLE OF INTRODUCTION OUR BUILDING SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES INTO STAKEHOLDER ADDITIONAL CONTENTS BUSINESS SOLUTIONS STRATEGY EXCELLENCE ACTIONS ENGAGEMENT INFORMATION About this Report Reporting History and Cycle Unless otherwise indicated, the information report we are also committed to helping the Energy: Fuel consumption indicators are CEMEX began publishing Environmental, provided in this report is for the company as world meet the targets of the Kyoto Protocol reported to internal CEMEX databases in which Health, and Safety (EHS) reports in 1996, a whole. We have included information for and contribute to the achievement of the UN ‘conventional’, ‘alternative’ and ‘biomass fuels’ and has annually published its Sustainable the operations in which we have financial Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs). are classified according to the CSI Cement CO2 Development Reports since 2003 covering and operative control. If a plant is sold, its Protocol spreadsheet. Heat values are obtained a broad range of issues related to economic, information is no longer included in our data or Data Measurement Techniques from on-site analysis (where applicable), environmental, social and governance considered in our targets. If we have restated We employ the following protocols and value provided by supplier or standards from performance. certain data sets from previous years because techniques for measuring the key performance the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Use of improvements to our data-collection indicators (KPI) data that we report: of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement Alignment to Global Reporting Initiative systems or changes to our business, each case Manufacturing Process. (GRI) Guidelines is clearly marked. All monetary amounts are •• CO2 Emissions: CEMEX reports absolute and In order to enhance our sustainability reported in US dollars. All references to ‘tons’ specific CO2 emissions following the latest •• Clinker Factor and Alternative Fuels: All communication to our stakeholders and are to metric tons. version of the CSI Protocol, denominated: material consumption is reported to internal comply with internationally agreed disclosures The Cement CO2 and Energy Protocol, CEMEX databases in which ‘alternative and metrics CEMEX uses the Global Reporting The information in our 2015 Sustainable version3.1, published in May 2011. It materials’ are defined following the standards Initiative (GRI) guidelines to prepare its Development Report came from several considers direct emissions occurring from from the CSI Guidelines for the Selection and Sustainable Development Reports. From sources, including internal management sources that are owned or controlled by Use of Fuels and Raw Materials in the Cement 2008 to 2013 we met an application level systems and performance databases, as well the company excluding those from the Manufacturing Process. The ‘clinker/cement of A+ using GRI-G3. As of 2014 we have as sustainability-related surveys applied to all combustion of biomass that are reported factor’ is calculated using the CSI procedures migrated to the GRI-G4 Guidelines, using countries where we have operations. Several separately (Scope 1) and indirect emissions indicated in The Cement CO2 and Energy the ‘in accordance’ comprehensive option. key global functional areas such as Human from the generation of purchased electricity Protocol spreadsheet with information obtained Furthermore we have submitted the current Resources and Procurement also participated consumed in the company’s owned or from the databases. report to GRI requesting the Materiality in the data collection process. controlled equipment (Scope 2). Historical Disclosures Service. data shall remain unchanged given that We aim to improve the transparency and the previous protocol is closely aligned •• Health and Safety: SISTER, which is an internal Moreover this year our GRI Content Index is cross completeness of each report that we produce with the simple methods for reporting database, collects all related health and safety referenced to the UNGC principles as well as to while streamlining our processes and the way of the calcinations CO2 emissions. For information from each site and automatically the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). in which we provide information. For this, countries covered by the European Union provides the appropriate information to To access the full GRI Content Index, please visit: we include a statement from PwC, which Emission Trading System (EU ETS), CO2 data calculate the indicators. The database is www.cemex.com/SustainableDevelopment/files/ verified our data on greenhouse gas emissions, corresponds to the one validated by and configured using the CSI definitions. GriIndex2015.pdf atmospheric emissions, alternative fossil and independent verifier in accordance with the biomass fuels rates, environmental incidents applicable Accreditation and Verification We welcome your feedback on our sustainability Boundary and Reporting Period and safety indicators for our cement, readyRegulation. reporting and performance. Please send your In preparation for this report, we consolidated mix and aggregates operations. comments and suggestions to sd@cemex.com, or information from all our operations and •• Dust, NOx and SOx Emissions: Absolute write to us at: countries. It covers our global cement, In addition, we engaged our External Advisory and specific figures are calculated based on ready-mix concrete and aggregates Panel, which provides feedback on our kiln measurements taken from Continuous business lines, presenting our sustainability reporting. Emissions Monitoring Systems (CEMs) (in performance, progress, achievements and those sites where kilns are equipped with challenges for the 2015 calendar year, which United Nations Global Compact such technology) or spot analysis. These is also the company’s fiscal year. Our Communication on Progress methods fully comply with the CSI Guidelines CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V. materiality analysis guided our reporting This report also constitutes our for Emissions Monitoring and Reporting. All Corporate Communications process, and the issues included in this Communication on Progress (CoP) toward information is reported to CEMEX databases, and Public Affairs report especially match those that CEMEX the commitments of the UN Global Compact processed, calculated and validated to Av. Ricardo Margain Zozaya 325 management and our stakeholders found of (UNGC). As a signatory to the UNGC, we provide a final group value. The values are Valle del Campestre the higher and highest importance for our work to align our company’s operations calculated in Standard for 0°C, 1 atmosphere San Pedro Garza Garcia, N.L. operations, as reflected in our Sustainability and strategies with its ten principles. As and 10% Oxygen (O2) content at ZIP 66265 Mexico Materiality Matrix. demonstrated within the content of this measuring point. Tel: +52 (81) 8888-8888 G4-17, G4-18, G4-32 90
