Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer In the past year we have worked closely with the Global Compact Office (particularly PRME) to support and promote the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We have mapped how our publications support and match to the 17 SDGs, and will be promoting the SDGs to our community. We will be moving to our new offices in 2016, which have very close access to a railway station. This will make it easier for our staff to travel to work using public transport. We joined Business in the Community in the UK, and are seeking ways to work actively in partnership with their 800 members to bring our information to them. We attended the BITC annual event in London in 2015. As a small organization, we are conscious that our actual footprint is quite small. But as a publisher, specialising in responsible management and sustainability, we touch many people, with more than half a million management students, researchers and practitioners reading our online abstracts and contents last year. This is what we call our ‘brainprint’. While we might try to minimise our negative footprint in terms of environmental impact and waste, we seek to maximise our positive brainprint. So as well as reporting on compliance to the four areas and ten principles of the UN Global Compact, we have also commented on our positive brainprint outputs; our publications. We continue to work on increasing dissemination. Last year we worked with the UN Global Compact office to make our book Anti-corruption: Implementing Curriculum Change in Management Education, freely available as a download. We have also made the archives of our journal publications freely available, and the work we publish in partnership with the UN Global Compact, Oxfam and the Geneva Association, is also freely available to download. We were pleased to be the Sponsors of the 2015 PRME Global Forum, and to support the work of the PRME Chapters, particularly the UK & Ireland chapter. We will be supporting PRME UK & Ireland again at their event in Nottingham in 2016. For SMEs like ourselves, and particularly those in knowledge work, like ourselves, we would recommend a focus on positive intellectual capital, which helps to engender knowledge and discussion around responsible behaviour, sustainability and environmental stewardship. We will continue to monitor performance against the 10 Global Compact Principles, and encourage our communities to engage with and participate in PRME and PRI, and with the Sustainable Development Goals. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (ie human rights risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing actively support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We do not carry out business in countries that are known to flagrantly contravene 1 human rights, for example human trafficking, torture and politically-motivated imprisonment and disappearance.  GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing are committed to all employees and stakeholders (readers, authors, editors, suppliers, partners) being treated fairly and with respect.  As a publisher, we ensure the highest standards in publication ethics in order to uphold fair and clear practices that promote excellent research wherever it comes from in the world and by whomever irrespective of status or power. These are shared with our authors and are published on our website.  As a publisher, we focus on titles that promote human rights and ethical behaviour.  GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing only work with suppliers who demonstrate similar levels of commitment to Human Rights.  GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing are committed to sharing important research to countries and communities at a fair price. Implementation/Action Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. The publishing programme promotes Human Rights and ethical practices. Sample titles include: Decent Work, Green Jobs and the Sustainable Economy Overcoming Challenges to Gender Equality in the Workplace Development-Oriented Corporate Social Responsibility Human Rights, Corporate Responsibility and Management Education The Corporate Responsibility Code Book Responsible Management Education and the Challenge of Poverty GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing actively seek partnerships with organisations that represent and promote Human Rights. For example, we include research in our online Sustainable Organization Library and Greenleaf Online Library from the Principles for Responsible Management Education, the International Labour Organization and Oxfam. We have a book series with the Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) group. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing distribute research at prices that reflect the ability to pay in emerging economies through a partnership with INASP (an international development charity working with a global network of partners to improve access, production and use of research information and knowledge). GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing have a number of policies that reflect our best practices in Human Rights, for example we are an Equal Opportunities employer, and we promote Flexible 2 Working and Anti-harassment and Bullying practices. We are signatories to the Oxfam Code of Practice for suppliers. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. The gender distribution of employees is 60% female and 40% male. At Board level, the gender distribution of members is 50% female and 50% male. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing has received no complaints from employees regarding discrimination, bullying or unfair practice. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing monitor the policies and practices of suppliers on an annual basis. No contraventions have been identified. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing publish, promote and disseminate an increasing list of books, research papers and reports on the topic of Human Rights to a global audience. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (ie labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing support the ILO Core Conventions and do not undertake business with organizations that use forced labour or child labour or have poor employee conditions. All employees are provided with a contract of employment that sets out the terms and conditions and the complaints process. No employee is on a zero-hours contract. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing promote and disseminate research and information about best practice in Labour Rights. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing only offer paid internships and no unpaid internships. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. The publishing programme supports and disseminates best practice in Labour Rights. Titles include: Homeworking Women: Informal Workers’ Recognition, Representation and Rights Gender Equality and Sustainable Business CSR for HR 3 There is an active partnership and co-publication programme between Greenleaf Publishing and the ILO. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing have guidelines in place for Equal Opportunities, Flexible Working and Health and Safety. A number of employees are actively participating in the flexible working arrangements to accommodate carer responsibilities. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Annual appraisals are conducted to identify development areas with employees and to identify any changes that may be required to reflect their needs in the workplace. All interns have received a fair wage. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing have not been involved in any cases of contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing monitor the policies and practices of suppliers on an annual basis. No contraventions have been identified. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing publish, promote and disseminate an increasing list of books, research papers and reports on the topic of good practice on Labour Rights to a global audience. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (ie environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing have strong environmental policies and procedures in the production of their printed books. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing encourage digital dissemination through the creation and promotion of online collections of book chapters and journal articles and individual ebooks. This helps to reduce carbon emissions due to print production and transportation of goods. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing uphold recycling practices. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing promote the use of public transport and bicycles for commuting and employee travel to reduce our carbon footprint. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing promote and disseminate research and information about best practice in Environmental Policies. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing monitor the policies and practices of suppliers on an annual basis. 4 Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental risks. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing work with Print on Demand in order to publish who have very good environmental policies. As a result, the printing of the books conform to: BS EN ISO 14001:2004 Investors in the Environment (IiE) (Print on Demand has worked with Investors in the Environment to achieve its Green Accreditation, the highest accreditation they offer, equivalent to BS8555 level 1.) ISO 5001:2011 Forestry Stewardship Council certification Chain of Custody (CoC) accreditation Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) accreditation. PEFC works throughout the entire forest supply chain to promote good practice in the forest and to ensure that timber and non-timber forest products are produced with respect for the highest ecological, social and ethical standards. All book chapters and journal articles produced by Greenleaf Publishing are captured and disseminated in a digital format. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing has partnered with Treedom to encourage the purchase of ebooks for a set number of titles by offsetting the carbon footprint through planting cocoa trees to celebrate Earth Day. The trees will be planted in the Greenleaf forest in Cameroon, producing high quality cocoa beans and providing local farmers with an additional source of income. Each tree will absorb 55kg of CO2 during its lifetime. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing publish a number of titles that promote good practice and information about environmental management. Sample titles include: Transformational Resilience: How Building Human Resilience to Climate Disruption Can Safeguard Society and Increase Wellbeing Changing the Food Game Corporations and Sustainability: The South Asian Perspective The Global Carbon Crisis GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing operates a Cycle to Work scheme. Measurement of outcomes 5 Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Whilst we are a small business and are unable to weigh our waste, it is estimated that we recycle more than 75% of waste. Our office park has recycle arrangements which we use for the majority of our waste. 20% of employees regularly cycle to work, 6% of employees walk to work and 30% of employees regularly use public transport to commute to work. GSE and Greenleaf Publishing monitors the practices of its suppliers, particularly its printers and distributors on an annual basis. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing (or its suppliers) have and any reports of contraventions of its environmental policies. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (ie anti-corruption risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing ensure that there is no corrupt practice by its own employees or its suppliers. It fully complies with the Bribery Act, the UN Convention Against Corruption and does not knowingly operate with businesses, governments or individuals that are corrupt. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. All hospitality and gifts are declared. Any approaches by other organisations that could be construed as bribery are refused. All supplier bids are managed through a clear, fair and open process and decisions based on quality of service, price and conformance to our company policies on environmental management and ethical practices. The publishing programme includes a number of titles that promote anti-corruption practices, including: Anti-corruption: Implementing Curriculum Change in Management Education Beyond Governments: Making Collective Governance Work – Lessons from the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. 6 GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing submit audited accounts to independent Accountants and reports on practices to its key shareholder, Finance Yorkshire. As a small business, audited accounts are lodged with Companies House every two years. These independent bodies serve as a final check to ensure that no irregular payments have been made. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing work with partners that uphold anti-corruption practices, including PRME, EFMD, AACSB, ILO and library consortia such as CHEST. GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing have not been involved in any cases of infringement of anticorruption policies. John Peters Chief Executive Officer, on behalf of the board of directors and staff of GSE Research and Greenleaf Publishing. March 2016. 7
