Sustainability report for 2015 Table of contents Family tradition spanning more than 100 years Represented 740 qualified and internationally experienced employees at 46 sites worldwide Foreword 4 Statement from the Chairman of the Executive Board Integrated 1. Corporate profile 7 global Our history business Our product and service portfolio organisation Technically Our business model Efficient accomplished Our corporate policy logistics structures sales organisations Our corporate objectives and strategy Reporting method 2. Sustainability management 21 Sustainability progress Compliance Comprehensive Integrated management system Transparent market knowledge, Stakeholder relations reporting long-standing customer relationships 3. Economic responsibility 33 Economic performance Success factors 4. Environmental responsibility  39 at Biesterfeld Energy consumption Greenhouse gas emissions Environmental indicators for the Product portfolio/ Biesterfeld Group 2014–2015 In-depth IT expertise solutions: comprehensive and 5. Social responsibility  47 innovative Our staff Our social contributions Training and further development Social commitment Personnel indicators 2015 Culture of Financing strength 6. Our future perspective 55 compliance Our strategy for the future Sustainable growth GRI content index 58 Publication details  64 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 3 Foreword Following publication of the Sustainability Report for the first time last year, I am now delighted to present you with the second report of the Biesterfeld Group. of resources. Sustainability forms We aim to ensure here that our part our of identity, and for us it business success goes hand in means balancing commercial hand with sustainable operations. success with ecological and social aspects. I am proud of our employees who abide by our core values As a distributor of chemicals and principles in their everyday and plastics, we see it as our dealings with our customers duty to establish a centralised and suppliers. We want to sustainability management continue to prioritise sustainable system. Selling and distributing operations within our family high-sensitivity products every business in the coming years, day calls for safe and dependwhile also developing our sus­ able handling of resources. tain­ability management system further. We have already managed to implement numerous measures In this second issue of our annual aimed at sustainability and to report, we would now like to establish relevant standards. In inform you about the activities of our second report, we are pleased the Biesterfeld Group in the field Biesterfeld AG can now look to tell you that, from now on, of sustainability in a clear and back at a tradition that has lasted benchmarking will be possible comprehensive manner. almost 110 years. As a familythroughout the Group. Following owned company, we have always introduction at our company We hope you enjoy reading this set great store by operating in headquarters in Hamburg, we report. accordance with social, societal have now extended our standards and traditional corporate values. as planned to first of all include Here our core values such as our foreign sites in Italy and Great trustworthiness, competence and Britain. We intend to successively responsibility towards others are continue this process to develop no less important than the a sustainability management Thomas Arnold considerate and sustainable use system throughout the Group. PAGE 4 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 5 1. Corporate profile Strong as individuals, unbeatable together. PAGE 6 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 7 From Hamburg into the world. Our history Our company has played an active role in the distribution of plastics and chemicals as well as in worldwide trade for over 100 years. Our business activities encompass comprehensive services involving the 1981 Core areas of the new company Wilhelm E. H. Biesterfeld Group: chemical plants, distribution of plastics, rubber, special chemicals and international trade in the sectors of industrial and import, export, packaging, salt, agrochemicals and international freight forwarding agricultural chemicals, pharmaceutical raw materials and salts. 1980s Expansion into Asia with subsidiaries in China, Hong Kong and Indonesia 1906 Wilhelm Ernst-Hinrich Biesterfeld begins trading in salt 1988 Founding of Biesterfeld Plastic GmbH as well as subsidiaries in France, Italy, Poland and Spain 1918 Flourishing trade in rock salt from northern Germany for the domestic and Scandinavian market 1994 Joint venture Biesterfeld Scheibler Linssen GmbH & Co. KG with HQ in Hamburg 1920–1925 Operation of the Biesterfeld Shipping Company 1998 Founding of Biesterfeld Spezialchemie GmbH 1930 Exclusive selling rights for evaporated salts in certain areas of northern and eastern 2000 Founding of BIT-SERV GmbH, joint venture Biesterfeld Siemsglüss International GmbH Germany and Biesterfeld Interowa GmbH & Co. KG 1930s Development of the three pillars of the company: trading in salt, chemicals and fertilisers 2001 Founding of Biesterfeld Ibérica S.L.U. in Spain 1945 Takeover of the chemical plant Gunter, Schröder & Co. in Hamburg-Harburg with its own 2003 Joint venture between Biesterfeld Chemiedistribution GmbH & Co. KG and Brenntag, warehousing and transshipment facilities sold in 2010 From 1950 Own subsidiaries in the business divisions of importing/exporting chemicals, salt and 2004  ransformation of parent company Wilhelm E. H. Biesterfeld GmbH & Co. KG into T fertilisers as well as chemical plants; Biesterfeld Packaging division founded Biesterfeld AG 1956 Relocation of company headquarters to Ferdinandstrasse 41 in the centre of Hamburg 2005 Full takeover of Biesterfeld Siemsglüss International GmbH 1961 First European subsidiary founded in the Netherlands 2006 Name of Biesterfeld Siemsglüss International GmbH changed to Biesterfeld International GmbH and joint venture Biesterfeld Petroplas Ltd. 1964 Company founder Wilhelm Biesterfeld dies at the age of 84 years; steady growth of the business ensured by Walter Biesterfeld, his nephew and adopted son 2007 Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH founded 1970 Following the death of Walter Biesterfeld, his son Dirk J. Biesterfeld inherits the company 2008 Acquisition of Milar Sp. z o.o. in Poland as a personally liable partner 2013 Acquisition of Küttner GmbH and founding of Biesterfeld Nordic AB, Sweden 1976 Founding of the subsidiaries Biesterfeld do Brasil Ltda. in Brazil and Biesterfeld U.S., Inc. in the USA 2015 Joint venture Biesterfeld Simko Distr. Ltda, Brazil From 1977 Production of own-brand household foil/film sold under the name of “Julia”; formed part Today International trading organisation with five business divisions and 46 subsidiaries in of Biesterfeld until the beginning of the 1990s more than 120 countries PAGE 8 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 9 Shared strength for our customers and suppliers. Biesterfeld locations Countries in which Biesterfeld is represented Our product and service portfolio We offer solutions and act as the link between Biesterfeld AG Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Alphen (NL) Plastic Spezialchemie International manufacturers and customers. Hamburg (DE) Abingdon (GB) Barcelona (ES) Bangkok (TH) Athens (GR) Bratislava (SK) Beijing (CN) Culemborg (NL) Budapest (HU) Chongqing (CN) Our comprehensive product folio. Our work always revolves We do not just specialise in Hamburg (DE) Bucharest (RO) Florianópolis (BR) portfolio and sound expertise around the needs of our customers logistics and warehousing but Hamina (FI) Culemborg (NL) Guatemala City (GT) testify to a successful corporate and suppliers. also have extensive experience Istanbul (TR) Grodzisk Mazowiecki (PL) Hamburg (DE) history going back almost where consulting, development Cologne (DE) Hamburg (DE) Hong Kong (CN) 110 years. Long-standing partnerThe combination of our skills and finance are concerned. Liestal (CH) Istanbul (TR) Istanbul (TR) ships with renowned suppliers characterises our company and Limhamn or Kiev (UA) Jakarta (ID) confirm our standing as a leading has made us what we are today: Malmö (SE) Liestal (CH) Mexico (MX) distributor. a leading distributor of plastics Limhamn (SE) Milan (IT) Miami (US) and chemicals on the world marMilan (IT) Moscow (RU) Mumbai (IN) The products we offer our custoket. We also offer services for all Moscow (RU) Prague (CZ) São Paulo (BR) mers are skilfully combined with IT requirements as well as comNuremberg (DE) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Shanghai (CN) top-quality services. We continuprehensive quality and safety Oporto (PT) Warsaw (PL) Warsaw (PL) ously review and optimise our management. As the Biesterfeld Römerberg (DE) Vienna (AT) product portfolio in order to cater Group, we address the requireRueil Malmaison (FR) Zagreb (HR) for the latest requirements of ments of our customers together São Paulo (BR) customers. We thus offer a wide and develop customised solutions Sant Just Desvern (ES) range of different products and in direct customer dialogue and Warsaw (PL) are constantly expanding our portwith personal on-site support. Vienna (AT) PAGE 10 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 11 A recipe for success. Our business model We owe our success to teamwork and cooperation based Biesterfeld Group Turnover (2015): 1,077 million euros on trust and partnership. We aim to achieve success along Employees: 740 with our suppliers and customers. Holding Biesterfeld AG As skilled contact partners, we of the market. We can only ben­ determining and implementing company are constantly available for our efit from one another if we work the necessary measures. The customers and suppliers, with together. demand for a sustainable corpowhom we cultivate relations rate culture is firmly anchored in based on partnership. We get to At our company, which is headall divisions and levels of our know our partners better and can quartered in Hamburg, the company hierarchy. cater for their needs. This is why super­visory board, management Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld we offer on-site customer supboard, executives and all emBusiness Plastic Spezialchemie International port, allowing us to develop ployees jointly assume responmade-to-measure solutions and sibility for the quality of the serdivisions Employees: 260 Employees: 225 Employees: 110 further extend our knowledge vices rendered, as well as for Branch offices: 14 Branch offices: 15 Branch offices: 12 We want to send a clear signal an ultimate goal, but rather as the changes between the and make our contribution to an ongoing process which is reference years. In addition, we sustainable development in our continuously monitored and optihave extended the scope of industry as a company. mised. For this reason, we are our review to cover two further now publishing for the second sites. That is why we support the time an annual Sustainability United Nations (UN) Global Report in accordance with the Service Biesterfeld BIT-SERV GmbH Compact, the global initiative standards of the international companies ChemLogs GmbH for sustainability in business, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). with its ten principles relating to human rights, labour, the en­viWe have expanded on the Susronment and the fight against tainability Report for 2014, corruption. At the same time, adding current data for 2015 and we do not view sustainability as also analysing and describing PAGE 12 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 13 Operating hanseatically means operating responsibly. Our corporate policy UN Global Compact principles Our stated goal is to live up to the trust placed in our Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed company by our customers and partners. As such, we pay human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. special attention to ensuring mutual respect and honesty in our dealings with other people. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; We are continuously improving We are successful as a group We uphold our obligation to the quality of our services with thanks to their personal initiative comply with the principles of the Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and the aim of fulfilling our obligaand reliability. Health and safety Global Compact. We have incorPrinciple 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. tions towards our customers and is also a top priority within the porated these principles in our suppliers at all times. organisation. Compliance with business process and fulfil them all legal provisions concerning on a daily basis. The rules and Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; The cornerstone of our success human resources is an absolute requirements defined here are in business is our years of expegiven for us. also reflected in our corporate Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and rience. The subsequent knowledge objectives. we have gained is reflected in our In the scope of our business Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. unique expertise. operations, we pay particular 1 REACH: “Regulation concerning the attention to social aspects such Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion We are more than just a distri­ as equality and individual selfand Restriction of Chemicals”. butor. We regard serving our determination. The protection of and bribery. customers and suppliers in a human dignity and human rights 2 GHS: “Globally Harmonized System of professional and customised is for us essential. In addition, we Classification, Labelling and Packaging manner as our responsibility. also set great store by our interof Chemicals”. national suppliers’ and partners’ To guarantee customers permacompliance with these social nent availability of plastics and standards as an integral part of chemicals, we are preparing for their corporate governance, and upcoming changes to the legisstipulate this in our periodical lation governing chemicals well supplier surveys. in advance. We also comply reliably with regulations such Our voluntary adherence to the as REACH1 and GHS2 at all times. United Nations Global Compact Any changes in this regard are supports us in our goal of immediately implemented and achieving business success in communicated to customers, with harmony with sustainable and our staff playing the key role here. social aspects. PAGE 14 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 15 Sustainable growth rather The standards we place than hasty action. on sustainability are just as high as those on quality. Our corporate objectives and strategies Reporting method We strive to maintain a strong market position while Our decision to draw up and publish an annual Sustain­always considering aspects of sustainable development. ability Report has taken us a valuable step forwards here. We ensure our leading market their needs. Our long-term relaGroup and avoid failures. For this The extensive positive feedback environmental protection and the definition of the aspects and position by diversification, tapping tionships with suppliers and the reason, it is important to identify from our customers, suppliers anti-corruption. By applying the indicators which are relevant for into new markets and expanding positive response from custompossible internal or external risks and employees confirms the GRI here, we ensure that we us and our stakeholder groups. our international activities. We ers support us in this approach. well in advance. To deal with any success of our approach. have covered and identified all take special care to achieve this crises, we have set up a crisis indicators in the appropriate Selection of the GRI indicators from the perspective of sustainSustainable business developmanagement team to offer the We hope for global cooperation manner. has been based on our many ability. Wemeet this challenge on ment at the Biesterfeld Group can necessary support here. Our staff with customers and suppliers years of experience in dealing a daily basis and work with our only be achieved with the help of continuously receive information as regards the sustainable develThere has been no change in with these individual groups. We staff to fulfil these criteria. our workforce. Their knowledge and training about how to deal opment of business processes. the indicators that are relevant to also enjoyed support from our of markets, customers and with such situations. We can particularly benefit from us from the previous year. Here management team here thanks We act as the effective interface products is key to our success. each other by exchanging experiwe considered and assessed to their extensive knowledge. An between our suppliers and custo­ For this reason, we set great store ences. Sustainability Reports are the individual aspects from two overview of all GRI indicators in­ mers and offer optimum service by offering staff training and also a means to an end in this separate perspectives. To this end, cluding the UN Global Compact in all areas. It is our objective to ensuring their individual advanceregard. We take the opportunity we identified our stakeholders, principles and the respectively step up our level of services and ment. Their qualifications and of exchanging experiences and dividing them into groups relevant sections of text can be impress both new and existing expertise are a precious asset for learning from each other and depending on whether our comfound in the GRI index in the partners with our offer. the company. hope to also offer the necessary pany activities influence them appendix. support with the help of transdirectly or indirectly. We then P. 58 We will not rest on our laurels Treating employees with respect parency. asked ourselves what objectives here: our strategy is to follow is for us a matter of course. we are pursuing with our susup on our success to ensure conGiven the increasing complexity In view of the uniform structure tainable strategy, and what tinuous improvement within the of economic relations and the and better comparability, we have requirements and expectations organisation. We demand a lot new, diverse challenges we face, based our Sustainability Report our stakeholders have of us as a of our staff and pursue the objecwe thus strive to retain our staff on the G4 guidelines of the Global business with a global presence. tives we have set ourselves. This for as long as possible. Reporting Initiative (GRI), satisallows us to offer customers optifying the Core options of the GRI The GRI indicators were discussed mum service combined with firstThanks to our group-wide risk principles. We thereby take into individually at management level rate quality. With this aim in mind, management system, we are consideration the ten principles and evaluated using a points we maintain close contact with able to look ahead and forestall of the United Nations Global system. This assessment was the customer so we can deliver risks. We are anxious to ensure Compact relating to the issues of conducted in a process entailing individual services tailored to the continued existence of the human rights, labour standards, a number of stages, resulting in PAGE 16 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 17 Materiality analysis the category in terms of its ecoHence, in our estimate for examList of specific indicators nomic, environmental and social ple, the category “Labour pracThe materiality analysis clearly impact. The y-axis indicates the tices and decent work” seems to Economic illustrates the indicators that unextent to which the category inbe particularly important for the derwent individual assessment. fluences the assessment made assessment made by our stakeThey were summarised into cat­ by our stakeholders. The x and y holders, as it received a very high G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed egories for this purpose. Here values of the categories are deterrating despite the manageable the circles reflect the number of mined from the average value number of indicators. G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the indicators in each category. The of the indicators individually asorganisation’s activities due to climate change x-axis shows the significance of sessed by ourselves. Environmental Impact on the assessment performed by our stakeholders G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN5 Energy intensity G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Labour practices and decent work, society, human rights andproduct responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover Significance for economic, environmental and social aspects by age group, gender and region The size of the circles reflects the influence of the factors. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Labour practices and decent work Human rights Environment Society Product responsibility Economic performance G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Our Sustainability Report applies pany sites and evaluate them in We would also like to emphasise to the entire Biesterfeld Group. relation to the selected GRI indicathat, for simplicity’s sake, any G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices In the case of a small number of tors for sustainable development. terms which are not gendercriteria indicators, the detailed scope of This year’s Sustainability Report neutral refer to men and women the survey meant that assessment also covers our sites in Milan, alike. could initially only be performed Italy and Great Britain (Oxford). G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices for our sites in Germany. In future The scope of application is indiin the supply chain and actions taken reports, we aim to include all com­ cated in the relevant sections. PAGE 18 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 19 2. Sustainability management True sustainability is not just about complying with standards, but also about upholding them. PAGE 20 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 21 Sustainability begins at home. tion to ensure that the principles of sustainability can be incorporated sustainability. We are receiving ever more enquiries about our It is likewise important to regularly review procedures which in everyday working practices to commitment to this issue and have already undergone optimimaximum effect. are delighted with the positive sation in terms of sustainability response to our undertaking and to improve them further. For To uphold these principles, we throughout the world. this reason, we see the goals of define the objectives that our sustainability more as ongoing company pursues in terms of In particular, registration of our processes that we wish to continsustainability. To this end, our energy consumption levels and uously develop. sustainability manager works the associated energy audit has with the relevant departments enabled us to implement measThis concerns, for example, the to formulate concrete plans and ures aimed at saving electricity, health of our staff at the workProgress in sustainability receives suggestions for changes such as the purchase of addiplace, the procurement of energyand ideas submitted by staff. tional office lights with LED bulbs saving solutions in the office, the They are discussed at managefor company headquarters. They increasingly positive response We play an active part in the process of sustainable ment level and approved by the not only cut energy consumption from our stakeholders and the management board. The implebut also benefit the health of raising of awareness among development and help to reconcile economic efficiency with mentation and achievement of the staff by reducing eye strain. partners and customers of issues defined goals are driven forward Because our employees are relevant to sustainability. environmental protection. and monitored by the relevant mainly engaged in office work, departments in cooperation with it is hugely important for us to the sustainability manager. ensure that they are offered a We see it as our duty to raise leaving a room to cut electricity forms. They are now submitted working environment that is conawareness among our suppliers consumption, or only printing electronically and approved by Since signing up to the United ducive to health. and partners of the issue of susout what is absolutely necessary the line manager. This means Nations Global Compact and tainability and to highlight its to save on paper. that managers have an overview deciding to step up the commuAt the Biesterfeld Group, we do associated benefits. We will of their employees’ holiday plans nication of sustainability outside not believe that sustainability can continue to pursue our goal of We can each do our bit for the and staff can view the applications the organisation, we have made be solely measured by the setting bringing about positive changes environment and act sustainably. they have submitted and check major progress and are witnessand achieving of goals. What here, above all in areas open to Even things we think are in themtheir remaining holiday entitleing increasingly positive feedreally counts here is the path to active influence. This includes, selves insignificant soon add up ment via individual access. The back. Our customers and supplisustainable corporate developfor example, supplier managewhen put together. portal allows us to save both ers are now paying greater ment, as the issue of sustainability ment, fair cooperation with time and money, use paper more attention to the requirements of calls for continuous optimisation. suppliers and staff, employee The introduction of a Human Reefficiently and simplify existing satisfaction in the workplace, sources portal for our sites in work processes. the careful use of resources and Germany has allowed us to reduce social engagement on the part paper consumption. Payslips are The positive feedback and verdicts of our company. now just issued electronically of our staff after the six-month and can be retrieved at any time. test phase for the programme The importance of sustainability Only the annual statements of confirms we have made the right to us is demonstrated by our pay are printed out and sent in decision here. corporate communications. We the mail. Our staff now have the ask our staff to make careful use option of printing out their pay­ By including the topic of sustainof resources and to play an active slips themselves, if desired. We ability in our management handrole in introducing further measwere able to gauge the demand book, we have highlighted this ures aimed at sustainability. We for this option during a test phase issue so that the principles of want our employees to feel at in which printouts had to be resustainability are practised by ease and to create a comfortable quested from the HR department. managers and all employees. It is atmosphere at the workplace. This This programme has allowed us therefore essential to be familiar also includes using resources in to slash paper consumption for with the relevant legal obligations a responsible manner. Even little payslips by 71%. The programme and to apply them with conviction. things can really help, for examhas also done away with the All employees receive relevant ple, switching the light off when previous paper holiday request training and sufficient informaPAGE 22 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 23 What we have achieved since introduction: Integrating the Incorporating Extending data Informing stakeholders ten principles of Reducing sustainability Reducing paper acquisition for and raising UN Global Compact energy consumption in our corporate consumption the Sustainability their awareness in our corporate structure Report values We want to now follow up on what we have already achieved “Sustainable development 3 Taken from the Brundtland Commisand drive sustainability forward meets the needs of the pression’s “Our Common Future” report in our organisation. To this end, ent without compromising from 1987 we will be continuously examinthe ability of future generaing and optimising our work tions to meet their own processes with the aim of saving needs.”3 resources in order to preserve them for future generations. We set great store by the conservation of resources and support the Brundtland Commission in its understanding of fair conduct towards other generations: PAGE 24 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 25 We practise the values and ideals We are integrated instead of of our family firm. isolated. Compliance Integrated management system We ensure that all legally binding stipulations and Thanks to our integrated management system, we have a voluntary undertakings are observed and implemented. standardised structure and can use synergies to good effect. This covers management in the fields of quality, labour, With this in mind, Biesterfeld has ing to our shared corporate relation to responsible operahealth, data privacy and the environment as well as risks and added another element to its values. We compiled correspondtions. We implement the legal overall corporate responsibility: ing individual compliance measrequirements with a high level of crises. compliance. ures in a compliance management commitment – an approach that system, which is continuously is confirmed by regular external It plays a key role in the sustainfurther developed and monitored. audits. Overall responsibility in this reWe act in line with DIN EN ISO OHSAS 18001 able management of our company Our risk management programme gard lies with the management 9000 ff. This way, we ensure that (occupational health and and the transparent organisation allows us to identify and assess board, while the individual superwe live up to our high quality safety) of our business processes. potential compliance risks and visors are responsible for the efstandard and comply with the prevent them where necessary. ficacy of the system. They ensure norm. DIN EN 27001 Our culture of compliance is based that the integrated management (data privacy) on one of our main core values: We encourage an active exchange system is understood and impleWe arrange for regular auditing integrity. It is thus oriented accordof experiences and knowledge in mented by all staff. so that we remain in line with DIN ISO 26000 our continuous certification pro(social responsibility) This system comprises three gramme. As quality is a top prilevels: ority within our organisation, we DIN EN 16247 therefore attach major importance (energy audit) Our Code of Conduct Level I describes the responto our integrated management sibilities and processes at system. Optimum process strucDIN EN ISO 31000 Our compliance structure is based guarantee our compliance system. as corruption, cartel law, human Biesterfeld AG for the holding tures and a strong customer focus (risk and crisis management) on the Code of Conduct applicable It is also particularly important rights, labour and social standcompany with its subsidiaries are essential factors in our conthroughout our organisation. It is for us that our employees all over ards, as well as operating proceand branch offices at an intertinuous certification. Our risk management concept is mandatory for all employees in all the world have access to the Code dures for conflicts of interest. national level an important element of our intecountries and is the foundation of Conduct and understand it. For It additionally describes how The following standards are the grated management system. It for their everyday dealings with this reason it can be found on our managers at the company should Level II describes the responkey elements of our integrated allows us to identify risks in good one another. website and on the Intranet in both act as a role model to their staff sibilities and processes at the management system: time and to monitor and prevent German and English. and business partners. subsidiaries at a regional level them. We can thus reduce unforeWe review our Code of Conduct www.Biesterfeld.com DIN EN ISO 14001 seen costs and optimise planning at regular intervals to make sure New employees are asked on their Level III describes the respon(environmental management) reliability. that it meets the requirements first day at the company to read, sibilities at the branch offices that result from globalisation. It understand and accept the Code of the subsidiaries is a measure that enables us to of Conduct. It covers topics such PAGE 26 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 27 Regular audits offer customers first-rate service, Biesterfeld works to a high quality Internal audits additionally deal with aspects of sustainability. This If you want to grow together, you Compliance with our standards and guidelines is checked by means of regular audits. standard, which we achieve with the help of our integrated management system. includes for example the identification of energy-saving measures or potential for emissions reducneed to communicate with each 34 audits were carried out in 2015. Apart from numerous internal These audits allow us to ensure continuous improvement in relation, and it is also ensured that the principles of the UN Global Compact are understood by staff. other. audits, 12 certification audits were tion to the requirements of the also performed under the superstandard. The resulting measures Our business processes undergo vision of the technical inspection for improvement are registered regular auditing so we can take association TÜV Nord. This in our computerised CAPA dataadvantage of the benefits offered way, we can make sure that our base (Corrective And Preventive by our integrated management integrated management system Actions). The database enables system and fulfil the requirements Stakeholder relations not only satisfies the provisions our management systems officer made by the standards. This of DIN EN ISO 9000 ff., but also to classify and monitor these allows us to develop an optimum guarantees legal compliance measures, thus ensuring that all work structure and improve proTransparency, openness and trust form the basis of our throughout theGroup. improvement measures are carried cedures from new perspectives, out by the relevant deadline. supplementing them where corporate culture and our good relations with stakeholders. In addition, we have set up our new distribution site in Brazil in The results of the audits, quality necessary. This way we ensure that all work processes at the It is therefore particularly important for us to remain in accordance with DIN ISO 9000 ff. control procedures and customer company comply with the releclose contact with our stakeholders and to cultivate this and arranged for its certification feedback are summarised in vant standards. to this standard. Thanks to our annual management reviews. relationship. years of experience with manageLastly, the system is assessed to ment systems, we successfully ensure its suitability and efficacy completed this task within a for the strategic direction taken We strive for long-term staketo ask about other concerns that share with manufacturers to drive short period of time. In order to by the organisation. holder relations based on trust might be on their mind. For us, it forward the sustainable developand actively seek contact with is especially important that our ment of products. Over the years, them. In particular, this helps to staff feel at ease and that there is the needs of our customers have maintain the good reputation of an atmosphere of mutual respect increasingly moved towards susour company and to systematithroughout the company. tainability. We have adapted to this cally exploit the available potentrend and systematically come up tial. We rely on our highly motiWe continuously inform our finanwith solutions. vated workforce to live up to ciers (owners, banks and invesstakeholder requirements. We tors) about our financial status owe our lengthy existence to and our business performance. their engagement and trust. We remain in close contact with them and can build on a relationTo respond to the wishes and ship of mutual trust here. needs of our staff, we hold regular personal meetings with every Dialogue with our customers is employee, be it to review their indispensable for us. This results personal career development or in valuable knowledge that we can PAGE 28 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 29 Dialogue Another link in the information Our stakeholders chain is membership in chemical In addition to employee meetings, associations and initiatives such our standard forms of dialogue as the: also include customer feedback, supplier surveys, reports as  FECC (European Association Investors printed media and in PDF format, of Chemical Distributors) as well as updates from the Biesterfeld Group posted on our  Responsible Care Banks Holders website and on the Intranet. We also hold meetings with experts,  United Nations Global organise workshops and attend a Compact wide range of national and international trade fairs.  VCI Plastics Europe The rigorous evaluation of our  VCH Verband Associations Employees customer feedback is an imporChemiehandel e.V. Biesterfeld tant instrument for maintaining customer trust. Customers who  Verein der Hamburger Group had previously complained Exporteure e.V. about a service subsequently gave positive feedback with their Our active participation in such next evaluation. We make every organisations fosters an exCompetitors Suppliers effort to process each issue as change of experience and inforquickly as possible and find the mation with other members. ideal solution for the respective customer. Authorities Customers Indirect Direct stakeholders stakeholders All these dialogues provide us stage, and allows us to adapt to dialogue with our stakeholders with important estimations of the upcoming changes in good time so we can identify their different opportunities and risks of our and tap potential more efficiently. expectations in good time and business activities at a very early We aim to continuously extend take account of them. PAGE 30 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 31 3. Economic responsibility Value added is the fruit of valuing others. PAGE 32 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 33 As a company grows, Turnover of the Biesterfeld Group, broken down by the three operative divisions, 2015 so does its responsibility. 20% Economic performance Looking back on a family tradition that has lasted almost 110 years, we are proud of how the company has developed. 58% 22% We have incorporated the beneis reviewed and amended once a In accordance with the legal refits of globalisation in the strucyear to always take account of quirements (German commercial ture of our organisation and, new market developments. It is law), we announce the result of despite worldwide political and mandatory for all executive-level the Biesterfeld Group’s business financial turmoil, we have manstaff in the Biesterfeld Group. activity annually in the German aged to achieve further success Federal Gazette. and boost profits. The company performance figBiesterfeld Plastic ures are promptly issued to the Biesterfeld Spezialchemie Responsibility and trustworthiness managers, who then compare Biesterfeld International are important qualities of our trathem with the plan for their secditional family business. tor. They are responsible for making any changes to adhere We measure our performance by to the planning and achieve the the levels of satisfaction among common objectives. our employees, customers and Financial stability for the entire Group and minithe Biesterfeld Group as a whole. suppliers. We strive to satisfy their We inform our financiers about mising the cost of capital at the We analyse the financing possibil­ demands on a daily basis. Ultiour company performance reguTo minimise financial risks and same time. A range of different ities on the capital markets of the mately, we share in the benefits larly and comprehensively. The interest risks, our organisation equity and loan capital financing respective currencies and hedge from the growth of our company. latest performance figures are maintains a broad spectrum of instruments with different maturrisks arising from fluctuations in additionally published on the shortand long-term capital. Our ities creates a stable liquidity and the exchange rate as required. Our business development Intranet, along with a comparison financing is oriented towards financing situation, and thus safe­ with the previous year’s figures guaranteeing financial flexibility guards the sustainable growth for The economic development of our and budget values. For us, it is organisation and our business important that our staff participate activities are based on a detailed actively in the business developfive-year plan with clear-cut goals ment process and are always that we wish to achieve. This plan kept up to date here. PAGE 34 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 35 Turnover by region, 2015 Economic indicators for the Biesterfeld Group, 2013–2015* 2015 2014 2013 Turnover 1,077,424 1,077,887 1,056,701 20% Germany Operating costs 981,489 993,640 977,722 41% Western Europe Wages and other 55,875 51,833 49,565 2% excl. company benefits Other Germany 5% Asia Payments to 18,987 17,444 17,723 financial backers 8% America Payments to 10,473 7,860 7,083 government (taxes) 24% Retained financial profit 10,553 7,104 4,561 Eastern Europe * All figures are given in thousands of euros. Consolidated financial statements are not included. More detailed information can be found in the German Federal Gazette. The “Turnover by region” graph reflects the international orientation of the Biesterfeld Group. The continuous growth of the In the 2015 financial year, profit succeeded in further developing Biesterfeld Group is characterised from our business operations long-term partnerships. by a cautious and carefully conrose to record levels, and we now sidered approach to generating hope to drive it forward even Our economic growth, enhancesales. Detailed market monitoring further. The successful milestones ment of our reputation and our and good, long-term relations of 2015 include breaking into international orientation have with our partners shield us from new markets and extending our prompted us to set up a departadverse effects in the economic product portfolio. We have been ment for corporate communicaenvironment. We are not interable to achieve our objective of tions (Press and PR). ested in short-term benefits; our expanding and impressing intergoal is to generate growth on a national partners with our perforlasting basis. mance. We have additionally PAGE 36 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 37 4. Environmental responsibility Working together for a healthy future. PAGE 38 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 39 Less is more – Energy consumption at least with energy consumption. Efficient office furnishings We have extended our SustainThe energy demand of 1,620 W ability Report to also include our per eight-hour working day has To bring about real change, you sites in Milan and Oxford. We are been reduced to 1,168 W. should not ignore the little things. consistently striving to cover all We are convinced that even the of our companies. In addition, the energy-saving smallest changes in daily activ­ lighting concepts protect our ities can bring about consideraIn order to develop suitable meas­ employees from eye strain during ble progress and result in success ures in this regard, it is important their day-to-day work at the office. in the long term. As a service to identify our biggest “energy provider whose main activity is guzzlers”. Above all, they include Multifunctional printers, which Taking care of the environment and our natural resources is office work, we therefore attach lighting, air-conditioning, the can be operated by all employees special importance to ensuring ventilation system of the undervia our computer network, have an integral part of our sustainable corporate culture. that our workplace is designed ground garage at company headenabled us to dispense with sepa­ and organised to optimum effect. quarters and small/electronic rate items of electronic equipment devices (office equipment). such as scanners or photocopiers. We undertake to act in a responWe can only make a difference if and indirect risks associated with We are also currently expanding These printers also switch off sible manner regarding resource we join forces. our products. our communication structure with At headquarters, we have further automatically, thus saving energy. conservation and to use the rethe aim of registering energy developed energy-saving lighting quired resources efficiently. We We use advanced technologies As soon as a productdisplays indiconsumption values across the concepts in order to reduce our are particularly concentrating on for logistics, administration and cations of possible risks in its use, group in the medium term. For demand for energy. Ceiling lights the areas in which we can bring communications to support our we start searching for environthis reason, we work in accordhave been replaced by enerabout change through our direct employees in putting sustainabilmentally friendly substitutes in ance with the following principle: gy-efficient uplights, which are influence. This also includes reity into practice. close cooperation with suppliers controlled by built-in motion ducing our demand for energy, and customers. In this context, Learn from each other, develop sensors according to the lighting water, paper and other raw matePrudent handling of our products safety data sheets play an importogether! requirements. rials to the absolute minimum tant role. A separate department and making efficient use of these In our day-to-day work, we pay of qualifiedspecialists ensure that materials. special attention to protecting they are continuously updated nature as the basis of life for and distributed to the users of the This will only be possible with future generations and always product. Energy consumption at company headquarters in Hamburg, 2015* the help of our committed emhave the environmental conseEnergy consumption per employee ployees. We reinforce awareness quences of our business operaEnergy sources kWh CO2 emissions in t** at company headquarters is of the issue of sustainability so as tions in mind. Safe handling of Electricity 322,482 166 approx. 2,526 kWh. In comparison to encourage their active coopera­ our products is particularly imDistrict heating 417,527 110 with 2014, we have achieved a tion. The Sustainability Report portant. This includes a wide (for heating purposes) reduction of 1.3%. also acts as an important inforrange of different preventative mation source in this regard. measures to combat the direct Total 740,009 276 Energy consumption at the sites listed in the Sustainability Report, 2015* Energy sources kWh CO2 emissions in t** Employee energy consumption at the specified sites is approx. Electricity 427,105 219 2,702 kWh. District heating 417,527 110 (for heating purposes) Natural gas 173,825 35 (for heating purposes) Total 1,018,457 364 * Figures have been rounded off. Heating costs for Great Britain are included in the costs of electricity as heating is via the air-conditioning system ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation PAGE 40 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 41 On a mission to slash emissions. Biesterfeld Group fleet, 2015* Fuel type Total consumption Total consumption CO2 emissions in litres in megajoules in t** Diesel 172,106 6,364,473 423.95 Petrol 16,249 538,427 35.11 Total consumption 188,355 6,902,900 459.06 * Figures have been rounded off. All vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.9.3) were used as a reference for the calculation Greenhouse gas emissions Emissions caused by employees travelling to work It is our duty, as a trustworthy company, to be informed about our carbon footprint and to shoulder our Means of transport by which employees travelled to work in Hamburg, 2015 environmental responsibility. Means of transport Journey to/from work in km CO2 emissions in t per workday and employee* per working year** Bicycle 14 0 We have been occupying ourScope 1: All direct GHG to Scope 2 and Scope 3. In the selves intensively with the matemissions caused by us. coming years, we intend to introLong-distance train 102 6 ter of quantifying emissions and duce targeted measures with the Car 60 153 are determined to achieve even Scope 2: All indirect GHG aim of reducing our carbon footLocal public transport 21 119 further reductions in all future emissions we as a company print. activities. cause via our procurement Total 197 278 of energy. Fleet emissions * Figures have been rounded off. Specifies the average distance per workday per employee When voluntarily undertaking in ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation. Based on 252 workdays per year. 2014 to publish an annual susScope 3: All indirect emissions Our fleet in Germany currently The emission values are calculated by multiplying the length of the journey to and from work in kilometres by the tainability report, wedecided to not resulting from our sourccomprises 82 vehicles. respective emission factor, the number of employees and the total number of working days determined. calculate and publicise our coring of energy, but through our porate CO2 emissions in accordactivities (freight transport, 4 Global standard for quantification, ance with the Greenhouse Gas business trips, travelling to/ management and reporting of Protocol (GHG Protocol)4 and the from work). greenhouse gas emissions Means of transport for travelling to work 7% ISO 16064 standard. This year, 7% 17% for the first time, we are able to As a distributor of chemicals and Thanks to the favourable location With our goal of reducing emission make a year-on-year comparison plastics that heats its offices in of our company headquarters in levels for travelling to work, we are with 2014. Hamburg by means of district the heart of Hamburg, the majorencouraging staff to use public heating, Scope 1 is not relevant ity of our employees do not travel transport by offering to subsidise Greenhouse gas emissions for us as we do not produce any to work by car. In comparison with their monthly transport pass. (GHG) can be assigned to three direct emissions. As such, our the previous year, the number of categories: sources of emissions are restricted people driving to work has fallen Our commitment is rounded off by 2% who have now switched to by the provision of sufficient the local public transport system. cycle parking and the possibility As a result, in 2015 we managed of borrowing company bicycles to save 9 tonnes of CO2 in total. for short journeys. 69% PAGE 42 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 43 Business trips across the Biesterfeld Group, 2015* Environmental indicators for the Biesterfeld Group, 2014–2015 Aeroplane Distance in km CO2 emissions in t per year** Type of emissions CO2 in t 2015 CO2 in t 2014 International flights 4,225,769 644.09 Domestic flights 568,133 133.59 SCOPE 2 Total 4,793,902 777.68 Energy consumption * Figures have been rounded off at company headquarters 276 307 ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation SCOPE 3 Emissions caused by contact – nor can we. Operating support, in order to continue business trips as an international business, we offering our customers and supFleet* 459 436 rely on maintaining personal pliers the best solution and handle We always strive to keep our relationships with our customers emissions conscientiously at the Employees’ journeys to work in Hamburg 278 287 business trips within limits in and suppliers. On-site-support same time. order to avoid any increase in forms part of our services and Business trips 778 614 emission levels. The latest techfrequently facilities external comnologies and telephone and munications. Transport of goods 19,621 19,169 video-conferencing facilities allow us to take advantage of useful Our goal is to maintain a healthy * Change in GEMIS emission factors from the reporting period 2014/2015 alternatives. Nevertheless, we do balance between environmentally not wish to dispense with direct friendly action and local personal Our CO2 emissions were determined using data from the Transport of goods across the Biesterfeld Group, 2015* GEMIS database5, compiled by Germany’s Federal Mode of transport Quantity Average CO2 emissions in t distance in km in t per year ** Environment Agency (UBA) in cooperation with the Institute Road 138,777.7 536 3,737 for Applied Ecology (Ökoinstitut). Inland navigation vessels 20,017 255 175 Seagoing vessels 89,093 14,309 15,437 In the 2015 reporting period, we our sales activities, e.g. the set-up Air freight 27.9 4,813 105 not only managed to reduce our of our new joint venture in Brazil. 5 Global Emissions Model for Integrated Rail 8,283 536 167 energy consumption at company In view of this increase in emisSystems headquarters, but also the CO2 sions, we have resolved from 2016 * Quantities and distances determined using the ERP system. The values are initially based on deliveries involving Germany emissions caused by our emto become climate-neutral in (import and export). Figures have been rounded off. ** GEMIS emission factors (version 4.8) were used as a reference for the calculation ployees travelling to work. The terms of CO2 emissions for busirise in CO2 levels due to business ness trips. trips was due to the expansion of As a distributor and trading firm, This in turn leads to more efficient The table above illustrates the one of our core business areas is transport, lower emissions and emissions caused by the respecthe transport of goods for our thus lower costs. tive modes of transport for the three operative divisions. Biesterfeld Group. The commercial success of our Their individual logistics departcompany and the expansion of ments specialise in continuously our operations are closely linked optimising warehouse sites and to our core business. supply routes. PAGE 44 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 45 5. Social responsibility Commercial success within a community. PAGE 46 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 47 As a family firm based in Hamburg, New hires by region, 2015* social responsibility is a 6 2 matter very close to our heart. 38 Our staff 75 The most precious asset of our company is its staff, who 29 live out our corporate culture every day. Moral and ethical conduct is a We therefore make sure that we their performance. This way, we given for us. Every one of our offer them a working environdo away with any kind of discrimiemployees has the duty to live ment that satisfies their needs. It nation and avoid unfairness at up to the social responsibility inis only through job satisfaction the workplace. We strive for open­ Germany Europe excl. Germany North and South America Asia cumbent on the Biesterfeld Group and trust in our company that we ness and equal opportunities. within their field of activity. Cocan achieve further growth in the operation between the company global market. and its staff is a prerequisite for Workforce by gender, 2015* sustainable economic growth Biesterfeld sets great store by throughout the group. fairness. This also includes making no distinction between the beneWe always aim for the best, and fits offered to full and part-time for this we require highly motistaff or workers with permanent vated employees who identify or temporary contracts. All emwith our goals and act in a reliaployees enjoy the same opportuble and trustworthy manner. nities and are judged solely by Full-time: 308 778 Full-time: 393 New hires by age group, 2015* Part-time: 66 Part-time: 11 up to 16 21 29 30–49 17 14 50 and 4 3 over Female Male Female Male * Headcount PAGE 48 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 49 We can only grow Our social benefits at a glance by working together. Accident Ergonomic insurance office furniture Special offers for theatre/ Yearly office musical party performances Profit Further training Our social contributions sharing courses One of the key factors for our success is the loyalty to the Gym membership Flexible working Health checks Mobile massage company shown by long-serving employees. discounts hours service Possibility of working Pension To further encourage this, we also supply our employees with As a precautionary measure, emschemes from home offer staff a comprehensive packmobile phones if their roles reployees can also sign up for Sports Subsidised age of additional benefits. We quire. Employees who work from annual health checks. This voluncanteen contests see it as our duty to create an home are also provided with the tary scheme is available free of agreeable working atmosphere requisite technology and access charge. Flu jabs and eye testing and provide new motivation every authorisations. Overall, Health & are also offered by the company. Kitchenettes Travel with drinks on day. We pay particular attention Safety and staff satisfaction are subsidies all floors to maintaining the trust our our top priorities. We encourage social contact employees have placed in the among our employees and offer company. Every one of them is We promote a healthy work/life a wide range of activities outside appreciated and offered individbalance, so contributing to job of working hours. Our employess ual support. This allows us, as a security. The range of different take part actively in a wide variety long-standing family business, work models in place means that of sporting events, such as bowlto establish employment relationeach and every employee can find ing, athletics tournaments, a ships lasting many years. the right solution. bikeathon and a triathlon. Sport is Training and further development a good counterbalance to the daily We offer staff a company canteen Promotion of health office routine . We have arranged with a varied range of fresh and with a gym in Hamburg for our We set great store by the continuous training and further healthy dishes catering for every As the health of our staff is imstaff to be given a discount on the taste. Alongside vegan and vegeportant to us, we take preventamonthly membership fee. development of our workforce, thus furthering the specialist tarian dishes, we also offer a tive measures to combat workselection of lactose-free foods. On related risks. The health of the skills and personal qualities of our employees. each floor a selection of drinks is workforce is the basic prerequialso available free of charge in site for a sustainable company. the kitchenettes. Our workforce is the bedrock of in-house programmes through and exchange experiences with This starts with office furnishour business success. It is the departmental courses to workother colleagues. It is important When fitting out our offices, we ings. All of our office furniture is skills of every individual that shops organised by external profor us that they identify with their make sure that we provide the ergonomically designed. Where make us stand out as a company. viders. This way, we broaden the role and feel at ease within the latest technical equipment in line necessary, we provide heightFor this reason, we systematically expertise of our employees while organisation. The excellent coopwith current safety standards, and adjustable desks and chairs encourage employees to develop catering for their interests. eration between all divisions our IT specialists take care of any which offer back support. We their potential, offering them means that changing departments technical problems that arise, in take great care to satisfy the perappropriate training courses deOur staff are able at any time to is also no problem at all. addition to being on hand to offer sonal requirements of our staff. pending on their role. We provide undertake further training in the assistance if and as required. We a wide range of options, from different areas of the company PAGE 50 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 51 We challenge and encourage our Personnel indicators, 2015* most important asset. By employment contract* Female Male Total Headcount in % Temporary contract 8 8 16 4.2 Permanent contract 187 178 365 95.8 Parental leave* Female Male Total Headcount The experience of long-serving within the organisation. This graduates interesting career perin % staff is a key factor at the compagives them the opportunity to spectives. ny, including for the training of identify their strengths and to denew employees, who can benefit velop their interests further. Vacancies are filled based on Entitled to parental leave 13 3 16 4.2 from the knowledge of our Company mentors are always on skills, performance and potential well-qualified workforce. hand to answer questions and inwith no exceptions. In 2015, we Actually took it 13 3 16 4.2 tegrate the apprentices in the were delighted to congratulate Another important aspect for the business tas fully-fledged colfour successful graduates. sustainable development of our leagues. Here our flat hierarchies Returned to work with business is for junior staff to be allow trainees to develop and exThe Biesterfeld Group is commita period of employment involved right from the start press their creativity. Likewise, ted to long-term, of at least 12 months 10 3 13 3.4 when it is a question of encourstudents on work experience value-based cooperation aging talented youngsters. have the opportunity to get to Return rate in know us as an employer and One of the particular strengths of reporting period 77% 100% At our headquarters, we offer play an active role in the busiour staff is the balance struck beboth in-plant training and a comness. tween innovative ideas and triedbined vocational training and deand-tested traditional methods. Trainees** Female Male Total gree programmes. By spending Taken as an annual average, we New recruits and experienced time in different departments of had 22 apprentices in the compastaff work enthusiastically side Apprentices offered the company, our trainees are ny in 2015. Following successful by side, learning from one anothpositions 1 2 3 given an optimum overview of completion of the apprenticeship er as they go. the activities and procedures or degree, we also offer our * Figures only apply to the sites listed in the report (Germany, Great Britain and Italy) ** Figures only apply to Germany Social commitment We identify strongly with our location, Hamburg, where the Biesterfeld Group has been based since the business was founded. Aware of our company’s tradijects. For example, we donate them to go on school trips and tions, we strive to ensure its the profits from our annual golf excursions. commercial success while living tournament to children’s aid orup to our social responsibility. ganisations, which use the donaWe have additionally decided not tions to help children from dis­ to send our customers Christmas Along these lines, we support advantaged families and prevent presents, but to invest the money a number of carefully selected them from being marginalised we would have spent here in organisations, offering donations by society. The money is also donations to our chosen causes. and sponsoring charitable proused to buy clothes and pay for PAGE 52 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 53 6. Our future perspective We are always looking to the future to ensure we are equipped for the present. PAGE 54 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 55 Today we are already thinking of tomorrow. The future in Our strategy for the future our sights, As a sustainable business with an awareness of its family traditions responsibility, our intentions are clear-cut: We wish to continuously improve and live up to the standards in our hearts! we have declared. The issue of sustainable operaAdditional measures are now Lastly, we will continue to offer tions is fundamental here and is planned to help reduce our enviemployees our protection and a major focus of attention. ronmental footprint. They include encouragement, for example, by stepping up the efficient use of regularly reviewing our working We actively involve stakeholders modern lighting concepts to furenvironment and adapting it to in our projects and continuously ther cut our energy consumption. their needs. update them about the sustain­ Where business trips are conable development of the business. cerned, we additionally plan to At the same time, we aim to raise become climate-neutral in the their awareness of issues relevant coming years. to sustainability and to fill them with enthusiasm in this regard. To live up to our social responsibility, we offer employees inforThis year, we have met our obmation and training in all busijective of expanding the scope ness operations. We will also be of data in relation to our report performing anonymous staff surfor 2014. In the next report (year veys to determine how we rate of reference 2016), we want to as an employer and to identify extend it even further. potential for improvement. PAGE 56 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 57 GRI content index General standard disclosures Page Comments G4-14 P. 22–28 GRI content index in accordance with the “Core” option. The G4-15 P. 14–15, 30 Sustainability Report was not submitted for external review. G4-16 P. 30 Identified material aspects and boundaries General standard disclosures G4-17 P. 10–11 Additional information can be found in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: General standard disclosures Page Comments Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2. Basis of consolidation Strategy and analysis G4-18 P. 17–19 G4-1 P. 5 G4-19 P. 19 Organisational profile G4-20 P. 17–18 G4-3 P. 5 G4-21 P. 17–18 G4-4 P. 8–10, 35–36 G4-22 P. 17-18 G4-5 P. 64 G4-23 P. 17-18 No major changes from 2014 G4-6 P. 10–11 Stakeholder engagement G4-7 P. 12 G4-24 P. 24–25,30–31 G4-8 P. 8–11, 35–36 G4-25 P. 17–18, 29 G4-9 P. 13, 34–37 Additional information can be found in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: G4-26 P. 29-30 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 7. Other information G4-27 P. 29-30, 41 G4-10 P. 49, 53 G4-11 P. 53 No global data available G4-12 P. 10, 12, 16 G4-13 P. 35 PAGE 58 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 59 Specific standard disclosures General standard disclosures Page Comments Report profile DMA and indicators Omissions Page Comments G4-28 P. 14, 56 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance G4-29 P. 14, 56 G4-EC1 P. 35-37 Additional information can be found G4-30 P. 14, 56 in our announcement on the German Federal Gazette page: Point 2.3 G4-31 P. 64 Company performance G4-32 P. 58-63 G4-EC2 P. 17–19 G4-33 P. 58-63 No external review performed Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy Corporate governance G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-34 P. 12–16, 26–28 G4-EN3 P. 41 Ethics and integrity G4-EN5 P. 41 G4-56 P. 12–16, 26–28 G4-EN6 P. 41 Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-EN17 P. 42-45 Aspect: Products and services G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-EN27 P. 40, 43–44 PAGE 60 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 61 DMA and indicators Omissions Page Comments DMA and indicators Omissions Page Comments Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-EN32 This information is P. 40, 56 G4-LA14 This information is P. 56 currently unavailable. currently unavailable. An environmental An assessment of assessment of suppliers supplier labour practices is planned in the coming is planned in the coming years and will be years and will be conducted periodically conducted periodically together with the next together with the next annual assessment. annual assessment. Category: Social G4-LA15 This information is P. 56 Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work currently unavailable. An assessment of the Aspect: Employment major actual and potential negative impact on G4-DMA P. 17–19 labour practices in the G4-LA1 P. 48-49 Our employee turnover has supply chain and the remained almost the same. The measures undertaken average turnover rate is 11.43%. here is planned in the coming years and will be G4-LA2 P. 50-51 conducted periodically together with the next annual assessment. G4-LA3 P. 53 Aspect: Training and further development G4-DMA P. 17–19 G4-LA10 P. 51-52 Our programmes for facilitating transition are tailored to suit each employee’s personal requirements. For example, we offer employees taking retirement the option of remaining in minimal employment with the same duties. PAGE 62 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 BIESTERFELD AG SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | 2015 PAGE 63 Publication details Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany Management board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Christian Wolfsohn Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany CEOs: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Christian Wolfsohn Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Press and PR department E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-374 Sustainability relations Khojesta Rahbari E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com Tel.: +49 40 32008-780 Further information is available on our website at: www.biesterfeld.com © 2016 Biesterfeld AG Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the publisher’s written permission and must be furnished with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. Responsible care Responsible handling of chemicals
