Advancing our sustainability journey Sustainability Report 2015-2016 (‫ﺷﺭﻛﺔ ﺻﻧﺎﻋﺔ ﺍﻟﻛﻳﻣﺎﻭﻳﺎﺕ ﺍﻟﺑﺗﺭﻭﻟﻳﺔ )ﺵ ﻡ ﻙ‬ PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIES COMPANY K.S.C. ‫ﺇﺣﺩﻯ ﺷﺭﻛﺎﺕ ﻣﺅﺳﺳﺔ ﺍﻟﺑﺗﺭﻭﻝ ﺍﻟﻛﻭﻳﺗﻳﺔ‬ A Subsidiary of Kuwait Petroleum Corporation Possibilities without limit Contents About this report CEO statement 06 04 Value creation through sustainability 22 Advancing ec onomic development Advancing our people and communities 40 46 2 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 2015-2016 performance highlights About us 08 12 Advancing environmental stewardship 60 UNGC Communication on Progress 74 GRI index 84 Contents 3 4 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 CEO statement G4–1 It gives me great pleasure to share PIC’s Design (LEED®) Gold certification. PIC was one 2015-2016 Sustainability Report with you. The of the first companies in Kuwait to receive this report is comprehensive, describing the progress recognition. While already having reduced the level we have made in achieving the 2017 PIC of energy intensity and emissions at our plants Sustainability Goals. We launched these goals in compared to the baselines set in 2012-2013, 2013, setting ambitious targets for operational we are planning to spend KWD350,000 during excellence and corporate social responsibility. 2016-2017 to further increase our energy I would like to highlight some of the key efficiency. achievements you will find in the report. Our commitment to sustainability extends beyond At a time when PIC has decreased its use of our operations. We have implemented a number precious natural resources and reduced its of programs to promote healthy living among environmental footprint, we have also produced our employees and members of our community, a record 1.3 million metric tons of petrochemical especially Kuwait’s youth. Through educational products. This speaks of the increased efficiency programs and contests, we also have encouraged in our operations, in large part because of our our youth to think about how they can contribute sustainability goals and the projects put in place to sustainability. to achieve them. Last year, PIC was honored to receive the To strengthen the local economy, we have prestigious Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility emphasized procuring from local providers. award. We appreciate this recognition of our In 2015-2016, this reached 77 percent of total accomplishments. But we also understand that procurement, nearly 3 percent above the previous there is so much more to do. With increasing year. Furthermore, we are nearing the 2030 interest across the globe in growing economies 85 percent Kuwaitization target put forward responsibly, sustainability will only become more by our parent company, Kuwait Petroleum important. We are proud to be one of the leaders Corporation (KPC). As of 2015-2016, we are less in our region. We will continue to share what than one percentage point away from achieving we learn on our sustainability journey with our the target. stakeholders, and to learn from them as well. As the Head of the Safety, Health and I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for Environment Executive Committee, I am pleased responding positively to the sustainability initiatives to report that our performance was recognized carried out over the past four years and I look with two significant awards: the Royal Society for forward to our future collaborations. the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) Managing Occupational Road Risk (MORR) HSE Silver Award and the Arab Fertilizer Association HSE award. With respect to safeguarding the environment, Mohammed Abdullatif Al-Farhoud I am pleased to announce that our head office Chief Executive Officer received Leadership in Energy and Environmental CEO statement 5 About this report materiality, or identifying the Fourth sustainability G4-3 G4-4 G4-13 most important issues for our organization, has been a critical report, in line part of the reporting process. with GRI G4 G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 We have identified key material Guidelines, covers aspects and performance sustainability indicators based on a detailed G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 materiality assessment process performance from (refer to pages 37-39). 1 April 2015 to 31 Petrochemical Industries This report focuses on our March 2016.The Company K.S.C. (PIC) is performance on the material report contains proud to present our fourth aspects identified and provides sustainability report to our an update on the initiatives Communication stakeholders. This report linked to our sustainability on Progress (COP) highlights our environmental, strategy and the 2017 PIC on our efforts to social and economic Sustainability Goals. We implement the performance during the also cover our progress on reporting period from 1 April 2015-2016 sustainability UNGC principles. 2015 to 31 March 2016. objectives, which revolve This report, like our previous around the following themes: sustainability report of ensuring effective stakeholder 2014-2015, has been prepared engagement on sustainability, in accordance with the Global enhancing PIC’s occupational Reporting Initiative Guidelines health, safety and labor version 4 (GRI G4) and more performance, and assessing and specifically, the “core” disclosure managing sustainability impacts requirements. We have also within PIC’s value chain. We used the GRI Oil and Gas Sector have described our approach to Supplement to report the issues the management of economic, that could potentially be material social and environmental to the organization. impacts related to the identified Feedback material aspects. We have Your feedback will help us in The reporting approach has also presented a comparison enhancing our efforts toward been guided by the four of our current performance meeting all our stakeholder principles for defining the requirements and interests. on quantitative indicators report’s content as specifically (where relevant) with that of the We invite readers to send outlined by the GRI, namely their comments, reactions and previous reporting periods, to stakeholder inclusiveness, highlight our continuing journey views regarding this sustainability sustainability context, materiality toward sustainability excellence. report to sustainability@pic.com.kw and completeness. Determining 6 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Report boundary Data collection and report The United Nations adopted the The report boundary covers our development 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in September assets in Kuwait on which we To collect information for this 2015. This agenda, which have direct operational control. report, our data collection consists of 17 Sustainable This report includes performance teams utilized data templates Development Goals (SDGs), data for the fertilizer operations and a data collection process aims to stimulate global action in the State of Kuwait, with which was based on GRI G4 to end poverty and hunger; production activities in the requirements. Data collection combat inequalities; build Shuaiba Industrial Area and our guidelines were clearly defined peaceful, just and inclusive head office in South Sabahiya. for the data collection teams, societies; protect human A detailed boundary for each which included a data provider, rights and promote gender material issue has been included a verifier and a data owner. equality; and ensure the lasting in the Materiality Assessment Each data collection team has protection of the planet and its section (refer to page 39). We verified and signed off the data natural resources. These SDGs currently do not have operational presented in this report. Please outline the global priorities and control over our subsidiaries and refer to the GRI index (refer to aspirations for a sustainable joint ventures (JVs) and therefore page 84) for a comprehensive society and planet. They call have not included them within list of our disclosures. on businesses to direct their the report boundary. The sale Alignment to UNGC and creativity and innovation toward of one of our JVs during the Sustainable Development solving sustainable development reporting period, has led to Goals challenges. We, at PIC, changes in the overall size and understand that a combined structure of our organization We have expressed our global effort is required to realize when compared to the previous commitment to uphold the the SDGs. As a responsible reporting period. Another 10 principles of the United corporate citizen, our mission significant organizational change Nations Global Compact is to drive sustainable growth was combining the Olefins and (UNGC). We have highlighted in Kuwait and also in all the Aromatics strategic business our performance and efforts to countries where we have units (SBU) into a single Olefins implement the UNGC principles made investments. We are and Aromatics business unit. in the UNGC COP section of this proud to contribute toward this report. effort through the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals and have mapped the relevant SDGs with each of the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals (refer to pages 26-29). About this report 7 2015-2016 performance highlights Earned revenue of KWD Generated KWD 388 Economic 273 million (includes earnings million from sale in profits of assets) 77% 1.3 KWD of procurement million MTPA 5.1 million savings through spent on locally based suppliers total production 56 lean Six Sigma projects 8 Customer (fertilizer) Kuwaitization satisfaction rate of score of 86% 84.6% HSE related Six Sigma projects 17,393 Social 535 employees training hours 8 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 73% employees underwent 8.7% of employees 0 work HSE training are women fatalities 0.11recordable 0.06 process safety 155,000 KWD injuries per incidents per invested in 200,000 200,000 man community man hours hours programs 6% reduction 23% reduction in water Environment in energy intensity intensity (compared to (compared 2012-2013) to 2012-2013) 21% reduction 17% fall in waste 25% reduction in water consumption water in GHG at our discharge emissions head office intensity intensity (compared to (compared to (compared to 2012-2013) 2014-2015) 2012-2013) 36% 33% decline KWD 185,000 decline in in nonhazardous hazardous waste waste spent on generated generated (compared to environmental (compared to initiatives 2012-2013) 2012-2013) 2015-2016 performance highlights 9 2015-2016 awards Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility award, in medium category Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA) HSE award Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) MORR HSE Silver award 10 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Certifications validated by a number of These certifications assure our G4-14 internationally recognized customers and stakeholders standards and certifications, that we meet their needs with We ensure that quality and including International high-quality products and safety always remain part of Organization for Standardization services. our day-to-day operations. (ISO), Responsible Care®, and Our commitment has been Occupation Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS). LEED GOLD ISO 50001:2008 RC 14001:2008 ISO 14001:2004 Certification for PIC Energy Management Responsible Environmental head office building System Care® Management System OHSAS 18001:2007 ISO 22000:2005 AQIS certification ISO 27001:2013 Health and Safety Food Safety Australian Quarantine and Information Security Management System Management System Inspection Services (AQIS) Management System certification ISO 9001:2008 ISO 17020:2012 ISO 17025:2005 ISO 55001:2014 Quality Management Inspection Quality Laboratory Asset Management System Management System Quality System 2015-2016 performance highlights 11 About us operational excellence, and PIC is a subsidiary G4-7 increased safety performance. We also seek opportunities to of the Kuwait empower the communities in PIC is a manufacturer and Petroleum marketer of chemicals, and is which we operate. Corporation (KPC). the petrochemical arm of KPC. In the downstream Established in 1963 by the sector, PIC plays a Amiri Decree, PIC was the first chemical complex in Kuwait key role in driving and the region. More than the diversification 50 years later, PIC continues of the Kuwaiti to play an important role in diversifying Kuwait’s economy economy and and maximizing the value of ensuring sustainable hydrocarbon resources. growth in the PIC has diversified its portfolio country. through both local and international investments, and has become an industry leader in the Middle East. A full 70 percent of our production is in Kuwait. We complement our operations in Kuwait through strategic partnerships and JVs around the world, which play an important role in our global growth and product diversification. Our focus on sustainability is central to our business strategy. Our products help improve the quality of life across the world, from olefins and aromatics that are building blocks to modern industrial society, to fertilizers We invite you to learn more about us and our sustainability that help increase crop yields. performance at As part of our sustainability www.pic.com.kw. goals, we strive for greater 12 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our values G4-56 Our vision Our mission Our vision Our values We aspire to be both a recognized ÂÂIntegrity: We will act with openness, global petrochemical player and trust, respect, fairness, transparency, admired by our stakeholders, honesty, reliability, high ethical leveraging Kuwait’s national resources standards, professionalism and in value-added partnerships to drive accountability. growth. ÂÂExcellence: We operate with attention to high performance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, high-quality products and services, and customer focus. ÂÂFlexibility: We are attuned to Our mission market conditions, demonstrating PIC, as a subsidiary of Kuwait innovation, responsiveness and Petroleum Corporation, shall willingness to change. achieve a position of leadership with downstream extension into highÂÂMotivation: We seek to develop value petrochemical businesses a collaborative workplace, where while ensuring integration with KPC teamwork and loyalty are driven by a activities both domestically and high-performance culture. internationally by: ÂÂPartnership: We develop longÂÂMaximizing value addition of term, value-adding relationships Kuwait hydrocarbons resources that support growth and enhance operational excellence. ÂÂAdvancing our organizational performance through people ÂÂCommitment to HSSE and empowerment and infusing society: We are committed to industry best practices environmental protection, safety, security, and healthy workplaces, as ÂÂCreating a challenging and fulfilling well as corporate social responsibility environment that will support skills in Kuwait and host communities. and capabilities development ÂÂCorporate thinking: We share ÂÂCollaborating closely with our a concern for KPC’s interests partners toward a sustained and and issues, striving for alignment diversified global growth with enterprise-wide goals versus ÂÂFostering the national economy business segment objectives. About us 13 PIC at a glance G4-4 G4-9 Our key facts 50+ years Subsidiary of 535 of experience in the KPC employees chemical industry Primary 5 products: 85% of employees are ammonia, urea, polypropylene joint ventures (JVs) Kuwaitis Produced JV products: 1.3 million P  olyethylene, Ethylene Glycol, Paraxylene, Benzene, Styrene, Methanol, Monoethylene Glycol MTPA of petrochemicals (MEG), Diethylene Glycol (DEG), in 2015-2016 Polyethylene Terephthalate (PET) 14 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our value chain G4-9 G4-12 Feedstock Fertilizer from KNPC PIC Manufacturing JVs Intermediates Transported by land and water PIC is also exploring other Raw material feedstock options, such Transportation and marketing sourcing as liquid feedstocks Intermediates are processed into plastics Plastics, fertilizers and other and resins before being molded into products derived from petrochemicals final consumer products. End use About us 15 Our strategic business units G4– G4–9 17 Currently, 70 percent of the petrochemical products in our portfolio are manufactured in Kuwait. Fertilizers, olefins and aromatics are our main chemical products. We own and operate a fertilizer plant in Kuwait for the production of ammonia and urea. We also own a propylene plant operated through EQUATE, one of our JVs. Fertilizers PIC’s ammonia and urea complex is one of the largest in the Middle East. It has a production capacity of 1,040,000 MTPA of urea and 620,000 MTPA of ammonia. Olefins and aromatics PIC is one of the largest paraxylene (PX) marketers in the region and produces PX in the state-of-the-art aromatics complex of our JV, Kuwait Paraxylene Production Company (KPPC). The aromatics complex produces a total of 820,000 MTPA of PX and 390,000 MTPA of benzene (BZ). BZ, which is produced by the aromatics complex, is used locally for the production of styrene monomer (SM) by the Kuwait Styrene Company (TKSC). The world-class olefins complex in Kuwait supplies ethylene to EQUATE for the production of polyethylene, ethylene glycol and propylene. PIC’s fully-owned olefins plant in Kuwait (operated by EQUATE) produces 150,000 MTPA of polypropylene. 16 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Our joint ventures G4–6 G4–9 G4–17 PIC has partnered with several national and foreign companies to form JVs. We have been able to diversify our product offerings, expand into global markets and increase local sector participation through our JVs. 42.5 percent Local investments Local investments 40 percent EQUATE Petrochemical Company, Kuwait The Kuwait Aromatics Company (KARO), Kuwait Polyethylene 900,000 MTPA Monoethylene glycol 400,000 MTPA Kuwait Paraxylene Production Company (KPPC), 42.5 percent Local investments 100 percent owned by KARO The Kuwait Olefins Company (TKOC), Kuwait Paraxylene 820,000 MTPA Monoethylene glycol 600,000 MTPA Benzene 390,000 MTPA 10 percent Local investments The Kuwait Styrene Company (TKSC), 57.5 percent Al Qurain Petrochemical Industries Company owned by KARO (QPIC), Kuwait Styrene monomer 450,000 MTPA Kuwait Bahrain 33 percent International investments Gulf Petrochemical Industries Co (GPIC), Bahrain Ammonia 500,000 MTPA Urea 620,500 MTPA Methanol 400,000 MTPA PIC investment Production capacity About us 17 Governance G4– Board of Directors 34 PIC’s operations are overseen by a seven-member Board of Directors — the chairman of the board and six nonexecutive members, including PIC’s CEO. The Board of Directors’ primary purpose is Ahmad Habeeb to ensure that the Company Chairman fulfills all its commitments to stakeholders. Five business and corporate groups report to the office of the CEO. These include two SBUs organized by products (Olefins and Aromatics, and Fertilizers), and three corporate departments that Mohammed Al-Farhoud Hashem Sayed Hashem support the SBUs and their CEO and Board Member Vice Chairman activities (Administration and Finance, Legal and Six Sigma). Every SBU and department plays a strategic role in creating value for our Company and its stakeholders. Osamah AbdulRahman Al-Duaij Abdullah Al-Azmi Board Member Board Member Ahmad Al-Jimaz Esam Naser Al-Houti Board Member Board Member 18 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 CEO Legal Six Sigma Fertilizers Olefins and Administration Aromatics and Finance Fertilizer plant (operated by PIC) GPIC Manufacturing Business Marketing analysis and planning Polypropylene plant (operated by EQUATE) TKSC TKOC KARO Business Business Corporate Marketing analysis development engineering EQUATE and planning and HSE Finance Human Information, Corporate Service ERM Fully owned by PIC resources communication planning and and technology communication Our investments (ICT) About us 19 Our external commitments G4-15 G4-16 Global sustainability issues are innovative solutions. As a 8,000 companies and 4,000 so complex and challenging responsible organization, we non-businesses participating. that working in isolation is not have worked with both regional Our approach is to use such a viable option. Collaborations and international organizations platforms to collaborate with our and partnerships are the key through our commitments and peers to enhance awareness factors to unlock and solve memberships. One such global and practices on sustainability sustainability challenges. They framework we have been part within the region. inspire creativity, drive better of is the UNGC, which, as of performance and produce April 2016, has more than Our approach to collaboration for driving United Nations Global sustainability Compact UNGC is the world’s largest Innovations for corporate sustainability driving sustainable value initiative with more than 12,000 signatories in 170 countries. It encourages companies to adopt sustainable and Awareness Partnerships to socially responsible policies campaigns reduce impacts in compliance with the UNGC principles on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Through the UNGC, Collaborative member organizations can platforms share proven and emerging best Uniform standards Joint campaigns practices, and interact with a and practices on on sustainability wide range of stakeholders, from sustainability UN agencies to governments and civil society, among others. The UNGC has been a driving Multi-stakeholder efforts to achieve force behind the development of global goals the SDGs. It has developed the SDG compass, in collaboration with the GRI and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), which provides guidance to companies 20 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 on how they can align their of the petrochemical and strategies and initiatives toward chemical industries in the For more information on achieving the SDGs. (For more GCC region. PIC serves on GPCA, please refer to its website www.gpca.org.ae/ information on the relationship three GPCA committees — of PIC’s sustainability journey Fertilizers, Responsible Care and SDGs, please refer to and International Care — and Member of the pages 25-29) we participate in many GPCAsponsored conferences, International Fertilizer In 2013, PIC became a signatory to the UNGC. We conventions, annual forums and Industry Association networking platforms. Through have been publishing our COP our membership with GPCA, since then. From commitments we are able to share best to the environment, to finalizing practices, inspire and learn from our Human Rights Position PIC has been a member of the our peer companies to drive statement, and developing International Fertilizer Industry the sustainability agenda. The training programs on human Association (IFA), a not-forassociation also enables us to rights for our employees, the profit business and industry establish contacts with industry UNGC principles continue to association, which represents executives, potential customers play an important role in our the fertilizer industry globally. and influential decision-makers sustainability journey. We have IFA currently has 542 members in various parts of the GCC used this report to submit our spread across 81 countries, region and throughout the world. annual COP on the 10 UNGC with 50 percent of members in principles and have assessed GPCA is a major driving force developing economies. ourselves to qualify for Global behind the Sustainability IFA member companies deal Compact active level. We and Quality Assessment with all activities related to the uphold our basic responsibilities System (SQAS) initiative in production, trade, transport and to people and the planet. By the Gulf. SQAS evaluates the distribution of fertilizers, their incorporating these principles quality, safety, security and raw materials and intermediates. into our strategy, policies and environmental performance procedures, we enhance the of logistics service providers We endorse IFA’s 12 safety, stage for long-term sustainable and chemical distributors. It health and environmental (SHE) performance. aims to promote sustainability, principles that represent the flexibility and transparency in association’s commitment to Member of the Gulf supply chains across the Gulf responsible and sustainable Petrochemicals and region. Furthermore, GPCA fertilizer production and use. has played a vital role in the Chemical Association adoption of Responsible Care® For more information on in the region. Our collaboration IFA, please refer to its with GPCA and member website www.fertilizer.org/ companies helps us continue While keeping with our to improve our leadership in commitment to partnership and the areas of health and safety, collaboration, PIC became a security and the environment founding member of the Gulf while accomplishing important Petrochemicals and Chemical business objectives. Association (GPCA). GPCA supports the growth and sustainable development About us 21 Value creation through sustainability have far-reaching impacts Through our sustainability G4–2 on economies, industries, programs, we seek to ensure societies and individuals. that the petrochemical industry Human society is at a crossroad. Governments as well as in our region recognizes Global megatrends such as businesses have increasingly sustainability as a key factor rapid urbanization, rise in global come to understand that longtoward ensuring continued population, climate change term growth is inherently linked success and prosperity for and natural resource scarcity with environmental, social and future generations. economic development. Kuwait is one of the water-stressed 33 countries most by likely to be 2040 1 Kuwait has the Kuwait has the Key sustainability issues in the petrochemical industry highest highest per ecological capita GHG Health and safety footprint2 emissions globally4 issues Level of Energy Water unemployment Kuwait ranks 3rd intensity intensity in Kuwait is in per capita GHG 19.4 percent primary energy consumption emissions (percent of total labor force in the Middle East5 aged 15-24)3 1 CAIT Climate Data Explorer, World Resources Institute 2 Living Planet Report 2014, WWF 3 World Bank database, 2014 4 CAIT Climate Data Explorer, World Resources Institute 5 International Energy Statistics, Energy Information Administration 22 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Empowering Vision We aspire to be both a recognized global petrochemical player and national development admired by our stakeholders, leveraging Kuwait’s national resources in value-added partnerships to drive growth. 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals Minimize Our corporate citizenship goals recordable Stakeholder injury rate for engagement employees Healthy living process and contractors Sustainability capability development Reduce Protect the greenhouse environment GRI-compliant gas emissions sustainability reporting UNGC Reduce water Develop Communication intensity future leaders on Progress Human rights Reduce energy statement intensity Sustainable Our values procurement Integrity policy Excellence Minimize Flexibility PIC spills Motivation long-term Partnership sustainability Commitment to HSSE and society strategy Corporate thinking Minimize process safety incidents Our journey Ambition Ambition Organizational Create an environment excellence through that supports skills people's empowerment and capability and industry best practices development Ambition Add value to Kuwaiti hydrocarbon resources Ambition Ambition Collaborate with Foster national Value creation through sustainability stakeholders economic growth 23 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals Our commitment to Through these goals, we intend sustainability was formalized to lead the journey toward safer, with the development and more efficient and productive adoption of our sustainability operations, minimize our strategy in 2012. This impact on the planet, develop sustainability strategy, reinforces current and future leaders our commitment to contributing in sustainability, and thereby to the economic, social and enhance our impact on Kuwaiti environmental well-being of our society and the region. Company, our communities and our country. In 2012, we conducted a detailed analysis of the most material aspects affecting the Company. The key material aspects identified were resource efficiency, environmental protection, Minimize process safety incidents asset integrity, health, safety, talent development and local community impact. To accelerate the implementation of the strategy and to address Minimize recordable Minimize injury rate for spills the key material aspects employees and identified, we introduced the contractors 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals in 2013. These goals fall into two areas: operational excellence and responsible corporate citizenship. Through the operational excellence goals, we are making our operations safer and more efficient and Reduce greenhouse Reduce energy productive. The responsible gas emissions intensity corporate citizenship goals focus on developing current and Reduce water future leaders in sustainability intensity and championing healthy lifestyles and the conservation of natural resources. 24 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Sustainable societies; protecting human that we need to play an rights and promoting gender important role in ensuring the development goals equality and empowerment of success of these global goals Governments and businesses women and ensuring the lasting and lead the transition to a around the world are making protection of the planet and its sustainable society. conscious efforts to address natural resources. the key sustainability issues Over the next 15 years, with impacting every nation. To these new goals, countries address the current sustainability are expected to organize issues, the UN has introduced efforts to achieve sustainable a set of SDGs to guide development. Businesses countries on their sustainable cannot be passive spectators, development journey. The 17 but are expected to assume SDGs focus on ending poverty leading roles in the path toward and hunger everywhere; sustainable development. combating inequalities within As responsible corporate and among countries; building citizens, we at PIC understand peaceful, just and inclusive Value creation through sustainability 25 Our progress toward the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals The table below shows our progress toward the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals and their relevance to the UN’s SDGs. Relevance 2017 PIC of 2017 PIC Sustainability Our progress in Sustainability Goals Target 2015-2016 SDGs Goals to SDGs Operational excellence Minimize No more 0.11 injury rate for Goal 3: Ensure healthy By reducing the recordable than 0.13 2015-2016 lives and promote wellinjury rates at our injury rate for recordable being for all at all ages sites, we provide employees injuries per our employees Goal 8: Promote and 200,000 with a safe and inclusive and sustainable contractors man-hours of secure working economic growth, work environment. employment and decent work for all Minimize No more 0.06 process safety Goal 3: Ensure healthy By improving the process than 0.1 incidents lives and promote wellprocess safety safety process safety per 200,000 being for all at all ages conditions at incidents incidents man-hours of work our sites, we Goal 6: Ensure access per 200,000 create a safe and to water and sanitation man-hours of secure working for all work environment. Goal 8: Promote Minimizing such inclusive and sustainable incidents also economic growth, helps us reduce employment and our impact on decent work for all the environment. Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 26 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Minimize No more than 0 spills Goal 3: Ensure healthy We emphasize spills 1 spill to the lives and promote wellthe importance of environment being for all at all ages environmentally each year sound Goal 6: Ensure access management of to water and sanitation our chemicals for all and waste. Goal 12: Ensure By minimizing sustainable consumption spills, we reduce and production patterns environmental Goal 14: Conserve impact on land and sustainably use the and water. oceans, seas and marine resources Goal 15: Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss Reduce Reduce GHG 20.9 percent Goal 13: Take urgent We realize that greenhouse emissions reduction in GHG action to combat climate our emissions gas emissions intensity by intensity compared change and its impacts have an impact 14 percent to the 2012-2013 on the bigger Goal 14: Conserve and by 2017 baseline picture of sustainably use the compared climate change. 2015-2016 GHG oceans, seas and to the To address intensity to date: marine resources 2012-2013 this challenge, 1.92 tCO2eq/MT of baseline (2.43 Goal 15: Sustainably we have ammonia tCO2eq/MT of manage forests, combat implemented ammonia) desertification, halt and measures to reverse land degradation, reduce our GHG halt biodiversity loss emissions. Value creation through sustainability 27 Reduce Reduce 6.4 percent Goal 7: Ensure access Improving energy energy energy reduction in energy to affordable, reliable, intensity helps intensity intensity by intensity compared sustainable and modern reduce our 6 percent to the 2012-2013 energy for all environmental by 2017 baseline footprint and Goal 8: Promote compared make a positive 2015-2016 energy sustained, inclusive and to the impact on intensity to date: sustainable economic 2012-2013 climate change. 51.72 GJ/MT of growth, full and baseline Reducing energy ammonia productive employment (51.72 GJ/MT intensity also and decent work for all of ammonia) fosters innovation Goal 12: Ensure and sustainable sustainable consumption industrialization, and production patterns and contributes Goal 13: Take urgent to the action to combat climate sustainability of change and its impacts the communities where we operate. Reduce water Reduce water 22.9 percent Goal 6: Ensure access Reducing our intensity intensity by reduction in water to water and sanitation water intensity 25 percent intensity compared for all enables us to by 2017 to the 2012-2013 ensure that Goal 8: Promote compared baseline we support sustained, inclusive and to the Kuwait in saving 2015-2016 water sustainable economic 2012-2013 water, which intensity to date: 3.7 growth, full and baseline is especially m3/MT of ammonia productive employment (4.8m3/MT of important, given and decent work for all ammonia) the region’s Goal 12: Ensure water scarcity. sustainable consumption and production patterns Responsible corporate citizenship Champion the Working with We helped Goal 12: Ensure Through our conservation NGO partners, encourage the sustainable consumption collaborations of natural PIC will help protection of natural and production patterns with NGOs, we resources address resources through help the Kuwaiti Goal 14: Conserve and work to environmental our programs and community and sustainably use the protect our challenges in initiatives. address issues oceans, seas and marine environment Kuwait and related to the resources 28 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 improve life Some of the key Goal 15: Sustainably environment for future activities were: manage forests, and natural generations combat desertification, resources. ÂÂ Best Model by supporting halt and reverse land Project Contest resource degradation, halt conservation ÂÂ Greening gardens biodiversity loss in schools Goal 17: Revitalize the ÂÂ Go Green Project global partnership for ÂÂ The Kuwait Green sustainable development Wall Project Champion Working Conducted initiatives Goal 3: Ensure healthy Through our healthy with NGO and programs to lives and promote wellcollaborations lifestyles and partners, PIC promote healthy being for all at all ages with NGOs, we make life will focus each lifestyles among help the Kuwaiti Goal 17: Revitalize the better year on one local communities community to global partnership for healthy living including: develop a healthy sustainable development challenge to lifestyle. ÂÂ Safety promotion help people project at Kuwait lead long and University healthy lives ÂÂ Health awareness campaign with school children ÂÂ Fire protection training sessions Sponsor Working Promoted youth Goal 4: Ensure inclusive Through our talent with a with NGO development through and quality education for collaborations passion to partners, PIC initiatives such as: all and promote lifelong with NGOs, we build a better will advance learning promote the ÂÂ Al-Mubader “The tomorrow sustainability development of Initiator” national Goal 8: Promote culture by youth in Kuwait. project inclusive and sustainable fostering the economic growth, development ÂÂ Training employment and decent of young equipment work for all minds to fully to applied consider the educational Goal 17: Revitalize the future impact institutions global partnership for of today’s sustainable development ÂÂ Lectures to activities university students on the petrochemical industry Value creation through sustainability 29 Key sustainability to applicable sections of GRI SMART objectives to enhance guidelines for the assessment our sustainability maturity. achievements for of our sustainability risks. Doing The objectives were identified 2015-2016 so has enabled us to ensure on the basis of inputs from a that relevant sustainability detailed functional sustainability issues are addressed during risk maturity assessment, materiality G4-2 identification. Based on these assessment, stakeholder inputs guidelines, the ERM department and sustainability risks identified Sustainability is a key aspect filtered all the sustainability risks by the ERM department. We in our approach to risk and developed mitigation plans have considered the following management, and was thus with ownership assigned to sustainability risks in 2015-2016: integrated into our Enterprise specific departments. ÂÂ Change in public opinion on Risk Management (ERM) As part of our sustainability PIC process. We have referred strategy, we adopted various Key What we committed to do in sustainability our previous sustainability Theme risk identified report (2014-2015) 2015-2016 objectives Ensuring an effective Improve engagement and internal stakeholder sustainability awareness engagement on sustainability Enhance internal communication Identify suitable methods for on sustainability risks ÂÂ Skill annual engagement with PIC development Communicate progress on employees sustainability objectives to PIC workforce Use social media to enhance communication on sustainability Ensuring an effective Develop a plan for engaging external stakeholder with external stakeholders on engagement on ÂÂ Change sustainability initiatives sustainability Engage with external stakeholder in public groups to share expertise on Share expertise on sustainability at opinion on sustainability national and international forums PIC Use the Think-K platform to share sustainability best practices Enhancing occupational health, Enhance labor performance by safety and labor ÂÂ Skill improving the training cell performance development Enhance employee development ÂÂ Compliance and performance risk Improve occupational health and safety performance Assessing Obtain LEED certification for PIC and managing Obtain LEED certification head office sustainability impacts within the Monitor the progress made against Assess and reduce sustainability value chain ÂÂ Change the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals impacts of operations in public and assess further opportunities opinion on for the reduction in GHG Plan for external assurance of PIC emissions, water and energy use scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Implement sustainable procurement Enhance our sustainability impact policy and collaborate with vendors in collaboration with our suppliers to enhance sustainability impact within the value chain 30 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 ÂÂ Skill development of PIC assigned to a specific owner objectives. The ERM department workforce within the organization, who had also monitored progress on the the responsibility of ensuring objectives every quarter. At the ÂÂ Strategic objectives alignment completion of the respective end of the reporting period, the ÂÂ Health, safety and objective. In order to ensure department assessed the role of environment (HSE) policies commitment and accountability, the objectives in risk mitigation, and procedures compliance performance on each objective or in the reduction in the severity In 2015-2016, the SMART was linked to the owner’s or likelihood of sustainability sustainability objectives aimed performance target through risks. The accompanying table to enhance stakeholder their balanced scorecards. provides a snapshot of the engagement, safety and labor The Sustainability Committee sustainability objectives for performance, and manage reviewed progress on each 2015-2016. Further details will sustainability impacts within PIC’s objective every month to ensure be provided in the subsequent value chain. Each objective was satisfactory completion of the sections of the report. What we have achieved ÂÂ Launched sustainability eLearning course for all employees on different sustainability topics ÂÂ Held an internal workshop to communicate the importance of sustainability objectives in mitigating identified risks ÂÂ Provided quarterly updates on risk mitigation to Sustainability Committee ÂÂ To encourage internal collaboration on sustainability, non-managerial representatives presented their departmental activities on sustainability at the Sustainability Champions meetings ÂÂ Developed new internal process to communicate sustainability-related content via social media ÂÂ Developed annual stakeholder engagement plan with clear guidelines on roles, responsibilities, frequency of engagement and modes/channel of communication ÂÂ Workshops conducted with external stakeholders to share PIC’s expertise on integrating sustainability into risk management ÂÂ eLearning module on Human Rights developed ÂÂ Shared our expertise on sustainability through our presentation on “mitigating climate change challenges” at the Think-K event hosted by PIC in January 2015 ÂÂ Comprehensive training plan developed for shift and process controllers, and process engineers to improve labor performance ÂÂ PIC employees provided with on-the-job trainings by experienced training providers ÂÂ 97 percent recommendations from previous safety audits completed ÂÂ Conducted 43 awareness programs to enhance occupational health and safety performance ÂÂ Crisis Management Center inaugurated ÂÂ LEED Gold certification for PIC head office obtained ÂÂ Baseline electricity consumption set at 37 kWh per employee ÂÂ Developed a Business Opportunity Plan that identified four new projects over a five-year period to improve levels of energy and GHG emissions efficiency ÂÂ Continuous improvement opportunities to reduce water intensity identified using Six Sigma methodology ÂÂ External assurance on PIC’s GHG emissions data collection and calculation methodology completed ÂÂ Awaiting final assurance statement ÂÂ Workshop held with key suppliers on basic principles of sustainable procurement ÂÂ Developed detailed evaluation criteria with sustainability factors for all suppliers Value creation through sustainability 31 Sustainability governance We believe that effective performance monitoring and ÂÂ Sustainability management of sustainability reporting. Individual departments risks can improve business and functions are responsible for Committee performance. A robust implementing plans in their areas chaired by CEO sustainability governance and for finding solutions to the model allows us to effectively specific sustainability challenges ÂÂ Monthly progress manage our sustainability risks they face. meetings and performance. Sustainability champions in each ÂÂ ENGHSE in charge Effective governance department help drive progress of coordinating supports our commitments, and share good practices across defines expectations and the organization. Our balanced activities responsibilities, formalizes scorecard system includes ÂÂ Sustainability sustainability decisionsustainability targets and goals making authority and ensures for each year and sustainability champions within accountability. Sustainability performance is integrated in each department performance is effectively the department managers’ managed, closely monitored compensation scheme. This and reported. We share best provides an additional motivation practices with our JVs and for effective participation in encourage our partners and sustainability initiatives. suppliers to follow the path of sustainability. The Sustainability Committee, chaired by the CEO, is responsible for overseeing and providing the direction for our sustainability agenda. The committee meets monthly to monitor progress on PIC’s sustainability objectives and material key performance indicators (KPIs). The deputy CEOs and managers of all relevant departments are members of this committee. The Corporate Engineering and HSE (ENGHSE) department’s project management office (PMO) is responsible for coordinating sustainability 32 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment and feedback are key inputs stakeholders as critical G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 that help us define the annual partners in our sustainability SMART objectives as part of our journey and aim to enhance corporate sustainability strategy. stakeholder value through our G4-27 sustainability initiatives. We understand that our stakeholders have different In 2013, we established the We give importance to concerns and expectations. sustainability stakeholder communication with Our goal is to ensure engagement guidelines, to internal as well as external continuous engagement with help enhance our stakeholder stakeholders and obtain our stakeholders through identification and selection stakeholders’ feedback, multiple channels in order to process. We are currently in comments and suggestions be aware of their expectations the process of implementing on PIC’s sustainability strategy. and to respond to their the engagement strategy and Stakeholder engagement concerns. We consider our guidelines. Environment Suppliers Labor Public and Media unions Competitors Authority contractors KPC Local communities JV partners Kuwaiti Local and PIC NonIndustry or local international Sustainability governmental Employees associations government customers Committee organizations Value creation through sustainability 33 The table below highlights the key issues and concerns specific to each stakeholder group and the process we employed to engage with them. Stakeholder Key concerns Mode of engagement KPC ÂÂ Financial sustainability ÂÂ Meetings ÂÂ Corporate governance ÂÂ Official letters and emails Employees ÂÂ Professional development ÂÂ Suggestion and complaint mailbox ÂÂ Long-term job security ÂÂ Office automation system ÂÂ Health and safety ÂÂ Corporate intranet, online training ÂÂ Grievance mechanism ÂÂ Onboarding manual ÂÂ Departmental sessions ÂÂ Town hall meetings Kuwaiti or local ÂÂ Contribution to the Kuwaiti ÂÂ Regulatory compliance government economy ÂÂ Meetings, conferences and ÂÂ Compliance with laws and collaborations regulations ÂÂ One-on-one meetings with governmental authorities Local and ÂÂ Product and price ÂÂ Customer satisfaction survey international ÂÂ Distribution and service ÂÂ Marketing and media customers ÂÂ Safety and security of products ÂÂ Periodic visits, meetings and ÂÂ Responsible operations and consultation sustainability ÂÂ Routine communications ÂÂ Feedback mechanism ÂÂ Hotline service ÂÂ Trade fair, forums ÂÂ Online services Suppliers and ÂÂ Timely payments ÂÂ Contract negotiations contractors ÂÂ Long-term partnerships ÂÂ Real-time communications ÂÂ Tender conference ÂÂ Periodic supplier visits ÂÂ Conferences and exhibitions ÂÂ Supplier assessments Labor unions ÂÂ Employee rights ÂÂ Routine communications ÂÂ Democratic management ÂÂ Meetings of employee representatives ÂÂ Transparency 34 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Stakeholder Key concerns Mode of engagement Media ÂÂ Transparency and disclosure ÂÂ Reports and press releases ÂÂ Responsible operations ÂÂ News conferences ÂÂ Sustainability ÂÂ Multichannel communications ÂÂ Media monitoring ÂÂ Public exhibitions Local ÂÂ Support for community ÂÂ Organized events communities ÂÂ Job creation ÂÂ Employee volunteering ÂÂ Local environmental impacts ÂÂ Sponsorships ÂÂ Leaflets and presentations ÂÂ Open-door events ÂÂ Corporate blogs ÂÂ Press releases Nongovernmental ÂÂ Impact on environment and ÂÂ Events and conferences organizations communities ÂÂ Sponsorships (NGOs) ÂÂ Support for local causes JV partners ÂÂ Corporate governance ÂÂ Contract negotiations ÂÂ Profit distribution ÂÂ Conferences ÂÂ Information sharing ÂÂ Top management meetings ÂÂ Cooperation and mutual ÂÂ Data correspondence benefits ÂÂ Routine business communications ÂÂ Joint social projects and initiatives ÂÂ Collaboration forums such as GPCA/ IFA PIC Sustainability ÂÂ Sustainability performance ÂÂ Roundtable discussions Committee Competitors ÂÂ Impact on environment ÂÂ GPCA and IFA committees ÂÂ Support for local causes ÂÂ Board and committee meetings Kuwait ÂÂ Support for community ÂÂ Biannual face-to-face meetings Environment ÂÂ Sponsorships and job creation ÂÂ Organized meetings Public Authority ÂÂ Environmental laws and ÂÂ Sponsorships (KEPA) compliance Industry ÂÂ Responsible operations and ÂÂ Forums and conferences associations sustainability ÂÂ Leading business practices Value creation through sustainability 35 Sharing sustainability best practices with KPC Think-K event Our parent company, KPC, organizes an annual Think-K event with its subsidiaries. The event focuses on enhancing mutual cooperation and the exchange of experience and information. PIC hosted the 2015 Think-K event and introduced Health, Safety, Security and Environment as key topics. We gave particular attention to reducing the impacts of climate change from both a global and a local perspective through our presentation — Mitigating climate change challenges. Managing sustainability risks Our ERM department conducted an awareness session for KUFPEC, a KPC subsidiary, to share the role of ERM in managing sustainability risks. The session covered the importance of having a good governance mechanism for sustainability and the benefits of embedding sustainability into KUFPEC’s core operations. We also shared our sustainability reports and guidelines for GRI indicators. Sharing our human rights position statement with KPC We have recently developed a human rights position statement based on international and regional principles and frameworks. This statement has been shared with KPC, which will help raise awareness on human rights among the KPC subsidiaries. 36 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Materiality analysis ÂÂ Identified universe of were asked to rank each of potentially relevant aspects the identified material aspects and methodology for based on their importance. G4-2 G4-18 G4-19 obtaining feedback: The ÂÂ Obtained external potentially relevant aspects stakeholder input to for PIC were identified on assess the “importance G4-20 G4-21 the basis of stakeholder of sustainability aspects interviews, research on to external stakeholders” the material aspects Materiality analysis is the and performed additional described by sustainability process of identifying the external peer review (y-axis and petrochemical-related most significant sustainability of the materiality plot): standards, and issues aspects that are important to We engaged with our key reported by leading global the business and also to the external stakeholders and and regional organizations organization’s stakeholders. The conducted peer review to in the petrochemical sector. focus on material sustainability rank the material aspects. As a result, we identified 35 aspects enables an organization We assessed the results potentially relevant aspects. to devote time, effort and money on a materiality matrix as to issues that are of maximum ÂÂ Obtained internal shown below. The materiality importance. We have conducted stakeholder input to matrix charts the importance a materiality analysis to define assess the “importance of of sustainability aspects to the most important and relevant sustainability aspects to internal stakeholders within an sustainability aspects for PIC. the organization” (x-axis of organization and maps it against the materiality plot): Internal We have used the following the importance of the same stakeholders at PIC at various methodology to identify our aspect to external stakeholders. levels of the organization material aspects. Value creation through sustainability 37 + 25 23 26 32 High 33 12 Significance to external stakeholders 13 30 34 4 27 3 Medium 18 22 15 17 31 6 24 20 14 16 7 11 19 21 Low 2 9 28 29 8 1 Significance to internal stakeholders + 1 Employment and labor/management relations 19 Customer privacy 2 Local recruitment 20 Customer satisfaction 3 Occupational health and safety 21 Fossil fuel substitutes 4 Training and education 22 Materials 5 Diversity, equal opportunity and nondiscrimination 23 Energy use and energy efficiency in PIC 6 Stakeholder grievance mechanisms 24 Water use management in PIC operations 7 Investment 25 Biodiversity 8 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 26 Emissions and air quality Abolition of child labor and forced or compulsory 9 27 Effluents and waste labor 10 Indigenous rights 28 Products, services and transport Operational and supplier human rights 11 29 Overall environmental protection expenditure assessment (policies and procedures) 12 Local communities 30 Supplier environmental assessment 13 Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behavior 31 Economic performance 14 Public policy participation 32 Market presence (including local content) 15 Compliance 33 Indirect economic impacts in communities Procurement practices to support local 16 Asset integrity and process safety* 34 suppliers 17 Customer health and safety 35 Resource efficiency Marketing communications, product and service 18 labeling Key material aspects covered in the report *Asset integrity and process safety was not identified as a material aspect but was included based on peer review and internal stakeholder consultation Other sustainability aspects important for PIC 38 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 From the materiality analysis, we have identified 11 material aspects most relevant to us and our stakeholders. Our performance on these material aspects has been reported in this sustainability report. The material aspects reported and their impact boundaries are as follows. Material aspects for PIC Social Environment Economic Asset integrity and process Market presence (including Procurement practices to Anti-corruption and Emissions and air quality Supplier environmental Aspect boundary Occupational health Local communities Effluents and waste Energy use and and safety anti-competitive behavior safety energy efficiency Biodiversity assessment local content) support local suppliers PIC Boundary within Sustainability Committee the organization Employees Labor unions KPC JV partners Suppliers and Boundary outside the organization contractors Local communities Kuwaiti or local government NGOs Kuwait Environment Public Authority Media Local and international customers Competitors Value creation through sustainability 39 Advancing economic development Strengthening Kuwait’s economy p.42 Our economic performance p.43 Nurturing local talent p.44 Encouraging local suppliers p.44 Serving our customers well p.45 40 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 PIC has long worked to advance all three dimensions of sustainability: strong economics, The key material aspects covered in this sound environmental performance and good section are: corporate citizenship. We strive to ensure ÂÂ Market presence (including local content) that our operations and investments yield ÂÂ Procurement practices to support local positive value in all three areas. In this section, suppliers we discuss the role we play in contributing directly and indirectly to Kuwait’s economic development. Advancing economic development 41 Strengthening Kuwait’s economy Kuwait’s GDP stood at KWD51 billion in 2014. In 2014, the oil economy comprised 65.4 percent of GDP — the largest of any sector. The advent of sustained low oil prices highlighted the need for economic diversification to ensure continued economic growth. Kuwait GDP by main economic activities, 20146 Electricity Trade, restaurants Finance, real estate Manufacturing and water and hotels and business services 1.8 3.6 12.7 5.9 percent percent percent percent Crude petroleum Construction Transport, storage Others and natural gas and communication 65.4 1.7 5.0 3.9 percent percent percent percent As of 2014, manufacturing decade. Continuing to pursue our share to help the growth of was the third-largest sector non-oil growth is a cornerstone Kuwait’s non-oil economy by in Kuwait. A significant share in Kuwait’s Vision 2020, which setting new records in fertilizer of the manufacturing sector is calls for an increase in spending production in 2015-2016. composed of the petrochemical on infrastructure, economic industry, which has grown by diversification and regulatory 11 percent during the past reforms. We, at PIC, have done 6 The GCC Chemical Industry, Facts and Figures 2014 42 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Kuwait manufacturing added-value by sub-sectors, 20147 Refining Petrochemicals and chemicals Other manufacturing 2014 48 percent 2014 24 percent 2014 27 percent 2013 48 percent 2013 25 percent 2013 28 percent 2012 42 percent 2012 25 percent 2012 32 percent 2011 50 percent 2011 16 percent 2011 34 percent Our economic performance G4-DMA Economic G4performance EC1 KWD 388 million Direct economic value generated* We have established our KWD presence in global markets KWD 114 through JVs and partnerships. We performed successfully this 273 million year, producing 1.3 million metric million tons of petrochemical products Economic value Economic value in 2015-2016 and generated retained*** distributed** revenues of KWD388 million. * Includes earnings from the sale of assets (KWD268 million) and PIC revenue (KWD120 million) ** Equals operating costs including community investment, employee wages, benefits, payments to government and other expenses *** Includes inventory adjustments (KWD1 million) In line with our vision to expand presence globally and increasing produce 15 million metric tons our petrochemical activities, our share in world markets. of petrochemicals annually we are reviewing investment These expansion activities by 2020. opportunities, boosting our will help us meet our plan to 7 The GCC Chemical Industry, Facts and Figures 2014 Advancing economic development 43 Nurturing local talent students with valuable insights Compared to 2014-2015, into the petrochemical industry we increased the share of G4-DMA Market G4and helped them understand materials purchased from local presence EC6 whether they can envision suppliers by 2.6 percent. This a career within the sector. increase stands in contrast to Apart from its direct financial Similarly, we engaged with a drastic fall in the total amount impact on the economy, the students at Kuwait University purchased and the number of petrochemical industry also (KU) on available employment purchase orders issued, which contributes towards the socioopportunities and what type of is due to the shutdown of the economic development of contracts are usually provided to plant in 2014-2015. Purchasing Kuwait. It has been estimated new employees. locally may not be the most that each direct job opportunity PIC local employees cost-effective solution for our in the GCC’s petrochemical Company, but it allows us to sector creates three to four Top management (percent) support the local economy by additional indirect jobs8. engaging with local businesses. Providing career opportunities 2015-2016 An added benefit is that this to the local population and 100% Change insulates PIC from risks within supporting their learning and 2014-2015 the global supply chain that lie development enables us to 100% beyond our control. contribute toward improving the livelihoods and career Materials purchased from prospects of youth. We give Middle management (percent) local suppliers particular attention to the local Percent spent on local community by focusing our 2015-2016 procurement efforts and attention primarily 95% Change on Kuwaiti nationals. With 2014-2015 2015-2016 84.6 percent of our employees 90% 77.4% Change originating from Kuwait, we are far ahead of schedule to achieve 2014-2015 KPC’s target of 85 percent Employees (percent) 74.8% Kuwaitization by 2030. 2015-2016 Number of purchase orders (POs) We understand the value local 83% Change 2015-2016 talent can bring to our economy 763 Change and are actively engaging 2014-2015 with educational institutions 80% 2014-2015 to support them in developing 1,573 capable and talented future generations. During the past Encouraging local Amount in KWD millions year, we gave presentations suppliers 2015-2016 on our production processes, 3.23 Change as well as explained our vision G4-DMA procurement G42014-2015 and mission statements to practices EC9 10.57 students at the American University of the Middle East We favor the purchase of and the Australian University of goods and services from local Kuwait. This provided business suppliers whenever possible. 8 The GCC Chemical Industry, Facts and Figures 2014 44 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Serving our importance to us. We want We also conduct a customer our products to not just meet, survey every two years via an customers well but to exceed customer independent external agency G4–DMA Product G4expectations. We have achieved to measure how well we are and service labeling PR5 Responsible Care® certification meeting our customers’ needs since 2011 and we strive to and how we can improve our Products supplied by achieve zero accidents, no products and services. For the petrochemical firms like ours injuries and a minimal impact satisfaction survey conducted form the basic ingredients of on the environment. Our for our fertilizer customers in a large range of products for commitment extends beyond 2015-2016, we had a response industrial and agricultural use. our operations and includes the rate of 82 percent. The overall These products range from transportation, use and disposal satisfaction score of our fertilizer solvents and adhesives to of our products. We promote customers was 86 percent. plastics and resins. Maintaining our customers’ awareness We can, therefore, conclude that the highest quality and ensuring of safety issues through the the majority of our customers the safety of our products and distribution of Material Safety were satisfied with our products services are of fundamental Data Sheets (MSDS). and services. Results of customer satisfaction survey (fertilizer customers) 2015 86 percent 2013 2015-2016 survey results 90 percent and outcomes ÂÂ The highest scores we received were for quality, shipping and marketing staff responsiveness. 2011 88 percent ÂÂ The three areas requiring improvement were payment terms, staff efficiency on handling shipping documents and flexibility in 2009 95 percent executing contracts. ÂÂ Solutions to improve our performance were identified during a brainstorming session and we are preparing for their implementation. 2007 80 percent Advancing economic development 45 Advancing our people and communities Our vibrant workforce p.48 Creating a safe workplace p.52 Engaging with our local communities p.56 Fostering ethical behavior p.58 SDGs covered in this section 46 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen. We want to operate The key material aspects covered in this section are: in a manner that promotes inclusion ÂÂ Occupational health and safety and the well-being of our people and ÂÂ Local communities the local community. As a result, we have launched numerous programs ÂÂ Anti-corruption and anti-competitive behavior and initiatives for both internal and ÂÂ Asset integrity and process safety external stakeholders. Advancing our people and communities 47 Our vibrant workforce We are fully aware that our Creating a diverse Kuwaiti employees, we also employees are the cornerstones employ nationals of Bahrain, of our success. With this in and inclusive work Egypt, India, Jordan, Lebanon, mind, we do our utmost to environment Pakistan, Palestine, Saudi Arabia create a work environment and Syria. We are committed to free of discrimination with G4– G4– G4–DMA providing equal opportunities to principles of equality present in 10 EC5 Employment every employee, irrespective of all aspects of our day-to-day their race, gender or culture. For work, including hiring, training G4– G4–DMA Diversity and example, both male and female and promotions. LA12 equal opportunity employees receive wages equal to or above the minimum entry For PIC, an inclusive level across the Company in environment promotes diversity accordance with Kuwaiti law. at all levels. Employees from We employed 535 employees different cultural backgrounds in 2015-2016 and females feel comfortable to prosper constituted 8.7 percent of our in our Company. Apart from workforce. Demographics and gender diversity of our employees 2015-2016 2014-2015 427 57 4 468 61 5 488 (total number of male employees) 534 2013-2014 2012-2013 503 56 5 474 58 5 564 535 2015-2016 2014-2015 44 3 46 3 47 (total number of female employees) 49 2013-2014 31 2012-2013 46 3 43 3 1 49 47 Total number of Total number of Years employees Years employees Top management 2015-2016 535 2013-2014 613 Middle management 2014-2015 583 2012-2013 582 Employees 48 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Employee welfare Retirement benefit plan for PIC employees and well-being Employment Non-Kuwaiti (GCC duration Kuwaiti residents only) G4– G4– EC3 LA2 0-5 years Yearly payment Yearly payment equivalent to 30 days equivalent to 15 days In today’s competitive world, of salary of salary skilled and experienced >5 years Yearly payment Yearly payment employees are very sought after. equivalent to 45 days equivalent to 30 days For all employees, regardless of of salary of salary their level, we provide salaries in line with industry standards well-being of our employees, by working in Shuaiba meet our and that of peer companies in running awareness campaigns physicians once a year and the petrochemical sector. As a on diabetes, anti-smoking, undergo certain tests twice a result, salaries for our employees first aid, while highlighting year, depending on the nature are significantly higher than the the link between health and of their work. Employees above legal minimum wages in Kuwait. nutrition. A large number of the age of 50, and those facing Furthermore, our employees employees participated in a occupational health hazards, are provided with benefits such walkathon around our head can meet our physicians as as annual leave entitlement, office, promoted by our IT and and when required. We also social security benefits, medical Communication Department to track the occupational illnesses insurance coverage, family increase health awareness. and diseases faced by our increments, and inflation employees to understand the adjustments, among others. We also arrange for our impact of our awareness and Providing such remuneration employees to be examined by safety programs. packages aids us in hiring and our physicians. All employees retaining key personnel. working at the head office meet with our physicians at least once Our commitment to our every two years. PIC employees employees continues even after their retirement. We ensure that all our employees, including non-Kuwaitis with GCC residency, receive secure retirement salaries. The retirement benefits for each employee are calculated on the basis of the employee’s length of service at PIC and pay grade. Moreover, we actively engage with retired employees by holding annual ceremonies to honor their hard work and dedication to support us in fulfilling our mission and vision. In 2015-2016, we have taken a holistic approach toward the PIC celebrates World No Tobacco Day Advancing our people and communities 49 Investing in Our training methods include Fast Track Development eLearning, general and Program our employees’ specialized training courses to capabilities The program provided carefully obtain degrees and rotational selected high-potential programs with other oil sector employees with the knowledge, G4G4G4-DMA Training companies to exchange skills and capabilities needed LA9 LA11 and education expertise and on-the-jobto perform successfully. The training. The key training program included advanced We want all our employees to programs for 2015-2016 were training courses and onsite perform their best and achieve the third cycle of the Fast Track Development Program, coaching guidance. their full potential. As a result, we provide a wide range of sustainability capability The Fast Track learning and development development modules, as well Development Program opportunities to enhance their as two workshops on emotional is tailored to match skills and facilitate their personal intelligence and risk and with PIC’s culture and and professional growth. precaution in high-voltage areas. develop our senior While the average number of and junior PIC staff as hours of training provided to PIC employee training per the new unified all employees fell over the past data: 2015-2016 generic competency four years, employees can framework. This is still use the equivalent of an a two-year program entire working week to develop designed to assure their skills. In aggregate, our Total quality through employees received 17,393 training training courses, training hours in 2015-2016, hours: coaching and 17,393 with an average of 32.5 training simulation activities. hours per employee. Asma Mohammed Program Coordinator PIC training hours Average training hours: 32.5 Emotional intelligence workshop Training hours by gender This workshop was tailored to Total Average provide our management with training training an understanding of emotional hours hours intelligence and how it could be Male 14,735 30 effectively used to engage with Female 2,658 57 their team members. Average training hours per Training hours by position Years employee Average training 2015-2016 32.5 Total training hours hours 2014-2015 33 Employees 14,280 30 2013-2014 43 Middle management* 3,113 51 2012-2013 47 Top management* 0 0 * Managers and above (middle management consists of team leaders and managers) participate in KPCs K-Lead program. Their training hours are not recorded within PIC. 50 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Furthermore, to enable senior-level employees to increase their skills, we held three events focusing on adaptability and learning, communication and ownership. A fourth event is scheduled for 2016-2017, focusing on HSE and sustainability. We expect the learnings from these events to be implemented by senior employees so that their impact is felt across the entire organization. A training coordinator within each department meets with PIC’s manpower development analyst to agree on a career Workshop on emotional intelligence development path for our employees, which is incorporated into their personal Building capabilities in our internal stakeholders. development plan. Each sustainability We plan to reach 100 manager or team leader is asked percent of our employees to discuss career development, It would be difficult for PIC through these modules. We including training requirements to realize our sustainability use multiple methods to with team members twice goals without the support communicate sustainability a year. and informed engagement topics to our employees. of our employees. Raising These methods include Feedback on performance employee awareness a monthly sustainability and training them on We are committed to helping our newsletter on relevant topics sustainability can result employees continuously improve such as sustainable supply in improved employee their job performance. We use chains, human rights and engagement and advancing an annual performance appraisal water conservation. We have our sustainability strategy. system to give constructive also placed sustainabilityWe are currently utilizing feedback to all employees. focused electronic and print eLearning modules on Appraisals are conducted at signage throughout our sustainability as a primary least twice a year, but most headquarters. mode of engagement with often three times in a year. The first appraisal meeting is held at the beginning of the year to were met. This process provides set objectives or goals and the employees with valuable insights second meeting is a mid-year on their performance and helps review. The third meeting closes them understand potential areas this process and assesses for improvement. whether the objectives or goals Advancing our people and communities 51 Creating a safe workplace our workforce is represented the concerned departments. G4-DMA Occupational health and safety in joint management-worker In 2015-2016 we recorded health and safety committees. 80 near misses. At PIC, we recognize that Our commitment to safety and a ÂÂ Crisis Management keeping our workforce safe high level of safety performance Center (CMC): This is and healthy positively impacts has been recognized by a fully equipped room both their performance and the certifications from OHSAS and with communication and success of our Company. We Responsible Care®. surveillance technology, support the well-being of our which is designed to be Safety programs and employees and contractors used during crisis situations. initiatives through the implementation of Our top management can various programs and initiatives. Our safety programs are meet at CMC to obtain designed to raise awareness, up-to-date information provide training and follow-up Safety governance about the nature of the crisis on near misses and accidents. and communicate with key These programs cover both our stakeholders. G4employees and contractors, LA5 ÂÂ Safety and fire drills: Mock and help instill a culture of drills help us verify our level of awareness. Safety is integrated into every readiness to protect workers, aspect of our operations. Our buildings and equipment Health, Safety, Security, Key health and and to test emergency Sustainability, Environment safety initiatives and evacuation plans. We (HSSSE) and Quality policy and programs for conducted four safety and provides safeguards for our fire drills in 2015-2016, three employees, contractors, 2015-2016: at our plants in Shuaiba and visitors, customers, suppliers, ÂÂ Near misses: Near misses one at our head office. We distributors and the public. Our are early warning signs of addressed all gaps identified line management, supported accidents. They function during these drills. by our occupational health and as red flags, enabling us to ÂÂ HSE training: 72.5 percent safety management systems, reduce or eliminate potential of our employees underwent is responsible for implementing accidents before they occur. HSE training. Key programs the HSSSE and Quality Policy. All near misses are reported are: The Safety, Health and immediately to the Safety Environment Executive and Occupational Health `` HSE awareness Committee (SHEEC) is headed department. The department trainings and by our CEO, who oversees the also investigates potential campaigns: We management of safety risks causes and coordinates conducted a total of throughout the Company. We with the area owner to 43 HSE awareness also include our employees initiate an immediate action sessions and campaigns in the safety decision-making to prevent recurrences and in 2015-2016. Sessions process. About 60 percent of communicates results with included near-miss 52 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 awareness for contractors, `` Permit to work (PTW): ÂÂ RC 14001® audit was heat-stress awareness, a PTW authorization training completed and certification safety induction program was conducted and renewed. and firefighting awareness permit cards issued for ÂÂ Integrated external training with fire simulation 75 PIC employees and 81 surveillance audit on equipment, among others. contractors. ISO 9001, ISO 14001, `` Process hazard ÂÂ Pointing system: As a and OHSAS 18001 was analysis (PHA) course: part of this program, the conducted and renewed Our Process Safety management conducted successfully. Committee held a unannounced plant or ÂÂ We have instituted the PIC PHA course for 31 PIC workshop visits. Cards CEO Health, Safety, Security employees and 3 KNPC (green, yellow and red) are and Environment (HSSE) employees. Participants issued to employees based Award that recognizes gained knowledge on on their compliance with contributions made by operation-related risks PIC HSE regulations. We employees to promote and and how to conduct believe that appreciation of enhance HSSE awareness evaluation studies safe behavior will motivate in PIC. The slogan for our to prevent industrial employees, while negative 2015 award was “You have accidents. feedback would discourage the key.” unsafe behavior at work. Fire drill conducted at PIC plant in Shuaiba Advancing our people and communities 53 Our safety performance G4G4G4LA6 OG13 EN34 G4-DMA Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Asset integrity and process safety G4LA7 Winners of CEO HSSE awareness award for Ammonia Safety Hours Project As a part of the occupational 2017 PIC Sustainability No work-related fatalities were health and safety audits Goals recorded among our employees conducted on a monthly basis, and contractors in 2015-2016, we monitor various areas within and 97.3 percent of the fatality operations on aspects such as Recordable prevention recommendations air analysis within PIC, lighting injuries were completed by the levels, vibration, noise exposures per 200,000 respective departments. None of and indoor air quality. The man-hours our employees were involved in findings for 2015-2016 indicated occupational activities with high that our performance was well incidence or high risk for specific 2015-2016 0.11 within local regulatory limits. diseases. However, some of 2014-2015 0.08 At PIC, we not only measure 2013-2014 0 our employees faced minor and record our safety 2012-2013 0 illness and were either given sick performance, but also include leave, light duty, exempted from the performance of our certain activities or transferred to contractors, as they are an Process safety other units. integral part of our operations. incidents We continue to meet the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals with a per 200,000 recordable injury rate of 0.11 man-hours (2017 target: 0.13) and process 2015-2016 0.06 safety incident rate of 0.06 2014-2015 0.04 (2017 target: 0.1). We had only 2013-2014 0 one process safety incident in 2015-2016, which resulted in 14 2012-2013 0 days away from work for one of our operators. 54 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 PIC 2015-2016 safety statistics Types of PIC and injury contractors Injury rate 0.11 Lost day rate 1.7 (severity rate) Absentee days 30 Work-related 0 fatalities Our commitment to ensuring the health and safety of our workforce was recognized when we received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) MORR HSE Silver Award for 2015. RoSPA is a RoSPA MORR HSE Silver Award British non-profit organization that recognizes commitment to continuous improvement in the prevention of occupational accidents and illnesses. We also received the Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA)’s HSE award, which recognizes member companies that strive in continuously improving its HSE performance or have demonstrated a sustained and continued outstanding HSE performance for at least five years. The AFA’s HSE award Advancing our people and communities 55 Engaging with our local communities We continue to devise initiatives ÂÂ Health awareness with G4G4G4DMA Local SO1 SO2 communities and policies to address the school students: We held above risks and prevent them a health awareness meeting At PIC, we believe that we can from materializing. about lung resuscitation with wield a positive influence and the students of Um Saad AlWe also aim to spread health constructively work toward Ansariah Intermediate Girls’ and safety awareness in our improving the quality of life School. It was an interactive communities. In this spirit, we of local communities. We session which was well undertook a number of projects look beyond making financial appreciated by the students. and initiatives. A chosen sample contributions and toward of the initiatives includes: ÂÂ Fire protection training for building partnerships. We Ministry of Oil employees: ÂÂ Safety promotion project have aligned our community Our safety team organized a at Kuwait University: Our programs with our sustainability training program for Ministry HSE department participated goals for 2017 and are working of Oil employees on safety in the safety promotion at with our NGO partners to measures and methods of work sites project, which promote healthy lifestyles, fire protection. was held at the College of conserve natural resources Medicine at Kuwait University. and develop talent in our local communities. Safe and healthy communities We keep track of health and safety risks that could affect communities close to our plants. Our ERM department has identified three key risks that could threaten our positive relationship with local communities: ÂÂ Risk of release of hazardous materials ÂÂ Risk of air, water and land pollution ÂÂ Change in public opinion Health awareness for Um Saad Al-Ansariah Intermediate School in Bubyan Club if the previous two risks materialize 56 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Preserving our environment Conserving our natural resources is a collective responsibility, which needs to be practiced by the entire community. Our initiatives help raise awareness on environmental issues in the community. ÂÂ Best Model Project contest: In order to encourage school children to embrace sustainability, we held a Best Model Project, wherein schools competed in making models out of environmental Greening gardens in schools waste. The winners were announced at an event called “Our environment is Promoting of the Kuwaiti pavilion “Challenge of Nature,” our responsibility.” development of showcasing how Kuwaitis ÂÂ Greening gardens in local youth used education, technology, schools: We participated science and renewable in greening gardens in an energy to make the intermediate school in the desert habitable. Hawalli Educational Area. Training and educating young ÂÂ Training equipment to The students were informed people from local communities Public Authority for about the environmental enhances the skill set and Applied Education and benefits of afforestation and employability of local youth, Training (PAAET): We were given seeds to create supporting growth of the local delivered equipment to their own gardens at home. economy. A number of our the Faculty of Technology ÂÂ Open day at Bubyan initiatives were specifically Studies of PAAET to aid Club: We held an open day targeted at youth: students in their practical at the Bubyan Club with a training sessions. ÂÂ Al-Mubader “The Initiator” group of students. Students national project: We ÂÂ Lecture by Mohamad were taught about the exclusively sponsored Shafi Al-Ajmi to Kuwait importance of saving water this project that aims to University students: One and electricity, and strategies support youth and develop of our engineers delivered implemented by PIC to business leadership in a lecture to chemical achieve these goals through Kuwait. This project was a engineering students at Six Sigma projects. part of the Kuwaiti pavilion Kuwait University on the at Expo Milano 2015. By petrochemical industry and fostering innovation among the main products of PIC. Kuwaiti youth, Al-Mubader contributed to the theme Advancing our people and communities 57 Fostering ethical behavior in order to prevent the risks from Respecting human rights is G4-DMA Anti-competitive G4– behavior SO3 materializing. Certain risks were a fundamental part of our identified in 2015-2016 and we work culture. We set our are working toward resolving commitments in our Human G4G4G4G4SO4 SO5 SO7 HR1 them. We did not have any legal Rights Position Statement actions filed against us for antithat was developed in G4-DMA Labor practices G4competitive behavior, anti trust 2014-2015. The statement grievance mechanisms HR2 or monopoly practices in communicates our support of 2015-2016. Furthermore, there the principles contained within G4-DMA G4were no incidents of corruption the Universal Declaration of G4-56 involving our employees in Human Rights, UN Global Anti-corruption LA16 2015-2016. Compact, United Nations G4-DMA Guiding Principles on Business We also have a grievance Investment and Human Rights, relevant mechanism in place to allow conventions and standards our employees to report any Ensuring that day-to-day of the International Labor potential violations of labor operations are conducted Organization, national and practices. During 2015-2016, ethically is paramount to international laws, as well as we received 32 such grievances, maintaining positive relationships KPC Code of Conduct. Further 17 of which were successfully with stakeholders. Our details on our commitment resolved while 15 cases are Code of Conduct, set by toward human rights can be pending, as of the date of our parent company, KPC, read in the UNGC COP section publication of this report. serves as a guideline that of this report. directs the behavior of our We ensure that every contract We have developed a human employees when they deal and investment signed by us rights eLearning course and with colleagues, vendors, complies with both Kuwaiti and will be launching it during the customers, contractors, international labor regulations first quarter of 2016-2017. The government agencies and the and laws. Given that we module covers the basic tenets general public. The key focus employ a significant number of human rights, the business areas of the Code of Conduct of temporary workers through case for human rights, how are Respect for colleagues, our suppliers and contractors, to integrate human rights into protect the Environment, we look beyond our operations business management and positively contribute to the and safeguard the rights of our supporting human rights beyond Community, and act Ethically. temporary workforce by raising core business operations. New employees are trained awareness and conducting on the Code of Conduct upon training for both our employees joining PIC. Other employees and contractors. have to undergo a refresher course every year. Our ERM department conducts an analysis of the corruption risks 58 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Advancing our people and communities 59 Advancing environmental stewardship Managing our environmental impact p.62 Managing energy use p.63 Managing water use p.65 Managing our GHG emissions p.67 Managing spills p.69 Managing our waste p.70 Protecting our biodiversity p.71 Promoting environmental consciousness in the supply chain p.72 SDGs covered in this section 60 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 We have played a significant role in driving environmental stewardship in Kuwait and in the region through our efforts in monitoring, managing and reporting on the impact of our business The key material aspects covered in this section are: on the environment. Our environmental ÂÂ Energy and resource use programs and initiatives are driven by ÂÂ Effluents and waste the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals. In this section, we outline our performance and ÂÂ Biodiversity approach toward managing our most ÂÂ Supplier environmental assessment material impacts on the environment. Advancing environmental stewardship 61 Managing our environmental impact that investment was to achieve G4G4-DMA Overall G4-14 LEED certification. EN31 We are continuing our G4–DMA Environmental G4investments in environmental grievance mechanisms EN34 quality improvements by budgeting KWD350,000 to As a recognized petrochemical change conventional light bulbs player, we are committed to to LED bulbs and purchase minimizing our environmental additional energy-saving impact. We have attained equipment in 2016-2017, such ISO 14001 (Environmental as occupancy sensors, solar Management) and Responsible lanterns, electricity meters for Care® certifications within both the head office and Bubyan our operations and value chain. Club. These certifications allow us to integrate leading environmental quality and management practices into our business and LEED certification at our head office promote resource conservation at every stage of our products’ As part of our strategy to reduce our environmental life cycles. footprint, we have implemented multiple projects to make our head office building in South Sabahiya more resourceWe had no environmental efficient. Our head office has successfully met the criteria incidents, environmental set by the US Green Building Council for Leadership exposure complaints or fines in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold from regulatory bodies for the certification for existing buildings. Some of the projects entire year. While we did receive adopted, which helped us to achieve considerable one complaint in 2015-2016 resource savings at our head office, include: from a neighboring company, our investigation revealed that ÂÂ Installation of solar water heaters the cause lay outside of PIC and ÂÂ Installation of lighting control system to ensure efficient thus beyond our control. usage of the lighting We have made significant ÂÂ Installation of variable frequency drives for the air investments in the year to handling units (AHU’s) minimize our environmental In 2015-2016, the energy consumed per person at our impact. In 2015-2016, we head office was 37kWh. We will be tracking this in the spent KWD185,000 toward environmental projects and future to understand the effectiveness of our various initiatives. A significant portion of energy-saving projects. 62 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Managing energy use ÂÂ Installation of valve-passing 2015-2016 despite increases in G4– G4– G4– G4– 22 EN3 EN5 EN6 detectors on natural, process production in the same period. and synthesis gas, and CO2 This has been predominantly vents, reducing energy loss due to the efforts of the Energy G4–DMA Energy and GHG emissions Optimization Committee, which has been active since 2002. In Our energy use is composed 2015-2016, a key focus of the of direct energy consumption Committee was to improve the (natural gas which is used both reliability and efficiency of our as a process input and as a fuel As an organization in an plants, which helped us reduce in our operations) and indirect energy-intensive industry, we unplanned shutdowns, thereby energy consumption (electricity understand our impact on minimizing energy loss. procured from the national grid). national energy demand and, Diesel consumption has not therefore, have various ongoing been included in our energy Indirect energy initiatives linked to managing our usage calculations, as it is used consumed (in energy use. Greater efficiency in only for maintenance vehicles thousand GJ) energy use will help us to reduce and not in our operations. our operational costs and our direct environmental impact. 1,369 2015-2016 Accordingly, we have developed Direct energy 1,148 2014-2015 a Business Opportunity Plan (BOP), identifying four new consumed (in 1,357 2013-2014 projects over a five-year period thousand GJ) 1,164 2012-2013 to improve our levels of energy efficiency. The four projects identified in the BOP are: 2015-2016 30,927 17 percent rise ÂÂ Preheating the process gas 26,476 2014-2015 between 2012-2013 in the convection section of and 2015-2016 the ammonia reformer, saving 32,307 2013-2014 1.36 MMBTU/h of fuel gas 31,097 2012-2013 In 2014-2015, we identified an ÂÂ Installation of a new heat uncalibrated electricity meter exchanger in the ammonia 0.54 percent fall which had led to underreporting IV convection section to between 2012-2013 of our electricity consumption increase the combustion and 2015-2016 by two percent. As part of our air temperature, saving continued efforts to ensure 15 MMBTU/h We have been monitoring our accuracy of reported data ÂÂ Recovery of CO2, ammonia, direct energy consumption since and the integrity of our data and steam in the off-gases 2012-2013. Our consumption collection process, we replaced from the process condensate has come down by about 0.54 analog electricity meters with unit for reuse in the percent from 31,097,318 GJ in digital ones with a higher hydrolyzer 2012-2013 to 30,927,873 GJ in accuracy and reliability. We have Advancing environmental stewardship 63 therefore restated the indirect energy consumption figures for 2012-2013 and 2013-2014. We also monitor our indirect energy consumption (electricity usage) to assess our demand for power and to achieve the objective of overall energy intensity reduction. Our indirect energy consumption Supporting renewable energy development has increased by 17 percent The Solar Energy Technology Utilization Team (SETUT) in 2015-2016 compared to was formed by KPC in July 2014, to follow His Highness 2012-2013. This increase the Amir of Kuwait’s plan to generate 15 percent of is predominantly due to Kuwait’s total electricity production from renewable the increase in production energy sources. PIC established an Executive Committee of ammonia and urea, by for Optimization of Energy and Utilization of Renewable 11 percent and 20 percent Energy to enhance the current energy efficiency as well as respectively. We believe that we to utilize renewable energy. The operations manager and will be able to play an important members from Corporate Planning and Technical Services role in reducing our dependence lead the working team. on the local grid and have even initiated a renewable energy The main activities of the working team are to: project under the direction of 1. Follow through with energy-saving initiatives in the KPC. fertilizer plant, replacing incandescent lights with LED lights at our facilities Total energy intensity 2. Initiate a consultancy study for solar PV power systems As part of managing our in head office and Bubyan Club energy consumption we aim 3. Contribute to the KPC project to build a world-class to reduce the energy intensity solar power plant in the Al-Shagaya area of our operations. Estimating our total energy intensity helps us to understand our Energy intensity (GJ/MT of During this reporting period, energy consumption per ammonia produced) we have achieved the best unit of ammonia produced production performance in the 2015-2016 48.38 and, thereby, benchmark our history of our organization, 2014-2015 48.41 performance with that of our driven predominantly by 2013-2014 48.98 peers. As part of the 2017 PIC increased efficiency in our 2012-2013 51.72 Sustainability Goals, we aim to operations. Our energy intensity reduce our total energy intensity has fallen by 6.4 percent in by 6 percent when compared to 2015-2016 when compared to the 2012-2013 baseline. our 2012-2013 baseline. We will continue to monitor our 6.4 percent fall in performance in the following energy intensity reporting period to ensure between 2012-2013 and that we successfully meet 2015-2016 our targets. 64 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Managing water use G4– G4– G4– EN8 EN10 EN22 Total water Water intensity, consumed (in m3/MT of ammonia G4–DMA Water thousand m3) 2,467 2015-2016 2,349 2014-2015 We are aware of our 2015-2016 3.7 2,438 2013-2014 responsibility to minimize 2014-2015 4.3 water usage at PIC, especially 2,875 2012-2013 2013-2014 3.7 while operating in a country 2012-2013 4.3 classified as one of the most 14.2 percent fall water-stressed. The increasing in total water 22.9 percent fall in per capita consumption of consumption when water intensity when desalinated water in the compared to the compared to 2012-2013 country burdens the country’s 2012-2013 baseline baseline energy resources as well. Our operations utilize significant We have been constantly Our water intensity has fallen volumes of water, and the monitoring the consumption by 22.9 percent over the water we use is from municipal of our operations and have set last four years, because we sources, which highlights stringent targets for ourselves succeeded in improving the the importance of effective as part of the 2017 PIC level of productivity of our management of this scarce Sustainability Goals. Over the plants, while reducing our resource. We aim to reduce the last four years, water usage total water consumption. On water intensity of our operations has declined by 14.2 percent, a monthly basis, we recycle by: highlighting the success of 400m3 of water, most of which ÂÂ Identifying opportunities for our efforts to reduce water is used to generate steam for reduction of water intensity of consumption of our plants. production and machine rotation operational activities of compressors. A minor ÂÂ Implementing identified share is used for irrigation of opportunities and reporting vegetation around our plants. progress We will continue pursuing watersaving projects to increase the efficiency of water used in order to meet our target of 25 percent reduction in water intensity as part of the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals. Advancing environmental stewardship 65 Waste water discharge Reducing We recognize the environmental Waste water hydrolyzer effluent impact of industrial waste water discharge intensity to open sewer in discharges and we have been (m3/MT of ammonia) urea plants closely monitoring the waste water discharge from our We are currently in processes. We have undertaken the advanced phase several projects, including a Six of implementing Sigma project, to reduce the the water-saving hydrolyzer discharge intensity. Six Sigma project The waste water discharge per to lower the current MT of ammonia production has effluent level of 3,349 come down 17.2 percent from MT/day to less than 384.8 m3/MT in 2012-2013 to 1,004 MT/day. We 318.4 m3/MT in 2015-2016. have identified the We also introduced a sewage probable causes water treatment plant to reduce for this with the the water consumption at our help of Six Sigma head office. The plant enabled 384.8 381.4 387.2 318.4 methodology and us to reuse 100 percent of the prepared a list of sewage and rainwater drainage 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 mitigating measures in irrigation and agriculture after for implementation. treatment. Through this plant The objective is to we were able to reduce water 17.2 percent fall in reduce the urea consumption by 25 percent, discharge intensity hydrolyzer unit which helped us save about between 2012-2013 effluent waste water. 213,000 gallons/month of water (approximately KWD5,400 and 2015-2016 per year). Water treatment station at PIC head office 66 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Managing our GHG emissions Our GHG emissions (scope dioxide (MTCO2) equivalent in G4–DMA G4– G4– Emissions EN15 EN16 1 and scope 2) 2012-2013 to 984,463 MTCO2 equivalent in 2015-2016. Scope 1 emissions cover G4– G4– G4– G4– emissions from activities Scope 2 emissions include GHG EN18 EN19 EN20 EN21 owned or directly controlled by emissions from the generation PIC. This includes emissions of the electricity we purchase. from combustion in owned or Our total scope 2 emissions controlled boilers, production for 2015-2016 were 273,201 plants and vehicles. Our MTCO2 equivalent, representing We acknowledge the impact success in reducing the fuel a 26 percent increase from the of GHG emissions on the intensity of every unit produced 2012-2013 emissions due to environment and have monitored at our facilities has translated higher energy consumption and disclosed our emissions into a corresponding reduction to support an increase in over the past few years. in the direct carbon emissions production. Tracking our carbon emissions from fuel consumed. Our total emissions (scope 1 enables us to identify processes We have made significant and scope 2 combined) have that PIC could use to emit progress in reducing the carbon also fallen by 13.7 percent from less CO2 and implement these intensity of our products in 1,457,840 MTCO2 equivalent in carbon reduction measures. the last four years. Our scope 2012-2013 to 1,257,664 MTCO2 1 carbon emissions have equivalent in 2015-2016. One of fallen by 21 percent from our key sustainability objectives 1,241,232 metric tons of carbon is to reduce the GHG emissions Scope 1 emissions (in Scope 2 emissions (in Emissions intensity thousand MT) thousand MT) (MTCO2/MT of ammonia) CO2 2015-2016 984 2015-2016 273 2015-2016 1.92 2014-2015 872 2014-2015 243 2014-2015 2.04 2013-2014 1,029 2013-2014 277 2013-2014 1.98 2012-2013 1,241 2012-2013 216 2012-2013 2.43 20.9 percent fall in emissions 13.7 percent fall in total CO2 emissions between intensity between 2012-2013 2012-2013 and 2015-2016 and 2015-2016 Advancing environmental stewardship 67 intensity of the ammonia we reporting process. We have Our SOx and NOx emissions produce through technological already conducted an external have fallen by 5 percent and innovation and efficient use review of our GHG information 42 percent, respectively, in the of raw materials. The GHG system, data collection process period between 2012-2013 and emissions intensity has come and methodology. 2015-2016. However, in the down by nearly 20.9 percent same period, our CO, ammonia compared to the base year Other emissions to air gas and urea dust emissions levels of 2012-2013. Apart from scope 1 and 2 GHG have increased on account of emissions, we also monitor other higher production in 2015-2016 External assurance emissions including nitrogen when compared to 2012-2013. for scope 1 and 2 GHG oxide and sulphur oxide, carbon emissions monoxide, ammonia gas and One of our sustainability urea dust emissions. objectives was to secure external assurance for the Elimination of flaring within PIC operations scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions. An independent third-party The flare system in urea plant-B used to burn ammoniaassurer will communicate any bearing process off-gases. Natural gas was injected into omissions or inaccuracies the flaring process as an assist gas. The flare system through suggestions and emitted a significant amount of NOx and GHG emissions recommendations in the and also caused financial losses to PIC. assurance report that will A Six Sigma project was initiated and remedial solutions accompany the emissions related to optimizing plant operating conditions were report. successfully implemented in May 2015. Flaring was This is a KPC-wide project completely eliminated through this project, saving PIC intended to minimize errors around KWD86,000 per annum. and enhance confidence in our Other emissions, in MT 2000 1500 1000 500 0 SOx NOx CO Ammonia gas Urea dust 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 *Our ammonia plant is the source of our urea dust and ammonia gas emissions 68 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Managing spills per the 2017 PIC Sustainability handling of our products. As a G4– EN24 Goals. We strive to conduct responsible corporate citizen, our businesses in compliance we understand the potential with local regulations, industry risks related to accidental spills standards and regional and during product usage by our international best practices. customers. We are committed We achieved zero spills in to the elimination and reduction 2015-2016, predominantly due of environmental impacts during to the effective HSE-related product usage. We promote policies and procedures customer awareness about the It is our responsibility to ensure adopted within our operations. safe handling and usage of our that our operations do not result products through Material Safety in the release of products or To ensure effective compliance, Data Sheets (MSDS) provided to other hazardous materials to the we conducted regular HSE our direct customers. environment through accidental awareness campaigns for spills. We target to have no our employees, which also more than one spill each year as included sessions on safe Repairing equipment to reduce the likelihood of spills within our operations Advancing environmental stewardship 69 Managing our waste G4-DMA Effluents G4and waste EN23 Waste management from our We have been building our operations and facilities will recycling capacity over the last help reduce our impact on the few years as it brings significant environment. We work closely cost savings and reduces our with our waste management environmental impact. The contractor to ensure that all our amount of recycled waste for waste generated is managed as the year 2015-2016 was 12MT per local regulations. compared to nearly 102MT in 2012-2013. The significant fall Our non-hazardous waste in recycled waste during the generation has declined by 2015-2016 period has been due nearly 33 percent from 453MT to improvements in the waste in 2012-2013 to 305MT in management process used by 2015-2016. Our hazardous our external contractor. waste generation fell from 120MT in 2012-2013 to 77MT in 2015-2016. Waste generated, in MT Recycled and reused waste, in MT Hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste 2015-2016 77 2015-2016 305 2015-2016 12 2014-2015 218.8 2014-2015 425 2014-2015 139.81 2013-2014 112.73 2013-2014 414.66 2013-2014 64.58 2012-2013 120.05 2012-2013 453 2012-2013 101.80 Supporting recycling innovation In line with our objective to enhance our sustainability impact, we supported an invention by Sadek Ahmad Kasem, the winner of the “Arab Inventor” title, to recycle the material used in manufacturing plastic cans for 3D printing. According to the agreement with the inventor, we will conduct workshops for our employees to foster the spirit of green innovation. We continue to support projects that serve society, notably those that give incentive to youth and encourage development and creativity. 70 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Protecting our biodiversity mitigate the negative impacts We will be expanding the G4–DMA G4– G4– Biodiversity EN11 EN12 of our operations, we, at PIC, green spaces around our have taken a leadership role in head offices and plant sites organizing events to conserve with the active involvement of biodiversity in the region and our employees. build awareness about the ÂÂ The Kuwait Green Wall Although our fertilizer plant importance of improving the Project: The Kuwait Green is not located in areas of ecological balance in Kuwait. Wall Project, started in high biodiversity value, we November 2012, has the Initiatives to protect are committed to ensure ambitious target of planting Kuwait’s natural that our operations have a 315,000 trees along the environment minimal impact on the natural Kuwait border over a 10environment of Kuwait. ÂÂ Go Green Project: The year period. As an incubating event aimed to increase the partner and promoter of GHG emissions and resultant green spaces in the areas the project, PIC is actively global warming can have surrounding PIC offices. working with Kuwait Energy adverse consequences on plant Our CEO, Mr. Mohammad and the Environmental and animal life. Hence, we have Al-Farhoud led the Voluntary Foundation to set ambitious targets to curb participation of management deliver this project on time. carbon emissions and reduce and employees. The event The Green Wall will serve as its intensity from our industrial enabled participants to gain a shield against the negative processes. Moreover, we had practical experience on effects of desertification in the no spills this year, avoiding any growing and feeding plants region. damage to the environment that and flowers with proper might have resulted. In order to quantities of off-grade urea. Our employees participating in the Go Green Project Advancing environmental stewardship 71 Promoting environmental consciousness in the supply chain We have also developed a G4–DMA Supplier environmental assessment new supplier assessment questionnaire to evaluate our oil and chemical vendors G4– G4– G4– EN32 EN33 12 based on their compliance to sustainability considerations. As a company with facilities The questionnaire is to be across the globe, we recognize filled in by all major suppliers that our corporate responsibility regarding their policies and extends beyond our operations commitments on sustainability. and needs to include the We also give preference to conduct of our suppliers. suppliers who demonstrate We spent over KWD4.1 million sustainability excellence, as purchasing products and part of our supplier selection services from 258 suppliers practices. (local and international). Supplier engagement This presents us with a real opportunity to encourage our Supplier engagement is suppliers to adopt sustainable essential toward maintaining a values and standards. We work sustainable supply chain. We closely with our vendors and held an engagement workshop suppliers to ensure effective with our major chemical and oil integration of environmental suppliers in February 2016. The and social considerations in our workshop was conducted to procurement process. highlight PIC’s commitment to sustainable procurement, and to We have continued to focus on ensure the vendor’s commitment our chemical and oil suppliers to the supplier sustainability as they account for a significant assessment. This workshop portion of our procurement helped foster open dialogue expenditure. Environmental between our suppliers and raise and social considerations awareness about sustainability were integrated into all oil and issues. In the future, we plan chemical supplier agreements to develop a process that will in 2014-2015. Our commercial capture suggestions identified department is in the process by our suppliers and customers of implementing a sustainable for sustainable opportunities for procurement policy covering all PIC. key suppliers. 72 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Advancing environmental stewardship 73 UNGC Communication on Progress CEO statement p.76 Human rights p.77 Labor p.79 Environment p.81 Anti-corruption p.83 74 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 UNGC Communication on Progress 75 CEO statement Since 2013, PIC has been a covering labor, environment, For example, we launched signatory to the United Nations anti-corruption and human human rights eLearning modules Global Compact (UNGC). We rights. Progressing towards our for employees this past year. are committed to advance the 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals Celebrating our successes 10 principles of the UNGC. and implementing our yearly will not make us complacent. We strongly believe that the sustainability objectives has PIC will continue to champion principles are closely linked to enabled us to make significant responsible business practices in our corporate mission and we progress. and beyond the State of Kuwait. look at the UNGC as a partner But our efforts extend beyond We will strive to create value for on our sustainability journey. the 2017 PIC Sustainability all our stakeholders. These pages represent the formal Goals to include significant Communication on Progress milestones such as integrating (COP) under the UNGC for the sustainability into our Enterprise year 1 April 2015 to 31 March Risk Management process and 2016. The COP encapsulates issuing PIC’s Human Rights the major policies and initiatives Position statement. Both of Mohammed Abdullatif we have developed to address these initiatives continue to be Al-Farhoud the principles of the UNGC, integrated into our business. Chief Executive Officer 76 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Human rights Our commitment the use of force only when Principle 1: necessary and proportionate Human rights position to the threat Businesses statement should support Human rights alignment Our human rights position with Kuwaiti law and respect the statement emphasizes protection of our commitment toward All of our contracts and significant investment internationally incorporating human rights into our business operations. Our agreements require compliance proclaimed human human rights commitments are: with Kuwaiti labor laws and the rights human rights requirements that ÂÂ To develop an organizational Kuwait recognizes. Some of the Principle 2: culture that supports human rights responsibilities internationally recognized Businesses should human rights principles, and highlighted by Kuwait are: make sure that they to avoid complicity in human ÂÂ States have the duty to are not complicit rights abuses protect against human rights abuses within their territory in human rights ÂÂ To improve our human rights and/or jurisdiction by third abuses performance by investing in parties, including business training employees to think enterprises and act globally toward social, environmental, health ÂÂ States have the responsibility and economic issues to take appropriate steps to prevent, investigate, ÂÂ To give equal rights and punish and redress abuse opportunities for males and through effective policies and females legislation ÂÂ To seek an open dialogue ÂÂ States should set out clearly with stakeholders, and the expectation that business participate in community enterprises domiciled in their engagement activities territory and/or jurisdiction ÂÂ To ensure that the provision respect human rights of security is consistent throughout their global with international standards operations of best practice and the laws of the countries in which we operate, using security services only where necessary, and requiring UNGC Communication on Progress 77 ÂÂ States should take Initiatives and Sharing our expertise at appropriate steps to ensure national and international outcomes the effectiveness of domestic forums judicial mechanisms when Communicating our As a commitment to spread addressing business-related position on human rights human rights awareness, we human rights abuses Our human rights position plan to share our expertise and Code of conduct statement has been performance in human rights communicated to internal and to our industry peers through We follow the Code of Conduct national and international external stakeholders through of our parent company, Kuwait forums during 2016-2017. We our monthly sustainability Petroleum Corporation (KPC). have already identified relevant champions meetings and The Code of Conduct provides forums and conferences where the 2014-2015 Sustainability a set of guidelines to all we could present our activities Report. employees in the conduct of related to human rights. their business and professional Human rights training for activities when dealing with employees World Humanitarian Day colleagues, vendors, customers, We believe that it is important to We celebrated the World contractors, government train our employees to promote Humanitarian Day at PIC on agencies and the public. The a culture of upholding values 19 August to commemorate Code of Conduct was updated and positive attitudes related to the recognition of His Highness to address human rights human rights. Currently, we are Sheik Sabah Al Ahmad Al Jaber elements of the UNGC and in the process of launching an Al Sabah as a humanitarian GRI. The code covers some key eLearning module on human leader by the UN. He was human rights aspects, such as: rights, which will be rolled out to honored for his leadership ÂÂ Conducting business our employees in 2016-2017. in support of humanitarian in a healthy, safe and Through the training, we intend operations in nations under environmentally acceptable to update our employees on the crisis around the world. A daymanner international principles of human long humanitarian campaign ÂÂ Ensuring nondiscrimination in rights, the role of businesses was held to engage with the all aspects of our relationship in upholding human rights and local community and give with employees how we can support human support to those in need. rights beyond our business Laborers were provided with ÂÂ Providing equal employment cold water and juice to support operations. We consider it an opportunities in conformance them in hot weather conditions. important investment in building with all applicable laws and Through our humanitarian a just society where the human regulations to individuals who campaign, we are committed rights of all individuals are are qualified to perform a to continue the tradition of valued. particular job helping the wider community ÂÂ Allowing employees to and supporting charities as carry out pro bono work a prominent aspect of our at registered charitable sustainability strategy. organizations 78 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Labor Our commitments ÂÂ We ensure that we are fair Principle 3: to all applicants applying for Unions positions within our Company Businesses should and we do not discriminate We abide by the Kuwait uphold the freedom against anyone on the basis Labor Law, which allows for of association the formation of unions. Both of ethnicity, gender or religion. and the effective Kuwaiti and non-Kuwaiti Code of Conduct recognition of the employees can enroll directly in unions. Eighty–eight percent The Code of Conduct prohibits right to collective of our employees are members any discrimination based bargaining of unions. In 2015-2016, we on nationality, race, religion conducted three training courses or gender. We approach all Principle 4: for union workers which focused employees equally, regardless The elimination of on functional distinction skills, of gender and nationality, and health, safety and environment ensure that all have access to all forms of forced the same opportunities, as well and creativity, management and and compulsory leadership. as training and performance labor reviews. Labor policies Principle 5: We abide by the Kuwait Labor Occupational health and safety The effective Law, which prohibits the abolition of child employment of children below At PIC, we understand that 14 years of age. We ensure occupational health and labor safety is essential to the that we comply with local labor regulations in all geographies success of our Company. Principle 6: Our Health, Safety, Security, where we invest. The elimination Sustainability, Environment of discrimination Diversity, inclusion and (HSSSE) and Quality Policy in respect of equal opportunity provides safeguards to ensure the safety of our employees, employment and PIC is committed to upholding contractors, visitors, customers, principles of diversity, inclusion occupation and equal opportunity: suppliers, distributors and public. Our commitment ÂÂ We comply with all relevant to safety is highlighted by Kuwaiti regulations related to Occupation Health and Safety diversity, inclusion and equal Advisory Services (OHSAS) and opportunity. Responsible Care® certifications. UNGC Communication on Progress 79 We have also set specific targets to report any potential violations with key stakeholders. In related to health and safety of labor practices. 2015-2016, we received the performance as part of the 2017 Royal Society for the Prevention During 2015-2016, we received PIC Sustainability Goals: of Accidents (RoSPA) MORR 32 such grievances, out of HSE Silver Award and Arab ÂÂ No more than 0.13 which 17 were successfully Fertilizers Association HSE recordable injuries per resolved, while 15 cases were Award. 200,000 man-hours of work pending as of the publication of this report. We have developed a ÂÂ No more than 0.1 process sustainable procurement safety incidents per 200,000 Health and safety assessment tool to evaluate man-hours of work In 2015-2016, we held our oil and chemical suppliers. various events to encourage One of the assessment criteria Initiatives and employees to adopt healthy covers our suppliers’ adherence outcomes lifestyles. Given the prevalence to local labor laws in terms of lifestyle diseases in Kuwait, of certificates relevant to Ensuring gender diversity we focused on initiatives such employment practices from the Considering that 8.7 percent of as International Diabetes Day, Ministry of Social Affairs and PIC’s employees are women, World Anti-Smoking Day and Labor (MOSAL) in Kuwait. we support their growth by “Healthy Nutrition” Awareness In 2015-2016, we recorded no participating in events such as sessions for our employees. fatalities among our employees the Middle East Women Leaders or contractors. We also had a In order to encourage our Conference in Dubai. At this relatively low recordable injury employees to work in a safe event, our Strategic Planning rate of 0.11 and one process and environmentally friendly Team Leader, Mrs. Abeer Sadek safety incident in 2015-2016. manner, we are encouraging Ma’rafi, won the fifteenth Middle our employees to participate East Woman Leader in Oil and in the CEO HSSE award. This Labor practices Petroleum Industry Excellence award covers three categories: In 2015-2016, there have Award. The head of our Legal Environment and Occupational been zero reported incidents Department Ms Hessa Twaijri Health, Safety and Security and of child and forced labor was also identified as one of the HSSE Awareness. Applications within our operations. We are most influential and innovative were accepted for initiatives/ also working closely with our in-house counsel within the programs that promote and suppliers to encourage them Middle East and North Africa. enhance the environment to adopt fair labor practices Last year, our parent company, and health; changes to within their operations. We have KPC, held the first Professional behavior, procedures, design integrated social considerations, Women’s Network (PWN) or operation that raise safety including fair labor practices, meeting for its subsidiaries. and security standards; and into all oil and chemical supplier The aim of PWN is to outline a programs designed to educate agreements. We also assess road map for the development and motivate employees, the social and environmental of promising women in the oil contractors, students and the performance of our suppliers sector by organizing a series public at work, in the community using the supplier sustainability of events and awareness or at home. assessment questionnaire campaigns with oil companies. developed in 2015-2016. In 2015-2016, we inaugurated Sustainability excellence has Reporting grievances our new Crisis Management also been incorporated as a Center (CMC) that allows our We have a grievance mechanism criterion for supplier selection. top management to monitor any in place to allow our employees crisis situation and communicate 80 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Environment Our commitment Initiatives and Principle 7: outcomes Environmental policy Businesses Our Health, Safety, Security, Reducing energy usage should support Sustainability, Environment We have made a commitment a precautionary and Quality Policy focuses to reduce the energy intensity approach to on environmental issues by of our operations by 6 percent environmental mandating the elimination of compared to 2012-2013 adverse environmental impacts challenges and promoting resource levels as part of our 2017 PIC Sustainability Goals. As of conservation at every stage of Principle 8: 2015-2016, we have achieved our product life cycle. an energy intensity reduction Undertake We comply with all the of 6.4 percent compared to initiatives to existing Kuwaiti environmental the 2012-2013 baseline. Our promote greater regulations governing our initiatives to reduce energy environmental operations. We have also signed usage include: an agreement with the Kuwaiti responsibility ÂÂ LEED certification of our Environment Protection Authority head office. We received a Principle 9: (KEPA) to share environmentGold certification for existing related data with the KEPA and buildings in our head office. Encourage the other institutions. To reduce our energy usage, development we implemented solar and diffusion of 2017 PIC Sustainability water heaters, a lighting Goals environmentally control system and variable Our 2017 PIC Sustainability frequency drives for the air friendly Goals have a strong focus on handling units. technologies reducing environmental impacts, ÂÂ PIC is conducting a including energy usage, water preliminary study to assess usage and GHG emissions. For the use of solar photovoltaics each goal, we have set targets (PV) at PIC facilities. This was to ensure that we reduce our part of KPC’s commitment to environmental footprint. follow His Highness the Amir of Kuwait’s plan to generate 15 percent of the total energy production from renewable energy sources. PIC is part of the technical team that was formed to carry out the study. UNGC Communication on Progress 81 Managing water usage Managing waste Furthermore, we conducted a number of key initiatives that We pledged to reduce the water We promote the recycling and encourage communities to intensity in our operations by reuse of waste produced to be environmentally friendly. 25 percent from 2012-2013 reduce hazardous and nonOne of the initiatives was to levels as part of our 2017 hazardous waste that causes PIC Sustainability Goals. Key help greening the gardens at adverse environmental impacts. initiatives to achieve this goal schools and to provide students We recycled 12MT of waste in include a Six Sigma project to with seeds to create their own 2015-2016. reduce effluents by 70 percent garden at home. This initiative and a running project, ensuring Sustainable procurement educated students about 400 m3/hour of water recycling the environmental benefits of The sustainable procurement gardening and the need for continuously from all our policy was developed in operations. afforestation. We have also 2014-2015, and we are in the focused on developing the green We have already achieved a process of implementing the space around the PIC offices 22.9 percent reduction in the policy to cover our key suppliers. through our Go Green project. water intensity of our operations We have also developed a We continue working on our compared to the 2012-2013 new supplier assessment prestigious Kuwaiti Green Wall level. questionnaire to evaluate our oil project. The project’s goal is to and chemical vendors based on plant 315,000 trees along the Reducing GHG emissions their compliance to sustainability Kuwaiti border over 10 years. We set ourselves a target considerations. A workshop with key suppliers was conducted We are also supporting our of reducing GHG emissions to highlight our commitment to parent company, KPC, in their intensity by 14 percent in the five years leading up to sustainable procurement and to renewable energy development 2017. Through technical ensure the vendor’s commitment program through a number of innovation and the efficient to the supplier sustainability initiatives, including bringing in use of raw materials, we have assessment. energy saving programs in our been successful in reducing plants, installation of LED lights emissions. GHG emission Management systems at our head office and the study intensity has decreased by 20.9 for a solar PV-powered system We hold ourselves to the percent from 2012-2013 levels. in PIC facilities. highest environmental performance and operational External assurance of Minimizing spills excellence standards. We are scope 1 and 2 emissions Our 2017 PIC Sustainability certified to ISO 140001: 2004 Goals set a target of no more Environmental Management In order to ensure the accuracy than one spill each year, Systems and ISO 50001:2008 of our GHG emissions data although we believe that Energy Management Systems. collection and reporting process, one spill is one too many. we conducted a third-party We conducted regular HSE Environmental awareness review of our GHG information awareness campaigns for our and responsibility system, data collection employees, which included process and methodology. The The balanced scorecard sessions on safe handling of external audit did not reveal system for our employees our products and processes. any omissions or inaccuracies includes sustainability targets Through our commitments to in our GHG quantification and to ensure that each department protecting our environment reporting process. implements actions necessary to and compliance to HSE-related meet our corporate goals. policies and procedures, we succeeded in having no spills in 2015-2016. 82 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Anti-corruption Our commitments PIC continues to demonstrate Principle 10: adherence to fair business Code of Conduct practices and zero tolerance for Businesses should corrupt business activities. We work against ÂÂ Employees are expected to did not have any legal actions act with the highest integrity corruption in all its and report any violations filed involving us for antiforms, including competitive behavior, anti-trust of law or policies to the or monopoly practices in extortion and compliance officer. 2015-2016. Furthermore, there bribery ÂÂ Employees are expected to were no incidents of corruption report any potential conflict involving PIC employees in of interest to the compliance 2015-2016. officer and abide by the given instructions. ÂÂ Employees may not offer, solicit or accept a bribe in any form and may not permit third parties acting on behalf of PIC to do so. ÂÂ If employees receive gifts valued over KWD100 or its equivalent, they are expected to declare the same to their supervisor. Initiatives and outcomes Risk assessment Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) department conducted an analysis of the corruption risks faced by PIC and has identified two corruption-related risks for 2015-2016. We are currently working toward managing and addressing these risks. UNGC Communication on Progress 83 GRI Index Complete Partial Non-disclosure General standard disclosures GRI Level of Page No Comments indicator disclosure Strategy and analysis G4-1 5 G4-2 22, 30, 37 Organizational profile G4-3 6 G4-4 14 G4-5 7 G4-6 17 G4-7 12 G4-8 – Confidential G4-9 14-17 G4-10 48 G4-11 – 88% of our employees G4-12 15, 72 G4-13 7 G4-14 11, 62 G4-15 20-21 G4-16 20-21 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 16,17 G4-18 37-39 G4-19 37-39 For more details on GRI G4 indicators listed above, please refer to g4.globalreporting.org 84 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 G4-20 39 G4-21 39 G4-22 63 G4-23 7 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 34, 35 G4-25 33 G4-26 34, 35 G4-27 34, 35 Report profile G4-28 6 G4-29 6 G4-30 6 G4-31 6 G4-32 6, 7 While we work closely with credible international partners to G4-33 – ensure global standards in sustainability reporting, we do not yet seek external assurance. Governance G4-34 18, 19 Ethics and integrity G4-56 13, 58 Specific standard disclosures Standard Level of Page no Comments disclosures disclosure Category: Economic Material aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA 43 G4-EC1 43 G4-EC3 49 For more details on GRI G4 indicators listed above, please refer to g4.globalreporting.org GRI Index 85 Material aspect: Market presence G4-DMA 44 G4-EC5 48 G4-EC6 44 Material aspect: Procurement practices G4-DMA 44 G4-EC9 44 Category: Environmental Material aspect: Energy G4-DMA 63, 64 G4-EN3 63 G4-EN5 63, 64 G4-EN6 63, 64 Material aspect: Water G4-DMA 65, 66 G4-EN8 65 G4-EN10 65, 66 Material aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 71 G4-EN11 71 G4-EN12 71 Material aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 67, 68 G4-EN15 67 G4-EN16 67 G4-EN18 67 G4-EN19 67, 68 G4-EN21 68 Material aspect: Effluents and waste G4-DMA 70 For more details on GRI G4 indicators listed above, please refer to g4.globalreporting.org 86 Sustainability Report 2015-2016 G4-EN22 66 G4-EN23 70 G4-EN24 69 Material aspect: Overall G4-DMA 62 G4-EN31 62 Material aspect: Supplier environmental assessment G4-DMA 72 G4-EN32 72 Supplier assessment questionnaires were introduced in 2015 G4-EN33 72 and we will engage with our suppliers to assess significant impacts in the future. Material aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA 62 G4-EN34 62 Category: Social Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Material aspect: Employment G4-DMA 48 G4-LA2 49 Material aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-DMA 52-55 G4-LA5 52 We currently do not track gender-based safety peformance G4-LA6 54, 55 statistics G4-LA7 54 Material aspect: Training and education G4-DMA 50 G4-LA9 50 G4-LA11 51 For more details on GRI G4 indicators listed above, please refer to g4.globalreporting.org GRI Index 87 Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA 48 G4-LA12 48 Material aspect: Labor practices grievance mechanisms G4-DMA 58 G4-LA16 58 Sub-category: Human rights Material aspect: Investment G4-DMA 58 G4-HR1 58 G4-HR2 58 Human rights eLearning module to be rolled out in 2016 Sub-category: Society Material aspect: Local communities G4-DMA 56, 57 G4-SO1 56, 57 G4-SO2 56 Material aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA 58 G4-SO3 58 G4-SO4 58 G4-SO5 58 Material aspect: Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA 58 G4-SO7 58 Sub-category: Product responsibility Material aspect: Product and service labeling G4-DMA 45 G4-PR5 45 Category: Oil and gas sector Material aspect: Asset integrity and process safety G4-DMA 54 G4-OG13 54 For more details on GRI G4 indicators listed above, please refer to g4.globalreporting.org 88 Sustainability Report 2015-2016
