ALEXBANK'S UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2015 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT This report covers the period from January 2015 until December 2015 A WORLD OF REAL POSSIBILITIES www.alexbank.com ABOUT ALEXBANK Established in 1957 and a proud member of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group since 2007 (80% of its shares), today ALEXBANK is one of Egypt’s leading private sector banks. The IFC subsequently became a shareholder, acquiring 9.75% of the bank from Intesa Sanpaolo Group. ALEXBANK has since launched an ambitious development strategy to move in line with Intesa Sanpaolo innovative systems and platforms of products services. As No.1 in retail assets private sector market share, ALEXBANK also owns one of the largest private sector branch networks in the country, with a total of 170 branches located in every major Egyptian governorate and more than 5,000 employees. ALEXBANK is proud to serve over 1.5 million customers, playing a vital role in Egypt’s economic present and future. Strategic Milestones of ALEXBANK Sanpaolo IMI IFC Intesa Sanpaolo Bank of Alexnadria 1957 2006 2009 Established as Joint stock Company Sanpaolo IMI (Intesa Sanpaolo) IFC purchased from Intesa Sanpaolo as a Commercial Bank fully owned by acquired %80 of the Bank’s share (ISP)%9.75 of the Bank’s Share the Egyptian state after a privatization process. In December 2009 delisted from the Egyptian Stock Exchange. For more information Please visit www.ALEXBANK.com or follow us on /ALEXBANKOFFICIAL /AlexBankOfficial / company/bank-of-Alexandria www.alexbank.com 2 ALEXBANK’S OVERALL COMMITMENT ALEXBANK’s commitment is implemented through various policies, values and standards: Labor Compliance We maintain the fair labor values, including workWe observe and strive for even more, demanding hours, conditions, wages that are in compliing standards consistent with human rights ance with the Egyptian Labour law. We condemn policies to the extent so that we do not violate the use of forced labor and abusive child labor as local laws and regulations defined by the Egyptian Labor law and Rights at Work. We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association. ALEXBANK has a staff union that is effectively elected by the employees of the bank giving them the freedom to express their ideas. ALEXBANK staff are 100 % unionized. Health and Safety Community At ALEXBANK, we aim to provide a safe and ALEXBANK supports a vast array of stakeholders healthy working environment in or operations from customers, employees, shareholders, suppliand premises. ers, investors, the environment and the community at large to assure a long-term and sustainable approach. ALEXBANK must therefore create value and maximize its global impact not only in terms of business success but also participating in the enhancement of the local communities and Country. Wages and Benefits Environment We compensate our employees in a manner that At ALEXBANK, one of the pillars of the CSR supports their ability to meet their basic needs fairly strategy is the environment whether it’s for and equally. We also offer our employees the opthe community or our employees. We work portunity to improve their skills and capabilities. both internally and externally, such as trying Alex bank employees are paid a salary on a monthto become an environmentally sustainable and ly basis in addition to allowances and Over time. paperless bank, and also financing environALEXBANK employees obtain an annual collection mental projects in our community. profit share . Other variable pay include commercial incentive and/or discretional bonus. Merit pay is extended upon performance. Diversity and Equal Opportunities Customers We value diversity and provide equal opportunities for We consider the economic, social, geographic our people In ALEXBANK, we abide by the labor law and and cultural diversity of our customers as we implement the disability quota required by the law. We develop and market our products. do not discriminate in employment, contracting, wages, promotion, working conditions or in any other opportunity based on race, color, gender, gender identity, gender expression, genetic information, age, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientation, marital status or disability. Privacy Business Partners We respect individual privacy . We protect perWe expect appropriate standards of conduct and sonal information that we collect, use and disrespect for human rights, consistent with our own, close in connection with our business. from our suppliers, contractors and partners. www.alexbank.com 3 THE BANK AT A GLANCE: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Shareholders’ Equity 5,418 Indirect Deposit 1,833 1,241.1 Net Profit Direct Deposit 37,634.1 1,543,221 Customers (Customers’ deposits) Loan to customers 27,106.9 5035 Employees (performing + nonperforming) Total Assets 50,839.7 170 Branches As of Dec.2015 (IFRS), Amounts in mln EGP www.alexbank.com 4 LETTER FROM THE CEO Dear Valued Stakeholders, In spite of the local and global challenges, 2015 was one of our most successful years for our Bank. In 2015, we grew in results and in drive, empowering more our staff to let everyone make the difference reaching out all our stakeholders and laying the essential groundwork for an even more successful future. In 2015, we managed to increase our portfolio of activities and to develop new initiatives for our employees to help increase their engagement. We at ALEXBANK take great pride in our achievements, as we are deeply convinced that our success is strictly linked to the real support and value we are able to deliver to our customers and the territories where we operate in. Our aim is to maintain a competitive position by actively listen the demand stemming from the markets and the segments we serve, returning valuable services built through the vast experience of our Bank and Dante Campioni the Group we belong to. Our success is the product of the passion and dedication of all our employees united by the CEO and Managing common values set by our code of Ethic, who are deeply Director of ALEXBANK committed to well support our business activities, totally related to a wide concept of CSR which more and more is rooted in our culture and driving all our actions. Their enthusiasm in endorsing our goals and objectives, helps achieving a tremendous impact on people and communities we serve in. I am proud that this is ALEXBANK’s second Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). ALEXBANK has been a signatory to the 10 principles of the UNGC since 2014 where our business and non-business acts are outlined with these 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, and Environment and Anti-Corruption to help us achieving greater sustainability. The 10 principles are deeply anchored in our core values and our Code of Business Ethics. With all this, we hereby reconfirm our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and we also commit to share all the available information with our stakeholders using all our primary channels of communication. Thank you www.alexbank.com 5 ALEXBANK IMPLEMENTING THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Being part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ALEXBANK conducts business in accordance with the laws and regulations and follows international guidelines and recognized principles for corporate responsibility, including standards for human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. ALEXBANK’s culture and values are aligned with the UNGC Ten Principles and are at the heart of how we conduct business. We have integrated these Ten Principles into existing policies to be implemented in our daily activities. The ten principles can be clearly seen in our Code of Ethics, our business strategy and policies. The following report provides an overview of how the Ten Principles have been implemented across business and service lines: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 10: Businesses should of internationally proclaimed human work against corruption in all its forms, rights including extortion and bribery Principle 2: Make sure that Environmental Human Rights they are not complicit in Principles Principles Labor human rights abuses Principles Principle 9: Encourage the Anti-Corruption Labor Principle 3: Businesses development and diffusion of Principles Principles should uphold the freedom of environmentally friendly association and the effective technologies recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 4: The elimination of all responsibility forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of Principle 7: Businesses should child labour support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation www.alexbank.com 6 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ALEXBANK recognizes that human rights are an integral part of the business .We respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Guiding Principles on Business. The Bank is committed to conducting its business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all its stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders). We focus on Human Rights Principles adherence for our staff and our community. Our Staff Policies and guiding principles ALEXBANK HR policies which are composed of a number of policies that outline the Group’s aims in areas such as diversity, working environment, stress, health and employee training and environmental sustainability. The Code of Conduct which contains rules and policy statements that help employees in their daily decision making regarding issues such as gifts, conflicts of interest, internal and confidential information, anti-corruption and bribery. The Code of Ethics which contains principles that govern the relationship of the bank with others such as suppliers, stakeholders, employees ,…etc. The Whistle Blowing Policy which encourages all employees to speak out if they have legitimate concerns about malpractice or wrongdoing within an organization. Recruitment and Internship Career and Performance Management Engagement through IC and CSR activities www.alexbank.com 7 Recruitment and Internship ALEXBANK is deeply rooted among the local and regional talent community. Our strategy is to foster talent even before gradation through various undergrad internship programs in different functions inside the bank . More than 1000 undergrads from different Egyptian Universities across Egyptian Governorates spend 1 month each in the summer in our professional environment gaining on the job exposure . We also provide our interns with their first insight on how to build a professional profile (CV) and how to use LinkedIn as a professional networking platform, helping them understand their professional passion. ALEXBANK also extends selective Graduate Internship Opportunities (in 2015, 20 graduates spent each an average of 6-9 months) in a professional experience to edify their knowledge and enhance their CV. For recruitment, ALEXBANK adopts a transparent system, announcing openly external vacancies through its official employer branding social platform (Linked In) where applicants and references are handled. Internal vacancies both locally and in the Group are transparently announced and applicants are screened within rules and guidelines. Career and Performance Management ALEXBANK employees are supported through dedicated HR Account Managers that support their needs in terms of Performance Management and Career Development. Staff are helped to identify their professional passion and growth accordingly through interaction with the People Management and Development Function, which also supports the learning and training, 2015 Professional Development highlights were: Professional Development Managerial Programs 2015 witnessed various courses to develop leadership, helping the Head Office managers and Branch managers members of a team to be more efficient in their performances, and to understand the motivational incentives necessaries to the development of the team members and their cooperation, and participation for common objectives. This was done through interactive activities and role plays Communication and Business Acumen for professionals Professionals across the bank received soft skills training to gain the benefit of understanding where our time is spent and wasted, how to manage competing priorities, overcome procrastination, and increase focus, apply tools to plan, organize, and relieve stress, leverage our time through multitasking, delegation, and decision-making Handle corporate communications and meetings with greater ease. Staff were trained to develop and utilize measures to assess goal attainment and outcome achievement, managing work flow, ownership & accountability, enhancing self-confidence, strengthening skills, developing communication and Leadership skills as well as reducing stress. Developing the Commercial workforce The bank staff in revenue generating roles are treated annually to a refreshment of their selling, cross selling, upselling,.. etc as well as other commercial aptitude required to enhance their performance. This is in addition to constant Quality awareness sessions on Bank products and proposition to increase competitiveness. Control is the key ALEXBANK staff is kept a breadth the local and international regulatory requirements and mandates through e-learning and one to one and classroom sessions. This is to safeguard the Bank and staff performance through full knowledge , understanding and adherence to the governance and control framework. Specialized Diplomas and Educational Assistance Programs ALEXBANK is keen to keep sharp and up to date its workforce technical competences within the latest certifications and diplomas in the field. This includes CMA, CFA, Certified Credit Course and other technical tracks . In addition to this, the Bank also extends opportunity to support staff in their educational self-development initiatives through a support program. Language Skills It was a blended program offering e-learning activities and live sessions with a coach. This e-learning training, which is supported by ISP Group, was designed to enable the trainees to study in one Community as it offers a virtual network for collaborative learning with other members of the community both peers and experts to enhance their language skills. www.alexbank.com 8 Performance , Merit and Motivation Around 58% of the bank population received merit based on the performance and the assessment system guidelines. For revenue generating roles in the Network , and to make use of the competitive spirit and to motivate employees, the league championship was created. It is viewed as a means, together with the incentive system, to achieve targets. The design of these competitions will generate benefits for all, regional managers, area managers, branch managers as well as employees. It includes all jobs serving customers. In each round, prizes will be presented to all employees of the top performing branch. In line with Parent Company guidelines and with clear understanding to keep overall costs of personnel below the overall figures year by year fixed in the business plan 2014-17 Bank decided to progressively introduce a New Incentive scheme for Direct Revenue generating roles in the network and head office who represent around 50% of our Bank population. ALEXBANK’S Employee and Pensioners Benefits ALEXBANK provides its employees and pensioners with several ongoing offers and benefits such as summer vacation offers with reduced prices with the option of paying on installments in addition to sports clubs memberships and nurseries with reduced prices. ALEXBANK also provides its employees and pensioners with an enhanced medical and dental services in addition to other valuable services and programs to its employees via one of the biggest Medical Care Service companies across the countryenjoying an extensive medical network, in addition to a full-fledged expertise in the banking sector. The medical care service provides all the needed medical assistance through a medical service provider with a spread medical network (Hospitals, Doctors , medicine and others). In addition to this, ALEXBANK places an obituary announcement in the public newspaper “Al Ahram” for deceased employees who passed away while still working with ALEXBANK. www.alexbank.com 9 Engagement through Internal Communication and Corporate Social Responsibility activities AFS inter cultural educational program For the seventh time in arrow, ALEXBANK gives 2 of its employees’ children the chance to study in Italy for one year on ALEXBANK expenses. AFS inter cultural educational program is an inter-cultural program in cooperation with AFS. This initiative started in 2010 as a summer camp, then was changed to a scholarship opportunity. In 2015, ALEXBANK supported 2 of employees’ children and gave them the chance to study in Italy Wellspring camp – Employees’ children For the 5th year in a row, ALEXBANK organizes Wellspring camp. It is a famous initiative for the IC and CSR Office. The camp takes place in Wadi el Natroun where 15 boys & 15 girls of employees’ children are chosen to spend 5 days full of activities. In 2015, the camp was organized 3 times where one of them was a newly introduced batch dedicated only for employees’ children who are older in age and did not participate in any of the Bank’s previous initiatives. ISP Follonica summer camp For the 5th year in a row, ALEXBANK organizes Follonica is a long waited camp for our employees. Every year 24 of employees children aged 9-12 yrs. (12boys & 12 girls) are chosen though an electronic draw to spend 2 weeks between fun, sports and new friendships in Tuscany, Italy. In 2015, Follonica methodology was changed to include an introductory session for parent’s and one to one meeting with the kid to avoid any misunderstanding and to prepare the parents and the children for the new experience they will go through. After the children returned from the trip, a parents’ meeting was held to inform the parents of what their children faced and to give them a gift from the Bank www.alexbank.com 10 KidZania During 2015 and for the first time, the IC and CSR Office organized 2 trips for employees’ children and grandchildren for KidZania. KidZania Cairo offers kids a variety of fun and interesting role-playing activities in a realistic city setting. Job activities such as doctor, firefighter, chef, or flight attendant are associated with real-world brands, allowing kids to create and learn with realistic results. During the first trip, 150 children participated and for the second time 260 children participated. During the day, children enjoyed the various activities and were offered a free meal also. IN’Tents Show for Kids In 2015, and for the first time IC and CSR Office organized a trip to Al Hanager theatre allowing the both employees children and 57357 children cancer hospital children to watch the first international comedy show “IN’Tents”. ALEXBANK’s Tournaments during the month of Ramadan: ALEXBANK organizes each year -during the Holy month of Ramadanthe bank’s Ramadan Sports Tournament where employees across all regions and functions gather for one month to compete and participate in diffident activities along with their families and friends. www.alexbank.com 11 New Suez Canal Employees visit In 2015, a visit was organized to the New Suez Canal Project after its official inauguration of the Canal. More than 100 employees participated in the visit where they enjoyed the trip and visiting several monuments like Barleve line and Tabet el shagara . Intesa Sanpaolo Group Marathon in Slovenia In 2015, ALEXBANK employees participated Intesa Sanpaolo Group Marathon that took place from 11 12 April 2015 in Koper /Izola/ Pirano in Slovenia Champions Bank Tournament ALEXBANK employees form a team to play with all the banks of Egypt in the official international football tournament. In 2015, ALEXBANK invited all the Egyptian banks to create an Egyptian national team to represent Egypt in the in the 2nd round of the official international football tournament that took place 25-27 September in Belgrade. Employee Family Emergency Medical Support Program A program for providing financial support to emergency medical cases of families of bank employees. The program is based on a case by case basis for “Catastrophic” medical cases that the staff member cannot afford and has officially presented a request asking for financial support. The bank Doctor provides a medical approval for the medical cases and the CSR Office is in charge of the procedures. During 2015 the CSR Office supported 125 medical cases of employees’ families health emergencies. www.alexbank.com 12 Our Society Those Who need Us Campaign “Those who need us” is a quarterly volunteering campaign by ALEXBANK Staff. This campaign enables all employees to suggest volunteering visits underprivileged communities or NGOs. Each month the Bank organizes a volunteering visit directed to a different cause. In 2015, the campaign featured more than 12 visits to several NGOs and associations. Also part of this is the quarterly blood donations campaigns where ALEXBANK employees donated 500 blood bags. “Water For Life” Project A project in partnership with ALEXBANK, UNICEF and the Rotaract Club of El Tahrir to help provide clear water connections to more than 180 houses “Bani Korra” village –in Assuit Governorate. “Food for Education” Project A project in partnership with Intesa Sanpaolo Group and the World Food Programme in Egypt aiming at fighting hunger and encouraging school enrollment between children while enhancing the knowledge of teachers and children on basic health, nutrition , and hygiene. This is by implementing tailored awareness raising programs. It channels vital nourishment to children and promotes healthier dietary habits among communities through the provision of daily fortified in school snacks and conditional monthly take home rations to children and their families attending primary community schools. www.alexbank.com 13 The Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB) ALEXBANK is an active member of “Renovation of Slum Areas” and also a member in the project’s steering committee. In 2015, ALEXBANK in partnership with the Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB) moved into phase 2 targeting human development in the slum areas part of the “Renovation of Slum Areas” project that started in 2013. This project aims to upgrade the living conditions of over 250,000 people from the regions has been achieved in the development of slums in Egypt project. The project partnered with 2 NGOs working on two major activities: waste management and school renovations. A significant progress Almost 95% of the work has been completed represented in the installation of new street lights, works of fire extinguishers, repairing sanitary networks, installation of new systems where needed, building sidewalks to increase safety of pedestrians and to reducing rubble and dust in the streets which contribute significantly to pollution and diseases. ALEXBANK’s Roofing Project in Upper Egypt ALEXBANK launched a roofing project in Upper Egypt in 2015, where the Bank in coordination with Misr El Kheir NGO supported the roofing of the houses in one of poorest villages in Upper Egypt in Menya governorate. During the month of Ramadan, the Bank donated EGP 125,000 and the remaining EGP 110,000 was already donated by the staff. ALEXBANK also organized a visit to the village with more than 50 staff members and organized an Iftar with more than 200 villagers. The Bank employees also took part in the distribution of packs of basic commodities across the village. www.alexbank.com 14 ALEXBANK’s “Cotton for Life” Initiative ALEXBANK and Filmar Nile Textile signed a 5 year partnership under the name “Cotton for Life” in cooperation with the Ministry of Education by the end of 2014. “Cotton for Life” aimed at enhancing positive long-term changes to the traditional methodologies so far adopted in the Egyptian cotton plantations and industrial processing. The activities of the project supported Egyptian farmers to grow cotton in a way that reduces stress on the local environment and improves the livelihoods and welfare of involved communities. The Education and Training component of the COTTONFORLIFE Initiative aimed to: a) Develop and offer to select Egyptian students, relevant demand-driven education and training by vertically integrating the different “rings” of the textile value chain, starting from the cultivation of cotton to the production of yarns and fabrics. b) Enhance efficient youth employability in the textile sector by facilitating the match-making between offer and demand. c) Promote the importance of technical education and training in the textile sector as a conducive path to employment, along with the economic and social importance that sustainable cotton production can have for Egypt. Supporting the Fifth Annual “Tunis Village Festival for Pottery and Crafts” in Fayoum ALEXBANK supported the Fifth Annual “Tunis Village Festival for Pottery and Crafts” in El Fayoum Governorate in 2015. Through this initiative ALEXBANK partnered with the ceramic artists and pottery craftsmen in Tunis village producing handmade original pottery crafts that descend from history old practices. ALEXBANK helped with many promotional activities to the event as well helped with the major organizational and infrastructural activities resulting in a more organized and recognized festival. A main aim for ALEXBANK was to help elevate the number of sales for the village during the festival which was successfully implemented by the end of the festival. The festival hosted many activities such as: a special workshop for the largest piece of pottery in Egypt, a display of the oldest methods of pottery making across the world, documentary film shows, bird watching activities by the Qaroun Lake and touristic tours across Fayoum main sites. www.alexbank.com 15 “Long Live Egypt” Fund Donation ALEXBANK donated a total amount of EGP 1 Mln. to “Long Live Egypt” Fund with the aim to support the development and to show solidarity with the people of-Egypt to help alleviate the losses caused by floods in Alexandria Governorate asserting the role of our bank in serving the community, national development & crisis resolution. Internal CSR Competition For Employees “CSR For My people 2015” “For My People” Competition is a clear reflection of ALEXBANK’s belief in creating a shared value that can be handled in the future by collaborating with our partners, and most importantly our employees. The CSR Office received 20 proposals from the staff during the month of Ramadan about different CSR venues or suggestions that they believe is applicable for ALEXBANK to fund. The cause of 2015 was children fatal and chronic diseases. The competition witnessed the sponsorship of four projects across all ALEXBANK regions for the first time since its launch as follows: A. Sponsorship with Abo el Reesh Hospital : “Helping children with kidney and liver diseases”: The project aimed at providing Abo EL Reesh hospital for children with medical telescopes to support children surgeries for children with liver, kidney , cancer diseases , These telescopes open a small incision instead of making a distorted wound leading to a speedy recovery . B. Sponsorship with the Egyptian Association for kidney care “Helping infants & children with kidney dialysis”: The project aimed at providing the needed care to children with kidney diseases in Suez to support in providing the needed services for children who have kidney diseases in Suez. C. Sponsorship with Shefa el Orman hospital – Association “Support the first cancer hospital in upper Egypt ”: The project aimed at supporting children with cancer in governorates such as Aswan , Luxor , Quena , Sohag , Red sea and New Wadi , instead of travelling to Cairo . These governorates do not have the needed cure for cancer to support a wide scale of children patients. D. Sponsorship with Hayaty NGO “My life to the better”: The project aimed at establishing one room for children in Shatby hospital in Alexandria for those who have liver diseases or liver failure. The room consisted of 3 units noting that the duration of the child’s treatment‘s 5 days to 2 weeks. www.alexbank.com 16 LABOR PRINCIPLES The bank is governed by rules and regulation that govern the labour. These rules are related to wages, leaves , duties of each employee and termination. The Egyptian labour law supports this through its articles in terms of wages , leaves, duties, investigation in case of violation, working hours and breaks in addition to articles related to social and health services. ALEXBANK does not use forced, compulsory or child labor. Our people want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our Core Values. Our target is to create a global culture of diversity. We are aware of the challenge of balancing professional achievement and personal well-being. We care about helping our employees succeed, and are focused on providing resources to improve their health and that of their families, creating a culture that appreciates differences, and offering more opportunities to grow both professionally and personally at work and in the communities where they live. We support freedom of association. ALEXBANK has a staff union that is effectively elected by the employees of the bank giving them the freedom to express their ideas. www.alexbank.com 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Equator Principles Membership Since 2012, ALEXBANK has been a signatory of the Equator Principles, a framework for managing the impacts on the environment and on local communities that may arise from financing large projects. Project finance is a method of financing where lenders are repaid through revenues generated by the project, typically used to fund large, complex and expensive installations like power plants or mines. The Equator Principles is a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in projects and is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence to support responsible risk decision-making. Energy Efficiency Project The new electricity system approximately saves 40% from the annual electricity Consumption. As part of the project, ALEXBANK sent three of the staff to a training program in coordination with the UNDP to learn about saving energy efficiently inside the premises. In 2014, we managed to complete 39 branches and in 2015 we managed to complete 7 branches and 2 floors in Abdel Khalek Tharwat Building. All the upcoming renovated branches will be by using the same kind of LED lights. ALEXBANK World Environment Day Celebration in the office ALEXBANK celebrated the World Environment Day in 2015, ALEXBANK organized a special day for employees’ children with a special focus on how to save the planet. The celebration was in partnership with Arab Office for Youth & Environment “AOYE”. Children learned more about their surrounding environment. Through the day, different activities took place such as planting seedlings and coloring in addition to some sessions www.alexbank.com 18 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Ethical practice is a pillar of our existence as an organization. Our Parent Group has equipped us and all subsidiaries with regulatory policies and codes that we must deeply embed in our business culture. Our professional standing is inherently connected to our upholding of these regulatory tools in our daily practice, as individuals, as a company, and consequently as a professional community. ALEXBANK guarantees that whoever reports a case using any of the tools in good faith will be protected from any form of retaliation, discrimination or penalization, and ensures maximum confidentiality, except in cases otherwise indicated by law. These regulatory tools are to be carefully used, remembering that Policy does not cover concerns about an individual’s or collective terms of employment, since these are covered in the other internal legal acts. It is also not intended as a route to re-examine the findings of other formal procedures, such as disciplinary or complaint proceedings. ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics This Code illustrates the values of ALEXBANK and aims to direct individual behaviors accordingly, with the knowledge that an understanding of social and environmental factors contributes to minimizing exposure to credit and compliance risks and strengthens the company’s reputation. A hard copy of the Code is delivered to each manager, employee or external collaborator upon appointment, hiring or at the start of a work relationship. ALEXBANK Whistle Blowing Policy Whistle blowing can be done to face the most significant concerns over any wrong-doing within the Bank relating to unlawful conduct, financial transgression or dangers to the employees. There are ongoing training sessions to raise the awareness held to the employees about the bank policies in addition to onsite visits are done to ensure that the employees’ Compliance with the Bank policies. Employees can report any malpractice with-in the bank at any time by sending an e-mail to compliance department. www.alexbank.com 19
