United Nations Global Compact Communication in Progress (COP) March 2015 March 2016 Dany Bienenwohl GmbH Germany Munich, 24th March 2016 Statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that DANY Bienenwohl reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. The objective of the COP is to convey our efforts to implement the compact and its principles in our corporate behaviour. The executive board is personally confident in the supranational concept of the UN Global Compact and, therefore, supports it. Throughout 2015 and 2016, we have shown good practice in the workplace, marketplace and the environment, as well as in the local communities in which we operate, and we will continue our efforts to uphold these standards. Sincerely yours, Nick Dany CEO, Dany Bienenwohl GmbH 1 Description of practical actions and measurement of outcomes We implemented the principles of the global compact in our corporate culture. We trained our employees and made awareness of the 10 Global Compact Principles with the firms we collaborate. The aim was to grow the corporate consciousness further for the UN Global Compact Principles in 2015 in each level of the company. Since the year 2010 we run successful company intern sustainability meetings which are an example of a practical action that we have taken to implement the compact’s principles. In the first five years of our participation in the compact, we have chosen to address two issues: human rights and the environment but also establish awareness for the two other pillars labour and anticorruption. We are eager to further strengthen awareness of the four pillars since 2014. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals We are committed to human rights for all people, and support the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, regardless of local laws. We guarantee that everyone working for us is guaranteed equal human rights. Our suppliers are required to act in accordance with our code of conduct. For a better evaluation system, our staff members receive ongoing training on how human right issues can be affected by business. Supplier pre-qualification requirements have been introduced for all new members of the supply chain; our objective is to ensure that our existing suppliers work in accordance with these principles. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies We support the 1992 Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, through our use of environmentally friendly technologies and communicate environmental awareness. We further promote environmental responsibility in our marketplace. Since we joined the compact, we have endeavoured to eradicate the use of unnecessary packaging. For 2016, we pledge to continue this promotion of environmental responsibility in our marketplace and local community. 2 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Our company supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced or child labour. DANY Bienenwohl complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. DANY Bienenwohl has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. Anti-corruption principle Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery We follow the German legislation on corruption. Our internal rules and regulations include clear instructions and all co-workers are trained on topics such as money laundering. No such incidents have been reported. DANY Bienenwohl does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We support the UN Convention Against Corruption and do not operate in countries or with organisations that are corrupt. All gifts received from suppliers and customers are handed in to the relevant Manager and all gifts go into a raffle so they are shared randomly amongst employees. We have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. 3
