2016 CSR Report Contents Company Philosophy, Company Vision, P.2 Company Policy P.24 Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure and Comfortable Society ■ Service to Customers P.3 About this Report ■ Solutions for Social Issues ■ Response to Social expectations ■ Editorial Policy ■ Boundary Definitions ■ Reporting Period P.37 Goal 2 Maintaining Harmony with the ■ Guidelines used as reference Global Socio-Economy ■ Expanded Information on the Web ■ Establishment of Compliance ■ Date of Issue ■ Promotion of Risk Management ■ Other Disclosure Information ■ Supply Chain Management ■ Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity ■ Human Resource Development P.4 Company Profile ■ Labor Safety and Health ■ Promotion of Social Contribution Activities P.5 Top Commitment P.68 Goal 3 Promoting Global Environmental “120+1“ Protection Implementing “Envision : Ensure“ to Create Social ■ Eco-Management, Eco-Mind ■ Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Innovations Where Everyone Wins ■ Eco-Products P.6 Brand(envision : ensure) ■ Group Environmental Impact Data ■ Environmental Accounting ■ History of Anritsu’s Environmental Activities P.7 Business Outline ■ Test and Measurement P.103 Goal 4 Promoting Communication ■ PQA Business ■ Other Businesses ■ Communication with Stakeholders ■ Global Network ■ Customers ■ Shareholders and Investors ■ Business Partners P.12 CSR at Anritsu ■ NGO and NPOs ■ Employees ■ CSR at Anritsu ■ CSR Results for Fiscal 2015, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2016 P.109 Corporate Governance P.18 Stakeholder Dialogue ■ Basic Approach ■ System Overview ■ Company Structure ■ Status of Internal Audits and Audits by Auditors ■ Audit Committee and Management Audit Department ■ Status of Accounting Audit ■ Role of Outside Officers ■ Compensation of Directors ■ Training for Management Executives ■ Assessing the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors P.118 GRI Guidelines Index P.122 Independent Review Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 1 Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Top Commitment Company Policy Company Philosophy, Company Vision, Company Policy Anritsu is putting into practice the basic principles of its company philosophy, vision and policy. Anritsu also respects the Global Compact that Anritsu upholds as the principles of action for a global enterprise. And Anritsu is promoting CSR activities by adhering to the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct that set out concrete values and behavioral guidelines. Company Philosophy Company Vision Company Policy Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior The Anritsu Group's philosophy is to create corporate value with sincerity, harmony, and enthusiasm. We will provide solutions through innovation using all knowledge of all parties with the core being our original & high level technology. At the same time we will conduct our business with high ethics and the goal of contributing to the advancement of society. The Anritsu Group will act enthusiastically to carry out its corporate social responsibility with sincerity and with respect for the individual, while at the same time working to assure that we address the interests of all our stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, and local and global societies. Protecting Human Rights The Anritsu Group will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. Valuing Employees The Anritsu Group will respect each employee's individuality and will create work environments where all of its employees can fully demonstrate their abilities and carry out their jobs with enthusiasm. Harmony with Society The Anritsu Group will respect the customs and cultures of the international society and the local society, and will manage its activities in a way that contributes to the development of all societies that it interacts with. Preserving the Global The Anritsu Group will reduce the impact of its operations on the global environment and will contribute to build a sustainable society. Environment Conducting Social The Anritsu Group will, as a good corporate citizen, actively engage in activities that contribute to the betterment society in addition to its Contribution Activity normal business operations. Attaining Customer The Anritsu Group will develop and provide socially useful products and services, giving full consideration to quality, safety and the Satisfaction environment. This combination of receiving value and receiving it from a socially responsible company will result in high customer satisfaction. Conducting Ethical The Anritsu Group will engage in fair, transparent, and free competition, and will maintain healthy and normal relationships with political Company Activities institutions, governmental administration as well as citizens and other organizations. Disclosing Corporate The Anritsu Group will disclose its corporate information in a timely, clear, and appropriate manner in order to improve the transparency Information of its corporate activities. Managing Information The Anritsu Group will execute proper management of information property it obtains including observing privacy policies concerning Property individual information and customer information. The Anritsu Managers will take the responsibility for implementing this charter and for taking all necessary action in order to raise awareness in their corporation. They will also take initiative and set an example so that every employee in the Anritsu Group becomes fully aware of the philosophy in this Charter. This includes creating corporate in-house systems to fulfill the intent of the Charter and endeavoring to maintain high corporate ethics. When a law or a rule is violated, the Manager must take action to notify senior management and then work together to resolve the problem, endeavoring to clarify its causes and prevent its recurrence. And the Manager will promptly and adequately disclose all relevant information to the public when deemed appropriate, and will institute disciplinary action upon identifying who authorized and was responsible for such acts. No responsible employee or officer is to be shielded from these disciplinary actions. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 2 About this Report About this Report Editorial Policy Expanded Information on the Web We publish CSR Report 2016 in PDF format to Please refer to the following websites for further report our CSR activities for fiscal 2015. Having been information organized under the 12 material issues identified through a materiality assessment conducted in 2008, URL Details on CSR Activities the concrete status of activities is presented in this report for communicating our CSR activities to more URL Investor Relations stakeholders. Boundary Definitions Date of Issue This report covers Anritsu Corporation only or the Anritsu September 30, 2016 Group Companies, according to subject and definitions as follows: Other Disclosure Information “Anritsu” or “Anritsu Group” refers to both Anritsu Corporation and the entire Anritsu Group. • Financial materials “Anritsu Corporation” refers to Anritsu Corporation in • Annual financial reports (Yukashoken-Houkokusho), Japan only. quarterly reports, and internal control reports “Group Company (or Companies)” refers to a Group (in Japanese) company (or companies) or all Group companies, • Mid-term business plan and business strategy excluding Anritsu Corporation in either case. • Business reports (in Japanese) • Materials related to the General Meeting of Shareholders Reporting Period • Integrated reports This report covers the period from April 1, 2015 to • Other materials March 31, 2016, and also includes some activities before and after that period. URL Disclosure Information Guidelines used as reference • ISO 26000:2010 • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) • The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 3 Company Profile Company Profile Company Profile Headquarters address 5-1-1 Onna, Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa, Japan No. of shareholders 21,387＊1 Company founded 1895 No. of employees 3,846 (consolidated)＊1 Capital 19,052 million yen＊1 No. of suppliers and partners 803 (non-consolidated)＊1 Net sales 95,532 million yen＊2 Approximately 400 (non-consolidated)＊1 *1 As of March 31, 2016 *2 Year ended March 2016 ▶ Net sales ▶ Consolidated ▶営業利益 / 売上高営業利益率 operating income /ratio of operating income to net sales ▶売上高 Consolidated operating income(Million yen) Consolidated ratio of operating income to net sales(％) (Million yen) (Million yen) （%） 18,000 16.6 18 120,000 15.0 101,853 98,839 95,532 16,000 13.9 16 93,622 94,685 100,000 14,000 14 12,000 11.0 12 80,000 10,000 10 60,000 8,000 8 6.2 40,000 6,000 6 4,000 4 20,000 14,000 15,714 14,123 10,882 5,897 2,000 2 0 0 0 2012/3＊ 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2012/3＊ 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 *IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. *IFRS applied from the year ended March 2012. ▶ Consolidated net sales by market ▶ Number of employees (Anritsu Group) ▶市場別売上高 ▶社員数（アンリツグループ） (Million yen) (Number) 3,880 3,926 3,846 120,000 4,000 3,681 3,771 101,853 98,839 Asia and 93,622 94,685 95,532 others 100,000 3,000 EMEA＊1 Asia and 80,000 others Americas＊2 60,000 EMEA＊1 2,000 40,000 Americas＊2 Japan 1,000 20,000 Japan 0 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 *1 Europe, the Middle East and Africa *2 The United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil ▶ R&D（財務情報） ▶利益配分 Expenses 研究開発費 ▶ Capital Expenditures ▶利益配分（財務情報）設備投資 R&D Expenses(Million yen) As % of Revenues(%) Capital Expenditures(Million yen) (Million yen) （%） (Million yen) 9,612 16,000 20 10,000 13,366 13,089 12,488 12,000 15 8,000 9,842 10,323 13.7 13.5 6,000 5,355 5,399 12.3 4,562 8,000 10.5 10.9 10 4,000 3,200 4,000 5 2,000 0 0 0 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2012/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 4 Top Commitment President Hirokazu Hashimoto Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 5 Brand(envision : ensure) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 6 Business Outline The Anritsu Group business is woven into everyday life Anritsu provides solutions for a safe and secure society Connecting, monito ring and detecting… Anritsu supports everyday life and business in a variety of areas, including information communication, food processing, pharmaceuticals and image monitoring for a safer, more secure and comfortable society. Bringing greater convenience and comfort to people’s lives — Measurement solutions for mobile broadband services — Communication Healthcare Automotive Connect and expand Healthcare and telemedicine Driving Safety Making your life safe — Various solutions for everyday life in food safety, disaster monitoring and ophthalmic examinations — Contaminant inspection Disaster preventions/Mitigation Medical equipment Video monitoring of Light source for Detecting foreign objects accidents and disasters ophthalmic equipment Supporting infrastruc tures for everyday life — Measurement solutions for secure broadband networks — Base stations Optical fiber Communication networks Checking base station Locating optical fiber line Network monitoring service areas breakage and quality assurance Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 7 Business Stakeholder Outline Dialogue Test and Measurement Anritsu provides test and measurement solutions encompassing all areas of wired and wireless telecommunications. These include mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets, global network infrastructure such as fiber optic networks and wireless base stations, and telecom-use electronic components embedded in various electronic devices, used everywhere from R&D and manufacturing to construction and maintenance in each field as they serve as the backbone of comfortable, high-quality telecommunications services. In the Mobile Market Having participated in creating the international standard for third generation (3G) mobile phones, we have been building on the technology and customer trust gained through this experience in order to contribute to the R&D of LTE and LTE-Advanced communication, high-speed mobile communication standards, R&D related to telecommunications chipsets (communications semiconductors incorporated in smartphones, etc.) and to the development and manufacturing of such mobile communications terminals as smartphones and tablets. We share our vision with customers such as smartphone/tablet manufacturers, EMS (electronics Mobile Device Test Platform manufacturing services), IT-related service providers and telecom operators, as a reliable provider of high added value. In the Network Infrastructure Market We were first in the world to commercialize optical measuring instrument and develop compact measuring instruments for base stations that meet the needs for portable instruments at network construction and maintenance sites, thus contributing to the construction and expansion of mobile broadband networks. We supply products used in the construction and maintenance of optical fiber telecom networks and wireless base stations, network quality assurance (failure Universal Wireless Test Set monitoring), R&D related to optical and digital telecommunications, as well as R&D and manufacturing of telecom equipment for customers including telecom operators, telecom network construction companies and telecom equipment manufacturers, and work with them to sustain infrastructures for daily life. In the Electronics Market We provide advanced test and measurement solutions for conducting wireless transmission tests and simultaneous measurement of several wireless technologies using a single unit of equipment. We help raise quality and productivity in areas such as R&D and manufacturing of telecommunicationsrelated electronic components, telecommunications equipment, wireless base Spectrum Master stations and products related to digital household appliances and car electronics. Anritsu serves a broad range of customers including electronic device and component manufacturers, telecommunications equipment manufacturers, mobile handset manufacturers and electronic equipment manufacturers, striving to consistently provide value that exceeds expectations through innovation. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 8 Stakeholder Business Outline Dialogue PQA Business We serve the food product, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries by providing production control and quality assurance systems such as X-ray inspection systems and metal detectors for identifying contaminants in products, and checkweighers for high-speed, high-accuracy measurement of product weight, thus contributing globally to ensure security in everyday life. Brand Message Anritsu Industrial Solutions Co., Ltd., which serves the food and pharmaceutical industries through its PQA (Products Quality Assurance) business, changed its name to Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. in October 2015 and released a brand message to express its commitment to society and customers. The message is based on the spirit of “envision : ensure,” the brand philosophy shared by the entire Anritsu Group, and expresses the social value inherent in the quality assurance solutions pursued by the company and in its relationship with customers. Anritsu Infivis strives to create solutions for overcoming the most advanced issues in quality assurance. X-ray Inspection Systems X-ray inspection can check through an object and also allows the system user to identify shape defects, quantity shortages and inadequate packaging. With the XR75, we were able to extend the life cycle of the sensor, thus reducing the costs of parts replacement and installation. We are contributing to enhancing quality in areas where inspection had not been previously conducted. X-ray Inspection System XR75 Series Metal Detectors Our instruments can detect even minute units of metallic contaminants such as iron, stainless steel and aluminum. The M5 series metal detectors are easy to operate and offer solid operational stability. Metal Detector M5 Series Quality Management and Control Systems The QuiCCA system manages and controls the entire production line to provide total management of production status and quality. It supports the building of a traceability system by recording various quality data related to production such as X-ray images. QuiCCA Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 9 Stakeholder Business Outline Dialogue Other Businesses Information and Communications We provide remote monitoring systems that contribute to the prevention of traffic and river disasters to central government agencies, such as the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and local governments. We also provide bandwidth controllers that ensure high quality for IP networks for private sector clients such as financial institutions. Bandwidth Controllers The PureFlow® series of dedicated bandwidth controllers are for telecommunications networks in a time of growing demand for higher speeds and capacity. They provide unrestricted control over bandwidths by company, location or application, to guarantee line capacity and communication speeds PureFlow® series for users of network services. The latest model, PureFlow WSX, is capable of increasing WAN speed. * Wide area network: a general term for a communications network linking locations that are geographically distant, such as domestic branches and overseas operation sites; the term is often used to refer to a network that is constructed and operated by a communications carrier, as compared to LAN (local area network), which is set up within one building. Devices Businesses We provide electrical and telecommunications equipment manufacturers with fiber optical and ultra-high-speed devices used in communication infrastructure. Optical Device Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 10 Business Stakeholder OutlineDialogue Global Network Anritsu’s test and measurement business serves customers around the world by providing solutions through a network in 21 countries, including 8 R&D bases and manufacturing bases. We also maintain 14 service centers in 12 countries to offer a variety of services to ensure our international customers can reliably use our products. ★ ▶ Net Sales by Market Year ended March 2016 Asian and Japan EMEA other Americas 29.9 % E T&M Instruments E ‌T&M Instruments 31.6 % Japan Asia E ‌T&M Instruments E ‌T&M Instruments E ‌P QA E ‌P QA E ‌O thers EMEA＊2 Americas＊1 14.2% 24.3 % *1 United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil *2 Europe, Middle East and Africa ▶ Group Companies in Japan Japan Main Business Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. PQA (manufacture, sales, repair and maintenance) Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Manufacture of measuring instruments and information and telecommunications equipment Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Calibration, repair, maintenance and EMC/HALT testing of measuring instruments Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Development of software and hardware M Tech Support Co., Ltd. Calibration of testing instruments, and maintenance of medical equipment Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Development, sales, system design, maintenance and services of information and telecommunications products Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Development, manufacture and sales of optical devices Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Resale and recycling of measuring instruments, design services and production of documents Anritsu Real Estate Co., Ltd. Real estate leasing Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Operation of shared service center for accounting, financial affairs, payroll calculation and benefits AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Manufacture and sales of metal parts and unit assembly articles ▶ Group Companies outside Japan Americas EMEA Asia and Others Anritsu U.S. Holding, Inc. (U.S.A.) Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Instruments Company (U.S.A.) Anritsu GmbH (Germany) Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. (China) Anritsu Electronics Ltd. (Canada) Anritsu S.A. (France) Anritsu Company, Inc. (Taiwan) Anritsu Eletronica Ltda. (Brazil) Anritsu S.r.l. (Italy) Anritsu Corporation, Ltd. (South Korea) Anritsu Company S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Anritsu AB (Sweden) Anritsu Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) Anritsu Infivis Inc. (U.S.A.) Anritsu A/S (Denmark) Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Anritsu Solutions S.r.l. (Italy) Anritsu Pty. Ltd. (Australia) Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Shanghai) Anritsu Solutions S.R.L. (Romania) Co.,Ltd. (China) Anritsu Industrial Systems (Shanghai) Anritsu Solutions SK, s.r.o. (Slovakia) Co.,Ltd. (China) Anritsu Infivis Ltd. (U.K.) Anritsu Infivis (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 11 CSR at Anritsu CSR at Anritsu Basic Concept Based on its company philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm,” Anritsu implements corporate social responsibility throughout its business operations from economic, social and environmental perspectives, with due respect for laws and regulations, ethics, and social norms. Anritsu also aims to build and elevate its corporate and brand values via better communication and better relationships with stakeholders. Promoting Global CSR Activities based on Business Strategies Since fiscal 2012, Anritsu has been integrating its social responsibility into its business strategy by formulating a midterm plan for CSR that closely aligns with the Mid-term Business Plan, GLP2017. We implement our CSR activities by keeping in mind this plan, which covers the three-year period from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2017, and the longer range 2020 VISION. GLP2017 Operating Margin/ROE 2020 VISION CSR Goals of Anritsu Latest target Initial plan Contributing to Build a Safe, Become a global Goal 1 Secure, and Comfortable Society market leader 1 T&M 12 % 15 % K ‌Create uniquely Anritsu1. Service to Customers 2. Solutions for Social Issues likecorporate value 3. Response to Social Expectations PQA 7% 8% K Build a world-class, strong, profit Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Global generating platform Socio-Economy Consolidated 10 % 14 % 2 4. Establishment of Compliance Create new business 2 by emerging business 5. Promotion of Risk Management ROE 10 % 14 % 6. Supply Chain Management K Demonstrate Anritsu’s cutting7. Respect for Human Rights and Promotion edge technology in new business of Diversity fields 8. Human Resource Development 9. Labor Safety and Health 10. Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Goal Promoting Global Environmental Protection 3 11. Promotion of Environmental Management Goal Promoting Communication 12. Communication with Stakeholders 4 Achieving Our Four CSR Goals To identify the midto long-term goals of our activities, Anritsu set four CSR goals in fiscal 2006 toward realizing an ideal future. We believe that Anritsu’s ideal, long-term future can be realized by sharing these four goals with our stakeholders and responsibly pursuing GLP2017 and the 2020 VISION. Since we specified these four CSR goals, we have reviewed them whenever necessary, in terms of priority issues and objectives, to take account of changes in the business environment and society’s expectations. We also disclose a broad range of information, including the state of progress with our initiatives to achieve sustainable growth, which will benefit all members of society as well as the Anritsu Group. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 12 CSR Stakeholder at Anritsu Dialogue Anritsu’s Stakeholders and Four Goals The Anritsu Group’s business is founded on relationships of trust with stakeholders. We believe in the importance of forging even stronger relationships with stakeholders through effective communication. We are working to create a corporate culture in which each business office, division, individual officer and employee recognizes the needs of society and stakeholders and takes those needs into account on a day-to-day basis as they do their jobs. With Customers With NGOs With National and NPOs and Local Governments Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Society Goal 2 Goal 3 With With Suppliers Maintaining Harmony Promoting Global and Partners Shareholders with the Global Environmental and Investors Socio-Economy Protection Goal 4 Promoting Communications For the Global With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation With Local Communities Goal 1 Goal 3 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure and ComPromoting Global Environmental Protection fortable Society Adhering to its environmental principles, Anritsu has fully The goal for Anritsu contributes through Original & High Level The goal for established global environmental management in which Anritsu technologies to improve customers’ safety and security. Anritsu it addresses climate change, creates a recycling-oriented society and prevents pollution throughout the value chain. The goal for Every employee listens to the voice of customers and The goal for Every employee has heightened their Eco-Mind and, on employees provides products and rapid support services with a quality employees their own initiative, pursues environmental activities that that surpasses market expectations. are closely related to their operations. Anritsu promotes global environmental management and is Appreciation by Anritsu gains a solid reputation for its technologies and Appreciation by publically recognized as a company that actively contributes society earns trust in its brand. society to protecting the global environment. Goal 2 Goal 4 Maintaining Harmony with the Global SocioPromoting Communication Economy Anritsu fulfills its social responsibilities throughout the supply Anritsu has forged a partnership with stakeholders by The goal for chain by conducting business activities that are in harmony The goal for actively disclosing information and seeking dialogue Anritsu with the cultures and characteristics of each region in its Anritsu throughout its business activities. global development. Every employee enthusiastically engages in work and Every employee listens to the expectations of stakeholders, The goal for achieves personal growth amid diverse attributes, cultures The goal for actively seeks to establish communication and cultivates employees and values with an awareness of compliance and respect for employees mutual understanding. human rights. Appreciation by Anritsu has established a relationship of trust with the Appreciation by Anritsu communicates an accurate image of itself to regional community and society by undertaking social society stakeholders and has earned their recognition and trust. society contribution activities that are rooted in the region. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 13 Stakeholder CSR at Anritsu Dialogue Materiality Methods and Results of Materiality Assessment In 2008, Anritsu conducted a • Response to Social Expectations • Human Resource Development materiality assessment based on • Laber Safety and Health discussions conducted with 30 Pa r t ic u la r ly I mp o r t a n t Th e me s key persons inside the Group on • Service to Customers • Solutions for Social Issues 142 items of proper corporate • Establishment of Compliance Ef f e c t i v el y Materiality for Stakeholders behavior expected by society. ad dr e s s e d Mo s t • Promotion of Risk Management t hr ough imp or t ant • Respect for Human Rights and Promotion Of these 142 items, 12 items manag e me n t of Diversity plotted within the domains • Promotion of Environmental Management • Communication with Stakeholders marked in red were identified as themes with particular Ef f e c tively importance for the Anritsu addr e sse d • Promotion of Social Contribution Activities thr ough • Supply Chain Management Group and were designated as communic ation our core material issues. Materiality for Anritsu With regard to social expectations (materiality for stakeholders), we conduct an annual review by consulting CSR guidelines; results of surveys conducted by research companies, media organizations and governmental bodies for the purpose of evaluating CSR activities; and the CSR Procurement Surveys we give to our corporate customers. The review is undertaken by the CSR Promotion Sub-Committee by senior managers, a cross-sectional organization comprising internal divisions related to CSR, and the results are reflected in the reviews of annual plans and mid-term plans by each division. ▶ Selected Key CSR Issues (GRI-G4 aspects) Category Economy Environmental Social Sub-Category Labor Practices and Human Rights Society Product Decent Work Responsibility Economic Energy Training and NonAnti-corruption Customer Health Performance Water Education discrimination Anti-competitive and Safety Market Presence Emissions Diversity and Equal Child Labor Behavior Product and Service Procurement Products and Opportunity Forced or Compliance Labeling Aspect Practices Services Supplier Compulsory Compliance Compliance Assessment for Labor Supplier Labor Practices Supplier Environmental Human Rights Assessment Assessment These aspects were also discussed with the experts who participated in the stakeholder dialogue, and we have reconfirmed our understanding that they indeed represent the key CSR issues for Anritsu. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 14 Stakeholder CSR at Anritsu Dialogue CSR Promotion System In November 2004, we set up a CSR Promotion Committee, chaired by the president, and we have been promoting CSR activities under the direct leadership of top management. We also organized the CSR Promotion Center as a dedicated department to encourage unified activities across a broad array of departments. Since April 2016, we have been working under a new system in which issues related to CSR (ESG) are deliberated by the Management Strategy Conference as key management concerns. Under the current system, the CSR·CS Promotion Team within the Corporate Communication Department is responsible for promoting Anritsu’s CSR activities in line with the policies of the Management Strategy Conference. CSR cannot be fulfilled by the efforts of any single department or organization. To effectively implement our activities, Anritsu Corporation’s departments in charge of individual CSR fields, including customer satisfaction, quality, human rights and social contribution, lead activities through cross-sectional cooperation across Group companies. The CSR·CS Promotion Team serves as the secretariat. We identify and analyze the current situation of individual areas from a CSR perspective and strive to address issues of improvement for the future of Anritsu. Anritsu Group Corporate Governance CSR and CS Management Strategy Conference Shareholders/investors Local communities Compliance/corporate ethics Promotion team Anritsu Corporation CS activites Customers National/ Areas of CSR Information security local goverments Quality Suppliers and partners Anritsu Group companies Supply chain management Departments in NGO,NPO Respect for human rights/workplace environment charge of individual CSR areas Employees Environmental management Social contribution activities CSR Promotion The Global IR/SRI Sub-Committee Environment and Nature Conservation Promotion of Global CSR To promote CSR activities on a global scale and deepen communication with our stakeholders across the world, the Anritsu Group is exchanging information internally based on a regional system and annual schedule. Each year, regional staff reports on the ten items listed below to the CSR·CS Promotion Team in the headquarters. ● Our Global System Headquarters : Corporate Communication Department (CSR·CS Promotion Team) Americas : Human Resources Department, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) EMEA : Human Resources Department, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) Asia : Human Resources Department, Anritsu Company Ltd. (China) ● Action Items ① CS activities, Quality Improvement ⑤ Supply Chain ⑨ Promotion of Environmental Management ② Quality Improvement ⑥ Information Security ⑩ Conducting Social Contribution Activities ③ Health and Safety ⑦ Protecting Human Rights ④ Compliance ⑧ Valuing Employees ● Global Meetings The following corporate departments have held annual global meetings more than once: Environment and Quality Promotion, Human Resources, Global Audit, Accounting and Control, Information System, Trade Control and Procurement. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 15 CSR Stakeholder at Anritsu Dialogue CSR Results for Fiscal 2015, CSR Objectives for Fiscal 2016 Unless otherwise specified, the content of objectives in this table covers operations of Anritsu Corporation and its Group Companies in Japan. Performance evaluation ○：fully attained; △：attained 50% or more CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2015 Results for Fiscal 2015 Performance Objectives for Fiscal 2016 evaluation 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Sort status and tasks regarding VOC collection. (1) Analyzed the current state of customer contact points, developed closer ○ (1) Enhance customer contact points. cooperation between the contact point division and related divisions, and enhanced the quality of our global response on maintenance service. (2) Formulate a plan for linking with the customer database. (2) Promoted the use of a CRM system. ○ (2) Strengthen the CRM system. △ Service to (3) Reorganize the CS promotion system. (3) Reorganized the global CS promotion system. (3) Consider a global assessment method. Customers 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 (1) Remote maintenance service. (1) Conducted a verification test for a maintenance service using remote access functions. ○ (1) Complete a verification test for a remote maintenance service. (2) Formulate a plan for constructing the global maintenance system. (2) Formulated a draft concept of a global maintenance system. △ (2) Open a call center in the United States. (3) Hold seminars. (3) Held 62 seminars (at the Anritsu office, visits, and other company’s seminars). △ (3) Complete the development of contents for a web-based seminar. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Establish a brand strategy for each business entity. (1) Established a brand strategy for each business entity; carried out brand ○ (1) Continue to establish a brand strategy for each business entity. 【Goal 1】 dissemination activities. Disseminate a brand statement and determine the degree of penetration. (2) Create an internal education program. (2) Created an internal education program; carried out education for new ○ (2) Continue the internal education program. Contributing employees and newly appointed executives. to Build a Safe, (3)Popularization of the brand through commemorative (3)Popularized the brand through commemorative programs for the 120th ○ (3) Continue to disseminate the brand through regular exhibitions Secure, and Solutions for programs for the 120th anniversary. anniversary and through internal and external publicity activities. and publicity activities. Comfortable Social Issues (4) Establish brand management for the global website. (4) Established brand management for the global website. ○ (4) Continue brand management for the global website. Society Launched the new global website and established and deployed brand management. 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 ○ ○ (1) Formulate the brand strategy and popularize the brand. (1) Set up a task force to strengthen the brand and promoted system development. (1) Formulate and disseminate the Anritsu Infivis Brand Guidelines. (2) Strengthen hiring activities. (2) Completed renewal of the website for recruiting in Japan. (2) Promote communication that reflects the brand philosophy. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 Share CSR goals: organize a working group with members of related departments. Response • Risk management (BCP) • Risk management (BCP) will be carried out in fiscal 2017. △ • Take action on risk management (BCP) in fiscal 2017. to Social • Human rights due diligence • Published information in the CSR report on departments where the BCP ○ • Plan to publish information in the CSR report on departments • Prevent illegal transactions (bribery, etc.). was carried out. where the BCP was carried out. ○ Expectations • Human rights due diligence: held WG activities in response to the • Human rights due diligence: publish a statement on the Modern Modern Slavery Act in the U.K., and developed initiatives to be carried Slavery Act in the U.K., and revise related rules and guidance by out by September 2016. September 2016. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Conduct global compliance education. (1) Conducted global compliance education. ○ (1) Conduct global compliance education. • Target: 1,438 employees (Japan: 757; overseas: 681). Course completed by all employees. (2) Develop a compliance program for preventing bribery. (2) Developed a compliance program for preventing bribery. ○ (2) Continue to develop a compliance program for preventing bribery. (3) Collaborate with overseas regional headquarters on (3) Collaborated with overseas regional headquarters on compliance-related ○ (3) Collaborate with overseas regional headquarters on compliancecompliance-related operations. operations. related operations. Establishment of i. Improve the system of global compliance. Compliance ii. Continue to assess risk at overseas regional headquarters and share the status of improvement activities. (4) Collaborate with Group companies in Japan on (4) Collaborated with Group companies in Japan on compliance-related △ (4) Collaborate with Group companies in Japan on compliance-related compliance-related operations. operations. operations. 1. Meet with staff responsible at Group companies in • Convened 3 meetings of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee • Implement effective compliance education through Japan at least once a year to identify their needs. to determine the status of compliance promotion at Group compaeducational content using the new web-based training 2. Provide training and other support based on their needs nies in Japan, and held 4 training sessions per year. (WBT) tool. (at least 5 times a year). Promotion 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 of Risk (1) Construct a global information security management system. (1) Completed formulating the policy. ○ (1) Construct a global information security management system. Management (2) Conduct security education (2) Conducted WBT, targeted e-mail attack drills and security lectures for new ○ (2) Conduct security education employees during CSR Promotion Month. ○ (Information (3) Continue internal audit on information management. (3) Conducted an internal audit on information management in July. (3) Continue an internal audit on information management. Security) (4) Maintain ISMS certification. (4) Conducted an internal audit on ISMS in December. ○ (4) Maintain ISMS certification. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 Define material issues for the company in accordance Promoted internal control systems in the following business areas to ○ Promote risk management across departments in all areas of 【Goal 2】 with the Company Philosophy and Company Policy, strengthen the management base of each Group company. business processes and establish a system through which all recognize each associated risk as a corporate risk 1. Subsidiaries in Japan Inventory management (inventory risk) relevant business units and regions share the overall risk from Maintaining for the entire company, rank the risks according to Subcontractor management (compliance risk) which to develop their individual risk management benchmarks Harmony with Promotion their potential for materializing and level of impact, 2. Subsidiaries in Europe Agent management (compliance risk) and practice risk control. the Global Socioof Risk and implement risk management according to their 3. Subsidiaries in Asia Inventory management (inventory risk) Begin measures to visualize the status of risk management for Economy respective significance. Support business activities Financial management (financial risk) each business unit and region based on the results of audits to Management through audits based on risk analysis and launch assess the effectiveness of their risk management. (Internal initiatives for detecting new risks. Controls) 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 Strengthen global risk management. Strengthen global risk management. (1) Apply and establish guidelines on risk management. (1)-1 Applied and established the AI-GBG (Anritsu Infivis Global Business Guidelines). ○ (1) Update the AI-GBG. (2) Establish internal control environment on a global scale. (2)-2 Strengthened the internal control environment on a global scale. ○ (2) Establish an internal control environment on a global scale. • Established internal control systems for overseas subsidiaries. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Formulate the CSR Procurement Plan. (1)-1 CSR Procurement Guideline: revised to add conflict materials and ○ (1) Add a response to the U.K. Modern Slavery Act to the CSR completed publication on the Anritsu website. Guidelines. Disseminate the guidelines among suppliers and (1)-2 CSR Survey: collected responses from 94 out of 101 companies. ○ encourage understanding through opportunities such as Rate of response improved by 6 points from the previous survey information exchanges. (87%) to 93%. The average score was generally favorable at 4.08 (on a scale of 5) compared to 4.06 in the previous survey. (1)-3 Identified key risks on materials procurement to be monitored, and ○ Supply Chain formulated countermeasures and published them on the intranet; Management continuing to monitor risks. (2) Respond to immediate risks. (2) Completed constant monitoring of CSR risks in the Asian region with ○ (2) Plan a CSR Survey for suppliers that have yet to participate. regard to the IPO in Hong Kong. (3) Strengthen the BCP system. (3) Identify risks associated with expansion in overseas suppliers and formulate countermeasures. (4) Centralize management of contracts for Group (4) Construct a global system for monitoring CSR procurement companies in Japan. risks. (5) Strengthen the operation of internal controls. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 16 Stakeholder CSR at Anritsu Dialogue CSR Goal Key Issues Objectives for Fiscal 2015 Results for Fiscal 2015 Performance Objectives for Fiscal 2016 evaluation 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 (1) Construct a global production system. (1) Established the foundation for local production systems with a global ○ (1) Construct a global production system. Supply Chain orientation. • Clarify the overall vision for global production in 2020, and BCP Management measures. (2) Measures against country risk (2) Measures for country risk and head office: large-scale disasters, and ○ others. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Promote diversified hiring (foreign nationals, mid(1) Promote diversified hiring ○ (1) Promote diversified hiring (foreign nationals and mid-career recruits). career recruits). • Clarified ideal qualities in personnel, and revised hiring criteria. • Formulate and implement a plan for expanding recruiting channels • Strengthened overseas and mid-career recruitment. (nationality, gender, new graduates and mid-career recruits). • Established and reinforced the Anritsu brand. • Expand hiring in countries and regions in Asia. (2) Establish a system for human resource development. (2) Establish a system for human resource development. △ (2) Establish a system for human resource development. Respect for • Revised the system of education and training. Human Rights • Formulated the rotation policy. • Resumed GEEP. ○ and Promotion (3) Revitalize global HR activities. (3) Revitalize global HR activities. (3) Revitalize global HR activities. of Diversity • Continued labor-management toward introducing the system. Human Resource (4) Review working styles to meet the diversification of (4) Review working styles to meet the diversification of employees. △ (4) Review working styles to meet the diversification of employees. 【Goal 2】 Development employees. • Promoted morning-oriented workstyles by changing core working hours. • Hired one person with disabilities. Maintaining Harmony with 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 【Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd.】 the Global SocioUtilize global human resources. Hired 4 non-Japanese nationals. ○ Utilize global human resources. Economy Promote global hiring and enhance the system of Conducted global business training. Develop human resources for global assignments and improve training and education. compensation and other systems. 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Maintain and improve employee health. (1) Maintain and improve employee health ○ (1) Maintain and improve employee health • Completed unifying the regular health checkup category in Japan. • Full-scale implementation of stress-related health checkups. Labor Safety and • Continued trials for stress-related health checkups and decided on an outline of full-scale implementation. Health • Considered further promotion of health management. (2) Continue to implement PHASE I at the head office, (2) Completely revised the fire prevention plan in response to the △ (2) Establish a global BCP. and formulate PHASE II (Master Plan). completion of the global headquarters building. (3) Establish a global BCP. (3) Considered the process for future development with Group companies. ○ 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Promote social contribution activities at each (1) Promote social contribution activities at each location outside Japan; ○ (1) Continue activities at each location outside Japan and publish Promotion location outside Japan; disclose information on disclose information on these activities. contents in the CSR report. of Social these activities. Contribution (2) Continue and promote the “Great East Japan (2) Continued and promoted the “Great East Japan Earthquake ○ (2) Continue and promote the “Great East Japan Earthquake Activities Earthquake Reconstruction Support Plan;” volunteer Reconstruction Support Plan;” volunteer activities of employees. Reconstruction Support Plan.” Expand and continue in-house activities of employees. → Organized 8 supportive events in collaboration with Save the Children volunteer activities. Japan local NPOs. Waste reduction and recycling Waste reduction and recycling (1) Maintain industrial waste emissions under 58 tons, the (1) In response to an increase in discharge of wood chips, improvement × (1) Maintain industrial waste emissions under 58 tons, the actual actual level for fiscal 2013 (Atsugi and Hiratsuka sites). measures were carried out and the target was revised to 62 tons level for fiscal 2013 (Atsugi and Hiratsuka sites). during the fiscal year. This target was achieved: 61.4 tons. (2) Maintain industrial waste emissions under 9 tons, (2) Maintained industrial waste emissions under 9 tons, the actual level ○ (2) Maintain industrial waste emissions under 9 tons, the actual the actual level for fiscal 2013 (Tohoku site). for fiscal 2013 (Tohoku site): 7.9 tons. level for fiscal 2013 (Tohoku site). (3) Reduce the volume of municipal waste carried to a (3) Maintained municipal waste carried to a facility of the Atsugi City ○ (3) Reduce the volume of municipal waste carried to a facility of facility of the Atsugi City government to under 38 government at 38 tons or below (Atsugi site): 27.7 tons. the Atsugi City government to under 33 tons (Atsugi site). tons (Atsugi site). (4) Maintain zero emissions (Japan). (4) Maintained zero emissions (Japan): 100% recycling. ○ (4) Maintain zero emissions (Japan). (5) Maintain the volume of landfill waste under the (5) Reduced landfill waste by 8.5% (U.S.A.). ○ (5) Maintain the volume of landfill waste under the actual level for actual level for fiscal 2014 (U.S.A.). fiscal 2015 (U.S.A.). Energy conservation Energy conservation Energy conservation (1) Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) (1) Increased by 3.8% × (1) Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) to 1.0% to 1.0% or lower compared to fiscal 2014 (Global compared to fiscal 2014 for each year until fiscal 2017. Reduce Anritsu Group). by 2% or more compared to fiscal 2014 in fiscal 2016 (Global Anritsu Group companies). (2) Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) (2) Reduced by 7.19% ○ (2) Reduce energy consumption (in crude oil equivalent) by 1.0% to 1.99% or lower compared to fiscal 2013 (Anritsu compared to fiscal 2013 for each year until fiscal 2020. Reduce 【Goal 3】 Group companies in Japan). by more than 2.97% compared to fiscal 2013 in fiscal 2016 Promotion of *To be managed by correcting for disturbance factors (Anritsu Group companies in Japan). Promoting Global Environmental related to energy consumption (ambient temperature, *To be managed by correcting for disturbance factors related Environmental total floor area, operating time, days worked, etc.). to energy consumption (ambient temperature, total floor area, Management Protection operating time, days worked, etc.). (3) Reduce the basic unit of energy consumption per (3) Target unattained due to an increase in production processes and the × (3) Reduce by 6% compared to fiscal 2015 (U.S.A.). sale to below levels (0.0020 kWh/s) in fiscal 2014 effect of high temperatures (U.S.A.). (U.S.A.). Reduce water consumption Reduce water consumption Reduce water consumption. (1) Reduce water consumption to below 1% from the (1) Reduced water consumption to below 1% from the fiscal 2014 level ○ (1) Reduce water consumption by 1% compared to fiscal 2014 for fiscal 2014 level (Global Anritsu Group). (Global Anritsu Group): reduced by 12.8%. each year until fiscal 2017. Reduce by more than 2% compared to fiscal 2014 in fiscal 2016 (Global Anritsu Group). Wastewater management Wastewater management Wastewater management (1) Maintain zero excess of the voluntary management (1) Maintained zero excess of the voluntary management limit for ○ (1) Maintain zero excess of the voluntary management limit for limit for inorganic wastewater (Atsugi site). inorganic wastewater (Atsugi site): zero excess inorganic wastewater (Atsugi site). Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan). Eco Products (Anritsu Group companies in Japan) (1) Ratio of environmentally sound products of all (1) Ratio of environmentally sound products of all products covered: ○ (1) Ratio of environmentally sound products of all products products covered: 100% 100% of targeted products covered: 100% (2) Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or (2) Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or more of all ○ (2) Ratio of products that can save resources by 10% or more of all more of all products covered: 100% products covered: 100% of targeted products products covered: 100% (3) Ratio of products that are 30% or more power (3) Ratio of products that are 30% or more power efficient of all products ○ (3) Ratio of products that are 30% or more power efficient of all efficient of all products covered: 100% covered: 100% of targeted products products covered: 100% 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 【Anritsu Corporation】 (1) Communication with each stakeholder will be (1) Published the contents of communication with stakeholders. ○ (1) Communicate with global stakeholders (especially, customers 【Goal 4】 Communications undertaken by the related internal departments and and companies in the supply chain), and publish the contents in the content disclosed to the public. the CSR report. ○ Promoting with (2) Publish an integrated report for communicating with (2) Published an integrated report for communicating with investors and (2) Continue to issue the “Anritsu Report (integrated report).” Communications Stakeholders investors, apply integrated reporting on a global applied integrated reporting on a global basis. Improve issues pointed out in external evaluation (business basis. → Published the “Anritsu Report” as an integrated report. Issued English model, topics and key issues). language version, which was published on the overseas website. *The United States is represented by Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) and China is represented by Anritsu Company Ltd. (China). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 17 Stakeholder Dialogue Anritsu’s CSR Now and the Future Over the years, we have sought to identify Anritsu’s CSR issues by maintaining a dialogue with experts representing stakeholders outside the company. In our latest discussion, we examined the current state and future course of our CSR initiatives based on the keywords of human rights, supply chain and global expansion. Human Rights and Diversity •Taniai We have been holding a stakeholder dialogue once a year since 2012, and this marks our fifth dialogue. Last time, we discussed the key CSR issues that require an organization-wide effort and global promotion of CSR. In this dialogue, we would like to take up human rights, the supply chain and global expansion as issues that require further effort. As companies expand the scope of their business and the value chain spreads across the globe, human rights have become a pressing issue for corporations. International standards such as the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights have called upon companies to take the initiative. Furthermore, the growing popularity of ESG investment, which focuses on the environmental, social and governance aspects of companies, has heightened interest in corporate efforts on human rights as well. Anritsu also recognizes human rights issues as a key CSR issue. We consider employees to be an important stakeholder from the perspective of human rights and are pursuing mediumto long-term initiatives. •Takeuchi As I am the person in charge of human resources and administration, I am acutely aware that it is indeed Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 18 Stakeholder Dialogue the employees who enable companies to provide solutions to social issues through their business. We must ensure that diverse human resources can come together to work enthusiastically with a sense of satisfaction and achieve autonomous growth. To that end, we must enhance both infrastructure and personnel development aspects to provide an enabling working environment. In terms of infrastructure, we spent five years developing a facility within the Global Headquarters Building that was completed in March 2015, where employees can conduct innovative activities. In the area of personnel development, we are working to formulate an educational program and ensure the diversity of our human resources. Setting a KPI (key performance indicator) for clarifying the effects of our personnel policies is an important issue for the future. •Goto The prevalent theory of business management distinguishes between the diversity of competence and experience, and the diversity of sex, age and nationality. While it is the former aspects that directly affect corporate performance, the latter aspects constitute the basis. Among the competition, one company has attracted excellent human resources from around the world, including individuals who are considered minorities. That company has been publicizing how it has created an environment in which employees with diverse backgrounds, including nationality and gender, can demonstrate their abilities, and how that has benefited its business performance. Daisuke Goto •Takeuchi The core of Anritsu’s human resources consists of those engaged in Representative Director, ideaship Inc. development in engineering. Few women work in this area to begin with, and Offered support on setting the CSR Goals and on ways to disclose information for recruiting poses a challenge. Therefore, alongside our initiatives to increase the three years until 2007. number of female recruits, we have also begun to review our educational programs aimed at retaining and developing our existing female employees. We would like to create a program that enables women to acquire skills at an early stage, before they go through a period during which major life events converge, so they can demonstrate their accumulated capabilities. •Akabane In Japan, women’s career development has lagged in part because of the long working hours. It’s hard to speak up to tell your colleagues that you are leaving early to pick up your children when everyone around you works so late. As a result, women are forced to give up their careers. •Takeuchi The root of the problem lies in the absolute lack of women. At present, Ichiro Takeuchi Executive Officer, Director and women are in the minority, and when they go home early it seems as though men are Manager of Human Resource and Administration Department, doing more work. This would change if the number of women and men are reversed. Anritsu Corporation Once women make up the majority and men the minority, men who stay late at work would be regarded as being incompetent. I think the way we work would change so that everyone can finish their work more efficiently. This is one reason I want to employ more women. In fact, women currently make up roughly half of our Human Resource and Administration Department. I hope to instigate change in my immediate surroundings. •Akabane We’ve heard about the scramble for competent human resources that is about to break out in the IT industry. That is why one American semiconductor manufacturer is supporting STEM education, which emphasizes the subjects of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics, to secure human resources who will serve as the backbone of its industry. The company is particularly focused on providing STEM education for women. One way of nurturing human resources for the future of society is to offer scholarships or create a university chair aimed at Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 19 Stakeholder Dialogue students taking science and engineering courses. •Takeuchi Encouraging women to take a greater interest in developing their careers is equally important. We must make changes to our system of promotion so that more women will take up the challenge. My dream is to change our programs to enable women to advance their careers and realize their individual strengths. •Yamaguchi It’s great that Anritsu has someone like Mr. Takeuchi who thinks that way. I hope his ideas will be shared throughout the organization. Considering that the male to female ratio of the population stands at 50-50, it is only natural that the ratio should be 50-50 in a company as well. You should advance to the next stage of raising corporate value based on this premise, such as human resource Toshimune Yamaguchi management including education. You said it’s your dream, but I really hope you will Director, Caux Round Table – Japan make it come true. Offered support for Anritsu’s materiality assessment aimed at identifying 12 material issues in 2007 and 2008. Creating Frameworks for the Value Chain •Fujikake The dream pursued by the Global Procurement Operation Division is to demonstrate Anritsu’s strengths of globalization and partnerships with suppliers while leveraging the respective expertise of our suppliers and ourselves to create value and achieve mutual prosperity. Fiscal 2016 marks the second year since we set up the Global Procurement Operation Division to serve procurement needs across the entire Group. Our division is responsible for undertaking optimal procurement to maximize profits for Anritsu. Profit here not only means money but also includes customer satisfaction and beneficial relationships with suppliers. Keeping in mind that we may have behaved with a condescending attitude in the past, I spend each day thinking about concrete ways to collaborate with our suppliers. Hiroyuki Fujikake General Manager, Global Procurement Operation Division, Anritsu Corporation •Yamaguchi When it comes to supply chain due diligence and mechanisms for settling grievances aimed at addressing inherent risks in the supply chain and their impact, it might be better to construct a broader framework than to rely on frameworks created by individual companies. Companies and organizations should work together to develop a global supply chain mechanism that begins with engagement, including supply chains, followed by risk assessment, and that offers a consultation point as an exit. For example, if you are creating a consultation point, I think it would be a good idea to cooperate with NGOs to set up a platform and get local Japanese companies to participate. •Taniai I understand there is ongoing discussion within the Japan Electric Measuring Instruments Manufacturers’ Association, which is the leading industry organization, regarding what kind of initiative it should take on CSR. Since many of its members are small-scale companies, it may be a good idea to join forces. •Fujikake Anritsu procures 55% of its materials from overseas suppliers. In particular, to maintain favorable relationships with our most important suppliers, we have designated rooms for 9 of our major suppliers at the Global Headquarters Building, to enable our department divisions to remain in close communication. With respect to major suppliers that are Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 20 Stakeholder Dialogue willing to work more closely with us by sharing technologies, we hold one-on-one meetings basically once every quarter to explain our policies and strategies so that they will understand Anritsu’s initiatives on CSR, including compliance. However, doing this with all of our 400 suppliers is difficult. A single missing component means that we cannot manufacture our products, so we need to think about our relationships with those companies. •Akabane Do you feel that human rights issues could pose a real risk in your supply chain? •Fujikake Yes, I think we should strengthen our risk management. I hope to build relationships of trust not only with our primary suppliers but also with suppliers in the second to fifth tiers. We have created a list of suppliers that require attention and are seeking to maintain communication by visiting those companies as our priority. •Akabane I don’t know of many other companies that are seeking to create a list that extends to fifth-tier suppliers. Makiko Akabane Director, CSR Asia Japan •Fujikake One of our current risks is natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. Commented on Anritsu’s recent CSR activities through external study sessions We pay visits to high-risk suppliers to explain Anritsu’s stance. In the latest earthquake in Kumamoto, facilities that endured the initial tremor came to a standstill after the second earthquake. With that in mind, we will work with suppliers to make continuous improvements to address any problems. •Goto Working alongside suppliers to come up with a solution is an approach unique to Anritsu. Rival companies in Europe and the United States take the approach of having suppliers submit a third-party guarantee. Meanwhile, Anritsu directly poses questions to its suppliers to develop relationships. But I don’t see anything condescending about that. Globally Expanding CSR •Yamaguchi Global trends surrounding CSR have undergone significant changes over the past five or six years. Global frameworks have been developed, including ISO26000, the social responsibility standard laid down by the International Standardization Organization in 2010, and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights established by the United Nations in 2011, and governments are beginning to move in line with these frameworks. As we have seen, Japanese companies made major changes to the way they disclose information following the establishment of the corporate governance code, so they are capable of responding quickly to regulatory change. And while this has brought them closer to global standards on corporate governance, their efforts on the supply chain falls short of standards followed by global corporations. I think there is still a considerable gap between global corporations and Japanese companies where initiatives on CSR are concerned. To close that gap, our organization has been undertaking stakeholder engagement activities in Japan by gathering global NGOs involved in human rights and environmental issues and Japanese companies from diverse industries to identify CSR issues for each industry. Anritsu participates in these activities. This year, we are organizing a similar program in Thailand, where many Japanese companies operate. •Taniai Gathering companies across industries is an excellent initiative that enables us to work on CSR from a broader perspective. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 21 Stakeholder Dialogue •Akabane Considering the scope of its business, Anritsu should be among those companies shaping global decisions by participating in forums concerning international frameworks, such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Western multinationals are quite clever in that respect, while Japanese companies tend to be too modest. I would like to see them participate more actively in such forums. •Taniai In the area of international standards for mobile phones, related to our business, you are increasingly left behind unless you participate in the decision-making process. I guess the same holds true in the domain of CSR. •Goto Integration is the latest trend. This includes integrating financial and non-financial aspects, and integrating sustainability into corporate management. Organizations in some industries express their impact on society more strongly than those in others, depending on what their business is. For example, the electric and electronics industries have been subdued, perhaps because compliance with environmental regulations had been the central issue of their CSR. To communicate how your business contributes to society, you must start by identifying your company’s impact on society. A good way of doing this is to take the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the U.N. and considering each aspect in concrete terms. •Yamaguchi When offering a response to initiatives such as the SDGs, it is important for a company to make a persistent effort to communicate in a way that can be understood outside of Japan, instead of superficially following the latest trends in a self-serving way. When Japanese companies speak of fulfilling CSR through their businesses, they tend to do so from a limited perspective, such as placing excessive emphasis on contributing through their products. If you are going to talk about your contribution through the company’s business, you must be able to provide stakeholders with the big picture that encompasses your entire value chain. •Takeuchi I already have quite a good team of human resources who can explain in detail about their own areas of work. I understand that we need to nurture human resources who can see the big picture and who possess the kind of imagination for predicting the future. •Fujikake To get a sense of the big picture, reinforcing our global partnerships with customers and suppliers is essential. Anritsu upholds “envision : ensure” as its brand statement. I would like to create relationships in which we share our dreams and work together to realize them, relationships that generate added value for Anritsu’s stakeholders. •Taniai Over the past 5 years, we have been working on our initiatives based on your expert advice, and it has given us a real sense that we are making progress one step at a time. But there is no end to our efforts. We will continue to seek growth in order to contribute to society through our business and to offer an honest account of our activities to global stakeholders. Toshisumi Taniai Senior Vice President and Director, Chief Corporate Officer, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 22 Stakeholder Dialogue Comments from Dialogue Participants Status of Anritsu’s Response Discussion (Review of Fiscal 2015 and Theme Fiscal 2012–2014 Fiscal 2015 Future Plans) Express Anritsu’s vision as a global enterprise from the perspective of Disclosing information on overseas activities is We shared our corporate philosophy, CSR how it will contribute to resolving social issues premised on diverse important. vision and information on regional CSR values and incorporate that vision into its operations. Increase transparency by disclosing information on activities through global meetings with Seek greater recognition in the global community by expressing the content of activities. liaisons from each region. positive aspects that are unique to Anritsu as a Japanese company in Expressing the goals, progress being made and the response to values that are accepted globally as rules, and actively results in simple terms is important. engage in CSR issues that carry considerable risk. Describe social issues in terms of objective themes that are on the agenda of international institutions. Present a clear policy statement that applies to each country while Social contribution is important when seeking We will check the person in charge of CSR, transferring authority to each region. recognition in the Americas or China. and promote initiatives by identifying Since worksites operate more efficiently when an initiative is topLength of employee service is an indicator used to CSR liaisons at each base and confirming down rather than bottom-up, it would be a good idea to introduce assess the value of a global company. progress on annual activities (goals, midPromotion of CSR elements into the assessment criteria for top managers in each Activities should be reported in a way that can be term report, results). Global CSR region. Grant decision-making authority to CSR liaisons and consider understood by readers around the world. English developing methods of self-management for meeting each region’s language versions are important. requirements. Foreign companies clearly express the value they In addition, taking a Japan-centric approach limits the scope of have created by addressing a social issue. activities. Communicating the CSR policies to overseas bases in simple terms is more effective for adding depth to global initiatives. Create a successful globalization model while retaining a Japanese CSR liaisons in each region should become more Initiatives for thoroughly establishing the style in deploying the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of actively involved in identifying issues and creating Guidelines on Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery Conduct to overseas bases. initiatives. Policy. Conducted WBT for two years targeting those in the position of division leader or above in Japan as well as those in overseas regions who are in direct contact with customers. Firm grasp of technical standards and social systems related to the Building up achievements in CSR initiatives is not Published the Anritsu Report as an value chain is where Anritsu can demonstrate its strengths. effective in gaining overseas recognition unless they are integrated report. Expressed Anritsu’s Key issues in Anritsu’s activities are: (1) human rights issues in the expressed in a globally accepted manner. CSR management stance of solving social supply chain; (2) compliance in overseas business; (3) diversity and (4) Specify the social issues behind your business and issues through its core business. This effort the environment. Instead of taking a comprehensive approach, focus on clearly report your role to solve the social issue. will continue in the next fiscal year. concrete issues and illustrate how management addresses them. Sustainability Management It seems that words such as “sustainability,” “innovation” and Strengthening the organic link between reporting Reorganized information intended for the “globalization” has not been universally understood by everyone in elements is an effective way to produce a readerpublic, based on the integrated report, and the company. oriented document. publicly released it. Clearly defined the relationship between the CSR Report and the corporate governance policy and report that are intended to supplement the integrated report. In determining materiality, consider issues from the perspective of what Using external indexes as benchmarks for materiality is Considering an assessment method that is necessary for Anritsu to take the next step forward on a global scale. a good approach. will serve as a benchmark. Make good use of the ES survey results because taking action on issues Continuing to submit responses to that stakeholders expect Anritsu to address is important. questionnaires associated with overseas investment and incorporating them as materiality items. Anritsu must understand its impact on human rights issues and When conducting audits based on the Western Have yet to conduct an actual audit. determine its response by starting from the ideal and working method of using checklists, a more substantial Conducted the CSR Survey in fiscal 2015 backward. Begin with the supply chain and identify challenges through assessment is possible by emphasizing for 93 companies in the supply chain. Will activities such as visiting suppliers. communication. rank suppliers and create an audit plan Also start by identifying conflict minerals as a materiality and take the starting in fiscal 2016. Identifying opportunity to exchange opinions and information with suppliers to develop human rights initiatives for the entire value chain. Materiality Produce a CSR report that instantly communicates Anritsu’s materiality Activities should be reported in a way that can be Added new reporting items (e.g., water and proactively provides information. understood by readers around the world. English resources). Additions were reflected in the Provide information on the uniquely Japanese initiative of working language versions are important. English language version. alongside suppliers to resolve their problems. To determine the company’s response to social issues that affect While Anritsu endeavors to reflect the issues recognized Created a section titled “Materiality” in multiple divisions, consider materiality from society’s perspective. by each division and outside opinion in its key CSR the CSR Report and provided information issues, providing a comprehensive explanation of this on items listed under GRI-G4 in the approach would enable the company to communicate section explaining our approach, and also its position on CSR with even greater clarity. published a discussion on the items in the Stakeholder Dialogue. The global employee satisfaction survey can be used as a KPI for Anritsu should explain its stance of actively reflecting Continuing to review KPIs based on benchmarking employee engagement. issues recognized by each division and outside opinions external ESG assessments (FTSE, EIRIS, To become a global market leader, set KPIs that clearly express the Sustainalytics, MS-SRI, and others). in its key CSR issues. corporate vision, such as the desired results and impact. Published each division’s objectives for the fiscal year (plans, initiatives and results). Using hours spent in training for global employee development and occupational safety as a KPI would be a good way to disclose ー information on human resources. Setting KPIs You need to understand your environmental impact in areas such as CO2 emissions throughout the entire lifecycles of your products. Consider setting a KPI that links operating income to CO2 . Consider KPIs as gateways to better engagement and start with areas ー that can be quantified. Set KPIs that correlate with company goals in order to give concrete form to engagement and increase impact. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 23 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure and Comfortable Society 1 Service to Customers The goal for Anritsu contributes through Original & High Level technologies to improve customer Anritsu safety and security. The future Anritsu seeks Every employee listens to customers and provides products and rapid support services The goal for by achieving employees at a quality that surpasses market expectations. Goal 1 Appreciation Anritsu gains a solid reputation for its technologies and earns trust in its brand. by society Service to Customers Basic Concept and Policies envision : ensure Anritsu envisions itself as an essential company for customers around the world by ensuring the ongoing provision of innovative products and services that respond to constant change. Toward realizing “envision : ensure,” Anritsu set its customer satisfaction goal for 2020 as becoming a brand that enjoys the continued trust and preference of customers in all countries and regions. We continue to pursue this goal by sharing business targets and value with customers across the world and providing unique products and services that meet their needs. Customer Satisfaction (CS) Promotion Framework Our mid-term CS management plan emphasizes strengthening our contacts with customers. By enhancing connectivity with customers at our sales and marketing or maintenance service sections or on our website, we seek to more precisely capture customer needs and thereby make better use of our strengths in technological aptitude and sincerity to attain even deeper trust from customers. Our CS measures are deliberated, implemented and assessed under the leadership of the CS Committee, made up of representatives from each business division. ▶ Customer Satisfaction (CS) Promotion Framework Corporate Strategy Meeting Report CS Committee Test and Information and Corporate Communication PQA Business Device Business Measurement Business Communications Business Department Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 24 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Service to Customers 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Global Customer Service Activities The Test and Measurement Business offers solutions to customers around the world through a network of sales bases in 19 countries. We also maintain 14 service centers in 12 countries to offer a variety of services so that our customers can use our products reliably. The PQA* Business has 4 Group companies in 4 countries and its maintenance network, including agents, now covers 54 countries. We provide reliable maintenance services to customers around the world. Anritsu redesigned its website in fiscal 2015 by integrating the websites of our domestic and overseas Group companies. Now our customers can more easily find their Anritsu contacts without having to determine which website contains the contact information or department. We will seek further enhancements to customer usability in fiscal 2016. *Products Quality Assurance Operations of Each Group Company Test and Measurement Business At the Measurement Support Center in Japan, members with ample knowledge in our products are striving to respond to customer inquiries within two hours. A CRM system has been introduced at the center to coordinate with sales and marketing and maintenance service sections, prepare technical documents and estimates, provide operation instructions, and arrange repairs for customers. In fiscal 2015, the center began offering proactive solutions based on customer purchase records. The maintenance services section in Japan provides customers subscribed to our mail magazine with information that only Anritsu can provide, such as optimal uses of electronic measuring instruments and technical information for calibration and testing. We conduct an annual customer satisfaction survey with users of either our calibration or repair service. Using the results, we identify problems and implement corrective actions to improve our maintenance services on a yearly basis. ▶ Satisfaction Levels of Calibration/Repair Service Users (%) Collection and delivery Operation accuracy Fee Average or overall ★ Helpdesk response Delivery time Calibration/repair report (%) 100 93.2 92.7 90.6 90 87.7 87.2 85.5 80 74.4 70 60 Mail magazine index 50 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY The “Voice of the Customer Program” was introduced as a CEM* tool at Anritsu Company (U.S.A.). The program allows us to more effectively listen to feedback, analyze data and understand root causes, thereby enabling us to make continuous improvement through corrective actions and ultimately raise customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2015, we updated our CRM system, conducted in-house training programs with employees and launched * CEM (customer experience management): management system focused on customer experience and feelings to determine the added value that can be provided at contact points with customers. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 25 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Service to Customers 1 Secure and Comfortable Society the “Customer Journey Project” to more efficiently and effectively respond to customer requests and enhance customer experience. We review customer evaluations by using annual CS surveys. Customer feedback and evaluations are shared across the company, and we check the status of how staffs are dealing with customers every month. These ongoing efforts resulted in another outstanding customer satisfaction response for fiscal 2015. ▶ Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) : Overall Satisfaction for Fiscal 2015 ▶ Overall Customer Satisfaction over 11 Years ▶全体の満足度の推移 Anritsu Company（アメリカ） Not sure 0% 500 Very dissatisfied 0% 444 454 454 Dissatisfied 0% Very satisfied 432 435 426 424 59 % 425 424 420 404 400 378 Neutral 4 % Satisfied 36 % 300 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015(year) ※ Five-scale assessment from “very satisfied” to “very unsatisfied” ※ Scores calculated from “very satisfied” and “satisfied” PQA Business The PQA Business, which provides quality assurance systems for customers in the food and pharmaceutical industries, has been working on enhancing the quality of its customer support center, where maintenance service experts with ample experience are stationed 24 hours a day, 365 days a year to respond to inquiries or requests from customers at any time. The center maintains a framework for coordinating with Group companies overseas and a CRM system for greater efficiency. Staffs regularly receive training conducted by domestic and overseas instructors to provide customers with secure and reliable products and services. In fiscal 2015, we worked on establishing a mechanism to enable service engineers at field sites to use the maintenance data in the center’s CRM system. As first steps for improving our communication with customers, we increased our participation in exhibitions and enhanced our website content. The customer support center is available 24/7, year-round. Information and Communications Business The Information and Communication Business, which provides customers with information and communications systems that ensure stable communication infrastructure, has been striving to enhance its customer support center. In fiscal 2015, in addition to improving the quality of responses to inquiries by having employees with abundant experience in maintenance service answer questions while using the CRM system, we established a system for providing customers with one-stop solutions that integrate our responses with those of our system engineering division. To have an opportunity to understand customers’ problems and goals, we held a study session for them on a methodology for identifying the root causes of problems with lecturers from outside organizations, and we regularly met with partner companies. Device Business We updated our website in fiscal 2015 so that more people around the world would recognize Anritsu as a manufacturer of optical and ultrafast electron devices. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 26 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Service to Customers 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Employee Training Many customers describe Anritsu as being sincere. In order to maintain and further instill this throughout the company, we provide employees with HR training programs every year and periodically remind them of the importance of sincerity throughout their daily work. We recognize employees who receive appreciation from customers with a CSR Award, and many have been recognized over the years. To fully realize “envision : ensure,” we continually cultivate human resources with a visionary and problem-solving mindset as we become a global brand that enjoys the continued trust and preference of customers by continually improving customer service. Quality Management Basic Concept Anritsu Corporation has established quality policies and action guidelines under its corporate philosophy, “Contribute to the development of a safe, secure and prosperous global society by offering Original & High Level products and services with sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm,” and has been firmly implementing them in order to provide products and services that satisfy customers and society. Quality Policy Supply satisfactory products to customers and society with sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm. Quality Policy Action Guidelines ▪Work with sincerity and seriousness not to make nonconforming products. ▪Handle after-processes considering customers and harmony with others. ▪Propose improvement with enthusiasm. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 27 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Service to Customers 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Promoting the Quality Management System Anritsu has been certified under ISO 9001 international quality management standards for quality assurance since 1993 and has developed a consistent global framework, from product design and development to production, services and maintenance. In our Japanese operations, we have sought to integrate ISO 9001 certifications separately obtained by each Group company. This has been done to support continuous improvements by effectively implementing PDCA cycles under a unified quality management system. We are enhancing the efficiency of the management systems including the environmental management system toward the certification of ISO 9001:2015. The following list summarizes Anritsu Group companies that have obtained ISO 9001 certification. The certification has been obtained for all organizations engaged in product realization processes. Of the total number of Anritsu employees in our global operations, about 60% of them are covered by the quality management system. ▶ Companies with ISO 9001 Certification Japan Anritsu Corporation Group Companies in Japan Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. M Tech Support Co., Ltd. Major Group Companies outside Japan U.S.A. Anritsu Company （U.S.A.） Anritsu Eletronica Ltda.（Brazil） Anritsu Electronics Ltd.（Canada） EMEA Anritsu EMEA Ltd.（U.K.） Anritsu Ltd.（U.K.） Anritsu GmbH（Germany） Anritsu S.A.（France） Anritsu S.r.l.（Italy） Anritsu Solutions S.r.l.（Italy） Anritsu A/S（Denmark） Anritsu AB（Sweden） Anritsu Solutions S.R.L.（Romania） Anritsu Solutions SK, s.r.o.（Slovakia） Asia and others Anritsu Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.（China） Anritsu Company, Inc.（Taiwan） Anritsu Corporation, Ltd.（Korea） Anritsu Pte. Ltd.（Singapore） Anritsu India Private Ltd. (India) Anritsu Infivis (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Anritsu Pty. Ltd.（Australia） Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 28 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Solutions for Social Issues Basic Concept Anritsu seeks to share its future vision with customers and create value that is uniquely Anritsu toward its goal of addressing social issues in partnership with customers. ▶ Example of New Applications of IoT/5G Supporting the Evolution of a Next-generation Voice Network with our Cutting-edge Technologies With the rapid advance of ICT for the next-generation network, the Internet of Things (IoT) society is almost here, ready to connect practically everything beyond smartphones via the Internet. In order to support the IoT network, the telecommunications system is about to undergo a major shift to 5G wireless. The 5G system will allow us to send and receive massive volumes of data instantly and take current wireless communications to the next level, bringing more sophisticated functions and even faster speeds. I believe our solid technologies for the wireless communications and measurement technologies that we have honed in wired communication over decades will play a vital role together in the IoT/5G fields. Hirokazu Hamada With the capability to connect every facet of life on a network, the IoT will Senior Vice President Measurement Business Group facilitate social innovation. Autonomous cars, remote monitoring and operation General Manager, Measurement of home appliances to prevent thieves from intruding into our houses or to watch Business Div. over the elderly living alone and telemedicine are examples of the wide range of IoT Anritsu Corporation applications. Anritsu intends to contribute to the realization of a more secure, safer and prosperous society by deploying its robust technologies into the IoT/5G sphere. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 29 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Beyond Tomorrow’s Communications: Contributing to Realizing Advanced Communication Services Required by Society As smartphones and tablets become increasingly user-friendly and wearable devices move into the spotlight, mobile broadband services using cutting-edge communication technologies such as LTE and LTE-Advanced are being integrated into cloud services with ultra-high speed data transmission technologies, and this is ushering in a new era of innovation in telecommunications systems. The advance of IoT (Internet of Things) that connects everything over wireless communication technologies has led to social innovations in diverse areas, including medicine, the environment and education. It is also driving a dramatic increase in data traffic, which is projected to surge as high as eleven times the current volume by 2018, making efficient network construction a new social issue. Over the years, Anritsu has been responding to turbulent advances in communications technology by developing pioneering test and measurement technologies. We stand resolved to continue meeting the network needs of society and customers as a pioneering and reliable test and measurement company that is capable of addressing both wired and wireless communication. And we will strive toward the creation of a sustainable society that offers connectivity anytime, anywhere, in a safe, secure and comfortable manner. Successful IP Data Transfer at 1 Gbps with LTE-Advanced As services providing rich content such as images and videos are expanding at an explosive pace along with the ongoing progress of the IoT network which connects everything, monthly mobile data traffic is predicted to exceed 10 exabytes by 2017. To securely transmit data at such an ultra-scale, equivalent to nearly 430 million 25G Blu-ray discs or 5 trillion 200page books, the development of LTE-Advanced modems capable of 1Gbps-class communications is in high gear. This development requires base station simulators for testing modems. Anritsu has served as a partner of Qualcomm Technologies in their development of LTE-Advanced 1 Gbps modem. In a test conducted under the partnership using our base station simulator MD8430A, the Qualcomm Technologies modem successfully transferred IP data at 1 Gbps, clearing the LTE-Advanced requirement. The 1 Gbps modem is scheduled to be in practical use by late 2016 or 2017. Anritsu will continue to contribute to the further acceleration of mobile broadband systems through the provision of its base station simulators for the 1 Gbps modem. ▶ Prediction of Mobile Data Traffic (EB/month) 35 30.6 30 25 21.7 20 14.9 15 9.9 10 6.2 3.7 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Signaling tester MD8430A/RTD Source: Cisco Systems Visual Networking Index Contributing to the Communication Quality Improvement of Emergency Call Systems for Car Accidents Rapid response to car accidents can make a life-saving difference. In Europe, an initiative using a wireless network is being rolled out to summon a rapid assistance to the injured in a car accident. The initiative, called eCall, requires the use of a car device designed to make an emergency call upon detecting an accident to an emergency call center and provide information on the location and time of the accident, the number of people in the car and the car type. In Europe, all new vehicles to be sold from April 2018 must be equipped with an eCall device meeting the standards specified by the European Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 30 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI). And the standard compliance tests require the use of a base station simulator. Anritsu’s base station simulator MD8475A has been validated to be suitable for 98% of the tests that must be conducted to confirm compliance with the ETSI eCall standards. Also, Russia has introduced an eCall-like system called ERA-GLONASS, and the installation of an ERA-GLONASScompliant communication device is scheduled to be mandatory for all new vehicles to be introduced in the country after January 2017. Anritsu developed a test case simulator supporting ERA-GLONASS, which has been adopted by a Russian certification organization as an ERA-GLONASS test platform. Anritsu will continue developing solutions that help improve the communication quality of eCall. ▶ eCall System Emergency call center Location information Medical emergency obtained constantly center Signaling tester MD8475A When an emergency occurs Vehicle information 1 Airbag is activated or callbutton is pushed. 2 is transmitted to the emergency call center. 3 Ambulance call is made. 4 Ambulance is dispatched. Measurement Technologies Supporting the Quality Improvement of Millimeter-wave Automotive Radars Not limited to eCall, wireless technologies built into automobiles have been advancing recently and automotive radars have been introduced on more vehicles for the detection of driving conditions and for driver assistance. The development of millimeter-wave radar in the 79 GHz band is particularly active since it will enable drivers to detect moderately-sized objects, such as pedestrians and cyclists that current radars do not capture. Although this new radar needs to undergo signal-transmission performance tests, conventional measuring instruments failed to function properly, yielding excessive conversion loss and ghost image response. Anritsu has provided a solution. Measurement free from the influences of hitherto undetectable weak signals or of image responses is now possible using our high-performance instruments. Contributing to the Diffusion of Home Automation Home automation, which enables mobile devices to freely control household cameras, locks, lights and electric appliances, has become a symbol of IoT. The number of home automation units that can be connected on an IoT network rises every year and is predicted to exceed 7 billion by 2020. International standards, such as Z-Wave and Gigbee, have been established as in-home network standards for home Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 31 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society automation equipment, which are also compatible with mobile communication standards including Wi-Fi standards for smartphones and PCs and LTE standards for Bluetooth and public networks. Anritsu’s MT8870A is a universal wireless test set supplied for home automation equipment. In addition to complying with all communication standards applicable to home automation equipment, the MT8870A can be used to conduct tests on up to 16 units of equipment at the same time. Our measurement technologies are contributing to the realization of social innovation that is emerging through home automation. ▶ Home automation Universal wireless test set MT8870A Joint Development of kQ Measurement System for Wireless Power Transfer with Toyohashi University of Technology A number of studies are underway to improve the performance of home appliances and electric vehicles and thereby further enhance our quality of life. Wireless power transfer is a representative study subject that has recently been in the spotlight. Anritsu and Toyohashi University of Technology jointly developed a measurement system for wireless power transfer. This effort was conducted under the Strategic Information and Communications R&D Promotion Program project of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications. The measurement system allows for computing optimal transfer efficiencies by changing power transmission and reception positions, and it also enhances the development of wireless power transfer through an early discovery of structures and dimensions. The technologies we used for this measurement system, such as energy harvesting which gathers and converts weak energies in the surrounding environment into power, are expected to be applied to a wide range of fields. Anritsu’s measurement technologies will continue to support the development of highly efficient wireless power transfer. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 32 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Analyzer Supporting High-precision Video Services According to a survey conducted by ICT Research & Consulting, the number of users of paid video services totaled 9.6 million in 2015 and is expected to reach 14.9 million by 2018. And as video and other types of data are transmitted at higher speeds, networks are becoming increasingly faster. In digital transmission, where all information is converted into 0s or 1s, so-called bit errors (mistaking, for example, a 0 for a 1) can occur due to influences such as noise. The faster the transmission, the more likely bit errors will occur, affecting the quality of the transmission. Anritsu’s MP1800A, a signal quality analyzer for measuring the occurrence rate of bit errors, was developed in 2007. We have since continued to enhance its measuring performance, and the MP1800A Series is widely used by telecommunications carriers and data transmission device suppliers around the world. Ten years have passed since the launch of the analyzer. As the unrivaled bestseller in the field, MP1800A is, however, still evolving and now generates test signals for the next-generation 400GbE network, which is expected to be introduced by as early as 2017. Contributing to “Connected” Networks Company use of WAN* has been expanding dramatically along with a growing awareness of information security and the commonplace use of cloud services due to increased outsourcing. Ongoing progress in business globalization, which requires more frequent exchanges of massive volumes of data with overseas offices, is also driving WAN use. However, many current WAN systems available for connecting a company’s global sites or multiple companies in a supply chain are subject to lengthy delays in data transmission, which decrease the efficiency of operations such as development and quality control while also driving up the time and cost of manufacturing. The PureFlow® WSX of Anritsu Networks enables service operators to build a high-speed yet reliable communications infrastructure between distant locations because of its unique capabilities for optimizing processes that would otherwise be time-consuming. * Wide area network: a general term for a communications network linking locations that are geographically distant, such as domestic branches and overseas operation sites; the term is often used to refer to a network that is constructed and operated by a communications carrier, as compared to LAN (local area network), which is set up within one building. Traffic Accelerator PureFlow® WSX Series Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 33 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service toforCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Contributing to Food Safety and Security Every year, diets are becoming increasingly rich and varied, and many of us have plenty of opportunities to taste a broad range of food products. Meanwhile, in the wake of a series of food product recalls and contamination incidents, food industry has set stringent targets for quality assurance. Anritsu Infivis has been safeguarding the quality of food and pharmaceutical products for about 50 years. The company’s original technology, which started with a checkweigher with the differential transformer of a measuring instrument, has since evolved and been put to use for detecting metallic foreign matter and then X-ray inspection, thereby helping customers to solve problems. The X-ray inspection system the company developed in 2000 for the first time in Japan is a total quality assurance solution that is not only capable of detecting contaminants but also of identifying product shape defects, inspecting packaging defects, checking for missing products, and has since been widely used by food manufacturers around the world. ▶ Anritsu Infivis Milestones Contributing to the Elimination of Packaging Defects Supermarket and convenience stores are filled with food products in various types of packaging. Packing processes, meanwhile, are frequently subject to the problem of “biting,” when a product gets caught in the seal. While the problem does not immediately affect the contents, it can lead to rupturing the package, which in turn could result in discoloration or spoilage of the food. Therefore, biting is a significant issue for food manufacturers requiring countermeasure to be taken. Anritsu Infivis provides an X-ray inspector that specifically addresses biting. XR75_KXS7522AVCLE Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 34 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Solutions Service to forCustomers Social Issues 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Improving the Quality of Life of Patients Improving the Quality of Life of Patients through Manufacturing Technologies Many people take cancer treatment, and the prolonged nature of this treatment has led to increased demand for approaches to alleviate pain and suffering. Photodynamic therapy (PDT), a procedure that uses a photosensitizing agent and applies lasers to target lesions, is a treatment known for causing little damage to normal cells with less physical burden on patients. Anritsu has been manufacturing and shipping probes under contract with Meiji Seika Pharma, a seller and manufacturer of pharmaceutical and medical equipment. We have been providing PDT semiconductor lasers and singleuse probes for PDT semiconductor lasers. PDT semiconductor lasers are approved as medical devices for treating earlystage lung cancer, locally residual and recurrent esophageal cancer treated with chemoradiotherapy, and primary brain malignancy. Anritsu will aim to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of patients through its collaboration with Meiji Seika Pharma, the supplier of PDT semiconductor lasers and the photosensitizing agent Laserphyrin 100 mg for injection. ▶ Number of Patients with Cancer ▶ Cancer Mortality Rates (Number) Number of Patients (Number) Number of Deaths 140,000 80,000 125,730 ■Stomach 69,813 ■Stomach 120,000 118,979 ■Large intestine ■Large intestine 100,000 107,241 ■Lung 60,000 ■Lung ■Esophagus 50,136 ■Esophagus ■Liver ■Liver 80,000 44,238 40,000 60,000 ■Brain or central 32,765 ■Brain or central 47,271 nervous system nervous system 40,000 20,000 20,000 21,427 11,867 4,825 1,942 0 0 1980 1990 2000 2010 1980 1990 2000 2010 Source: Center for Cancer Control and Information Services, National Cancer Center PDT Semiconductor Laser Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 35 Goal Contributing to Build a Safe, Response Service to Customers Social Expectations 1 Secure and Comfortable Society Response to Social Expectations Basic Concept Anritsu gives priority to proactively responding to global social expectations through its business activities Agree to the Global Compact Since March 2006, Anritsu has practiced the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and has linked these principles with its own CSR efforts to firmly establish them throughout Group activities worldwide. Global Compact (GC) and Related Activities Anritsu's CSR activities during fiscal year 2015 relate to the ten principles of the Global Compact. The United Nation's Global Compact Office has selected Anritsu CSR Report 2007 as one that matches their Notable COP (Communication on Progress) policies. The Ten Global Compact Principles Anritsu's Major Actions in Fiscal Year 2014 Related Pages • The Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, which reflects the spirit of the Global Compact, now serves as the basis of our Group activities. • We began applying the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct to our activities on a global scale. Promoting Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Overall Applying the ten GC compliance, Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies made efforts to prevent violations and to establish more Behavior principles pleasant workplaces by (1) familiarizing people with the Anritsu Code of Conduct; (2) promoting Groupwide Anritsu Group Code of Conduct education, including training by organizational levels; (3) avoiding risks on ethical matters via questionnaire Establishment of Compliance survey; (4) preventing violation of ethics rules via helplines inside and outside the company; and (5) checking the proper observance of ethics and compliance programs or measures through internal audits. Businesses should support Principle and respect the protection of Labor Safety and Health • Anritsu Corp. and the Group Companies promoted activities to secure workplace safety and health. 1 internationally proclaimed Activities of global sites Human Rights humanrights; and • We launched a cross-sectional working group to look into global human rights issues. • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies surveyed the actual status of harassment to employee by ethics questionnaire. Establishment of Compliance Principle make sure that they are not • We operate an external helpline to address harassment and other compliance issues. 2 complicit in human rights abuses. • Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in human rights abuses. Supply Chain Management Businesses should uphold the • Responding to employee requests, and in order to improve work-life balance, Anritsu Corp. and the Group Principle freedom of association and the companies continued to improve labor conditions. In Japan, we set up an internal website that can be accessed Respect for Human Rights and 3 effective recognition of the right by employees to support work-life balance and publicly announced the initiative on the website of the Ministry Promotion of Diversity to collective bargaining; of Health, Labour and Welfare featuring companies promoting women’s participation. Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Principle the elimination of all forms of • We are maintaining our efforts to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct worldwide. Behavior 4 forced and compulsory labour; • Anritsu Corp. continues to request that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in forced labor. Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Labour Supply Chain Management Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Principle the effective abolition of child • We sought to establish the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Code of Conduct worldwide. Behavior 5 labour; and • Anritsu Corp. requested that its suppliers and partners not be complicit in child labor. Anritsu Group Code of Conduct Supply Chain Management ･Anritsu Corp. and the Group Principle Respect for Human Rights and companies continue to promote • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies continue to promote employment across borders. 6 Promotion of Diversity employment across borders. Businesses should support a • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies promoted Eco-Factory and Eco-Office activities. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory Principle precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges; • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan continued environmental accounting. Environmental Accounting Environment • Anritsu committed to Eco-Management Eco-Management and Eco-Mind undertake initiatives to Principle promote greater environmental • Anritsu promoted activities of Eco-Minded Employees. Eco-Management and Eco-Mind 8 responsibility, and; • Anritsu continued its efforts to prevent of global warming. Eco-Office and Eco-Factory encourage the development and Principle diffusion of environmentally • Anritsu Group in Japan promoted development of environmentally conscious products. Eco Products Development 9 friendly technologies. • We provided web-based training on preventing extortion and bribery for managers above the level of division heads at Anritsu Group companies in Japan and overseas. Anti-Corruption • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies supplemented the policy of preventing extortion and bribery to make it Businesses should work against Establishment of Compliance Principle more specific and began implementing the policy at a global scale. 10 corruption in all its forms, • Anritsu Corp. and the Group companies in Japan circulated case study sheets on anticorruption measures in an including extortion and bribery. ongoing effort to educate employees. • We disseminated the Anritsu Group Corporate Procurement Guidelines among our suppliers and partners in an Supply Chain Management effort to prevent corruption. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 36 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Global Socio-Economy 2 Establishment of Compliance Anritsu conduc ts business in harmony with the culture and charac teristics The goal for of individual communities in its global deployment and fulfills its social Anritsu responsibilit y throughout the supply chain. The future Anritsu seeks Ever y employee is fully aware of compliance, respec ts human rights , and The goal for by achieving vigorously does their work and achieves grow th within a framework of a employees Goal 2 diversit y of at tributes , cultures and values. Appreciation Anritsu builds up relationships of trust with communities and societ y through by society communit ybased social ac tion programs. Establishment of Compliance Basic Concept By promoting sound and fair corporate behavior that addresses social concerns beyond basic adherence to ethical standards, laws and regulations, Anritsu continually advances key measures for strengthening its Ethics and Compliance Promotion System and for enhancing ethical awareness throughout the Group’s entire workforce. We believe it is important to respond to public expectations by developing a deep awareness of our corporate social responsibility, complying with laws and regulations in all aspects of our corporate activities, and acting according to social ethics. To that end, we have specific policies to guide corporate action, including the elimination of harassment in the workplace and the protection of personal information. All employees understand that actions which violate these polices will not be tolerated and that they cannot allow themselves or others to engage in activities that are unsound or insincere. Ethics and Compliance Promotion System Promotion of corporate ethics and compliance at Anritsu is led by the president, who sets an example as chairman of the Management Strategic Conference. To promote compliance effectively, we have also set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, chaired by the executive officer in charge of compliance, which oversees activities related to corporate ethics and compliance at Anritsu Group companies in Japan. With regard to Anritsu Group companies outside Japan, the Legal Department, which serves as the secretariat of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, works with various committees on legal matters to provide guidance and necessary support for the efforts of every company to comply with ethics and laws with due respect for the legal systems, cultures and customs of each country or region. The Legal Department also works with compliance officers at each overseas company to establish a global system for ethical and legal compliance. The Internal Audit Department conducts an audit of the system to ensure that it is functioning appropriately and offers recommendations and requests for improvement as needed. Management Strategic Conference Executive officers responsible Executive officer in charge of compliance for each committee Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Support Cooperation Various committees Anritsu Group • Security trade control companies outside External • Information security Internal Legal Department • Fair trade promotion Support Japan Helpline ・Workplace Helpline • Environmental management Others ・Dedicated e-mail Helpline ・Law office address Notice/ Guidance/ ・Hotline (phone) ・Industrial counselor consultation supervision ・Complaint box Notice/ Guidance/ consultation supervision Global Audit Department Helpline of Group companies Anritsu Group companies Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 37 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment of Compliance 2 Global Socio-Economy Working with Group Companies in Japan and Overseas Anritsu has been actively developing a compliance system for the Anritsu Group. Specifically, the Code of Conduct was formulated and shared with the Group in Japan as a guideline for promoting compliance. Also, Group companies participate in the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, and we conduct compliance promotion events and related educational programs throughout the Group. With regard to overseas Group companies, while they may not fully adhere to the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group in Japan due to differences in the respective laws of each country, we formulated localized codes of conduct that correspond to the respective legal systems, cultures and customs of each country. The “Guidelines and Insights for All Members of the Anritsu Group,” which contains elements of the code, has been distributed to overseas employees to be carried at all times as a guide for their actions. Working with Overseas Subsidiaries The Legal Department and various committees on legal matters seek to promote ethical and legal compliance worldwide by convening global committee meetings, in principle, once a year, for each area of responsibility. These meetings are attended by officers at overseas Group companies. • Legal Department: convenes Global Compliance Committee meetings • Environmental Management Committee: convenes Global Environment Management Meetings • Information Security Committee: convenes Global IT Committee meetings • Security Trade Control Committee: convenes Global Export Control Committee meetings • Internal Control Committee: convenes Global Internal Control Committee meetings We also set up an English language website for the Legal Department that can be accessed from overseas locations. The site provides case study sheets citing concrete examples of various compliance violations in the same way as our Japanese language site. We created three language versions for each sheet, one in English and two in Chinese, to facilitate their use in training activities in China. In fiscal 2015, we published information on global regulations for preventing bribery, for use by Anritsu Group employees around the world. Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee and Ongoing Improvement Activities (Annual) The Anritsu Group in Japan set up a Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee consisting of representatives from individual departments related to corporate ethics and from Group companies. The committee plans, supports and implements Group compliance activities in Japan. We conduct a corporate ethics survey during CSR Promotion Month (October), and each business unit formulates an annual action plan for the next fiscal year based on the results of the survey. With the action plan, each business unit carries out its own improvement activities. The effectiveness of the plan is assessed through the results of a survey the following year to ensure continuous improvement of our compliance activities. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 38 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment of Compliance 2 Global Socio-Economy ▶ Compliance Promotion Activities ▶ Constituent Departments of the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee April Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee Compliance Reinforcement Week •Submission of confirmation letter on Global Audit Department Anritsu Group Code of Conduct •Lecture meeting Management Information System Department Corporate Communication Department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reporting on annual plan, development of Compliance Reinforcement Week plan) Implementation of the Compliance Legal Department Promotion Activity Program Development of Compliance Accounting and Control Department Promotion Activity Program Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Reviewing progress of annual plan, planning Corporate Ethics Month) Human Resource and Administration Department Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee (Compilation/analysis of the questionnaire) Trade Control Department October: Global Procurement Operation Division CSR Promotion Month •Ethics questionnaire Business Strategy Support Team, Global Operation Center •Lecture meeting •Group training Product Development Support Department, R&D Division, Measurement Business Division Representatives from Group companies Compliance Promotion Activities CSR Reinforcement Week and CSR Promotion Month Every year during CSR Reinforcement Week in mid-April and CSR Promotion Month in October, we offer lectures by experts and conduct seminars, group-based learning programs and training organized by departments responsible for promoting corporate ethics to raise compliance awareness among employees of the Anritsu Group in Japan. During CSR Reinforcement Week, employees and temporary workers in Japan are required to submit a confirmation letter affirming their awareness and understanding of the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. During CSR Promotion Month, we also carry out a corporate ethics survey for all employees, temporary workers and other staff working for the Anritsu Group in Japan. The survey targets regular employees and temporary staff of the Anritsu Group in Japan, as well as employees of partners, suppliers, and other staff, to confirm the effectiveness of compliance promotion activities and identify areas for improvement in individual organizational units. Analysis, examination and deliberation over the questionnaire results are fed back to the management of the individual organizational units to be used in Lecture meeting with experts drawing up future compliance promotion activity programs and other actions. • Confirmation letters for the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group • Training by organizational level (e.g.,new recruits, newly promoted managers) • Individual/specialized training by separate committee or department • Lecture meeting with invited external speakers (once or twice a year) • Divisional educational activities using case studies • Lending and showing of videos or DVDs Employees in a seminar Initiatives for Preventing Bribery Bribery represents major compliance risks for the Anritsu Group, which conducts business on a global scale, and we are therefore working on preventive measures. Prevention of bribery is a serious issue throughout the world. Particularly stringent bribery laws have been enacted in the United States and the United Kingdom. These laws are not limited to incidents within the respective countries but extend to incidents that occur outside them as well. While the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct already prohibits corruption and bribery, we sought to more firmly uphold this prohibition throughout the Group in Japan and overseas by establishing the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery Policy in April 2012. In fiscal 2015, we continued our initiative launched in fiscal 2014 to provide thorough, web-based training for preventing extortion Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 39 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment of Compliance 2 Global Socio-Economy and bribery across the Anritsu Group. The course was attended by approximately 1,450 employees (750 in Japan and 700 overseas) from our sales, marketing and procurement departments as well as those above the level of divisional head at Anritsu Group companies in Japan and overseas. Also in fiscal 2015, we sought the cooperation of consultants to establish the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Rules in order to firmly instill among employees our stance on preventing bribery, and we began enforcing these rules in April 2016. The rules are meant to supplement the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery Policy by setting out concrete procedures. They specifically focus on the highrisk issues of seeking prior approval for entertaining and presenting gifts and due diligence prior to signing new contracts with a third party, such as an agent. We will implement preventive actions in each region after localizing the rules by addressing the characteristic aspects of doing business in particular regions. Led by Anti-Bribery & Corruption Officers appointed for each region by the Group CEO, we began offering face-to-face sessions on the Anritsu Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Rules in April 1, 2016 throughout the Anritsu Group to educate key persons, such as managers in each country or region. We plan to further enhance the effectiveness of these rules through intensive monitoring and internal auditing to ensure proper adherence. Case Study Sheets The Anritsu Group in Japan selects concrete cases that have actually occurred or could occur, under the two themes of daily life and business, and publishes these as Case Study Sheets that include concise advice and explanations. Sheets are posted on our intranet and are used as educational tools of individual organizational units. A total of 180 cases have been published as of March 2016. Compliance Situation of the Antimonopoly Law and Internal Audit To confirm the conduct of fair and free sales activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan conducts internal audits of the activity status and order intake/sales process of the sales departments (including local bases) once a year. In conjunction with the internal audit, we also conduct compliance training (Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade; Act against Delay in Payment, etc. to Subcontractors; export controls; etc.) Helpline To prevent violations of ethics and laws and maintain pleasant workplace conditions, Anritsu Group companies in Japan operate the Helpline, which accepts internal reports and requests for consultation. And we provide the three outside helplines (the Lawyers, Industrial Counselors, and Workplace helplines). Lawyers are available from outside the Company for employees to consult for legal advice. In addition, Legal Consultation Days (twice a month) are held to provide legal consultation on internal problems as well as any other issues affecting the lives of employees. In October 2012, we set up the Workplace Helpline separately from the internal contact point to improve accessibility by consigning the operation of contact points to a private company with no vested interests in the Anritsu Group. Consultation is provided by industrial counselors. The Workplace Helpline accepts requests for consultation outside office hours, including on holidays, and in English on designated days, giving employees better access to the service. Both the In-house Helpline and the Workplace Helpline maintain rules of confidentiality Information card promoting the on the content of reports and the fact that a report was made, and neither the reporter nor Workplace Helpline the whistleblower will be unfairly treated in any way. From April 2015 to March 2016, the contact point received the following consultation requests. (1) External contact point “Workplace Helpline:” 6 cases (4 by phone, 2 by e-mail) (2) In-house contact point “In-house Helpline:” 4 cases (3 by e-mail, 1 face-to-face consultation) (3) Interview conducted based on response in the Corporate Ethics Survey: 16 cases Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 40 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment of Compliance 2 Global Socio-Economy With respect to (1), those requesting consultation did not wish to consult with or report to the Company. Therefore, despite their status as employees, the content of their consultation was withheld from Anritsu to maintain the confidentiality of the information. With respect to (2), we asked to meet with those requesting consultation in order to gain more information about the content of their request. During these interviews, we listened attentively without judgment. We adopt the stance of working together for a solution for each consultation. While most cases under (3) do not take the form of consultations, employees respond to the Corporate Ethics Survey by including their comments on possible compliance violations on various issues concerning the Company, organization, personnel, the environment and security by either signing or not signing their names. When they have provided their name, we request and conduct a meeting with the employee’s consent to learn more about the content. As explained above, we respond to each consultation by adopting the stance of working together for a solution. In each of the cases under (1), (2), and (3), the confidentiality of the person requesting consultation or the whistleblower is completely protected and due consideration is given to ensure that they are not treated unfairly for seeking consultation. In some instances, the Company will consult with persons involved based on the content of the consultation, but the information they provide will also be kept confidential to prevent them from being subject to unfair treatment, as in the case of people requesting consultation and whistleblowers. In addition to improving the whistleblowing processes, such as the establishment of internal and external contact points for consultation, we also train consultants by organizing skill development seminars for contact point staff with a focus on role-playing to simulate one-on-one consultations. Export Control Anritsu’s measuring instruments are equipped with hardware and software that represent the cutting edge of technology and could be abused were they to fall into the hands of countries developing weapons of mass destruction or of terrorist groups. Anritsu designates export control as one of its seven major risks and follows stringent standard procedures to contribute to maintaining and promoting peace and security in the international community. The Export Control Committee leads a staff organization for dealing with global trade, and we have formulated our own global regulations, including the Rules on Security Trade Control (compliance program) and rules on specific export controls. Moreover, we have an established information system for effectively conducting risk management and screening. Reflecting the high level of trust in our export control system, Anritsu has been certified under the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) system to ensure security while facilitating international trade, and the company has been granted a Special Comprehensive License from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, which also provides practical benefits in facilitating the flow of our exports. We will continue to contribute toward bolstering international security through stringent Mark of the Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) controls while promptly responding to customer requests by continuously seeking to improve system administered by customs and strengthen our initiatives. Balancing Stringency and Efficiency in Export Control We must achieve a balance between thorough trade compliance and efficient export control operations in order to contribute to the safety and security of the global community and more quickly and reliably deliver products that society and customers need. In an effort to attain this balance, we have been managing risks by categorizing them according to the country of the counterparty and the product. We seek to accelerate our procedures for low-risk transactions by using IT systems, while high-risk transactions are subject to a detailed investigation as well as a special screening by the chief officer. We execute these operations under international trade control rules, enhance effectiveness by conducting audits and convene an annual global meeting to share and resolve issues. We will strive to deepen further the trust from society and customers by continuing to focus on balancing the rigor and efficacy of our export control procedures. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 41 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Risk Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Promotion of Risk Management Basic Concept The Anritsu Group views risks as uncertain events that affect corporate value such as organizational profit and social credibility. In other words, we do not consider risks as necessarily negative but instead as potentially positive events if managed appropriately. We recognize proper risk management as a vital management issue and have established a risk management system for the Anritsu Group as a corporate entity under basic policies concerning the development of an internal control system approved by the Board of Directors. We are focusing on initiatives for enhancing sensitivity to risks beyond management to include all employees while promoting risk management through an all-inclusive effort to maintain and expand our corporate value, fulfill our corporate social responsibility and seek sustainable development for the Group. Risk Management Policy The Anritsu Group will maintain and increase its corporate value, fulfill its corporate social responsibility and seek sustainable development for the Group by appropriately managing risks that affect management. (1) We will seek to enhance sensitivity to risks not only among management but also among all employees in an all-inclusive effort to promote risk management. (2) Management and all employees will promote risk management by complying with the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct as well as laws and regulations as the basis of the Company’s internal controls. (3) We will generate profit and limit losses by controlling management risks related to strategic decision making such as entry into new business areas and product development strategy, as well as operational procedures. (4) We will anticipate potential emergency situations insofar as possible to prevent their occurrence. In the event that an emergency does occur, we will seek to minimize and limit losses and promptly extricate ourselves from the critical situation into a state where autonomous recovery is possible, and subsequently prevent a recurrence. Risk Management Promotion System The Anritsu Group has identified seven major risk categories: (1) business risks associated with management decisionmaking and execution of operations; (2) legal violations; (3) environmental preservation; (4) quality of products and services; (5) import/export management; (6) information security; and (7) disasters. We have established a management system for each risk, supervised by the chief officer responsible for each risk or the head of the relevant division, who concurrently serves as the chief administrator. The chief administrator is responsible for the committee comprising the heads of relevant divisions and chief administrators of Group companies, exercises overall control of the Group companies involved in managing the relevant risk, and provides timely reports to the Management Strategic Conference on the risk management measures, plans, status of implementation and results of the management cycle throughout the year. In addition, Anritsu’s risk management promotion divisions are responsible for setting rules and guidelines and conducting education and training to raise the level of risk management and ensure ongoing business development. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 42 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Risk Management 2 Global Socio-Economy ▶ Risk Management Promotion System Audit Committee Board of Directors Crisis Response Overall Head of Risk Management Management Audit Department Emergency Response Headquarters Project President Management Global Audit Department Management Strategic Conference Strategy Center Risks associated Risks associated Risks associated Risks associated Risks associated Information security Risks associated with business with legal violations with environmental with quality with export/import risks with disasters Officers responsible for risk Officer responsible for risk preservation Officer responsible for risk management Officer responsible for risk Officer responsible for risk management management Officer responsible for risk management Officer responsible for risk management management Executive officers in charge Executive officer in charge management Executive officer in charge of management Executive officer in charge Executive officer in charge of each business division, of compliance Executive officer in charge of the Environment and Quality Executive officer in charge of the Management of disaster prevention presidents of subsidiaries the Environment and Quality Promotion Department of the Trade Control Information System (Chief officer in charge of and executive officers in Promotion Department (Chief quality officer) Department Department disaster prevention) charge of operations (Chief officer in charge of (Chief officer in charge of (Chief officer in charge of environmental management) trade control) information management) Corporate Ethics Environmental Quality Export Control Information Disaster Prevention Promotion Management Management Committee Management Headquarters (Main division of Committee Committee System Committee Committee responsibility) (Main division of (Main division of Executive organ of (Main division of (Main division of (Main division of responsibility) (Main division of responsibility) each business division responsibility) responsibility) responsibility) Trade Control responsibility) Human Resources and the corporate Legal Department Environment and Environment and Department Management and Administration division Quality Promotion Quality Promotion Information System Department and Department Department Department others Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Group ▶ Risk Categories and Committees Responsibility for Risk Committees and Other Risk Categories and Related Rules Management Organizations Executive officers in charge of each business Business risks associated with management decision making Executive organ of each business division and the 1 division, presidents of subsidiaries and and execution of operations corporate division executive officers in charge of operations Corporate Ethics PromotionCommittee Anritsu Group Charter of Risks associated with legal (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade in Sales 2 Corporate Behavior Executive officer in charge of compliance violations Activities) Anritsu Group Code of Conduct (Committee for Promoting Fair Trade in Procurement) Risks associated with Basic Rules of Environmental Chief officer in charge of environmental 3 Environmental Management Committee environmental preservation Systems management Risks associated with Rules on Quality Management 4 Chief quality officer Quality Management System Committee product and service quality Systems Risks associated with 5 Rules on Security Trade Control Chief officer in charge of trade control Export Control Committee export/import management Basic Rules on Information Chief officer in charge of information 6 Information security risks Information Management Committee Management management Risks associated with Basic Rules on Disasters and 7 Chief officer in charge of disaster prevention Disaster Prevention Headquarters disasters Emergency Response Activities in Fiscal 2015 In fiscal 2015, we conducted risk management workshop training on managing practical business risks for newly promoted managers at the head office and subsidiaries in Japan. We also held risk management workshop training for managers in the software development division and a risk management seminar for managers in the device development division Risk management training Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 43 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Risk Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Enhancing Corporate Value through Internal Controls Basic Policy The Anritsu Group’s internal control system is intended to raise the effectiveness and efficiency of group management, ensure the validity of financial reporting and establish legal compliance. We are continuously improving and reinforcing the system to respond to the changing business content of the Anritsu Group and growing complexity and diversity of the business environment. This has enabled us to practice sound management activities sustained by a viable internal control system and strive to enhance corporate value. Promotion System In the Anritsu Group, the Internal Control Committee, which deals with the validity of financial reporting, and the Corporate Ethics Promotion Committee, which oversees compliance and related committees for information management, promoting fair trade, export control and environmental management, undertake the necessary deliberations, establish and operate internal control systems by implementing cross-Group information sharing and educational programs, and conduct activities to ensure viability. With regard to our global operations, we have set up a Global Internal Control Committee comprising members of the internal audit divisions in Europe, Asia, the United States and Japan who share the current status of response to risks inherent in the business activities and management issues in each region. They also carry out activities to support the incorporation of internal control procedures into operations and the effective and efficient development of internal control systems. Furthermore, the Internal Audit Department of Anritsu Corporation and the Group companies, Directors elected as Audit Committee Members and the Management Audit Department conduct audits as part of their responsibility to evaluate the activities of these committees and the internal control system. Activities for Fiscal 2015 With regard to activities related to the evaluation of internal controls conducted in fiscal 2015, and in the area of financial reporting, the Internal Audit Department of Anritsu Corporation and Group companies evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. Appropriate improvements were implemented against potential risks identified during the evaluation process. In areas other than financial reporting, Anritsu Corporation’s internal audit division conducted operational audits to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls related to compliance, such as information management and export controls. During the audit, emphasis was placed on verifying processes that had been revised in their control environment due to organizational reform and IT system upgrades. With regard to Group companies outside Japan, in addition to audits conducted by audit officers in each region, our directors in their capacity as Audit elected as Audit Committee Members, along with staff from the Management Audit Department and the Internal Audit Department, visited each company to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls. In fiscal 2015, we evaluated our regional headquarters in Europe from the standpoint of compliance risk, as well as our manufacturing and sales bases in Asia on the status of operational execution and compliance. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 44 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment Promotion of Risk of Compliance Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Business Continuity Management (BCM) Basic Policy on Business Continuity Management Each Anritsu division creates a business continuity plan (BCP*) to maintain smooth operations in the event of a disaster or emergency by minimizing damage and resuming full business activities as quickly as possible. * Business continuity plan: A plan formulated to ensure the rapid resumption of critical business functions in the event that business activities are interrupted by an emergency. Disaster Prevention The Anritsu Group has laid out its BCM policy in the following Basic Policy on Disaster Response. Basic Policy on Disaster Response The Anritsu Group establishes a prevention system against disasters that may significantly affect its management, places top priority on ensuring the safety of its stakeholders including employees and local communities in the event of a disaster or accident, and strives to minimize damage and promptly resume business activities in order to fulfill its social responsibility and continue to seek enduring success for the Anritsu Group. Business Continuity Management at Manufacturing Bases The stable procurement of materials for parts production represents the very backbone of any manufacturing company’s BCP. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. and the Koriyama Business Office of Anritsu Corporation, which serve as the manufacturing base of the Anritsu Group, have formulated BCPs to respond to earthquakes and other natural disasters by identifying them as material risks. These BCPs clearly set out concrete steps for each process in the event of a disaster. Applying the lessons learned from an actual large-scale disaster, we revised the criteria for invoking the BCP in an emergency to prepare against a broader range of risks and refined our procedures for responding to each risk. Organization of Koriyama BCP Infrastructure/ Support and Maintenance Labor Safety Infrastructure Team Team and Health General Manager of Koriyama Restoration of Manufacturing R&D Team Business Manufacturing Team Office BCP by Production Management Team SCM Restoration Procurement Team Division Logistics Team of SCM Production Support Team in Head Quality Assurance Team Office In the wake of a disaster, a BCP headquarters is set up in accordance with guidelines in a manual to ensure the safety of employees, secure infrastructure and lifelines, and seek early restoration of production lines. Education, Training and Manual Revision Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. seeks to ensure that all employees can respond effectively in the event of a disaster or emergency. We formulate an education plan every year and conduct training and drills on a regular basis. The officer in charge of BCPs also participates in these drills to determine whether or not the manual requires a review and revises it as needed. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 45 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Establishment Promotion of Riskof Compliance Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Developing the Infrastructure for Stable Supply Seeking to disperse exposure to risks, Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. opened a second plant in July 2013. Production lines have been distributed between the two plants to ensure stable supply. Securing the Information System For key information systems, including the Group’s mission critical systems and e-mail, we have established a structure in which data is replicated across our Osaka Data Center, Atsugi site and Koriyama site. This allows us to continue operating these systems from an alternate site, even in the event that any one site is stricken by a disaster. We are preparing our response to disasters by designating emergency procedures with a targeted time for recovery. We also conduct regular recovery drills based on projected scenarios to assess the effectiveness of our procedures and correct any problems that may arise. Japanese Overseas locations locations RAS Remite Access IIJ-VPN Internet Weekly Daily Differential copy Differential copy Standby servers Production servers Production servers Standby servers Production servers Differential Koriyama Site copy Atsugi Site Osaka Data Center Working with Business Partners In our effort to minimize disruptions in supplying products to customers, we have visualized our supply chain. We have created a database on the status of approximately 2,000 sites operated by our business partners to understand their standard and alternative transport routes to Anritsu, and we seek to identify and minimize any risks that may emerge in the immediate aftermath of a disaster. In addition, we request key business partners to provide information on their business partners further upstream in the supply chain. We have also developed an in-house system for exchanging information on business partners to further strengthen our ability to maintain stable supply during emergency situations. Worldwide Headquarters with Anti-seismic System Our worldwide headquarters was completed at our Atsugi site in March 2015 under the BCP concept for maintaining the continuity of the Group’s core functions. Its steel construction comprises a low-rise building and a high-rise building, both incorporating anti-seismic structures for enhanced safety following an earthquake and an emergency power generator capable of meeting power needs for 144 hours. The high-rise building has a concrete filled tube (CFT) structure, in which steel tubes used as posts are filled Global headquarters building with concrete. The structure ensures anti-seismic performance with fewer, compact posts, which affords greater freedom for space design. Also, we have set aside several areas for stimulating creative communication to raise the intellectual creativity of the building. Seismic isolator Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 46 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion Establishment of Risk of Compliance Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Information Security Management Basic Concept Anritsu is making a continuous effort to maintain and enhance information security through its information security management system. Management System (Information Security Management) Anritsu’s management system consists of the Information Management Committee comprising key executive officers from each business division and Group companies, the Information Security Subcommittee comprising representatives from business divisions in Japan, and the Global Security Subcommittee, whose members include Chief Regional Officers at overseas Group companies. The Information Management Committee formulates basic policies on information management for the entire Group. The Information Security Subcommittee and Global Security Subcommittee develop annual action plans and concrete measures for Group companies in Japan. The plans these high-level bodies formulate are implemented through the actions of each department. Anritsu uses this management system to oversee its annual PDCA cycle. Information Management Committee Corporate Ethics Promotion Information Security Headquarters (Formulate policy for the entire Group) Committee Imformation Security Subcommitee Global Security Subcommittee (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the (Formulate and promote measures and plans for the (Management Information System Dept.) entire Group in Japan) Anritsu Group overseas) Business Divisions in Japan Overseas Business Divisions Divisions at Group companies in Japan Divisions at overseas Group companies (Manage and implement measures, etc.) (Manage and implement measures, etc.) Internal Audit (Internal Audit Committee, Global Audit Dept., and third-party audits) Major Activities in Fiscal 2015 Risk Assessment Related to Information Security and Countermeasure Development Anritsu tracks the ever-changing nature of threats to IT systems by conducting an annual risk assessment to address changes in the risks we face. In fiscal 2015, we took action to address risks in the following two areas. Revision of Global Security System and Policy (Risks Associated with Changes in the External and Internal Environment) Applying the results of the global security assessment we conducted last year, we reviewed our global security policy and reconstructed the management system. The assessment pointed out that our global management system lacked clarity in terms of accountability. In response, we reformulated a policy that clearly defined the responsible officer for each region, their roles and scope of responsibilities, and created a framework for adequately communicating information, such as instructions and reports. In fiscal 2016, we plan to carry out a unified global security training program to inform all employees of our newly established policy and management system. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 47 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion Establishment of Risk of Compliance Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Introduction of Tools for Analyzing Communication logs for Internet Security (Risks Associated with Changes in the External Environment) One of the highest information security risks for a company is known as a targeted cyber attack. Many companies have recently suffered damage from such an attack, and Anritsu has been focusing on countering this threat as a top priority. Defense in Depth, or multiple layers of security controls, is believed to be effective, and we have been applying access controls to the Internet, screening e-mail for viruses, and encrypting critical information. Employee Education to Raise Awareness Each year, we organize web-based training (WBT) and information security seminars by outside experts on security for executives and other employees of the Anritsu Group in Japan to deepen their understanding of security. In fiscal 2015, we also conducted training by sending fake e-mails to all employees in a continuation of the efforts we had begun in fiscal 2014 to deal with the growing threat of computer viruses embedded in e-mail attachments. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 48 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Supply Chain Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Supply Chain Management Basic Concept Anritsu’s procurement operations are global in scope, reaching beyond Japan and across the world. We offer equal opportunities to every company in Japan and overseas through fair assessment practices. We strive to respond to the expectations and demands of society across the entire supply chain by developing stronger partnerships through the willing involvement of suppliers and partners in various activities, and by ensuring compliance with relevant laws and regulations, business practices and social norms as well as initiatives for preserving the local environment. Voice Collaborating with Suppliers to Provide Value for Society The Global Procurement Operation Division is responsible for integrating the Group’s material procurement functions as well as promoting CSR procurement around the world. Collaboration throughout our global supply chain is essential for providing value to society and contributing to the resolution of social issues through our business activities. We endeavor to visit as many of our suppliers as possible to seek their understanding of Anritsu’s approach to CSR as well as CSR procurement. We have also set up a Collaboration Room inside the global headquarters building as a permanent station for suppliers with the intention of deepening communication to generate high-quality value. Hiroyuki Fujikake Anritsu’s strength lies in the solid partnerships it has forged with suppliers over General Manager, Global its long corporate history. We hope to share awareness and the challenges presentProcurement Operation Division, Anritsu Corporation ed by current issues and engage dialogue with our partners to seek solutions. Also, we will pursue our initiatives to further strengthen our relationships of trust with partners so that we can grow together and continue providing value to society. Building Our Global Supply Chain Management Anritsu has procurement bases in the U.S., Europe, China and Japan, and is working to establish a globally unified set of assessment criteria approved by each location to optimize the mutual use of the supply chain. We intend to promote parts procurement through global collaboration. Mutual approval is also offered as a means for recognizing business partners that provide us with products we commonly use as a Global Preferred Supplier (GPS). We also intend to shorten time to market (TTM) for product development by sharing development roadmaps and technological issues with these suppliers. In fiscal 2015, we decided on a common standard for assessing suppliers between our operations in Japan and the U.S., and we selected nine companies to our GPS list to enhance our mutual interests and build stronger relationships. We will continue to carry out activities for increasing the number of GPS. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 49 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Supply Chain Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Anritsu Basic Rules of Procurement The Anritsu Group believes in the importance of moving as one with the entire supply chain, together with our business partners, in conducting procurement. With this conviction, we established our Basic Rules of Procurement in 2005 to forge partnerships anchored in mutual trust and seek the cooperation of suppliers and business partners. Basic Rules for Procurement 1. Selection of suppliers and partners Anritsu always keeps the door open to new potential suppliers and partners inside and outside Japan, in a spirit of fairness and impartiality. Anritsu objectively selects suppliers and partners based on proper standards focusing on quality, price, delivery schedules and environmental measures. 2. Partnership Anritsu builds mutually beneficial relationships with all suppliers and partners through sound business practices. 3. Compliance and secrecy protection Anritsu conducts business in full compliance with relevant laws, and does not disclose information acquired through business with suppliers and partners to any third party without these suppliers’ and partners’ prior consent. 4. Activity based on ethical concepts Personnel involved in procurement keep in mind at all times the importance of performing assignments fairly, free of personal interests with suppliers and partners, while maintaining sound relationships with these parties. 5. Considerations of human rights and labor Anritsu respects human rights and promotes industrial hygiene, safety and security, and requests that suppliers and partners agree to this policy and promote these activities as part of their supply chain operations. Anritsu may reconsider relationships with suppliers and partners if their business operations are linked with human rights violations, such as the use of child labor, racial and sexual discrimination, etc. Furthermore, we will work together with our suppliers and partners regarding non-use of conflict minerals that lead to these human rights issues. 6. Environmental considerations Anritsu stipulates Green Procurement Guidelines and promotes green procurement by purchasing parts and materials that have been proven less damaging to the environment. To promote our Basic Rules of Procurement, the Anritsu Group communicates the following requests directly to all suppliers as it seeks their cooperation in activities undertaken throughout the entire supply chain. Requests 1. Observance of laws and social norms Observance of relevant laws, prohibition of child labor, forced labor and cheap labor; and prohibition of discrimination and transaction with antisocial forces 2. Environmental considerations Realization of environmental measures in line with Anritsu's Green Procurement Guidelines, environmental requirements, etc. 3. Ensuring good quality, supply at fair prices and maintenance of delivery schedules 4. Preventing leakage of secret information and respect for intellectual property rights 5. Prompt response to contingencies and timely, appropriate information disclosure Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 50 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Supply Chain Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Initiatives on CSR Procurement In fiscal 2010, we formulated the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline, which complies with the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook published by the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association. The CSR Procurement Guideline is posted on our website, and we hold briefings for suppliers and business partners to raise their understanding of and establish further cooperation in CSR procurement. Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline Ⅰ Human Rights and Labor Ⅱ Occupational health and Safety Ⅲ Environment 1. Prohibit forced labor 1. Apply safety measures for 1. Control hazardous chemicals in 2. Prohibit inhumane treatment equipment and instruments products and infringements of human 2. Promote safe activities in the 2. Control hazardous chemicals in rights workplace manufacturing 3. Prohibit child labor 3. Promote hygiene in the 3. Establish and apply an 4. Prohibit discrimination workplace environmentak management system 5. Pay appropriate wages 4. Apply appropriate measures 4. Minimizeenvironmental pollution 6. Regulate working hours for occupational injuries and (water, soil, air) 7. Respect the rights to illnesses 5. Obtain environmental permits freedom of association 5. Properly manage disasters 6. Promote resource and energy and accidents saving by reusing, reducing, and 6. Be careful about physically recycling(3Rs) demanding work 7. Promote green-house gas reduction 7. Promote safe and hygiene in 8. Promote waste reduction all company facilities 9. Disclose environmental 8. Promote health maintenance preservation activities programs for employees Ⅳ Fair Trading Ⅴ Product Quality and Safety 1. Prohibit corruption and bribery 1. Ensure product safety 2. Prohibit abuse of a superior position 2. Establish and apply a quality management 3. Prohibit the offering and receiving of inappropriate system profit and advantage 4. Prohibit impediment to free competition Ⅵ Information Security 5. Provide accurate information on products and services 1. Secure computer networks against threats 6. Respect intellectual property 2. Prevent the leakage of personal information 7. Use appropriate export procedures 3. Prevent the leakage of confidential information 8. Disclose appropriate company information of the customer and the third party 9. Detect injustice promptly 10. Prohibit doing businesswith antisocial forces Ⅶ Contribution to Society 11. Conflict minerals 1. Contribute to society and community URL CSR Procurement Guideline Requesting Letters of Consent from Business Partners and Conducting the CSR Survey Since fiscal 2011, we have been seeking the cooperation of business partners in promoting CSR procurement by requesting that they submit letters of consent. In fiscal 2015, we received letters of consent from 17 new companies. Anritsu began conducting CSR Procurement Surveys to monitor CSR efforts at its business partners in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2015, we distributed surveys to 97 major suppliers and received 93 replies, a response rate of approximately 96%. The results of the survey were favorable. We will continue to promote CSR procurement by conducting the CSR Procurement Survey and requesting that new Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 51 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Supply Chain Management 2 Global Socio-Economy business partners submit letters of consent. In addition to these efforts, we also seek cooperation from suppliers on clean procurement every year to achieve transparency in our transactions as we practice compliance. We have set down codes of conduct and matters to be observed by our employees while prohibiting acts such as receiving entertainment and gifts and trading on insider information concerning business partners. Furthermore, we set up the Direct Delivery Mailboxes in the negotiation rooms of our head office and the Koriyama Business Office in an effort to promote CSR procurement based on the direct feedback from our partners. Green Procurement Guidelines Anritsu undertakes green procurement in accordance with its Green Procurement Guidelines established in fiscal 1999 by preferentially procuring environmentally friendly parts and materials. In fiscal 2011, we introduced the concept of preserving biodiversity to our activities and began implementing initiatives to deepen supplier understanding of biodiversity preservation. Under our revised Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification, we will seek to unify our green procurement activities with those of overseas Group companies that operate manufacturing bases starting in fiscal 2016. Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification Anritsu Group Global Green URL Procurement Specification Environmental Partner Company Certification System In fiscal 2001, we launched the Environmental Partner Company Certification System to evaluate the status of Anritsu suppliers’ environmental management systems (EMS) and product assessment procedures by ranking them at three levels and encouraging the environmental initiatives of suppliers. In fiscal 2009, we incorporated into the system a means for assessing the management status of chemical substances in products. We have also provided suppliers with check sheets and conducted factory audits to strengthen the reliability of information on chemical substances in products. In fiscal 2015, we identified five suppliers that required improvements based on the assessment of chemical substances in their products. All five achieved higher ratings after implementing improvements. ▶ Ratings in the Environmental Partner System Rank A Reliable system of management Rank B Flawed in certain aspects Anritsu provides support/Improvement activities are implemented Rank C No reliable system of management Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 52 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Supply Chain Management 2 Global Socio-Economy Response to Conflict Minerals Following the 2012 adoption of the final rule of Section 1502—the conflict minerals provision of the U.S. Financial Reform Bill—Anritsu declared its support and began working with its supply chain to prevent the use of conflict minerals in Anritsu products. We also hold briefings for our business partners to prevent any oversights. We respond to customer inquiries related to this issue by requesting investigations by business partners in Japan and abroad. We also channel this information to the Conflict Minerals Working Group at our headquarters to accumulate information in a shared database. To date there has been no use of conflict minerals at Anritsu. ▶ Response to Customers in Japan Anritsu Groups ③Request investigation Business Partner A ④Response Related to Procurement Division (Japan) domestic ②Request ①Request procurement Sales Division (Japan) Customer (Japan) Business Partner B investigation investigation ⑤Response ⑥Response Business Partner C Procurement Division Related to overseas (Americas, Europe) procurement Business Partner D Share Share Conflict Minerals Working Group Share (Secretariat) Accumulation/ Reference Shared Database Exhibition of Partner Products and Technologies On November 20, 2015, we held an exhibition at the Anritsu head office featuring products manufactured by 51 of our suppliers and partners. The event is held every year to showcase the products and technologies of all major business partners that procure products and materials from the Anritsu Group. This year’s exhibition acquainted development engineers at Anritsu with new products and technologies such as components for wireless communications (for example, products for the IoT, M2M and 5G markets), Introducing new products and technologies components and solutions for optical and electrical high-speed digital transmission, optical parts, general-purpose electric parts for the food and pharmaceutical inspection equipment markets and components that ensure electromagnetic compatibility (EMC*). The event also included seminars featuring lecturers from our business partners, aimed at keeping participants abreast of cutting-edge technologies. * EMC: Electromagnetic Compatibility Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 53 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity 2 Global Socio-Economy Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity Human Rights Basic Concept and policy Anritsu participates in the United Nations Global Compact, which is intended to encourage conduct under the universal principles of human rights and labor. We establish policies and guidelines based on international rules on human rights that serve as in-house rules and strive to be aware of issues and promote initiatives at every stage of the value chain, from research and development to procurement, production, logistics and sales. To further reinforce our initiatives, we have formulated a three-year plan that complies with international rules, including the International Labor Organization’s 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights endorsed by the U.N. Human Rights Council in 2011. In fiscal 2015, the plan’s first year, we set up cross-divisional working groups and convened a global meeting to report and deliberate on human rights issues. In fiscal 2016, the Anritsu Group will formulate a unified policy on the human rights of its employees and on human rights initiatives throughout the supply chain. And we plan to construct a due diligence framework in fiscal 2017 for implementing human rights on a global scale. Management and System As a global enterprise headquartered in Japan that advocates respect for basic human rights in its constitution, the Anritsu Group complies with international standards, including the ten principles of the U.N. Global Compact. We also declare respect for human rights in the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct and are striving to establish a corporate culture that does not tolerate discrimination. In the Charter of Corporate Behavior for guiding the Anritsu Group in the conduct of its social responsibility, we declared we will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. As for the Code of Conduct, which guides the daily operations of all Anritsu Group employees, it states that we will not discriminate in word or deed or engage in acts of violence or impair personal dignity, and that we will seek to deepen our understanding and take action to respect human rights through educational programs and other appropriate means. Protecting Human Rights (Excerpt from the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior) The Anritsu Group will respect the human rights of all those who are connected with it, and will not permit any discriminatory practice related to race, gender and so forth or infringement of individual dignity, and will never accept child labor or forced labor. Assessing and Monitoring Risk Initiatives for the Group Anritsu Group employees in Japan are required to submit letters of confirmation that provide assurance they understand and agree to the Code of Conduct of the Anritsu Group. We also seek to address and improve the status of human rights issues through the use of corporate ethics surveys and consultation points. For more information on these consultation points, see Compliance (pages 40 and 41). More information Compliance Initiatives for the Supply Chain Human rights and labor are upheld in Chapter 1 of our CSR Procurement Guideline, and we seek the understanding and cooperation of our business partners. We conduct surveys to confirm the status of implementation and make site visits to key business partners. For more information, see Supply Chain Management (pages 50 and 51). More information Supply Chain Management Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 54 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity 2 Global Socio-Economy State of Human Rights Education and Future Plans We conducted education on respect for human rights in accordance with the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct for university graduates and mid-career employees upon joining the company. We also implemented a number of activities such as organizational level training to foster an awareness of human rights within and outside the company on issues that require constant vigilance, including discrimination against minority groups, sexual harassment and abuse of power in the workplace, and to improve communication. Respect for Each Person (Excerpt from the Anritsu Group Code of Conduct) ▪We will respect every person’s fundamental human rights from a defender of human dignity standpoint, eliminate prejudice, and will not discriminate depending on race, nationality, religion, creed, sex, age, social status, or disabilities whether mental or physical. ▪We will respect each and every individual’s personality, and will not accept any discriminatory languages or behaviors, sexual harassment, or any kind of harassment which would result in hurting other people’s personality. ▪We will develop deeper understanding and act towards human respect through various educational programs. To promote respect for human rights across the entire supply chain, the Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline contain articles calling for the abolition of forced labor and prohibition of inhuman treatment, child labor and discrimination. URL Anritsu CSR Procurement Guideline Basic Approach to Respect for Diversity Anritsu upholds respect for human rights as one of our highest priority issues in both the Anritsu Group Charter of Corporate Behavior and Anritsu Group Code of Conduct. Given the rapid evolution of business worldwide, we believe that attracting a diverse workforce in terms of nationality, gender, age and views on work is important. This enables us to develop systems and programs that allow every individual to demonstrate their strengths based on their lifestyles, and to provide safe, secure and comfortable working conditions. In fiscal 2016, we established the Diversity Promotion Team within the Human Resources and Administration Department to carry out activities for promoting diversity, which includes developing women’s careers, supporting the work-life balance, hiring more persons with disabilities, and developing the careers of non-Japanese employees. Anritsu Diversity Human Resource and Administration Department 2020 VISION Various employees are working lively in the comfortable environment as they are repeating new challenges, stimulating each other, contributing to the customer value, and feeling their own growth. Job Challenge satisfaction Growth Creation Synthesizing the knowledge Various viewpoints can be accepted and utilized of all employees The new work, new product and new client will lead to the development of Anritsu Anritsu Corporation Diversity Promotion Team Anritsu Corporation Diversity Promotion Team Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 55 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity 2 Global Socio-Economy ▶ Employee Data (Group Companies in Japan) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total No. of employees of Group companies in Japan 2,194 2,206 2,212 2,244 Male 1,900 1,913 1,917 1,932 Female 294 293 295 312 Foreign nationals 24 26 30 33 Average age 41.5 41.9 42.3 42.6 Average working years 18.5 18.9 19.2 19.3 Non-regular employee 525 567 566 537 Ratio of Employees with Disabilities (non-consolidated) % 1.95 1.71 1.78 1.89 Legal disability employment ratio (Reference) 1.80 2.00 2.00 2.00 ※ Employee Data of Group companies in Japan as of the End of March (eg., data for fiscal 2014 is as of March 31, 2015) ▶ Employee Data (Anritsu Corporation) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 No. of employees:Figures in Male 712（174） 646（165） 684（177） 695（176） （4） （4） （4） 108（4） parentheses refer to number Female 119 111 105 of managers included in total count Total 831（178） 757（169） 789（181） 803（180） Male 41.7 41.5 42.0 42.4 Average age Female 37.3 37.3 38.4 39.4 Total 41.0 41.0 41.5 42.0 Male 17.6 17.6 17.8 18.2 Average working years Female 14.5 14.9 15.9 16.5 Total 17.1 17.2 17.5 18.0 Annual rated working hours 1,860.00 1,860.00 1,860.00 1,867.75 Average days of paid holidays used per year 14.2 14.5 15.1 15.6 No. of employees who took paid childcare leave 8 9 9 5 No. of eligible 19 6 4 9 No. of employees whose employees employment has been extended beyond normal retirement age No. of employees over 14 4 3 7 retirement age hired ※ Anritsu Corporation Employee Data as of the end of March (e.g., data for fiscal 2015 is as of March 31, 2016) ▶ Turnover Rate for Newly Recruited ▶ Employee Data (Global/Consolidated Basis, as of March 31, 2016) Employees within Three Years of Employment (Group Companies in Japan) Japan Americas EMEA Asia Global Total Number of regular employees 2,244 727 397 478 3,846 Joined in April 2011 0.0% Male 1,932 499 318 354 3,103 Joined in April 2012 4.9% Female 312 228 79 124 743 Joined in April 2013 5.4% Non-regular employees 537 62 37 17 653 Creating Jobs for People with Disabilities Our employment ratio of people with disabilities for fiscal 2015 (as of December 31, 2015) was 1.78% and, as in fiscal 2014, we were unable to meet the legally mandated employment ratio of 2.0%. We have since hired one person in January 2016, which raised the ratio to 1.89%, but we have yet to achieve the mandated standard. To meet this requirement in fiscal 2016, we will steadily maintain our recruitment efforts and seek to create a better working environment by expanding the range of available jobs so that individuals with disabilities can apply their strengths in mutual cooperation with other employees in the workplace. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 56 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity 2 Global Socio-Economy 2012 2013 2014 2015 Planned ratio (non-consolidated) 1.80 2.00 2.00 2.00 Actual ratio (non-consolidated) 1.95 1.70 1.78 1.78 Ref: Actual ratio (in Japan, consolidated) 1.69 1.59 1.77 1.68 ※ As of the end of December for each year Supporting Women’s Career Development Anritsu emphasizes the creation of a safe, secure and comfortable workplace environment in which employees can enrich their lives and develop their careers. In regard to supporting women in their career development, we are proactively working to establish a workplace environment that supports balancing work and childcare. This includes providing programs for paid leave, maternity leave and reinstatement, both before and after childbirth and during childrearing. To ensure that employees applying for these programs can balance work and family with greater peace of mind—regardless of gender—we disseminate information companywide to establish familiarity with the programs and raise awareness to inspire greater understanding. In accordance with the Act to Promote Women in the Workplace, which went into effect in Japan in August 2015, we published the current state of women’s career development at Anritsu on a website hosted by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare featuring enterprises promoting women in the workplace. Although hiring women for engineering jobs poses a formidable challenge, we have set a goal of raising the ratio of women to 20% of all new recruits by 2020 and are striving to enhance our working environment toward achieving this goal. ▶ Worldwide Ratio of Female Employees Japan Americas EMEA Asia and Others Total Total FY2015 14 31 20 26 19 Ratio of female employees (No. of female employees/Total FY2014 13 30 21 26 19 employees) FY2013 13 30 22 26 19 Ratio of female managers to male FY2015 8 64 83 63 44 managers ((No. of female managers/ FY2014 9 56 72 66 44 No. of female employees)/(No. of male managers/No. of male employees)) FY2013 9 59 74 78 47 Promoting the Careers of Non-Japanese Employees Anritsu Corporation and its Group companies in Japan hire employees regardless of nationality while participating in job fairs* organized by overseas universities, accepting interns from universities in Japan and overseas and hiring exchange students in Japan. As of March 31, 2016, 43 non-Japanese nationals are employed at our worksites in Japan. In fiscal 2016, we will review our in-house training programs for employees who are not fluent in Japanese. We will continue to develop a working environment that supports the engagement of non-Japanese employees. * Job fairs: Opportunities for exchanging information and developing a mutual understanding between job applicants and companies. Initiatives for Balancing Work and Family Anritsu Corporation has been expanding its programs and developing its systems under the third stage of its three year plan (see the chart below). We completed all scheduled initiatives within the plan period, which included the launch of a website to support balancing work and life, and the introduction of a paid leave program for those who are parenting. In fiscal 2015, we continued these efforts and considerations under the next action plan to enhance support and further establish our systems for achieving a balance between work and childcare as well as nursing care. Labor and management are collaborating to enhance the working environment by working through the Committee for Promoting Work-Life Balance, and our efforts were recognized with a single star Kurumin mark from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in fiscal 2015. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 57 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity 2 Global Socio-Economy ▶ Anritsu Corporation’s Action Plan to Support Child Welfare 3rd Stage (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2015) Objectives Measures Action Enhance child-raising leave program, widened • Shorter work hours available for more Allow men and women employees to take leave the eligibility for shorter schedules for parents of children up to sixth grade (2012) for child-raising with greater peace of mind. working parents, etc. • Introduced parental leave for child-raising (2013) Reinforce system to help parent employees Subsidize child-raising service charges at a family Introduced a program to subsidize day care with temporary child-raising service charges. support center run by a local government. fees of a family support center (2012) Enhance understanding among employees Launch website on programs that support Launch website on programs that support childthat we support greater work-family balance child-raising and achieving work-life balance raising and achieving work-life balance, etc. in child-raising. (2013) ▶ Parenting and Childcare Programs Start of End of April of the Pregnancy Childbirth 1-year-old 3-year-old elementary Through the third grade Through the sixth grade following year education Maternity leave （8 weeks before and after Childcare leave (for Women) giving birth Men’s parental leave to Childcare leave experience childcare (for men) Special leave for men at the time of childbirth Work-related Restrictions on working overtime, on holidays and late nights – 1 Restrictions on engaging in hazardous operations Leave for prenatal Leave for postnatal hospital visits hospital visits Mitigation measures Time off for nursing – 1 for commuting (time off for nursing) Restrictions on working overtime, on holidays and late nights – 2 Restrictions on working overtime, on holidays and late nights – 3 Time off for nursing – 2 (shorter work hours) Leave for nursing children Telecommuting Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. has a comparatively high ratio of female employees, and a considerable number of employees are using its shorter work hour programs. The company therefore decided that telecommuting would be an effective way to enhance the work-life balance of its employees, address BCP concerns and raise productivity, and it consequently launched a pilot program with support from Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, which is seeking to disseminate and promote telecommuting. During the pilot program, the company confirmed the positive effects of reduced commuting on the private lives of employees and the possibility of telecommuting in the event of contingencies, while also verifying the need to improve its operational processes and further develop its IT environment. The results have been published on the Ministry’s website as a test case for introducing telecommuting. Anritsu Pro Associe plans to continue the pilot program toward formally introducing telecommuting. Applying the Skills of Senior Employees Anritsu Corporation and its Group companies in Japan operate an employment extension program in which employees can continue working after retirement at age 60. In principle, we grant extensions to all applicants, who are then able to continue applying the ample knowledge, experience and advanced skills they have gained over the years and provide guidance and training for the next generation. We will continue to promote diverse working styles and develop a working environment in which diverse personnel can excel at their careers. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 58 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Human Resource Development 2 Global Socio-Economy Human Resource Development Basic Concept Anritsu believes in the importance of being an organization in which employees feel they are contributing to society and growing while being vibrant and actively achieving the company’s goals. With this belief, we constantly strive to create a workplace in which employees can grow through their work. Education/Training System Anritsu Corporation focuses on on-the-job training as a framework for supporting every employee in identifying the areas of work that are in line with their individual interests and developing the skills that enable them to realize their aspirations. Programs that are shared among all Anritsu Group companies in Japan include new recruit orientation, training by organizational level, correspondence courses and language studies, which all support the professional development of every Group employee. Education and Training in Fiscal 2015 In fiscal 2015, we continued our initiative from fiscal 2014 and held training for mid-career employees at all Group companies in Japan. Our objective was to develop the mindset employees need to become valued staff members who can achieve more as leaders in the workplace and as team members, as evaluated from the perspectives of five primary roles that mid-career employees are expected to take in their mid-thirties. We are creatively revising the program in response to post-program survey results and feedback from employees who have attended it. With regard to training new recruits, we offer a program guided by the Business Creation Division on innovation planning for the creation of new value for customers. Participants experienced the process of both expanding and focusing their thoughts to formulate a new business model based on their innovative ideas, which they presented to management. The objective of the program is to have the participants realize the importance and difficulties of creating new value and to enhance the capabilities necessary for planning business models, including knowledge of marketing and accounting, analysis, foresight and plan formulation. Training program for new recruits Global Human Resource Development Anritsu is working to expand its business overseas, primarily in the area of test and measurement. Developing human resources capable of leading these overseas businesses represents a key challenge for achieving growth in the coming years. In developing global human resources, we think it is important not only to raise the level of language proficiency but also to provide employees with opportunities for Onsite training actually communicating with people of different nationalities. In fiscal 2015, Anritsu Corporation accepted two non-Japanese people as interns, who participated in onsite training at a worksite that develops products. On the workplace where they received the interns, the supervisor and employees at the site communicated with the interns in English and was inspired by the differences in culture and ways of thinking. We will continue to focus on providing education and training to develop global human resources, including lessons in English and training sessions to help our employees Final presentation by interns understand different cultures. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 59 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Human Resource Development 2 Global Socio-Economy Global Training for the Test & Measurement Business Global Training for the Test & Measurement business was held in April 2015. Sales engineers engaged in this business at overseas bases gathered for sessions on new functions and demonstrations of products as well as those still in development. In addition, they attended lectures on the market and technology trends for LTE-Advanced carrier aggregation. We also held discussions on market requirements for our new product, the MT1000A/MT1100A network master. This year a total of 82 persons-75 participants and 7 instructors-traveled to Global training for the Test & Measurement Business Japan to attend these events. ▶ Global Activities on Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Diversity and Human Resource Development Results for Fiscal 2015 Targets for Fiscal 2016 • Fell short of attaining some of the annual targets of the affirmative • Complete the annual affirmative action plan by December 2016 and action plan but were able to clearly advocate for equal employment submit results to the Executive Committee. opportunity • Comply with all local labor laws and regulations including continuous • Salaries were analyzed to clarify issues of concern related to the gap training for managers. in wages between men and women. Shortfalls in the utilization of the • Continue the engagement survey. U.S. affirmative action plan were reported to the Executive Committee. • Held 4 seminars for managers on the legal aspects of labor management (human resource allocation, performance management, non-discrimination, salaries and working hours). The rate of implementation fell to 79% due to reorganization. • Did not conduct an engagement survey in fiscal 2015. • Sent newsletters to employees in the EMEA region (created separate • Integrate newsletters being published separately for three business newsletters for each region). units so that employees understand what is happening in their EMEA • Promoted best practices related to Anritsu values. respective regions. • Ensure that all employees understand the significance of harmony and diversity by deploying the codes of conduct when they join Anritsu. • Held meetings with all employees in each region. • Comply with Chinese human rights laws and regulations at the head • Continued monthly birthday parties. office in China and discuss related issues at management meetings as required. • Launched award program for long-time employees. China • Develop a personnel program encompassing diversity and human • No reported violations of rules for protecting human rights. rights. • All corporate policies and rules were in compliance with protecting • Ensure that all corporate policies and rules do not violate human rights. human rights. Global Meeting Each corporate department of Anritsu’s headquarters holds a global meeting every year. Members of the business division, Global Audit Department, Environment and Quality Promotion Department, Management Information System Department, Accounting and Control Department, Human Resource and Administration Department, Trade Control Department and Global Procurement Department gather at locations in Japan and abroad to share information about business guidelines, external trends and issues from a global perspective. Developing Human Resources in China In February 2015, we held a training session in the Shenzhen office of Anritsu (China) Co., Ltd. A total of 30 sales staff participated in training on making valuable sales proposals and sought to enhance their sales and negotiating skills. Human resource development in China Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 60 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Labor Safety and Health 2 Global Socio-Economy Labor Safety and Health Basic Concept Anritsu states “Respect for Employees” in Charter of Corporate Behavior. Anritsu believes that in order to enable every employee to fully achieve their potential, it is important to secure employee safety and health and to create an ideal workplace. Safety and Health, Health Management System The Anritsu Group in Japan established a safety and health management system that complies with Japan’s Occupational Safety and Health Act. Industrial health staff, led by industrial physicians and counselors assigned to the Health Management Center, provide support services to maintain the health of Group employees. In addition, the Anritsu Group in Japan has focused on preventing health problems associated with long working hours by continuously pursuing measures for normalizing working hours in accordance with common management policies for all companies, such as reducing overtime in response to results from fiscal 2014, minimizing late night work and thorough implementation of designated days for leaving the workplace on time. Major efforts for safety and health, health management • Having the Safety and Health Committee review activity status and formulate plans to prevent employees from accidents • Reducing the risk of accidents by conducting inspections before introducing, relocating or changing equipment, or when purchasing chemical materials • Enhancing the awareness of safety and health through training at Safety and Health Committee different organizational levels, and providing training on specific issues such as risk assessment • Providing safe, secure and comfortable workplaces by assessing working environments and conducting periodic inspections • Conducting routine, special, when getting hired, and health checkups, as well as follow-up examinations • Screening through questionnaire and industrial physician interviews to those who work extended hours to prevent impaired health • Raising health awareness through lectures by industrial physicians, for example, on preventing lifestyle diseases and infectious diseases • Mental healthcare education for managers • Counseling Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 61 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Labor Safety and Health 2 Global Socio-Economy Labor Accident and Commuting Accident The Anritsu Group in Japan is promoting health and safety activities toward achieving zero accidents. However, in fiscal 2015, incidents occurred that led to absences from work, caused by stumbling or falling while walking on company property. As a result, while these incidents involved only short absences, we were nevertheless unable to achieve our goal of zero accidents. In fiscal 2016, we will start anew on our challenge to achieve the zero record for the entire Anritsu Group in Japan. In fiscal 2015, the number of commuting accidents involving Group employees in Japan decreased by 5 from the previous year to 7. There were also 3 fewer accidents that resulted in lost work time. However, while the number of accidents has declined, all commuting accidents involved commuting by motorcycles, reminding us of the need to maintain our efforts to raise employee awareness of bike safety. In fiscal 2015, we sought the cooperation of the Atsugi Police Department and held training primarily focused on bicycles, including seminars on traffic safety and anticipating dangerous traffic situations using computer graphics simulations. We also began motorcycle safety training. We will reinforce our educational efforts to prevent commuting accidents in fiscal 2016. ▶ Frequency Rate of Lost-worktime Injuries (per million hours) ▶ Labor Accidents All industries Manufacturing industry Electric machinery and apparatus industry FY FY FY FY Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Group 2012 2013 2014 2015 2.00 Lost 0 0 1 1 （0） （0） （0） （0） 1.66 1.61 Anritsu worktime 1.50 Corporation 1.06 1.06 No loss 0 1 1 0 1.00 0.76 0.69 0.41 0.64 Anritsu Lost 4 0 0 2 0.50 0.54 Group in worktime （0） （0） （0） （0） 0.22 0.00 Japan 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 No loss 4 5 3 8 All industries, including the Manufacturing industry, and Electric machinery and apparatus industry: injuries Fatality numbers are in parentheses. that required more than four days of lost worktime; Anritsu:injuries that required more than one day of lost worktime Seminars on traffic safety and anticipating Motorcycle safety training dangerous traffic situations Health Management The ratio of abnormalities found in regular health checkups for Group employees in Japan continues to steadily increase in line with the national trend. After analyzing the health checkup results from the previous year, we added some tests to the checklist in fiscal 2015 beyond items that are legally mandated, such as blood tests for younger people, in an effort to encourage proactive changes in daily habits. We also promoted activities for health education and development, including guidance for individual employees by our industrial health staff, lectures by industrial physicians, training sessions on mental health and health classes by outside lecturers. In fiscal 2016, we will start implementing a unified system for monitoring stress symptoms for all Group companies in Japan to maintain and boost both the physical and mental wellbeing of our employees. Health class Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 62 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Labor Safety and Health 2 Global Socio-Economy TOPICS Overseas Topi : OHSAS 18001 Certification In May 2012, Anritsu EMEA Ltd. in the United Kingdom obtained certification for OHSAS 18001 (2007 version), the international standard for labor safety and health, and the certification was updated in May 2015. The standard is designed to create a safe and healthy workplace environment by defining the framework for promoting the following aspects. • Identify and control health and safety risks • Reduce the potential for accidents • Aid legal compliance • Improve overall performance Encouraging Commuting by Bicycle Anritsu Company (America) supports Bike to Work Day, an event held in the San Francisco Bay Area as part of National Bike Month. By cycling to work instead of commuting by car, we contribute to reducing the environmental load and boost the health of our employees at the same time. Employees participating in Bike to Work Day Health Week Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) organizes Health Week to improve the wellbeing of its employees. During this period, employees are encouraged to raise their awareness on managing their health by engaging in activities such as walking and running or participating in health management activities offered by local governments. Health Week Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 63 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 2 Global Socio-Economy Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Basic Concept Anritsu contributes to society through its business operations while at the same time pursuing activities that benefit the development of the local community as a corporate citizen. Community-based social contribution programs are at the center of these initiatives under the three pillars of “partnerships for educating youth,” “contributing to local communities” and “protecting the environment (biodiversity conservation),” and we carry out activities that our employees can participate in continuously. Partnerships for Educating Youth Kanagawa Science Summer Sponsored by Kanagawa Prefecture Anritsu participated in the 15th “Kanagawa Science Summer” event organized by Kanagawa Prefecture. Our theme of the program “Let’s Make a Radio Together” is mainly “Environment” and “Manufacture”, designed to familiarize children with wireless technology through creating a radio and lecture the importance of saving the environment. The one-day event was held at Anritsu Corp. headquarters during the children’s summer vacation and attended by 36 participants comprising 18 Kanagawa Prefecture Kanagawa Science Summer elementary school children each paired with a parent. Fun Science Laboratory Sponsored by the Atsugi City School Board, Kanagawa Prefecture There has been a growing concern with regard to young people’s waning interest in science. At the suggestion of the Atsugi City School Board, Anritsu has offered the program “Fun Science Laboratory” at neighboring elementary schools since fiscal 2007 with the aim of raising children’s interest in science through a variety of experiences. In fiscal 2015, we sponsored an educational event for learning about electricity and the mechanism of batteries. Students participated in an experiment in which they formed a “human battery” using a salt solution, Fun Science Laboratory aluminum foil and a spoon to create a musical box that could play music. Many of the participating children told us the event had been exciting and fun. Workplace Experience for Junior High School Students For many years, Anritsu has supported local educational programs that offer junior high school students the opportunity to experience actual work at companies and stores in the community. In fiscal 2015, we received a request from one neighboring school. Following a tour of the manufacturing process at Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd., the students visited Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., where they disassembled PCs and also learned how to sort equipment components by material. Workplace Experience for Junior High School Students In representative comments afterwards, one student realized how the work observed was actually much harder than imagined. Another student expressed appreciation for the kind assistance from the Anritsu employee during the PC disassembly training. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 64 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 2 Global Socio-Economy Support for Youth Sports Competitions We serve as a co-sponsor for the following youth sports competitions as a part of our contribution to the local community in Atsugi City, the location of Anritsu Corporation’s head office. Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Invitational U12 Soccer Competition Anritsu Corporation has been co-sponsoring the annual Atsugi City Invitational Soccer Competition for children under 12 years old, held every year in February since 1995, Anritsu’s centennial year. In addition to presenting the Anritsu Cup and medals, we print and distribute color event guides that introduce each team. These booklets have become a popular feature of the event for participants. This year, the competition gathered 32 teams, comprising 30 from cities in Kanagawa Atsugi City Invitational U12 Soccer Competition Prefecture, such as Atsugi and Yokohama, and 2 from Chiba Prefecture. The teams were divided into an 8 bracket qualifier round, with the winners advancing to the final in pursuit of the Anritsu Cup. Supporting the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Anritsu Corporation has been co-sponsoring the Anritsu Cup Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition since fiscal 2011. This year, 11 teams from Atsugi City participated, with 6 making their way through the qualifier round to compete for the Anritsu Cup in the finals. the Atsugi City Kids’ Softball Competition Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition Since fiscal 2012, we have been co-sponsoring the Anritsu Cup Dodge Ball Competition, organized by the Atsugi Dodge Ball Committee. This year, 14 teams from Atsugi City participated in the qualifier and final rounds to take home the Anritsu Cup. Dodge Ball Competition Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 65 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 2 Global Socio-Economy Contributing to Local Communities Collecting Plastic Bottle Caps The Anritsu Group in Japan collects plastic bottle caps in collaboration with the Amadera Industrial Park Council. The caps are sold as resin material with the proceeds used to purchase polio vaccines. In fiscal 2015, proceeds from the combined total of caps collected by the Anritsu Group and the Amadera Industrial Park Council were used to donate 546 doses of the vaccine. Cooperating with Social and Recreational Events and Employee Education at Other Companies The site of Anritsu Corporation’s head office includes a sports field and gymnasium, which are used as sports venues for employees. The field and gymnasium are also available for use by other local companies upon request. Donations to Charity Organizations Anritsu EMEA Ltd. (U.K.) organized the “Christmas Appeal” for donating food during the Christmas season, when employees purchase additional items in their daily shopping and then donate the extra ones to those in special need. The donations are made through the Luton Foodbank, a charitable organization established in 2013 to serve the community by enlisting volunteers to provide food to people suffering from poverty. In addition, employees purchase chocolate Easter eggs during the Anritsu Easter Campaign and donate them to children at the Luton and Dunstable Hospital. Donations to charity organizations URL Luton Foodbank Supporting Reconstruction following the Great East Japan Earthquake Anritsu Corporation supports a program organized by Save the Children Japan to provide opportunities for preschool children in Fukushima Prefecture to play outdoors. In fiscal 2014, we began co-sponsoring the program, which includes voluntary activities by Anritsu employees (refer to page 108, NGOs and NPOs, under Communication with Stakeholders). More information Promoting Communication: NGOs and NPOs URL Save the Children Japan Anritsu Santa Bag In December 2015, we set up the Anritsu Santa Bag next to the Christmas tree at the entrance of the Anritsu Global Headquarters Building. This initiative was undertaken to coincide with Christmas after we had learned from Atsugi City about the lack of socks at youth service centers. We were able to deliver 326 pairs of socks. Anritsu Santa Bag and letters from children Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 66 Goal Maintaining Harmony with the Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 2 Global Socio-Economy Protecting the Environment (biodiversity conservation) Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Campaign Since 2006, Anritsu has been participating in the Mt. Fuji Green Fund afforestation activities at the invitation of Ricoh leasing Co., Ltd. This year, we pruned the branches of Japanese cypress trees, which had grown to 3 to 4 meters high, and repaired the deer fencing that had been installed to protect the forest. The activity is part of a grand, 80-year-long effort launched in 2000 for regenerating forests destroyed by a typhoon in 1996. Community Cleanup Efforts Every year, Anritsu Group companies in Japan organize cleanups of the areas surrounding the Head Office of Anritsu Corporation and Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. The head office carries out cleanups that coincide with the Amadera cleanup campaign, conducted 4 times a year by the Amadera Industrial Park Council. Many employees participated in the project by picking up litter and weeding around the company. We also participate in community environmental preservation activities and other community Community cleanup projects such as the Sagami River Clean-up Campaign. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 67 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Protection 3 Eco-Management, Eco-Mind Anritsu establishes an environmental management system based on its The goal for environmental principles to deal with climate change and create a recyclingAnritsu oriented society as well as to reduce toxic substances throughout the life cycles of its The future products. Anritsu seeks by achieving The goal for Every employee deepens their environmental awareness and independently Goal 3 employees engages in environmental activities that are closely related to their jobs. Appreciation Anritsu earns public recognition as an enterprise that actively contributes to global by society environmental protection by pursuing global environmental management. Voice Promotion of Environmental Management I have been tasked to oversee the Anritsu Group’s environmental management starting this fiscal year. Following in the footsteps of my predecessor, I will work toward achieving our 2020 VISION of “Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain.” I appreciate in advance your understanding and support. Fiscal 2016 marks the second year of the GLP2017 Environmental Initiative, the second stage of our activities for realizing the 2020 VISION. While we have been advancing more or less as planned in addressing the issues designated as priority themes, we have nevertheless entered a crucial phase with respect to some of the major themes. We intend to raise the quality of our management Akio Takagi by upgrading the environmental management system to the ISO 14001:2015 Vice President, Anritsu Corporation standard in January 2017. We must also ensure full compliance with the RoHS Directive (The Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment) for our mainstay products of measuring instruments and industrial equipment by the July 2017 deadline. Meanwhile, as a result of our efforts to meet stakeholder expectations on information disclosure, we were able to considerably improve our CDP disclosure score, from 83 to 99 points. However, we have experienced a setback in our drive to save energy, as our electric power consumption rose in fiscal 2015 due in part to the start of operations at our Global Headquarters Building, built as an extension to our Atsugi Head Office. Continuous improvement in our environmental performance is essential for enhancing the value of an environmental brand. We will be ever mindful of our responsibilities as a global enterprise as we strive to address environmental issues throughout our entire value chain to meet the requests and expectations of our stakeholders. Eco-Management, Eco-Mind The Anritsu Group’s Environmental Principle Anritsu strives to give due consideration to the environment in both the development and manufacture of our products. Through sincerity, harmony and enthusiasm we will endeavor to foster a prosperous society at one with nature. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 68 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Action Guidelines We create “Eco-Offices,“ “Eco-Factories,“ and “Eco-Products“ based on the “eco-management“ of our company and the “Eco-Mind“ of every one of us. Contribution to Society •Eco-Management To help lower the environmental impact of •Eco-Products society and of our customers, management will We develop products that help to improve allocate the necessary resources and take action the environment in customer usage settings to comply with legal mandates, reduce the Eco-Management with full consideration for saving energy and environmental impact of business activities, resources and reducing harmful substances provide products that have less environmental throughout product lifecycles. impact and deliver products that contribute to lowering overall environmental impact. EcoEcoEcoOffice Products Factory •Eco-Factory •Eco-Office We strive to reduce environmental impact through saving energy and observing the 3Rs We make efforts to reduce environmental impact while reducing the risks of environmental by saving energy and resources and managing Ecopollution at our factories. waste in our offices. Family •Eco-Mind Each individual employee will aspire to become •Eco-Family a good corporate citizen by EcoAt home we will strive to reduce the recognizing their responsibility in the product Mind environmental load in our daily lives lifecycle and by making as good citizens through energy conservation, environmental improvements in their daily resource conservation and the 3Rs (reduce, operations. reuse and recycle). Boundary of Global Environmental Protection While the boundary of global environmental protection extends to the entire Anritsu Group, in principle the reporting boundary for numerical data, such as environmental impact, encompasses Anritsu Corp. and the following Group companies. Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. in Japan: Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. Group Companies Anritsu Company (USA) Anritsu Ltd. (UK) Anritsu A/S (Denmark) outside Japan: Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 69 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Environmental Management at Anritsu In pursuing initiatives for continuous improvement anchored in its environmental management system, Anritsu identifies both harmful and beneficial factors from the perspective of the environment. Environmental Risks Anritsu’s Environmental Efforts Identifying environmental impact Effective use of water resources Prevention of soil contamination Climate change ISO 14001 certification Water quality management Promotion of greening Depletion of Environmentally conscious Environmental audit Prevention of air pollution resources logistics Environmental education Prevention of noise and vibration Recycling used products for employees Environmental Nurturing Eco-Mind awareness Groundwater quality pollution Energy-saving products of employees management Communication with Chemical substances Resource-saving products stakeholders management Destruction of ecosystems Social contribution PCB management Green procurement Energy conservation at factories Reduction and proper Products with reduced Compliance and offices management of waste harmful substances violations ■ Eco-Management / Eco-Mind ■ Eco-Office, Eco-Factory ■ Eco-Products Development of environmentally conscious products (saving energy and resources, reducing harmful substances, beneficial to the environment) Use by Supplier Overall business activities Transport Disposal customers Material procurement Factories/Offices Employee business trips Transportation Customer use Disassembly/Waste CO2 80,332 t CO2(Scope1) 1,498 t CO2 2,829 t CO2 2,645 t CO2 37,794 t CO2 96 t CO2(Scope2) 15,031 t Wastewater 72,000 m³ Employee commuting Fueland energyWaste 317 t CO2 3,879 t NOx（Japan） related activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 1,618 kg （Japan） SOx 647 kg Waste disposal CO2 1,068 t BOD（Japan） 161 kg CO2 34 t Landfill amount to 16 % Capital goods total waste disposal CO2 17,606 t Identifying and improving the environmental profile of all our locations around the world ※ Figures are calculated in accordance with the “Basic guidelines on calculating greenhouse gas emissions in the supply chain.” ※ For detailed information, please refer to Detailed Data. Excel Detailed Data Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 70 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Scope Calculations Anritsu calculates greenhouse gas emissions generated throughout the entire value chain in accordance with the Scope Standard of the GHG Protocol. While Scope 1 includes greenhouse gases such as HFCs, PFCs and N2O, the amount is minimal. In Scope 2, we are consistently striving to save energy. In Scope 3, we will seek improvements with respect to “purchased goods and services” and the “use of sold products,” which are particularly high in CO2 emissions. We have obtained third-party verification for the calculated value of our actual emissions. Direct emissions (Scope 1) 1,498 Waste generated by operations 34 25 End-of-life treatment of sold products Fueland energy-related 96 Indirect emissions derived from energy use(Scope 2) 15,031 activities not included in Scope 1 or 2 Other indirect emissions 1,068 (Scope 3) Upstream transportation 146,284 and distribution 2,645 Purchased goods Business travel 2,829 162,813 and services t-CO2e 80,332 Employee commuting 3,879 Use of sold products Capital goods 17,606 37,794 Initiatives for Realizing the 2020 VISION Anritsu promotes environmental management toward its 2020 VISION goal of “Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain.” We launched our activities in fiscal 2012 and are now in the second year of the three-year plan GLP2017 Environmental Initiative, which constitutes the second stage of the 2020 VISION. ▶ Priority themes of GLP2017 Environmental Initiative 2020 VISION : Building an environmental brand by pursuing global environmental management throughout the entire value chain. Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity Prevention of global warming create a recycling-oriented society Prevention of pollution Energy / Water Resources Chemical substances Priority Theme 1 Eco-Management Improve the management system to create a closer link with management EcoPriority Theme 2 Communication Provide information that meets stakeholder expectations Priority Theme 3 Priority Theme 4 Eco-Products Provide energyand resource-saving products Provide products that do not contain hazardous substances Eco-Office, Priority Theme 5 Reduction of chemical substances Observance of the 3Rs Eco-Factory Effectively use energy and water and prevention of risks Eco-Mind Cultivation of Eco-Mind awareness Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 71 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Priority Theme 1： Improve the management system to create a closer link with management The Anritsu Group in Japan is currently preparing to shift to the 2015 versions of ISO 14001 and ISO 9001, which were simultaneously upgraded in September 2015. We are taking this opportunity to raise the efficiency of our system management through partial integration with several of the processes of our quality management system. At the same time, we are implementing revisions to develop a system that contributes to management, which constitutes the pillar of the ISO upgrades. We plan to begin operating our system based on the 2015 version in January 2017 and undergo a transition audit in December of the same year. Priority Theme 2： Provide information that meets stakeholder expectations To provide information required by stakeholders in a timely and precise manner, we formulated our information disclosure guidelines in fiscal 2015 by sorting the items for disclosure based on GRI-G4 and the environmental reporting guidelines of the Japanese Ministry of Environment, as well as survey results and information disclosure requests submitted by investors and other stakeholders. In the future, we will examine the content of the information we disclose in accordance with the guidelines to ensure full disclosure. Priority Theme3： Provide energyand resource-saving products To ensure that each Anritsu Group company around the world develops environmentally conscious products on a global scale under the same standards, we have sought to unify the assessment standards for environmentally conscious products under our Global Product Assessment Implementation Guidelines. In 2015, the MS27101A/02A/03A remote spectrum monitors newly developed by Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) became the first registered Excellent Eco Product created outside Japan. We also sought to reduce CO2 emissions throughout the entire value chain by holding explanatory briefings with Anritsu suppliers to seek their cooperation on making improvements in “Purchased goods and services,” a category that is particularly high in CO2 emissions under Scope 3. Priority Theme4： Provide products that do not contain hazardous substances Anritsu’s mainstay products of measuring instruments and industrial equipment will be required to comply with the RoHS Directive from July 2017. Now, with about a year left until that deadline, we are fine-tuning our response to ensure full compliance. We will also quickly respond to hazardous substance regulations by gathering accurate information, as their use in products will be subject to tighter restrictions. Priority Theme5： Effectively use energy and water In fiscal 2015, electric power consumption for the global Anritsu Group rose by 3.8% from fiscal 2014. Since this was mostly due to the start of operations at our Global Headquarters Building, we will continue to effectively use the energy-saving facilities installed at the building while seeking to use our existing building efficiently. On the other hand, we were able to significantly reduce our water use by 12.8% from fiscal 2014. This was accomplished by the newly operative water-saving facilities of the Global Headquarters Building, such as the upgraded water-saving toilets, as well as by activities for conserving water carried out at the Anritsu Company in the U.S.A., located in drought-ridden California. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 72 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Environmental Management Promotion System A rising number of issues have required a concerted global effort by Anritsu, including the environmental expectations of our stakeholders, regulations on chemical substances contained in products such as the RoHS Directive, development of environmentally conscious products, prevention of climate change and water resource issues. To deal with global environmental issues in general, we hold Global Environment Management Meetings, attended by responsible officers at our four major locations in Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom and Denmark. To solve challenging issues and share information, we also set up an Environment Management Committee that aims to resolve environmental issues while using the environmental management system, a Product Assessment Committee for promoting the development of environmentally conscious products, and a Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting for the development and production of products that do not contain banned substances. The Environment Management Committee is at the core of our environmental management. It is chaired by the director of environmental management, and its members include officers responsible for the environment at each division of Anritsu Corporation and Group companies in Japan, as well as officers responsible for internal control, legal affairs, CSR and CS. The committee identifies risks and opportunities related to the environment and carries out its activities with due consideration for consistency with our business strategies. Global Environment Management Meeting Environment Management Committe (promotion of environmental management system) Overall Environment Management Controller Product Assessment Committee (promotion of developing environmentally conscious products) Promotion of RoHS Group Meeting Environmental Management Organization (Anritsu Group in Japan) The environmental management organization of the Anritsu Group in Japan promotes environmental management activities under the leadership of the director of environmental management (Anritsu Corporation’s vice president in charge of overall environmental management). Overall Environment Management Controller Environment Management Committee Legally authorized personnel Internal Environmental Auditor Environment Management Representative Product Assessment Committee Global Procurement Operation Division Environment and Quality Promotion (includes Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd.) Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. Measurement Business Division Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. AT Techmac Co., Ltd. Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. Technical Headquarters R&D Division Sales Division Department Corporate Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 73 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Environmental Management Systems The Anritsu Group has established environmental management systems at major production sites in Japan and the United States and has obtained ISO 14001 certification. Preparations are underway at the Anritsu Group in Japan to upgrade its system from the 2004 version, currently in use, to the 2015 version. We are planning to begin operating under the 2015 version in January 2017 and to apply for a transition audit in December of the same year. The environmental management system covers approximately 70% of the Anritsu Group. ISO 14001 Registration Company Anritsu Corporation(Head Office) 【Certification Date】August 1998 【Update】February 2016 【Certification Organization】JQA/JQA-EM0210* •Anritsu Corporation •Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Infivis Co., Ltd. •AT Techmac Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Customer Support Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Pro Associe Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Devices Co., Ltd. •Anritsu Engineering Co., Ltd. •Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd.* * Expanded the scope of ISO 14001 accreditation to include Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. in 2003, which independently acquired certification in October 1999. Anritsu Company (USA) 【Address】490 Jarvis Drive Morgan Hill, CA 95037 【Certification Date】March 2007 【Update】April 2016 【Certification Organization】NQA/EN12275 Anritsu Corporation Anritsu Company(USA) URL ISO14001 Management System URL ISO14001 Management Certificate(English) Certificate Environmental Audit In the external ISO 14001 recertification audit for fiscal 2015, the Anritsu Group in Japan received an integrated audit in which audits were simultaneously conducted for the ISO 9001 quality management system and ISO 27001 information security management system. As a result, while all items were found to be in compliance, 6 opportunities for improvement and 4 good points were indicated with respect to ISO 14001. In addition, the Anritsu Group in Japan conducted two internal environmental audits of the conformance and effectiveness of our environmental management system and environmental performance in July and compliance status in October. While this resulted in indications of 33 observations and 0 observation, respectively, there were no nonconforming areas. Opportunities for improvement indicated by external audits and observations pointed out by internal audits are reported to the Environment Management Committee. Improvements are made for issues faced by each management organization and confirmed during the internal audit conducted in the following fiscal year. In fiscal 2015, we conducted audits with an emphasis on the revised Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law*. * Act for Rationalized Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 74 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Compliance Status The Anritsu Group in Japan recognizes business-related environmental laws and regulations and confirms the status of compliance through internal environmental audits. In activities involving regulations on discharged water, air and noise, we strive to ensure compliance by adopting voluntary management standards that are more demanding than statutory regulations. As a result, there have been no legal violations for over a decade. Japan’s Act for Rationalized Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, a significantly revised version of the Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law, came into force on April 1, 2015. As a result, users are obligated to manage sites using fluorocarbons. The Anritsu Group in Japan identified the relevant equipment at its sites and then developed and began operating under an internal control framework to meet legal requirements, such as conducting simple inspections and regular inspections and determining the volume of leaked fluorocarbons. While we own more than 700 pieces of equipment subject to the revised law, we carried out an intensive review of the status of control through internal environmental audits, which ensured that there were no issues hampering our state of compliance. In addition, we have an established mechanism for handling complaints under the environmental management system. In fiscal 2015, we received no complaints from interested parties including people living around the site. Looking ahead, we will further reduce our environmental impact through ongoing maintenance while maintaining full compliance. Efforts to Preserve Biodiversity Policy for Conserving Biodiversity While the business operations of the Anritsu Group benefit from the ecosystem supported by diverse organisms, they also have a negative impact on the ecosystem. Preserving the biodiversity which is the foundation of the ecosystem is therefore a vital concern for environmental management. The basic policy of the Anritsu Group is to encourage activities that reduce the environmental impact associated with our business operations and to preserve biodiversity through social contribution efforts that protect the natural environment. Biodiversity Conservation Basic Policy We strive to reduce environmental impact, focusing on the following three areas of our business activities: Mitigation of climate change Business Operations Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Control overexploitation/ habitat loss Business activities with Global warming prevention→Mitigation of climate change Control pollution/habitat loss environmental impact limited Resource-saving/recycling→Control overexploitation/habitat loss within an acceptable range for the earth Control chemical substance release→Control pollution/habitat loss Social Contribution Activities Activities to Reduce Environmental Impact Increase the regenerative Social contribution activities for biodiversity capacity of the earth →Joined the tree planting activities, local cleanups, etc. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 75 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Initiatives Associated with Our Business Activities We created a relevance map based on the Japan Business Initiative for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity format to better understand the relationship between the Anritsu Group’s business activities and biodiversity. The map enabled us to better understand how our business activities relate to the ecosystem. We are carrying out activities based on the results, including providing environmental training for our employees, communicating with suppliers about our Green Procurement Specification and greening our business sites with due consideration for the ecosystem. Benefit ● Chemical substance release Energy resources • Loss of habitats Crude oil (as fuel) • Introduction of alien Impact species To atmosphere: CO2, NOx, SOx To water: BOD, COD, SS • Pollution/climate change Renewable energy resources • Overexploitation / Water, wood To soil: sludge, solid waste overconsumption Energy resources Crude oil (as fuel), coal, Energy resources natural gas, Design Shipping Crude oil (as fuel) Production Sale Renewable energy resources Renewable energy resources Water, wood Business Activities Wood Mineral resources Gold, silver, copper, platinum, iron, ● Chemical substance release Raw material tin, lead, zinc, nickel, chrome, Procurement Use CO2,NOx,SOx bauxite,manganese, crude oil Maintenance (as raw materials) • Loss of habitats • Introduction of alien species • Loss of habitats Collection Land use • Pollution/climate change • Introduction of alien species Recycling • Overexploitation / • Pollution/climate change overconsumption • Overexploitation / overconsumption Substance introduction/ ● Chemical substance release Energy resources removal Change in land use CO2,NOx,SOx Crude oil (as fuel) • Loss of habitats • Loss of habitats • Introduction of alien species • Introduction of alien species • Pollution • Pollution • Climate change • Climate change Joined Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity The Anritsu Group in Japan has endorsed Nippon Keidanren’s Declaration of Biodiversity and participates as a promotion partner to exercise leadership in creating a society that values and supports biodiversity. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 76 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection Environmental Education for Employees To raise the environmental awareness of each employee and encourage them to actively engage in environmental activities, we provide general education through e-learning every year for all Anritsu Group employees as well as environmental education programs designed for each job type and rank. These programs are also attended by employees of business partners under consignment. Following the enactment of Japan’s Act for Rationalized Use and Proper Environmental Education Management of Fluorocarbons, we offered training in fiscal 2015 for those divisions that own fluorocarbon equipment. Our e-learning courseware follows the theme of energy conservation to explain the current state of CO2 emissions and ongoing energy-saving measures at Anritsu in order to raise employee awareness enough to take the initiative and engage in energy-saving measures at work and home. The course was attended by 2,755 employees. In fiscal 2016, we are planning to provide e-learning based on our response to the upgraded ISO 14001:2015 standard. Educational Programs Teaching material of environmental education for Employees Internal auditor follow-up New employee education Internal auditor training program education Education for technology General education Education for sales departments departments Onsite consignment worker High-pressure gas handler Chemical substances manager education courses training Environmental Awards System The Anritsu Group in Japan gives awards to employees who have obtained environment-related qualifications, groups that have carried out environmental projects in the AQU Innovation Activities* and employees who have offered proposals for improvement. In fiscal 2015, 26 group projects and 177 proposals were recognized with environmental awards. * Activities undertaken by the Anritsu Group in Japan to improve operational efficiency, quality and other aspects. Environmental Awards Eco-Mind Awareness of Employees We conduct a survey of all Anritsu Group employees in Japan to determine the degree to which we share an Eco-Mind awareness. Questions were designed to determine the state of workplace activities by asking whether action is being taken toward creating the Eco Office (promoting conservation, promoting the 3Rs and reducing environmental compliance risks), as well as the state of activities at home and about participant awareness with regard to efforts undertaken by Anritsu. In fiscal 2015, the response rate improved considerably, from 76.6% in fiscal 2014 to 81.3%. However, due in part to the expanded scope of respondents, the ratio of “Excellent Eco-Persons,” who scored above 90 points on the survey, fell to 17.5%. There was also a slight drop in the actual number of Excellent Eco-Persons, which led to concerns about a possible decline in Eco-Mind awareness among employees. To address these concerns, we intend to continue to cultivate a broader awareness and increase the ratio of Excellent Eco-Persons by motivating employees to participate in environmental activities through the Eco-Mind Survey and through other actions in response to survey results. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 77 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Mind 3 Protection ■Excellent Eco-Person ■Eco-Person ■Eco-Person Challenger Environmental Policy and Action Guidelines We create “Eco-Offices,“ “Eco-Factories,“ and “Eco-Products“ 3 FY2013 16.3% 54.5% 29.2% based on the “eco-management of our company and the “EcoMind“ of every one of us. Highly eco-minded person = Person who acts on behalf of the environment FY2014 19.7% 55.3% 25.0% FY2015 19.7 17.5% 55.3% 54.2 25.0 28.2% % Do you engage in environmental activities at the workplace? Do you engage in environmental activities at home? Are you aware of Anritsu’s environmental efforts? Enhance Anritsu Eco-Mind Survey Eco-Mind Environmental Communication Anritsu actively communicates inside and outside the company with a firm belief in the vital importance of raising stakeholder awareness of our environmental activities and gaining their support for our efforts to protect the global environment. The Anritsu Group in Japan has constructed a system for responding to stakeholders’ inquiries concerning the environment and strives to engage in prompt and appropriate communication by disclosing information on the environment, responding to environmental surveys, holding opportunities to exchange views and other means. To provide environmental information tailored for each group of stakeholders, we publish the Environment Leaflet for customers and the quarterly Eco Club via the intranet for employees, in addition to our CSR report, environmental advertisements and environment-related features offered via the Internet. In fiscal 2015, the Eco Club issue featuring the environmentally friendly facilities at the Global Headquarters Building was accessed more than 2,300 times. Seeking to offer an accurate response to stakeholder requests for information, we also laid out our information disclosure guidelines on providing environmental information in fiscal 2015, which adhere to the environmental reporting guidelines of the Japanese Ministry of Environment and reflect consideration for the information required by GRI-G4 and the CDP questionnaire. In the future, we will strive to Environment Leaflet for Eco Club for employees communicate with precision under these guidelines. customers CDP The CDP is a not-for-profit organization that collaborates with institutional investors (826 companies with approximately 100 trillion dollars in combined assets under management as of February 2016) to send questionnaires to approximately 5,500 leading companies in the world (500 are Japanese), requesting disclosure of information about their environment impact, including strategies on climate change, water and forests as well as the volume of greenhouse gas emissions. The CDP analyzes and assesses the responses and discloses the results to investors, which can be used to inform their investment decisions. Anritsu has been continuously responding to the CDP questionnaire on climate change since fiscal 2012. In our response for fiscal 2015, we expanded the scope of third-party verification from Scope 3 data in fiscal 2014 to Scope 1 and Scope 2 data. We also clarified our risk management system for risks including climate change. As a result, our disclosure score improved significantly from 83 points in fiscal 2014 to a near-perfect 99 points. However, our performance score fell from “B” in fiscal 2014 to “C” in fiscal 2015, which is the average rank for the information technology sector to which Anritsu belongs. We will continue our efforts to enhance the reliability of our information disclosure and reduce CO2 emissions throughout our supply chain to prevent global warming. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 78 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Energy-saving Activities at Factories and Offices The Anritsu Group in Japan depends on electric power for over 90% of its energy needs and is therefore continually striving to reduce its electricity use as the most important factor of environmental activities undertaken at its factories and offices. Air conditioning equipment consumes the greatest amount of electricity, and the Anritsu Group in Japan has been systematically upgrading to energy-saving equipment, installing ice thermal storage units and modular chillers, frequently cleaning air filters, and undertaking heat insulation work on the walls of buildings. We have also sought to conserve energy by replacing equipment with energy-saving models, such as inverters for fluorescent lighting equipment, LED lighting and low-loss transformers. We have taken part in Cool Biz and Warm Biz activities for the past ten years. We have consequently been able to reduce electric power consumption over the past decade by 23.8% compared to levels in 2005. In 2015, we sought to enhance operational efficiency and promote energy conservation by significantly modifying the layout of our site, including our global headquarters building, equipped with the latest environmentally friendly technology. This building features light shelves and skylights to take in natural light, LED lighting, a natural ventilation system that circulates outside air, and a highly-efficient, multi-split air conditioning and ventilation system. The building qualifies for the S-rank, the highest recognition given by Kanagawa Prefecture under its “CASBEE Kanagawa” assessment system for global warming countermeasures in building plans. However, delays in changing the layout of some floors of our buildings led to an increase in the total floor area in which we conduct our business activities, consequently raising the electric power consumption of the Atsugi site by 5.2%. In addition to these activities, the Anritsu Group in Japan participates in a program promoted by the electric and electronics-related industries in Japan for establishing a carbon-free society by achieving the common goal of improving the basic unit of energy by 1% every year toward 2020. In fiscal 2015, the basic unit rose by 1.8% compared to the benchmark year of 2012. We are also seeking a 1% annual reduction in the base unit under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. In other regions, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) installed storage batteries to lower peak power demand, effectively using nighttime power. Under the mid-term plan of our GLP2017 Environmental Initiatives, we are striving to attain our global goal of reducing electric power consumption by 1% every year compared to fiscal 2014 levels for the Anritsu Group worldwide. However, energy consumption rose by 3.8% in fiscal 2015 due to an increase at the Atsugi site, which accounts for over half of all energy consumption of the Anritsu Group, and to the effects of overnight operations of air conditioning on some floors of the Tohoku site to maintain the necessary indoor environment for adjustments and inspections. ▶▶電気エネルギー使用量推移 Change in Energy Use （国内アンリツグループ） （MWh） 11 50,000 39,873 ■Denmark ■U.K. ■U.S.A. 38,645 40,000 36,559 34,314 32,194 33,708 ■Business offices, etc. ■Tohoku site 31,040 30,402 29,061 28,908 29,010 30,000 ■Hiratsuka site ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 20,000 10,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 79 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection エネルギー使用量（原油換算） （kL） ▶ Energy Use (crude oil conversion) 18 （kℓ） 12,000 10,658 10,404 ■Denmark 9,856 ■U.K. 9,113 9,013 ■U.S.A. ■Business offices, etc. 9,000 8,543 8,345 8,265 8,064 7,987 7,962 ■Tohoku site ■Hiratsuka site 6,000 ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 3,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY ▶ Energy Use (Joule heat conversion) 26 （GJ） 500,000 ■Denmark 413,113 403,263 ■U.K. 400,000 382,006 ■U.S.A. ■Business offices, etc. 353,229 349,360 331,137 327,039 312,558 312,155 308,615 320,366 ■Tohoku site 300,000 ■Hiratsuka site ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 200,000 100,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY ▶ ▶［参考]エネルギー使用によるCO2排出量 CO2 Emissions from Energy Use （国内アンリツグループ） 12 （t-CO2） 20,000 ■Denmark ■U.K. 16,774 15,970 16,439 16,335 15,924 16,529 ■U.S.A. 14,718 14,561 15,000 ■Business offices, etc. 13,159 12,474 11,746 ■Tohoku site 10,000 ■Hiratsuka site ■Tanasawa site ■Atsugi site 5,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Figures in parentheses indicate （0.423）（0.410）（0.453）（0.373）（0.351）（0.350）（0.476）（0.487）（0.57）（0.556）（0.556） electric factors (provisional provisional figures for fiscal 2015) value Reference We calculated CO2 emissions resulting from the use of energy other than electricity at Anritsu sites inside and outside Japan using the emission factor adopted by the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. CO2 emissions associated with electricity power in the United States are calculated using the CO2 emission factor 0.285 (t-CO2/MWh). CO2 emissions associated with electricity in countries other than the United States are calculated using the emission factor published by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan for each fiscal year (the actual figure for fiscal 2014 was temporarily used as the emission factor for fiscal 2015). The CO2 emission factor varies each fiscal year according to the supply situation of each electric power company. Therefore, some fiscal years show an increase in CO2 emmisions, despite reductions in electric energy consumption. (Example: In fiscal 2011, electric power consumption decreased in fiscal 2010, while CO2 emissions increased year-on-year.) * CO2 emission factor (t-CO2 /MWh)： Until fiscal 2012, we had been using the adjusted CO2 emission factor including the Kyoto Mechanism Credit, etc. However, following the revision of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, we decided to start using the actual emission factor in fiscal 2013. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 80 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Renewable Energy Anritsu has solar power generators with maximum output capacity of 200 kW installed at the Koriyama Second Business Office. In fiscal 2015, we installed solar power generators with maximum output capacity of 15 kW at the global headquarters building. That year, the Koriyama Second Business Office used 220 MWh of renewable energy generated by solar power, representing about 18% of its total electricity needs, and the global headquarters building used 19 MWh of solar power, representing about 0.5% of its total electricity needs. Surplus Solar power generators at the global electricity generated at the Koriyama Second Business Office is supplied at no headquarters building cost to Tohoku Electric Power Company. Water Resources Reduced Water Consumption The Anritsu Group in Japan has reduced water use through efforts such as leakage inspections, upgrading to watersaving toilets and using circulated water in facilities. In fiscal 2015, we reduced water use at the Atsugi site by nearly 12% from fiscal 2014 by using water-saving toilets, body detection sensors for men’s toilets and automatic faucets at the global headquarters building. Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) has been facing worsening droughts in the state of California, where it is located, and has reduced water use by nearly 50% compared to fiscal 2013, amid requests for stringent restrictions in the use of water. Under the mid-term plan of our GLP2017 Environmental Initiatives, we plan to reduce water use by 1% every year compared to fiscal 2014 levels for the Anritsu Group worldwide. In fiscal 2015, we were able to cut water use by 12.8%. Consideration for Water Resources At the Atsugi site, where we use groundwater to flush toilets, we have reduced our use of groundwater to about a quarter of the volume of that in fiscal 2004. And considering the possibility of groundwater depletion and flooding caused by heavy rainfall, we installed a rainwater permeation basin at the global headquarters building to facilitate the penetration of rainwater into the ground. Efforts to Preserve Resources Introduced a body detection sensor for men’s toilets Reuse of rinse water from the metal degreasing unit Conducted leakage inspections Participated in Mt. Fuji Green Fund Afforestation Introduced water-saving toilets Installed a rainwater permeation basin Efforts (participated in a tree planting activity) Introduced automatic faucets Installed water-saving valves for faucets Participated in a cleanup of the Sagami River Used groundwater for flushing toilets Installed a sound emulator, “Otohime,” for toilets ▶ Water（国内アンリツグループ） ▶水使用量 consumption 13 （m3） 200,000 ■Denmark 159,714 163,286 ■U.K. 145,083 ■U.S.A. 150,000 ■Business offices, etc. 124,244 128,204 127,713 ■Tohoku site ■Hiratsuka site 112,800 104,426 100,000 94,931 ■Tanasawa site 82,758 ■Atsugi site(groundwater) ■Atsugi site(municipal water) 50,000 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 81 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Eco-Mind 3 Protection Column Reducing Water Use at Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) The state of California is one of the largest vegetable and fruit producing regions in the United States, and its population is on the rise. Clean water is essential for plant growth as well as for people’s daily lives. However, California is a region subject to frequent droughts and has suffered severe droughts since 2012. The worst drought on record occurred in fiscal 2015, forcing the governor to request that all residents in California reduce water use by 20%. Based in California, Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) has responded by promoting activities to preserve water resources. The following actions were taken. 1.Upgraded to high-efficiency water heaters 2.Repaired leakage in a water supply facility 3.Raised the efficiency of the water supply 4.Replaced a water-intensive lawn with plants that can withstand dehydration 5.Introduced water-saving toilets 6.Replaced watering sprinklers with a drip water supply system 7.Introduced a waterless method for cleaning windows 8.Arranged an inspection of a water supply facility by external institutions The Anritsu Company has significantly reduced its water use as a result of these efforts. ▶ Water comsumption of Anritsu Corporation (U.S.A.) 19 （m³） 30,000 28,918 27,256 20,000 18,781 14,011 10,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 82 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Groundwater Management We have a groundwater well and an observation well at the Atsugi site, where we continue to voluntarily analyze and monitor the six designated organochlorine substances in groundwater. With regard to organochlorine substances, we completely eliminated the use of trichloroethylene in 1970 and 1,1,1-trichloroethane in 1993. As in previous years, levels of tetrachloroethylene were higher than permitted under environmental standards in fiscal 2015. Anritsu, however, has never used this substance, and the local government is also aware that the source of contamination lies upstream from Anritsu. We will nevertheless continue to monitor the site. Item Environmental standard level [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Trichloroethylene 0.01 0.009 Tetrachloroethylene*1 0.01 0.056 1,1,1-trichloroethane 1 <0.0005 1,1-dichloroethylene 0.1 <0.002 Cis-1,2-dichloroethylene 0.04 0.018 *1 Tetrachloroethylene surpassed the acceptable level, but the Atsugi site has never used it. Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Wastewater The Atsugi site operates an industrial wastewater treatment facility to detoxify industrial wastewater containing acids and alkali and wastewater discharged from small boilers used to adjust humidity inside cleanrooms. In fiscal 2013, we upgraded the facility, partly to address the wear and tear of existing facilities but also because of changes in our business structure (the discontinuation in 2002 of industrial processes that use large volumes of water, such as manufacturing printed wiring boards, coating and plating). This has led to a significant decrease in the volume of wastewater as well as a change in its quality. Moreover, intermediate treatment liquids stored in large tanks posed a major risk of leakage in the event of a contingency such as an earthquake. To eliminate this risk, we upgraded the facilities by modifying the structure to incorporate a breakwater to prevent any leaks of raw water, intermediary wastewater or chemicals used for treatment from the tanks. We further reduced the risk by adding a second monitoring system to ensure that water exceeding the permitted pH limit would not be discharged into the surrounding environment. The Hiratsuka site uses alkaline washing agents to degrease metallic materials but does not discharge industrial wastewater. The rinsing water used by the facility is reused by circulation through filters and ion-exchange resins, which reduces annual water use by approximately 40 m3. The industrial wastewater treatment facility While there are no facilities that discharge industrial wastewater at the Tohoku site, we have installed a pH monitor and emergency cutoff valve to address the risk of water being discharged from boilers and septic tanks in the event of malfunction, which could cause the pH level to exceed regulatory standards. Each site has developed response procedures to address the potential leakage of chemical substances due to human error or natural disaster. Regular equipment inspections and training are also conducted, and necessary revisions Neutralization segment of the industrial are made to prepare for unexpected accidents. wastewater treatment facility Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 83 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection 14 ▶ Wastewater discharge from operations （m3） 2,500 ■Tanasawa Site ■Atsugi Site 1,917 1,944 1,928 2,000 1,858 1,883 1,744 1,500 1,310 1,176 1,019 1,000 878 500 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY ▶ Atsugi Site : Laws and regulations of Atsugi City regarding discharge into public sewage systems Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Regulation Voluntary Average Min. Max. value control value pH 5.0-9.0 5.7-8.7 7.4 6.8 8.0 SS 600 300 6.4 <1.0 16.0 BOD 600 300 18.1 0.8 96.0 Normal hexane extracts Mineral oil 5 3 0.8 <0.5 1 Normal hexane extracts Organic oil 30 18 0.8 <0.5 1 Iodine consumption 220 90 2.4 <1.0 3.3 Fluorine 8 4.8 0.5 0.26 0.78 Total cyanide 1 0.4 <0.01 <0.01 <0.01 Nitrogen 380 125 0.8 <0.2 1.77 Boron ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ Chromium ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ Chromium Dissolveiron 10 4 0.07 0.03 0.13 Copper 3 1.2 0.04 0.006 0.08 Zinc 2 1.2 0.07 <0.05 0.14 Dissolved manganese ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ ‒ Nickel 1 0.6 0.03 <0.001 0.05 Lead 0.1 0.06 0.01 <0.001 0.05 ※ Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Regulation Voluntary Average Min. Max. value control value pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 7.1 6.6 7.6 SS 70 30 3.15 1.2 9.3 BOD 40 20 2.45 0.5 6.5 Dissolved iron 10 4 0.21 （*1） （*1） Copper 2 0.8 0.03 （*1） （*1） Zinc 2 1.2 0.08 （*1） （*1） （*1） （*1） Below the detection Nickel 2 0.8 limit [0.01mg/l] （*1） （*1） Below the detection Lead 0.1 0.08 limit [0.01mg/l] 3 Number of colon bacillus (piece/m ) 3000 2400 0 0 0 ※ Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *1 There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 84 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office): Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Emission standard [mg/l] Measured value [mg/l] Item Regulation Voluntary Average Min. Max. value control value pH 5.8-8.6 6.0-8.4 7.3 6.6 7.4 SS 70 30 2.5 1.1 4.1 BOD 40 20 2.9 0.7 5.8 Dissolved iron 10 4 0.15 （*1） （*1） （*1） （*1） Below the detection Copper 2 0.8 limit [0.01mg/l] Zinc 2 1.2 0.01 （*1） （*1） （*1） （*1） Below the detection Nickel 2 0.8 limit [0.01mg/l] （*1） （*1） Below the detection Lead 0.1 0.08 limit [0.01mg/l] Number of colon bacillus (piece/m3) 3000 2400 0.1 0 1.0 ※ Items subject to the laws and regulations but excluded from this list were not used as raw materials and therefore not measured. *1 There is no max. or min. records as survey is conducted only once a year. Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Prevention of Air Pollution Having eliminated the coating process in 2000, no facility at the Atsugi site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. The Tohoku site operates heavy oil boilers subject to the Air Pollution Control Law. The boilers are operated on a voluntary management standard to control air quality. No facility at the Hiratsuka site generates air pollution subject to legal regulations. ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office): Air Pollution Control Law Emission standard Item Measured value Regulation value Voluntary control value Smuts [g/m3 N] 0.3 0.18 below the detection limit<(0.005mg/l) 3 Sulfur oxide [m N/h] 4.37 2.63 0.07 Nitrogen oxide [ppm] 180 170 95.5 Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Noise We are implementing a variety of efforts to detect abnormalities at an early stage, including a system of prior examination before introducing equipment, equipment inspections at the beginning of every operation and regular patrols on the premises. We also regularly monitor noise levels at borders every year. At the Hiratsuka site, a location with many types of Soundproofed room machining equipment, we are working to reduce risks by moving particularly noisy equipment to a soundproofed room Exhaust vent with a noise and placing noise reducing covers over exhaust vents. Results reduction cover show that measured noise levels not only meet legal standards but fall below our own voluntary standards as well. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 85 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection ▶ Atsugi Site : Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value Voluntary control value Measured value Measured point [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 70 68 63 At the western border line 70 68 59 At the southern border line 70 68 58 At the northern border line 70 68 64 ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama First Business Office) : Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value Voluntary control value Measured value Measured point [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 42 At the western border line 75 73 47 At the southern border line 1 75 73 60 At the southern border line 2 75 73 51 ▶ Tohoku Site (Koriyama Second Business Office) : Fukushima Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value Voluntary control value Measured value Measured point [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 75 73 49 At the western border line 75 73 48 At the western border line 2 75 73 44 At the northern border line 75 73 47 ▶ Hiratsuka Site : Kanagawa Prefecture Government regulations Regulation value Voluntary control value [dB] Measured value Measured point [dB][daytime] [daytime] [dB][daytime] At the eastern border line 65 64 57 At the western border line 65 64 59 At the southern border line 75 73 63 At the northern border line 75 73 52 Excel Environmental Data of Each Site Column Strengthening Environmental Activities at Overseas Production Sites Since Anritsu’s production sites outside Japan are governed under different laws and regulations than those in Japan, we have been conducting environmental audits of overseas bases with particularly high environmental risks since 2012. In fiscal 2015, we carried out an audit at Anritsu Industrial Solutions (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Despite initial predictions of high environmental risks, we were able to confirm that operations were being controlled under standards similar to those in Japan. Production lines for products requiring compliance with the RoHS Directive were also under appropriate control. In addition to the audit, we provided training on the management of chemical substances and waste. We will continue to carry out regular environmental audits and activities to raise environmental awareness at our production bases outside Japan. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 86 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Chemical Substances Management Utilization of chemical substances by the Anritsu Group companies in Japan is determined by designating banned or restricted substances from the standpoints of environmental regulations, hazardousness, safety and health, and disaster prevention, and having expert evaluators with knowledge of each criterion conduct prior assessments. In addition, the amounts of chemical substances purchased, used and disposed of within a three-month period are entered into a chemical substances management system. We use this database to compile the amount of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law, calculate the total stored amount of hazardous materials as designated by the Fire Service Act as well as the emission of greenhouse gases, and monitor chemical substances designated by revisions in laws and regulations. We also consider replacing substances with safer alternatives as necessary. In fiscal 2013, we raised the efficiency of our chemical substances management operations by upgrading the chemical substances management system used for prior assessment and registration of the above-mentioned substances and for monitoring their use. We also sought to visualize our internal efforts in chemical substances management through measures such as expanding the checklist for environmental regulations related to the use of chemical substances. With respect to substances designated by the PRTR Law, the volume we handle at our sites changed significantly due to a revision of the law in 2010 that excluded from the list liquid bisphenol A epoxy resin, an ingredient used at the Atsugi site, while adding methylnaphthalene, an additive for heavy oil used as fuel at the Tohoku site. In fiscal 2015, more than one ton of methylnaphthalene was handled at the Tohoku site and duly reported to the regulatory authorities. Because it is burned in a boiler, very little methylnaphthalene is externally released; nevertheless, we plan to continue reducing the amount we handle. With respect to Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, which is contained in the liquid concentrate of urethane foam used as shock-absorbing material for packaging, efforts are underway to completely discontinue its use by fiscal 2017. Regulated Chemical Substances Used by the Anritsu Group Class of 7 substances: CFC (chlorofluorocarbons), halon, carbon tetrachloride, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, Banned substances HBFC (hydrobromofluorocarbons), bromochloroethane, methyl bromide Class of 7 substances: HCFC (hydrochlorofluorocarbons), trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, Limited-use substances dichloromethane, HFC (hydrofluorocarbons), PFC (perfluorocarbons) ▶ Chemical substances management under PRTR Law PRTR物質取扱量 15 （t） 10.14 ■Touhoku Site ■Hiratsuka Site ■Tanasawa Site ■Atsugi Site 10 8 7.43 6 4.81 4 2.55 2.60 2.48 2.33 2.27 1.98 2 1.62 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 87 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection PCB Management At the Atsugi site, we tightly control used electric devices such as condensers, transponders and fluorescent ballasts, and pressure sensitive copying paper that contain polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) within the storage standards for specially controlled industrial waste. Storage status is reported annually to the prefecture under the Law concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste. In 2006, analysis conducted while upgrading an extra high-voltage transformation installation identified a small amount of PCB in two large transformers. In the course of replacing transformers in 2010, we identified a small amount of PCB in the insulation oil of decrepit equipment and issued an additional notification in June 2011. With respect to condensers, which constitute a portion of high concentration PCB waste, we filed an early request in 2005 for the treatment of PCBs with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), an interim storage and environmental safety company, and had been awaiting our turn. Our turn for treatment of devices registered with JESCO Tokyo will come in fiscal 2016, and we are currently preparing for appropriate treatment. With respect to ballasts, we are preparing to submit packaging details to JESCO Hokkaido. We are also moving ahead with preparations for the early treatment of waste contaminated with trace amounts of PCB in view of the recent rise in the number of licensed processing companies. Waste Reduction The Anritsu Group in Japan has achieved and maintained zero emissions* since 2004 by promoting 3R activities and separation of waste in our offices and production lines. In our efforts on general waste, we began separating paper containers used for food in fiscal 2013 and have sought to enhance the quality of our recycling activities by shifting from thermal recycling to material recycling. We have also been successful at reducing raw garbage generated by the employee cafeteria. In fiscal 2015, we sought further reductions by installing a new raw garbage disposal tank that led to a decrease of approximately 7 tons of general waste. As for industrial waste, we replaced special wooden frames used to ship components produced abroad to Japan with rented plastic frames to reuse waste and reduce the amount of waste wood. We will continue our efforts to reduce waste. * Zero emissions: Recycling all waste. Anritsu defines this as achieving a final landfill disposal rate of less than 0.5% ▶ Change in volume of waste （t） 392 400 378 340 347 ■Denmark ■U.K. 318 317 290 ■U.S.A. 300 279 258 235 ■Japan (industrial waste) 200 ■Japan (general waste) 100 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Examples of separate collection of waste By thorough classification collection, we are working to reduce waste. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 88 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Column Introducing the Raw Garbage Disposal Tank Atsugi City’s revised ordinance on waste disposal was enacted on April 1, 2013. Under this revision, companies that annually discharged more than 36 tons of general waste from business activities (120 tons before the revision) were designated as business operators generating large volume waste and were required to formulate a reduction plan. Anritsu became subject to the revised designation with annual general waste totaling 41 tons in fiscal 2012. Following a three-year plan for reducing this waste to less than 36 tons, we began material recycling of paper cups and brick pack cartons and implemented detailed reduction measures in our cafeteria and kitchen. However, significant reductions proved difficult. This led to Yoshiro Kenmochi our installing and starting operations of a new raw waste treatment tank beginning in June 2015 Environment Team, Facility Management Center, Facility to reduce raw garbage that accounted for about 70% of our general waste. Management Group, Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. Raw garbage disposal facilities utilize various decomposition methods. We have been collecting information for more than five years at trade shows and through tours of companies that had already introduced such facilities. None of the options we discovered were entirely convincing. Some were too expensive or emitted an overwhelming odor while others required costly, time-consuming ongoing maintenance, such as replacing woodchips and other decomposition media or removing residues, and still others required considerable electric power. We also considered reusing garbage as feed for livestock, as in pig farms, although this option would require securing a volume above a certain level, passing stringent criteria for garbage quality, or paying a significant amount of the costs, which made it impractical. During this process of consideration, we were able to discover the raw garbage disposal tank we recently installed. The tank requires a landfill method for which all we needed to do was store the garbage underground where temperatures are steady and let anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in the tank naturally decompose and disintegrate the garbage, as if it were an enormous compost bin. We had been told that it would ultimately be possible to reduce the volume of garbage to about one-tenth of the input through the decomposition of organic matter and reduced moisture. Daily maintenance would simply involve administering a spoonful of specialized decomposition accelerator to stimulate certain bacteria and suppress odor. This outstanding facility did not require any mechanical parts for mixing or heating the garbage and did not depend on any energy source, such as electricity or gas, and it would not require repairs. According to the manufacturer, the tanks have been introduced at sites throughout Japan for over 25 years, with more than a thousand units installed to date. However, Anritsu was the first in Kanagawa Prefecture to install a unit. Now, roughly a year after we installed the facility, the tank is nearly full, and we are maintaining operations by balancing the decomposition and disintegration volume and the input volume. In fiscal 2015, we were able to reduce raw waste by a little over 7 tons during the ten-month period from June 2015 to March 2016. Local government staffs has taken an interest in our efforts. Members of the Atsugi City Council and top officials in environmental administration visited Anritsu in March 2016 for an inspection tour of the raw garbage disposal tank. This offered an excellent opportunity to provide the local government with a useful example and for demonstrating Anritsu’s environmental protection capabilities. We will seek to maintain stable operations by controlling the volume of input, and although we would need to consider our future response when further input becomes impossible, we hope to make good use of the facility, reduce waste at Anritsu and contribute to addressing local environmental concerns. Input raw garbage and administer Decomposition special decomposition accelerator Low-lying inlet for effortless input Synergistic effect between anaerobic and aerobic bacteria as well as stable underground temperatures accelerate the decomposition and fermentation of raw garbage Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 89 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Management, Eco-Office, Eco-Factory Eco-Mind 3 Protection Certified Business Site Promoting Environmental Consideration The headquarters (Atsugi site) of Anritsu Corporation, located in Kanagawa Prefecture, is certified and registered both as a business site practicing environmental management and as a business site promoting environmental consideration.* * Kanagawa Prefecture recognizes companies that meet its requirements for reducing environmental impact, properly controlling chemical substances and establishing organizational frameworks for the environment, and registers them as certified business sites that promote environmental considerations. Environmental Considerations in Packaging The Anritsu Group in Japan seeks to reduce the volume of packaging materials. We are also taking steps to completely discontinue the use of shock-absorbing material for packaging, made of urethane foam, which is produced by using a liquid concentrate containing Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate, designated as a Class I Designated Chemical Substance under the PRTR Law. Eco-Logistics Overview of Eco-Logistics Delivery The carrier takes out the product from a returnable box and delivers it to a place the customer has designated. After delivery, the returnable box is brought back by the carrier. Pick up The carrier arrives at the customer’s location with packaging materials and picks up the product after packaging. Response to carrier We maintain transport quality by conducting in-depth discussions between carrier and Anritsu to build a safety system on transport. Comparison of conventional cardboard packaging with Eco-Logistics Conventional cardboard packaging Eco-Logistics Customer needs to dispose a lot of packaging materials. Customer needs to dispose only a few packaging materials. At delivery ➡ A large amount of waste. ➡ Small amount of waste. ➡ Cost of waste disposal will be expensive. ➡ Enable to reduce the cost of waste disposal. Customers package by themselves with the packaging materials Carrier picks up the product after wrapping it with their sent by Anritsu. packaging materials. ➡ Customer's product packaging operation occurs. ➡ Customer's product packaging operation becomes ➡ New packaging materials are required. At pick up unnecessary. = Waste occurs. ➡ New packaging materials are unnecessary. ＝Waste reduction. An example of delivery The product is first covered with a polyethylene bag The carrier removes the product from the The product and attached equipment box are to prevent scratches and dust and then packaged in a returnable box. delivered to the customer, covered with a polyethylene returnable box. The product and attached equipment bag for protection. An invoice is attached to the box are packaged, as shown in the picture to the left. product. After delivery, the carrier brings back the Carrier removes the product from the returnable box. returnable box and packaging materials. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 90 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Reduction of packaging material waste. For the returnable box, the customer only needs to dispose the polyethylene ▶ Reduction of packaging material waste bag that covers the product. Comparing the traditional cardboard packaging with returnable containers, 27 (%) 100 100 Reduced the waste emissions caused by packaging materials for the customer will be by 94% 50 greatly improved, which is about 94% reduction by weight (assuming that the 0 6 returnable box is used 20 times). Cardboard Eco-Logistics packaging Environmentally Conscious Export Packaging For transporting handheld measuring instruments that are relatively light, Anritsu uses a shock-absorbent material made of a structural assembly of cardboard, combined with an efficient method for housing standard attachments and optional parts. We use environmentally friendly export packaging that does not involve urethane foam. Although 40% smaller than conventional packaging, it provides the same level of protection for products against vibration and shock during transport. (2) New cardboard package without urethane foam (1) Reducing package size as a shock-absorbing material The new cardboard package is smaller than the previous Using a structural assembly of Main body package. cardboard to absorb shock of measuring instrument Standard attachments and optional parts Making effective use of space between the outer packaging and shock absorbers to house standard attachments and optional parts New package has been reduced in size by 40% compared to the previous Left: New cardboard package package and efficiently houses Right: Previous package with urethane foam the main body of the measuring as a shock-absorbing material instrument, standard attachments and optional parts. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 91 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Office, Eco-Factory 3 Protection Column Environmentally Conscious Packaging for Desktop Measuring Instruments Measuring instruments, which constitute Anritsu’s core products, are delicate and require protection against vibration and shock during transport. In the past, we applied the two types of packaging for desktop measuring instruments. One is the urethane form packaging, and the other is the film packaging. In the urethane form packaging, the product is wrapped in shock-absorbing urethane foam, and in the film packaging, the product is placed between two sheets of elastic film to absorb shock by maintaining the product inside a hollow structure. Urethane foam used in shock-absorbing packaging is made of a liquid concentrate containing a substance regulated under the PRTR Law. Although we chose film packaging as an alternative, Koichi Fujisaki Management Group. Logistics it requires space around the product for the film to deflect, increasing the distance between the Center product and the packaging box. The volume of packaging is greater than that using urethane Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd. foam as shock absorbent, which reduces the efficiency of transport. This led us to develop a new, environmentally conscious packaging method. We chose polyethylene foam, which exerts less environmental impact, to absorb shock. We also categorized the mass of the measuring instrument components into large and small in order to create two types of shock absorbing material. Selective use of the material enabled us to develop the Polyethylene Foam Packaging (PEF) method, which offers the same level of resistance to falling shock as film packaging, but is 40% smaller in volume. In fiscal 2015, we applied the method to seven models, transporting approximately 8% of all shipments of measuring instruments in PEF packaging. Efforts are currently underway to apply the method to five more models in fiscal 2016. Urethane foam Polyethylene foam shock absorbent shock absorbent Attachment Polyethylene foam shock absorbent Measuring instrument Film packaging shock absorbent Top: polyethylene foam polyethylene foam packaging packaging Bottom: film packaging Obvious reduction in size Recycling Used Products Anritsu led the measuring instrument industry in establishing the Recycling Center at Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd., in 2000. Anritsu Kousan obtained a license to engage in the industrial waste disposal business in September 2002 and started operating in fiscal 2003. The center is primarily engaged in treating products used by customers. In fiscal 2015, the center received 134 tons of used products and equipment generated by the ▶ Recycling System for Finite resources Used Products Anritsu Group and recycled nearly 100% of the waste Material after disassembling and sorting, shipping 96.5% of Material recycling Chemical recycling the resultant material as valuable resources. Anritsu Group Thermal recycling The center promotes the refurbishment of used Recycling Center products. Disassembly Design/production A selection of equipment used in demonstrations （Landfill） Disposal Selection Sales is reconditioned and calibrated by Anritsu and then Zero emission delivered with a one-year guarantee, thus extending the lives of the products. Customers Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 92 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco Products 3 Protection Eco-Products Eco Products Development Anritsu is promoting environmental efforts across the product life cycle, from parts and materials procurement and manufacturing to shipment, customer use, recycling and disposal. We conduct product assessments to check and assess the effects of environmental impact reduction from the early design stage of every product’s development, comply with environmental regulations around the world and vigorously provide energyand resource-saving products and products that do not contain hazardous substances as a primary theme of the mid-term plan of our GLP2017 Environmental Initiative. Complying with Product Environmental Regulations The European Union (EU) enacted the WEEE Directive in 2005, the RoHS Directive in 2006, the REACH regulations in 2007 and the ErP Directive in 2009. Environmental regulation of products centered on the EU has been expanding throughout the world. Moreover, product environmental regulations now require prompt response. Communication, information sharing and the unified response of Group companies outside Japan are facilitated by the Global Environment Management Meeting, for example. Global Product Assessment To develop environmentally conscious products on a global scale, we sought to ensure consistency between product assessment carried out by Anritsu Group companies in Japan and the assessment criteria of Design for Environment (DfE) followed by Anritsu Company (U.S.A.). We began implementing global product assessments in fiscal 2014 by adding the function of calculating assessment points that had not been a part of DfE. Operational Procedure Global product assessments are conducted in three stages that must be concluded prior to commercialization: Product Assessment I (target setting), in which targets for the product development process are clarified; Product Assessment II (design review), in which progress on attaining the targets is reviewed; and Product Assessment III (evaluations), in which a final assessment on the product is conducted. During Product Assessment III, a third-party evaluation is conducted by the Quality Management Department and other entities. Development proposal Develpoment decision Detailed design Test production Commercialization Basic design Evaluation Utilization Recycling Product assessment Ⅰ Recycling Center (target setting stage) Product assessment Ⅱ Customers Technology (design review stage) development division Product assessment Ⅲ (Anritsu Kousan Co., Ltd.) Quality control division (evaluation stage) ※ Follow-ups are conducted as needed at each stage of product assessment. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 93 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Products 3 Protection Evaluation Items Evaluation items in the global product assessment cover basic factors such as improvements in volume, mass and power consumption against a reference product. Additional items for evaluation include resource savings and the reduction of harmful substances and overall environmental impact throughout production, physical distribution, use and disposal. A reference product is an existing product that is similar in function and performance to the product being assessed. ▪Reduced volume and mass ▪Reduction of consumable supplies ▪Adoption of reusable or recyclable components Resource saving; ▪Reduction of surface treatment ▪Expanded functionality and longer operating life Reduced load during ▪Reduction of difficult-to-process materials ▪Use of recycled paper for operation manuals manufacturing Reduced harmful ▪Elimination of banned substances in products ▪Compliance with RoHS Directive substances ▪Reduction of substances subject to RoHS Directive ▪Reduction of other harmful substances Reduced load in physical ▪Reduction of packing materials ▪Ease of transport af ter collection distribution ▪Use of recycled paper for packing materials ▪Reduced power consumption during operation ▪Designed to lower power consumption ▪Inclusion of a standby mode ▪Clear instructions on power-saving functions Reduced load during use ▪Reduced variety of materials and use of common ▪Fewer parts ▪Reduced use of difficult-to-recycle materials materials ▪Recycle labeling on batteries Reduced load at time of ▪Designed for easy dismantling and disassembly ▪Response to WEEE Directive disposal ▪Identification of the material on resin components ▪Response to Chinese RoHS Utilizing Assessment Results Under our global product assessment, Anritsu Group companies in Japan calculate the estimated reduction in electric power consumption of their products against the electric power consumption of the reference product. We use this value as a benchmark for reducing the particularly large volume of CO2 emissions generated by “use of sold products” under Scope 3, which is also part of our efforts to “provide energyand resource-saving products,” a priority theme of our GLP2017 Environmental Initiative. In fiscal 2015, we reduced electric power consumption by 2,783 MWh, which is equivalent to 1,547 tons of CO2 emissions. Environmentally Conscious Product Program Environmentally Conscious Products Anritsu Group certifies the Excellent Eco Product and Eco Product as environmentally conscious products based on the results of global product assessment. ● Excellent Eco Product: Product that meets Excellent Eco Product requirements ● Eco Product: Environmentally Conscious Products Excellent Eco Product that meets Eco Product requirements Product ● Assessed Product: Eco Product Product that meets Assessed Product requirements Assessed Product Environmentally conscious products accounted for about 69% and Excellent Eco Products for about 64% of Anritsu’s sales of measuring instruments for fiscal 2015. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 94 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Products 3 Protection Major Environmentally Conscious Criteria for Excellent Eco Products ● Top industry ranking for environmentally sound properties ● Environmental information ready for disclosure ● CO2 emission evaluated by Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)* ● Environmental management system in place at the relevant business entity and main production site. * Life Cycle Assessment: method for quantitatively assessing environmental impact across the entire life cycle of a product, encompassing the extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, use, collection and disposal. For Excellent Eco Product, “Excellent Eco Product ” mark and environmental information of the product is described in the catalog and elsewhere. The mark is categorized as Type II labeling (self-declared environmental claims) under the international standard ISO 14021. URL Excellent Eco Product First Excellent Eco Product Developed by a Group Company Outside Japan Remote Spectrum Monitor MS27101A/02A/03A MS27101A/02A/03A リモートスペクトラムモニター 24 (%) 100 Power consumption Reduced by 75 55% 50 25 0 Reference product MS27101A/02A/03A MS27102A Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) has been striving to develop environmentally conscious products, just as Anritsu Group companies in Japan have done, but did not at first introduce the Environmentally Conscious Product Program. The company adopted the unified global product assessment criteria in fiscal 2014, which also led to the introduction of the Environmentally Conscious Product Program. In fiscal 2015, the remote spectrum monitor MS27101A/02A/03A was recognized as the first Excellent Eric McLean Mekonen Yasuo Abe Eco Product to be developed by an Anritsu Group company Anritsu Company Buzuayene Environment Promotion outside Japan. The basic items of our global product assessment Anritsu Company Team, Environment include volume, mass and energy consumption. We developed and Quality Promotion Department, Anritsu this product with a particular emphasis on lowering energy Corporation consumption, which is effective for reducing CO2 emissions throughout a product’s life cycle, and achieved reductions of 55% compared to a reference product. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 95 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Products 3 Protection Excellent Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2015 Radio Communication Analyzer MT8821C MT8821C ラジオコミュニケーションアナライザ 20 (%) 100 Volume Reduced by (%) 100 Mass Reduced by (%) Power consumption 100 Reduced by 75 75 75 44% 71% 61% 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 Reference MT8821C Reference MT8821C Reference MT8821C product product product The MT8821C is a measuring instrument designed for R&D of mobile devices (User Equipment: UE) such as smartphones, tablets and M2M modules. It builds on the technologies and know-how of its predecessor, the MT8820C. It supports communication methods ranging from LTE-Advanced to 3G/2G in one unit, allowing for more efficient measurements for RF adjustment, verification and functionality tests. LTE-Advanced Carrier Aggregation 3CC MIMO tests typically required three MT8820C units. We have now made it possible to test with a single unit by applying cutting-edge technology to develop a compact, lightweight, built-in unit that consumes less power. This was made possible by adopting the most advanced devices (SoC, SiP) with multiple built-in Takanori Tanaka circuitry, such as CPU/ FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array), and energy-saving electric components, 3rd Product Development Department, R&D reducing digital circuits through optimization, applying high-density mounting of devices and Division, Measurement achieving a highly efficient power supply through dispersed electricity feeds. As a result, we reduced Business Division. Anritsu volume by 71%, mass by 61% and power consumption by 44% compared to a conventional product Corporation at the same level of functionality and performance. MP2100B BERTWave 21 (%) 100 Volume Reduced by (%) 100 Mass Reduced by (%) Power consumption 100 Reduced by 75 75 46% 75 36% 50% 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 Reference MP2100B Reference MP2100B Reference MP2100B product product product The MP2100B BERTWave is an all-in-one test set with a Sampling Oscilloscope and Bit Error Rate Tester (BERT) specialized for evaluating optical transceiver modules used at data centers in its production lines. The dramatic rise in data traffic in recent years has led to the development of QSFP+ (Quad SFP+), an optical transceiver module with four channels integrated into a single unit, creating the need for simultaneous measurement of the four channels. We sought to address this need by developing a measuring instrument capable of performing multichannel measurement without sacrificing the advantages of a compact instrument with all the necessary functions, which has been the concept of the existing BERTWave series. Seiya Suzuki To create a compact, lightweight instrument that consumes less power, we focused on enhancing Solution Marketing Department, Service circuit integration. One solution was to adopt a highly integrated IC for BER measurement functions. Infrastructure Solutions Since the IC was not designed for measuring instruments, we realized the necessary functions by Division, Measurement coming up with creative ways to control the IC. As for power consumption, we worked toward our Business Division, Anritsu Corporation goal of using the same power module used in our other products. We conducted extensive estimations at the design stage and managed to cap the actual values under estimated values by raising the accuracy of estimations. We were therefore able to reduce power consumption despite doubling the number of channels. As a result, we reduced volume by 50%, mass by 46% and power consumption by 36% compared to a conventional product at the same level of functionality and performance. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 96 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Products 3 Protection Network Master Pro MT1000A (OTDR Module) MT1000A ネットワークマスタ プロ（OTDRモジュール） 22 (%) 100 75 Volume Reduced by (%) 100 75 Mass Reduced by (%) Power consumption 100 75 Reduced by 69% 44% 57% 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 Reference MT1000A Reference MT1000A Reference MT1000A product product product The Network Master Pro MT1000A is a measuring instrument that network operators use when handling the installation, maintenance and trouble-shooting tasks required for their communication networks. Network infrastructure has become increasingly sophisticated to efficiently support the growing volume of traffic, which has given rise to new measurement needs in diverse categories. The Network Master Pro MT1000A is an all-in-one unit for efficiently performing complicated onsite work that combines a 10G Multirate Module (MU100010A) and an OTDR Module (MU100020A/21A) for testing the quality of transmission signals and detecting optical fiber failures with a single unit. Network installation and maintenance can involve outdoor work, which requires a compact, lightweight product with excellent environmental durability. Compact and lightweight, the Network Master Pro MT1000A is Taichi Murakami 1st Product Development equipped with a large screen and touch panel that facilitates efficient confirmation of measurement results. With Department, R&D Division, sufficient battery power to last a full day, the unit can be used worry-free in outdoors. Measurement Business The Network Master Pro MT1000A (OTDR Module) uses compact components and high-density Division, Anritsu Corporation mounted circuits that reduce the area of the printed circuit board to a single internal board. By actively incorporating plastic-molded components, we reduced volume by 69% and mass by 44% compared to a conventional product. Instead of constantly feeding power, appropriate power management is applied to feed electricity only to the circuits that are required for a specific task. As a result, we reduced power consumption by 57% compared to a conventional product. Eco-Products Recognized in Fiscal 2015 SightVisor™2 Information Browsing System NC5210 Series 23 (%) 100 75 Volume Reduced by 25% (%) 100 75 Mass Reduced by 12% (%) Power consumption 100 75 Reduced by 53% 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 Reference NC5210 Reference NC5210 Reference NC5210 product product product The SightVisor™2 Information Browsing System NC5210 Series receives visual data sent by IP camera and displays them onscreen. It can simultaneously show a maximum of nine surveillance video feeds of roads and rivers on a single screen, which can also display Web content. The display can be switched using a remote controller in much the same way that TV channels are switched. Sites that monitor surveillance videos such as emergency response headquarters and disaster prevention centers generally must install several units to simultaneously display multiple videos. This product requires a single unit with a compact casing with the capacity to display as many images as possible. To develop a compact, lightweight design, we focused on reducing the size of the fan. We revised the efficiency of image display processing to reduce the amount of heat discharged by the CPU, making it Yuta Shinchi possible to cool the interior of the instrument using a smaller fan. Reducing the diameter of the fan also Development Department, Anritsu Networks Co., Ltd. reduced the product’s height. Moreover, we used the most advanced CPU to increase the number of video images that can be displayed, while keeping power consumption low. As a result, we reduced volume by 25%, mass by 12% and power consumption by 53% compared to a conventional product at the same level of functionality and performance. For our customers, we reduced the number of units installed by increasing the number of screens that a single unit can display, thereby lowering power consumption for the entire facility. The compact size also led to saving space for installation. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 97 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Eco-Products 3 Protection CO2 Emissions across Product Life Cycles The Anritsu Group in Japan expanded its LCA, previously applied to a limited number of products, to all of its products beginning in fiscal 2013, and is aware of CO2 emissions at each stage of the product life cycle. Compared to fiscal 2014, CO2 emissions have risen among some models in fiscal 2015, particularly desktop measuring instruments. This may be due to an increase in CO2 emissions during customer use, caused by the growing ratio of products with enhanced functionality and performance that consequently consume more electric power, and a higher ratio of products that operated around the clock. ▶ CO2 Emissions and Breakdown across the Life Cycle of Product Groups 17 Total CO2 Emissions by Product Group ■Manufacturing ■Distribution ■Use ■Disposal (average) Desktop measuring instruments 3,273kg-CO2 Handheld measuring instruments 50kg-CO2 Checkweighers 2,080kg-CO2 X-ray inspection systems 6,060kg-CO2 Metal detectors 1,968kg-CO2 Network appliances 1,689kg-CO2 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 (%) Promotion of Supply Chain Management The provision of environmentally friendly products requires the use of parts and materials that reduce environmental impact. The Anritsu Group in Japan upholds environmentally friendly supply chain management through green procurement and conducts research on the chemical substances in the parts it purchases, in accordance with the Basic Rules of Procurement. For more information, please see “Supply Chain Management” on page 52. More information Supply Chain Management Management of Chemical Substances Contained in Products Ensuring no harmful substances are in our products requires proper and continuous chemical substance management by suppliers and companies further upstream. The Anritsu Group seeks to procure appropriate parts and materials by investigating chemical substances contained in purchased goods in accordance with the Anritsu Group Global Green Procurement Specification and entering the results into a database. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 98 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Group Environmental Impact Data 3 Protection Group Environmental Impact Data Anritsu quantifies its environmental impact and environmental protection activities in monetary and physical units in order to assess and upgrade the efficiency of these activities. We disclose the results to enable our stakeholders to gain a deeper understanding of our environmental actions. The environmental impact mass balance*1 of the Anritsu Group’s global business activities is summarized below. Percentage changes from fiscal 2014 are in parentheses. INPUT OUTPUT Electricity ＣＯ₂＊2 Electric power purchased from 30,401.7 MWh Carbon dioxide generated as a result power companies for use at （4.8％） of using electricity, gas and fuels (CO2 16,529.0 t （3.8％） manufacturing sites and offices emission volume was calculated using the conversion factor defined in fiscal 2010 by the Federation of 164,217.9 ｍ³ Electric Power Companies of Japan) Gas （3.5％） City gas, LPG and natural gas used as energy ＮＯＸ Nitrogen oxides generated 1,618.2 kg as a result of using gas and （187.4％） fuels Fuels 453.8ｋℓ （-5.0％） Heavy oil and light oil used as Group Environmental Impact Data energy SＯＸ Sulfuric oxides generated 647.0 kg as a result of using gas and （320.4％） District heating fuels Heating generated by hot water 113.2MWh and supplied to the region （-68.0％） 71,533.8 ｍ³ (Denmark) Wastewater Wastewater discharged from （-9.7％） manufacturing sites and offices Water 82,757.8 ｍ³ （-12.8％） Tap water and ground water BOD 161.0 kg （-14.1％） (excluding recycled water) Biochemical oxygen demand Chemical substances 11.2kg Waste HFC, PFC, SF6, N2O （110.2％） Municipal waste in Japan Waste other than industrial 36.2 t （-26.5％） waste that is generated as a result of business activities Chemical substances (such as kitchen waste, waste Chemical substances that are regulated 19.4 t paper and waste wood) （67.4％） by laws in Japan(toxic, deleterious and hazadous substances, organic solvents, Industrial waste in Japan and specified chemical substances) Waste generated as a result of business activities, that 76.5 t is regulated by the ‘Waste （14.6％） Disposal and Public Cleaning Chemical substances 2.0 t Law' such as sludge, waste PRTR （-13.0％） plastics, waste acid and waste alkali Waste outside Japan 204.1 t All waste generated by business （17.2％） Paper 40.6 t activities （-2.8％） Copy paper used at factories and offices Recycling 84.1% Packaging Material Wrapping, packing and packaging 327.9 t material for products and packaging （-6.2％） material for transportation Excel Detailed Data *1 Environmental impact expressed in the form of a balance sheet in which substances entering the company are identified and listed by name and mass in one column and substances and mass exiting the company are identified and listed in the other column to more clearly display the relationship between business activities and environmental impact. *2 Calculations for CO2 emissions from energy use for sites both in and outside Japan are based on the emission factor under the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Calculation of CO2 emission volume from electricity use in the United States is based on the emission factor of 0.285 (t-CO2 /MWh), while CO2 emission volume from electricity use in regions other than the United States is based on the emission factor provided by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (actual figure for fiscal 2014: 0.556 (t-CO2/MWh)). Data includes the CO2 conversion values for greenhouse gases other than CO2 . Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 99 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Environmental Accounting 3 Protection Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting (Fiscal 2015) Investments for environmental conservation in fiscal 2015 included upgrades in air conditioning, installation of lowloss transformers and replacement of LED lighting. The level of investment declined by 90.1% year-on-year, due to a temporary surge in fiscal 2014 caused by the construction of the global headquarters building. Costs fell by 2.9% due to decreases in costs for depreciation and waste disposal. Economic impact declined by 3.6% due to a decrease in the amount of sales in valuable resources and the effects of reduced electric power use during product use. ● Aggregate scope: Anritsu Corp. and Group Companies in Japan ● Eco Product: April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 Category Environmental conservation cost Benefits Environmental Investment Cost Economic benefits impact (millions of yen) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) Category Breakdown Figures in brackets are the results 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 from FY 2013 Pollution prevention cost 1.4 6.3 11.7 146.1 146.1 Global environmental Prevention of 291.1（t-CO2 ） ［595.0（t-CO2）］ 5.6 49.6 25.9 30.0 20.2 21.4 conservation cost global warming Business area cost Resource recycling/ Reduced due to 5.2 73.5 80.0 utilization activities sale of valuable Resource circulation resources 231.2（t） cost ［218.5（t）］ Waste disposal cost 46.9 51.4 16.4 22.0 Green purchasing/procurement cost 19.3 18.0 1547.4（t-CO2） Upstream/ Design of environmentally conscious 24.6 26.8 55.7＊1 ［1664.7（t-CO2）］ downstream products 59.9 cost Recycling and treatment of products, containers and packaging Environmental education/training 22.5 20.0 Operation and maintenance of EMS and 59.0 53.2 internal audit Administration Environmental load monitoring and 17.4 19.3 cost measurement cost Personnel expenses for environmental 9.0 10.7 management Greening and upkeep of greenery 13.0 8.4 Support for community Social activity groups,environmental conservation bodies, 1.9 1.3 cost etc. Disclosure of information 11.3 10.3 Research and development to reduce R&D cost 0.5 0.1 environmental impacts Environmental Cost incurred for recovery from remediation environmental degradation cost Total 5.6 56.2 331.2 341.2 238.3＊2 249.4 Total after the removal of upstream/downstream cost 182.7＊3 189.5 Percentage change from FY2014 to FY 2015 -90.1% -2.9% -3.6% *1 Estimated environmental impact reduction benefits when products are in use. *2 Including estimated benefits *3 Excluding estimated benefits Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 100 Goal Promoting Global Environmental Environmental Accounting 3 Protection The Anritsu Group is gradually switching to energy-saving equipment as part of its ongoing effort to reduce greenhouse gases. In fiscal 2015, we implemented the following measures at the Atsugi and Tohoku sites. 【Atsugi site: upgraded to low-loss transformers, replaced LED lighting 】 ● Cost: 49.53 million yen ● Reduction in CO2 emissions: 155 t-CO2 / year 【Tohoku site: upgraded air conditioners】 ● Cost: 5.84 million yen ● Reduction in CO2 emissions: 15 t-CO2 / year Low-loss transformers Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 101 Goal Promoting Global Environmental History of Anritsu’s Environmental Activities 3 Protection History of Anritsu’s Environmental Activities 2015 Anritsu Company (U.S.A.) developed the first Excellent Eco Product as a Group company outside Japan 2014 Completed the new, environmentally conscious Global Headquarters Building. Certified and registered as an “Environmentally conscious Business Site” under the Kanagawa Prefectural Ordinance on Conservation 2013 of Living Environment (Atsugi site). Established an environmentally conscious factory, the Koriyama Second Business Office. Ceased operations at the Tanasawa site due to the consolidation of Anritsu Device Co., Ltd. operations at the Atsugi site. 2012 Created the new Hiratsuka site following the opening of a new plant by AT Techmac Co., Ltd. (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa Prefecture). 2011 Contributed to local communities through activities such as the Radiation Seminars for PTAs in Koriyama City, Fukushima Prefecture. Received the Kanagawa Prefecture award for meritorious service in environmental improvement (for promoting a recycling-oriented 2010 society) as a company from the Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture. 2009 Joined the promotion partners for Nippon Keidanren's Declaration of Biodiversity. 2008 Expanded the scope of ISO14001 certification to the Anritsu business sites. Wins the Kanagawa Global Environment Award 2007. 2007 Anritsu Company (USA) aquired ISO14001 certification. Wins President Award from the Atsugi Area Waste Renewal Conference. 2006 Anritsu Company (USA) wins Excellence Award for 2006 from Morgan Hill, California. Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. wins an excellence award for the business division in a zero emission activity proposals contest sponsored by 2005 the Fukushima Prefectural Government. The first Global Environment Management Meeting is held at Anritsu Ltd. (UK). Revised “Anritsu Group Green Procurement Guidelines“. 2004 Anritsu group Companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites achieved zero emission. 2003 Integrated ISO14001 certification to include Anritsu group companies in Atsugi, Tanasawa, and Tohoku sites. Organized Environment Promotion Center unified disparate environment-related departments. 2002 Expanded ISO14001 certification to include Tanasawa Site and Anritsu group in the Atsugi area. Acquired the Industrial Waste Disposal Contractor License for Recycling Center in Japan. Anritsu Limited (U.K.) acquired ISO14001 certification. 2000 Established the Anritsu Eco-Product system. Established the Recycling Center. Published “Anritsu Green Procurement Guidelines for product development“. 1999 Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. acquired ISO14001 certification. Acquired ISO14001 certification for Atsugi Site (Japan). Atsugi site was commended by the Manager of the Kanto International Trade and Industry Bureau as an excellent 'green' factory. 1998 Organized the Environmental Engineering Group in the Technology Division. Organized the Lead-free Soldering Committee. 1997 Established Anritsu's environmental policy. Joined the “Green Purchasing Network“. 1996 Established the Anritsu Environment Manual. Decommissioned the facilities specified in the Air Pollution Control Act (kerosene boilers) at Atsugi Site. 1995 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. Reorganized the ZP Committee at Atsugi Site into the Environment Management Committee. 1994 Organized the Product Assessment Committee. Ended use of all ozone-depleting substances (except refrigerants and fire extinguishing chemicals) companywide. Organized the Environment Management Committee. Made adjustments to comply with statutory nickel-cadmium regulations. 1993 Established an environmental principle and environment management system regulations. Investigated flame retardant bromic substances and disposal methods. Organized the Energy Reduction Subcommittee. 1992 Received the Atsugi Site Waste Renewal Conference Chairman's Award. 1991 Atsugi Site received the Japan Greening Center President's Award. Started centralized purchase and distribution of chemical substances. 1990 Organized the Environment Management Section within the General Affairs Department at Atsugi Site. 1987 Constructed elevated pipelines system of inorganic wastewater processing at Atsugi Site. 1981 Atsugi Site received an Excellent Environment Preservation Award from the Kanagawa Prefecture Central Area Administration Center. 1980 Atsugi Site was commended as a Kanagawa Prefecture 'green' model factory. Atsugi Site was commended by the Kanagawa Environmental Conservation Association for its excellent environmental conservation 1979 practices. 1978 Connected waste water other than rain water to the public sewage system at Atsugi Site. 1974 Introduced an activated sludge processing facility as the kitchen drain water processing. 1970 Established the Zero Pollution (ZP) Committee at Atsugi Site. 1962 Constructed a wastewater treatment facility after opening a chemical engineering plant at Atsugi Site. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 102 Goal Promoting Communication 4 Communication with Stakeholders The goal for Anritsu establishes par tnerships by proac tively disclosing information and Anritsu dialoging with stakeholders throughout its business ac tivities. The future Anritsu seeks Ever y employee develops a sense of mutual understanding with stakeholders The goal for by achieving employees by listening to their expec tations and ac tively communicating with them. Goal 4 Appreciation Anritsu gains a solid reputation and trust by communicating a true image of by society itself to stakeholders. Communication with Stakeholders Anritsu establishes partnerships by proactively disclosing information and dialoguing with stakeholders throughout its business activities. With Customers With NGOs With National and NPOs and Local Governments Goal 1 Contributing to Build a Safe, Secure, and Comfortable Society Goal 2 Goal 3 With With Suppliers Maintaining Harmony Promoting Global and Partners Shareholders with the Global Environmental and Investors Socio-Economy Protection Goal 4 Promoting Communications For the Global With Environment Employees and Nature Conservation With Local Communities Customers We participate in trade shows in order to introduce Anritsu products to our customers and many other stakeholders. Mobile World Congress 2016 We participated in Mobile World Congress 2016, one of the world’s largest trade shows for mobile communications technology, which was held in February 2016 in Barcelona, Spain. Services and technologies related to Internet of Things (IoT) attracted significant interest at the event, and Anritsu showcased its technologies centered on IoT, 5G and LTE-A. The event attracted 101,000 visitors from 204 countries, far more than the 93,000 visitors from 200 countries who came in 2015. This year’s theme was “Mobile is Everything,” and the event featured solutions related to IoT and virtual reality. Anritsu divided its booth into five sections to introduce the latest solutions for IoT, 5G, LTE-A, Service Assurance and I&M (installation and maintenance). Mobile World Congress 2016 We will continue contributing to the development of mobile broadband services by remaining the first to provide the most advanced technologies. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 103 Goal Promoting Communication Shareholders and Investors Customers 4 OFC 2016 The Optical Fiber Communication Conference (OFC), held this year at the Anaheim Convention Center in the United States, is the top conference for optical communications. The Anritsu booth exhibited signal generators used in the research and development of next-generation standards and test solutions for optical modules. The growing volume of data communication traffic is expected to further accelerate communication speeds of servers and network equipment in the coming years. Anritsu serves as the backbone of OFC 2016 evolving communications technology by offering a variety of solutions. FOOMA JAPAN 2016 Anritsu Infivis participated in FOOMA JAPAN 2016, an international exhibition of food machinery and technology. The exhibit also provided an opportunity to introduce the company’s new name, with the booth displaying “Infvis” signs and showcasing equipment carrying the new logo. The exhibit focused on the functions available for inspecting packaging integrity, as well as a mechanism for ensuring critical control of food products through a combined display consisting of a small clean cup scale FOOMA JAPAN 2016 for high-speed weighing of small quantities, a built-in multi-layer weighing system that uses robotic arms for measuring objects that are easily rolled over, the QuiCCA system and a checkweigher with metal detector. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 104 Goal Promoting Communication Shareholders and Investors 4 Shareholders and Investors We are proactively disclosing information and encouraging interactive communication to build an important relationship with shareholders and investors and applying their feedback to improve our business and IR activities. Disclosure Policy Anritsu will disclose accurate information at any time to every stakeholder with good faith and a positive attitude by observing the related laws. Action policy 1. Anritsu will disclose accurate information ▪in clear and plain speech ▪actively with timely and promptness; and ▪broadly with equality 2. Anritsu will place a strict control on information management and strive to prevent insider trading. System for Investor Relation Activities Anritsu seeks to obtain an appropriate assessment of its corporate value through communication with shareholders and investors while striving to achieve higher shareholder satisfaction by enhancing corporate value and delivering returns to shareholders. To this end, we carry out IR activities under the leadership of the IR Department. Comments by shareholders and investors are shared with our Management Strategic Conference, Information Disclosure Committee, which includes members of management, and at the IR Promotion Meeting, along with information on the participation of those responsible for IR activities in the Management Strategy Center, Accounting and Control Department and Legal Department. The feedback is also used for improving information disclosure and business activities. Recognition by External Organizations Anritsu ranked 21st in the Channel NewsAsia Sustainability Ranking of the “Top 100 companies in Asia with the highest sustainability performance.” The ranking is produced by Channel NewsAsia, a leading English-language media group based in Singapore; Sustainalytics, an ESG assessment institution; and CSR Asia. The list represents the top 100 sustainable companies chosen from over 1,200 companies in 11 Asian economies, based on a broad perspective on ESG (environmental, social and governance). We will continue to engage in ESG initiatives and actively disclose information to contribute to addressing social issues and enhancing corporate value. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 105 Goal Promoting Communication Shareholders and Investors 4 Activities in Fiscal 2015 and the First Quarter of Fiscal 2016 Since Anritsu conducts business worldwide that does not come into direct contact with general consumers, we think it is very important to inform our shareholders as faithfully as possible of our business structure, framework for generating profits and other factors that affect our business results. Our ongoing activities include quarterly results briefings; individual meetings with international institutional investors; annual reports, business reports and other publications; disclosure of information and shareholder/investor Results briefing for institutional investors questionnaires on our website; and posting of IR information on external financial information sites. In fiscal 2015 and the current fiscal year up to May 2016 we disclosed information mainly through quarterly financial reports and progress reports on our mid-term business plan. Management actively participates in the implementation of IR activities. Our IR activities for overseas investors included 4 conferences and roadshows, mainly in North America and Europe, while we held another 4 conferences in Japan. Over the course of the year, we also held 6 briefings for individual investors, which were attended by approximately 270 persons. Through these initiatives, we actively Anritsu Integrated Reporting 2016 communicated with a broad range of investors to expand our shareholder base. We also enhanced the transparency of our information disclosure by URL Anritsu Integrated Reporting 2016 publishing an annual report on the IR website. Shareholder Composition (as of March 31, 2016) Please refer to the Stock, Bonds and Ratings page on our corporate website. URL Stocks, Bonds and Ratings Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 106 Goal Promoting Communication Business Partners 4 Business Partners Strengthening trust with business partners is vital to achieving mutual growth. We value forging even stronger partnerships involving the participation of our business partners in meeting society’s expectations and needs through the operations of the entire supply chain. Business Partner Gathering On January 20, 2016 we hosted a business partner gathering that drew 294 representatives of 148 Anritsu business partners including overseas companies. We presented Anritsu’s strengths and vision for the future as well as the business opportunities emerging through social innovations, such as IoT and 5G. We also laid out our global procurement system and called for an even stronger partnership. Our most valued business partners were awarded with a certificate of gratitude, a plaque and commemorative gifts. Business Partner Gathering Promoting Partner QU Proposal Activities We are promoting the Partner QU (Quality Up) Activity as a communication channel for business partners so that they can offer proposals for improvements, requests and opinions concerning Anritsu. A council that promotes and supports the activity meets once a month to deliberate on the proposals, determine whether or not to adopt them, and select companies for the annual award. In addition, we invite business partners to our company once every 6 months to give an update on Anritsu’s procurement policy and measures for the current year. We also use this occasion to present awards to them. In fiscal 2015, we adopted 38 out of 68 improvement proposals, an increase of 17% from last year, and included changing the design to reduce costs and adopting a different procurement method to speed up delivery. Collaboration Room We maintain a collaboration room within the company to revitalize communication between our engineers and business partners. We invite different manufacturers and agents to dispatch their sales engineers in a daily rotation and provide an environment for generating new solutions. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 107 Goal Promoting Communication Shareholders NGOs and NPOs and Investors Employees 4 NGOs and NPOs The Anritsu Group continues to support children from the Koriyama and Fukushima area of Fukushima Prefecture in cooperation with the public interest incorporated association Save the Children Japan. In fiscal 2015, we organized a program for children with disabilities or who have little access to support, such as those who attend alternative schools or use maternal and child care facilities. We offered the children an opportunity to experience nature and play outdoors. A total of 14 employees participated as volunteers in 8 programs from July to November. Their assistance enabled the children to play freely in places such as the Moniwa Play Park adventure playground surrounded by greenery in the outskirts of Fukushima City. The program aims to address the declining frequency of children’s outdoor play since the Great East Japan Earthquake, particularly in Fukushima Prefecture, by providing a time and place for them to enjoy the normal childhood experience of being out in a natural environment with Providing outdoor recreation for preschool comparatively low radiation levels. children in Fukushima © Save the Children Japan We will continue to contribute to society through collaborations with international NGOs and NPOs. URL Save the Children Japan Employees Photo Exhibition of the Great East Japan Earthquake Many people continue to face hardships caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake. The Anritsu Group also felt the impact of the disaster through damage to Tohoku Anritsu Co., Ltd. and the Koriyama Business Office of Anritsu Corporation. Five years later, in March 2016, we held a photo exhibition at the Global Headquarters Building to look back on those days and prevent the memories from fading away. All visitors to the company were welcomed to view the exhibition. The exhibition was composed of photographs taken by Masayoshi Tokita, a photojournalist and former Anritsu employee, and in-house records compiled for the company newsletter. About 30 photographs of each region in Tohoku were on display, either conveying the extent of the damage and tragedy of the disaster seeking repose for the victims’ souls. We also exhibited actual equipment that had been used outside the company for Photo exhibition: Five years after the Great East reconstruction and support activities. Japan Earthquake About 40 employees also attended a talk at the gallery by Mr. Tokita, who shared his thoughts from his ongoing coverage of the earthquake since its immediate aftermath. He also spoke about the current state of the reconstruction effort and offered advice on how to prepare for any future earthquakes. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 108 Corporate Governance Basic Approach Anritsu’s priority management issues are responding to changes in the operating environment in a flexible and speedy manner, improving competitiveness as a global company, and continuing to increase corporate value. To address these issues, we are placing priority on and working to create an environment and structure where corporate governance can function effectively. 1. Greater management transparency 2. Appropriate and timely disclosure of information 3. Enhancement of management supervision 4. Management resources development With this approach we will strive to fulfill our mission by upholding our company philosophy of “Sincerity, Harmony and Enthusiasm,” and by carrying out measures befitting Anritsu to nurture a corporate culture that respects the rights and interests of shareholders, customers, employees and all other stakeholders, and reinforce our internal systems. System Overview Anritsu, as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board, appointed three independent outside directors and two independent outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. In addition, Anritsu formed its Nominating Committee and Compensation Advisory Committee, as voluntary advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, which are composed mainly of outside directors, with the aim of securing transparency and accountability. Through these and other activities, Anritsu has been taking initiatives to strengthen its corporate governance system. Beginning in June 2015, Anritsu started to move forward with these corporate governance initiatives by continuing the functions of the Nominating and Compensation Advisory Committees, choosing to become a “Company with an Audit Committee” as provided in the revised Companies Act, and forming an Audit Committee with the aim of strengthening its corporate governance system. The reasons for becoming a Company with an Audit Committee are as follows. 1. In view of the company’s high consolidated overseas revenue ratio and high foreign stock ownership ratio we will establish a corporate governance system that is easily understandable from a global perspective. 2. Increase transparency and hold active discussions from the shareholders’ viewpoint by bringing together independent outside directors with valuable skills and insight and including them in the membership of the company’s Board of Directors. 3. By establishing an Audit Committee and providing voting rights in the Board of Directors to directors who are members of the Audit Committee, we will strengthen their audit and supervisory functions and enhance our internal control system. As a highly specialized manufacturer, Anritsu believes that in regard to decision making it is important to stay in touch with its sites of operations, and for this reason we will maintain its executive officer system with the aim of ensuring the timely execution of operations. While the Articles of Incorporation states that the Board of Directors can delegate all or part of the decision-making process regarding the execution of important operations to a director by its resolution, the Board of Directors will, in principle, deliberate and decide on such matters for the time being. We will review the issue of partially delegating such decision making to a director, as well as the criteria for the Board of Directors’ agenda, to narrow down the agenda items for the purpose of developing the deliberations and strengthening the supervisory function of the board. The number of members comprising the management system is as follows. According to our Articles of Incorporation, Anritsu can have not more than 10 directors (excluding directors elected as Audit Committee members) and can have not more than 5 directors elected as Audit Committee members. There are 15 executive officers (including 2 foreign nationals). Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 109 Corporate Governance Internal/full-time directors Outside Total Category and number of directors directors Executive Non-executive (number) (number) directors directors Directors (excluding directors elected as Audit Committee members) 4 － 3 7 Directors elected as Audit Committee members － 1 2 3 Total (number) 4 1 5 10 ▶ Corporate Governance Management System Diagram (as of June 28, 2016) Shareholders’ Meeting Appointment/Dismissal Audit Report (statement of opinion Board of Directors (10) (Chairperson: Internal Director) Appointment/ Appointment/ on appointment and Dismissal Dismissal compensation of directors) 〈 Non-executive Directors (6) 〉 Independent Committee (5) Outside Directors (3) (lead independent outside director) Audit Committee Members (outside directors) (2) Audit Committee (3) Audit Committee Member Accounting Auditor (internal director) (1) Instruction 〈Executive Directors (4)〉 Assistance Internal Directors (4) Management Audit Audit, etc. Department Consultation Consultation Advice and Advice and 〈 Recommendation Recommendation Financial Nominating Compensation Audit, etc. 〉 Audit Committee Advisory Committee Directors (4) Directors (4) Supervision Cooperation Communication Report Including 3 Outside Including 3 Outside Directors Directors (chairperson: outside (chairperson: outside director) director) Management Strategic Conference (internal director/vice president, etc.) Internal Audit Executive Officer (15) Director & Vice President (4) Vice President (11) Global Audit Department Audit Each Business Division, Business Process, Subsidiaries, etc. Company Structure Board of Directors The Board of Directors system was streamlined in accordance with the adoption of an executive officer system in 2000. Discussion by the small number of people involved facilitates prompt decision making. The board discusses reports and matters for resolution with the aid of candid opinions actively provided by outside directors. In each quarter, following the Board of Directors’ meetings, a “Free Discussion” is held with the participation of the executive officers as well as directors who have attended the Board of Directors’ meetings. Based on themes presented by each executive officer and related to their respective areas of responsibility, discussions on mediumto long-term management issues and the like are held with the involvement of all members. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 110 Corporate Governance Management Strategy Conference Anritsu separates the decision-making and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors from the business execution functions of the executive officers. Important matters related to business execution are deliberated on and resolved by the Management Strategy Conference, chaired by the president. Management strategy and, in particular, important matters associated with the basic policies on Anritsu Group management and the midto long-term strategies for business and finance are deliberated by the Management Strategy Conference before they are presented to the Board of Directors for decision making. Compensation Committee The compensation for directors and executive officers is discussed and assessed by the Compensation Committee, an advisory body to the Board of Directors, with reference to various judgmental criteria including the amounts of the previous year’s performance-based bonuses paid to directors and executive officers and their compensation packages, including their levels, for the current fiscal year. The committee chairperson (who also chairs the committee meetings) is served by an outside director. Currently, the committee is comprised of a total of 4 directors including 1 full-time director and 3 outside directors to ensure its transparency in its discussions on remuneration. Nomination Committee Anritsu has established the Nomination Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, with the aim of improving transparency, objectivity and fairness in the selection and removal of director nominees and the resignation of representative directors as well as obtaining advice and recommendations concerning the development of management personnel capacity. The Nomination Committee is comprised of a total of 4 members including 3 outside directors (excluding Audit Committee members) and the representative director and president. The role of the committee chairperson, who also chairs the committee meetings, is assigned to a different outside director than the chairperson of the Compensation Committee. The Nomination Committee is responsible for deliberating and reporting on topics that include the following. 1. Proposals on the appointment and dismissal of directors 2. Proposals for the composition of the Board of Directors (for example, ratio between internal directors and outside directors, expert areas of members, careers) 3. Consideration of qualifications and formulation of criteria for selecting directors 4. Consultation and recommendation on the continuation or resignation of the president (Group CEO) and the plan of succession 5. Consultation and recommendation on the management, implementation and revision of systems (such as term, age limit) pertaining to directors in general (including executive officers) 6. Consultation and recommendation on programs for developing the next generation of senior managers and the development of directors, executive directors and their successors Two outside directors who serve on the Audit Committee also attend the meetings of the compensation and nomination committees as observers. Independent Committee We have established an Independent Committee managed by all 5 outside directors as a new initiative that follows our transition to a Company with an Audit Committee. The chairperson will be selected by a vote of outside directors and will serve in the capacity of lead independent outside director to shape the consensus of the committee and act as liaison and coordinator with management. The open communication among outside directors facilitated by this structure has created a venue for lively and open discussion for exchanging views and developing a shared awareness from an independent, Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 111 Corporate Governance objective standpoint. We expect the committee will contribute to enhancing the corporate value of the Anritsu Group through its advice for management, recommendations on evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and reports on the results of their deliberation on issues presented by the board. Status of Internal Audits and Audits by Auditors With regard to an internal audit, the Global Audit Department (comprising 5 members as of June 2016) conducts operational audits and provides guidance and assistance to internal audit departments of the Group companies. Additionally, relevant departments and committees share functions as needed, such as daily monitoring for export control conducted by the Trade Control Department. Thereby, enhancement and improvement of company-wide audit functions are attempted. With respect to auditing activities conducted during the consolidated fiscal year under review by the Audit Committee following our transition to a Company with an Audit Committee, the committee was briefed by the accounting auditor and engaged in an exchange of views upon receiving the outline of audits and quarterly review plans, summary of quarterly audit review, term-end summary of audits, accountant’s report and notices issued in accordance with Article 131 of the Corporate Accounting Rules. In addition, members of the Audit Committee met with the accounting auditor as needed to share information, exchange opinions and hear the results of site visits. To ensure the effective and efficient conduct of audits, members of the Audit Committee held meetings, both scheduled and as needed, with staff from the internal audit department (Global Audit Department) to exchange opinions on audit policies, audit plans and the state of audit implementation, and receive reports on each audit to reinforce collaboration. Audit Committee and Management Audit Department The Audit Committee has established its rules on the Audit Committee and detailed regulations and deliberates on matters necessary for executing members’ duties, such as the appointment of the chairperson and a full-time member. The committee also deliberates on audit policies, audit plans, audit methods, sharing of responsibilities for audit operations and similar issues. The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Takaya Seki, an outside director, while Tomoyuki Kikugawa serves as an appointed full-time member. The committee endeavors to collect information on internal matters of the company quickly and accurately, and also flexibly reflect them in conducting audits. Yuji Inoue, an outside director, worked as a general manager of the accounting department at his former company and possesses considerable knowledge on finance and accounting gained through his experience in accounting and finance operations. Currently, there are a total of 3 directors elected as Audit Committee members including 2 outside directors and 1 full-time director who does not execute operations. Moreover, we established the Management Audit Department in April 2015 as an organization for supporting the operations of the Audit Committee to maintain and improve the audit quality of the Audit Committee. The Management Audit Department will conduct its operations in cooperation with the Audit Committee, the accounting auditor and the Global Audit Department. As we have multiple domestic and international subsidiaries in our Group and prioritize governance of global corporate groups including such subsidiaries, directors elected as full-time Audit Committee members and executives of the Management Audit Department will take the positions of Audit & Supervisory Board members (or non-executive directors for companies without Audit & Supervisory Board members) in our major domestic and international subsidiaries, sharing the responsibilities involved. Through this, we will enhance the functions for auditing and monitoring of subsidiaries. In addition, we will utilize the audit know-how acquired before the establishment of the Audit & Supervisory Board members and the Audit & Supervisory Board and will continue making effective efforts based on the experiences we have cultivated over a long period. At the same time, we will aim to improve further the quality and efficiency of audits. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 112 Corporate Governance Status of Accounting Audit The certified public accountants who have conducted our accounting audit operations are Iwao Hirano, Tatsunaga Fumikura and Atsushi Nagata, all members of KPMG AZSA LLC. Assisting accounting audit operations for the fiscal year ending March 2016 are 6 certified public accountants and 11 other personnel. No agreement on a restriction of liability for damages has been executed between Anritsu and the independent auditor. Role of Outside Officers Approach As part of efforts to strengthen corporate governance, Anritsu implemented a system with a total of 5 outside officers, including 3 outside directors and 2 outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, following the conclusion of the 85th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 28, 2011, to promote management utilizing external viewpoints and to enhance further monitoring functions related to the execution of operations. Furthermore, after the conclusion of the 89th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 25, 2015, we made a transition to a Company with an Audit Committee and has adopted a system with 5 outside directors (including 2 Audit Committee members). Following the transition and by bringing together independent outside directors with valuable skills and insight and including them in the membership of the Board of Directors, we have increased the percentage of outside directors as well as raised the level of transparency and can hold active and effective discussions from the shareholders’ point of view. Consideration for Independence in the Selection Process The company tries to appoint outside directors who possess extensive global business experience as corporate executives, a wealth of knowledge and excellent insight, such as attorneys at law in Japan and the United States, certified public accountants and corporate governance specialists. The company expects to draw on directors’ advice based on their outside perspectives in areas such as management. The company also believes that this will strengthen objectivity and fairness in the decision-making process at Board of Directors’ meetings while also leading to an increase in management transparency. In accordance with Article 427, paragraph 1, of the Companies Act, the company enters into an agreement with directors who do not execute operations (including outside directors), as stipulated under Article 423, paragraph 1, of the Act, to limit any liabilities for damages. Under the agreement, the maximum amount of liability shall be the higher amount of either 10 million yen or the amount regulated under laws and regulations. The agreement is effective only when the relevant director has acted in good faith and without gross negligence in performing the duty that gave rise to the liability. The company has assigned all of its 5 outside directors as its independent officers and filed them with the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Outside Director Teruaki Aoki has experience as a managing director, senior executive vice president, executive officer, and in other executive posts at Sony Corporation. Outside Director Yuji Inoue has experience as a Group executive officer, managing director, and in other executive posts, and as a Standing Audit & Supervisory Board member (full-time) at Ricoh Company, Ltd. The Anritsu Group has business relationships, both directly and indirectly, with the above corporations and others, where its outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members concurrently serve or formerly worked, as well as their major subsidiaries, principally through the sales and maintenance of Anritsu Group products. However, the amount of such business transactions is small (each of them accounted for less than 1 percent of Anritsu’s consolidated revenue for the current fiscal year). Other than the above, there are no personal, capital or trading relationships, or other conflicting interests between the company and each of its outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. Therefore, Anritsu has determined that there are no potential conflicting interests between them and the general shareholders, on the grounds that none of them is a person who executes business or is a principal shareholder or former employee of the major clients of Anritsu or its affiliates, Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 113 Corporate Governance and that the company recognizes no significant matters concerning these outside officers that affect their independence. In selecting outside officers, Anritsu pays close attention to potential conflicts of interest with general shareholders as laid down in the “Guidelines Concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc.” of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. This precludes any possibility of selecting a person who may be under significant influence of the company’s management or exerts a significant influence on its management. In addition, with a view to reflecting various stakeholders’ views on the supervision and proper management of the Anritsu Group’s operations, the company places importance on the diversity of nominees’ professional competence, background and other aspects. In order to facilitate sustainable and robust corporate governance, the company believes that arbitrariness must not be a part of the selection or nomination of candidates for outside officers, and to establish an environment that maintains the independence of outside officers after they assume their office. In line with this notion, the Board of Directors resolved to adopt the “Criteria for the independence of outside officers,” detailed below. The establishment and revisions of these criteria shall obtain approval and be resolved by the Board of Directors after deliberation at the Nomination Committee, which is an advisory body of the Board of Directors. Anritsu emphasizes that its outside officers remain neutral and independent of the company. In light of this, in selecting candidates for these positions, it places importance on determining whether their independence meets these criteria. Criteria for the Independence of Outside Officers With reference to the results from reasonable assessments conducted by Anritsu and other information, the company will determine whether the outside director or outside Audit & Supervisory Board member (hereinafter collectively referred to as “outside officer”) or outside officer candidate is sufficiently independent of the company’s management, if they or their business title does not fall into any of the following categories. 1. A person who executes business*1 of the Anritsu Group or its subsidiaries (hereinafter collectively referred to as the “Anritsu Group”) 2. A principal shareholder*2 of Anritsu or a person who executes business*1 for such a shareholder 3. A person who executes business*1 of an organization of which the Anritsu Group is a principal shareholder*2 4. A person of an organization of which the Anritsu Group is a major client*3 or a person who executes business*1 for such an organization 5. A major client*3 of the Anritsu Group or a person who executes business*1 for such a client 6. A person of an organization that receives a large amount of contributions in the form of money or other assets*4 from the Anritsu Group or a person who executes business*1 for such an organization 7. A consultant, professional accountant (e.g., certified public accountant) or legal professional (e.g., lawyer) who receives a large amount of money or other assets*4 other than director’s compensation (if the subject receiving a large amount of money or other assets*4 is a corporation or institution such as an association, then a person belonging to one of these organizations) 8. A person from an organization with which the Anritsu Group has a reciprocal outside director appointment*5 relationship 9. A person who has fallen under any of the above 1 to 8 in the past*6 10. A person who is a spouse or relative within the second degree of those stated in (a) or (b) below (a) Important persons*7 of those described in 1 (note that these include both incumbent and former directors who are or were not persons who execute business*1 when judging the independence of outside directors elected as Audit Committee members or their candidates); (b) Important persons*7 of those described in 2 to 8 Notes: *1 “A person who executes business” refers to a person who executes operations as a director (excluding outside directors), officers, employees (including executive officers), etc. It also refers to a person who executes operations of a legal entity (other than a corporation) or an institution, e.g., an association. *2 A shareholder whose voting common stocks in the company (held either directly or indirectly), accounting for 10 percent or more of the total, is reasonably deemed as a “principal shareholder.” *3 “Major client” is defined according to the description of a “major client” prescribed in III 5. (3)-2 of the Guidelines Concerning Listed Company Compliance, etc. of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. *4 The company reasonably assesses that the value of “money or other assets” awarded to the person is “large” if it, for any fiscal year, stands at 10 million yen or more or accounts for 2 percent or more of the person’s gross income, whichever is greater. *5 “Reciprocal Outside Director appointment” refers to a relationship between the Anritsu Group and another company where an incumbent outside director of the other company was previously an employee of the Anritsu Group and in reverse an outside director of the Anritsu Group was previously an employee of the relevant other company. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 114 Corporate Governance *6 The “past” in this context does not represent any specific period of time with regard to the person stated in 1 above, whereas the term “past” in reference to 2 to 8 means the previous 10 fiscal years, including the most recent. *7 The term “important persons” in (a) means persons who execute business as stated in 1. They include important employees such as executive officers but exclude those whose positions are senior managers or of a lower rank. With regard to “important persons” of those described in 2 to 8 (excluding 7) and specified in (b), the criteria is limited to important persons who execute business and ranked at important positions, such as director, officer and executive officer. Separately, the “important persons” referred to in 7 are limited to those with professional qualifications, such as public certified accountants and lawyers. *8 The company will separately set out, as necessary, the criteria for “the amount of transactions or contributions that can be deemed not to have significant influence on shareholders’ decisions regarding the exercise of their voting rights,” concerning “Listed company clients and directors who were previously employees of such clients” and “Beneficiaries of contributions made by listed companies or directors who were previously employees of such beneficiaries” (both are mandatory attributable information to be incorporated in the Corporate Governance Report and Independent Directors/Auditors Notification filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in accordance with its rules). Compensation of Directors Policy and Decision Making on the Calculation Method for Compensation of Directors The compensation of directors and executive officers is discussed in the meetings of the Compensation Committee, an advisory group to the Board of Directors. Discussions cover Directors’ bonuses based on performance in the previous fiscal year, the scheme for Director’s compensation, compensation levels for the current fiscal year, and other related matters. Basic policies for Director’s compensation and related matters are as follows. 1. Creation of systems that will create motivation for achieving corporate objectives and continuing to create corporate value 2. Creation of attractive systems that will enable the company to secure capable and diverse personnel as directors of a global corporation 3. Securing appropriateness and objectiveness in the compensation determination process and in allocation of compensation Under the policy stated above, the amount of directors’ compensation is determined with reference to information gained from external research organizations and concerning the rates of remuneration for similar posts, and also in consideration of the balance between a fixed amount of compensation based on the directors’ responsibilities and a floating amount closely tied to Anritsu’s business performance for each fiscal year. With this method, the company principally aims to make efficient use of the directors’ compensation scheme to provide them with incentives to enhance the company’s performance for each fiscal year and achieve mediumto long-term maximization of corporate value. The compensation package contains a bonus linked to the company’s performance and the amount of bonus equals 40 percent of an executive director’s annual salary, which is used as the basis for their compensation package. For the compensation scheme, we have adopted an institutional design that allows the relevant directors to share their awareness of profits with shareholders and to be motivated to perform management based on an awareness of performance and stock value from mediumand long-term viewpoints. The bonus is comprised of monetary remuneration (bonuses) and non-monetary remuneration (stock-based remuneration) in accordance with an incentive plan using trusts. Each director is evaluated in light of the level of distribution of surpluses for given fiscal years targeted for evaluation, the degree of achievement of numerical targets in relation to management indexes, and the degree of achievement in relation to management indexes including non-financial viewpoints established by each director in advance, etc. Compensation of Directors Elected as Audit Committee Members Focusing primarily on effective auditing of the execution of the company’s duties, compensation of the directors elected as Audit Committee members in the form of fixed fees has been determined within the amount resolved at the general meeting of shareholders based on consultation with the Audit Committee members. This has been done so that the Audit & Supervisor Board members will be able to fulfill their duties independent of the influence of persons who execute business. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 115 Corporate Governance Disclosure of Directors’ Compensation Total amount of Total amount classified by compensation type(millions of yen) Number Position compensation Basic Stock-based Stock of eligible (millions of yen) compensation Bonuses officers compensation option ー Directors(excluding Audit Committee members 200 142 40 18 5 and outside directors) ー ー ー Directors who serve on the Audit Committee 15 15 1 (excluding outside directors) ー ー ー Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding 10 10 2 outside Audit & Supervisory Board members) Out side direc tors 41 41 ー ー ー 8 Notes: *1 The amount of compensation for Audit Committee members pertains to the period subsequent to the company’s transition to a Company with an Audit Committee, while the amount of compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board members pertains to the period prior to the transition. *2 The amount of compensation for outside directors is the combined total of compensation paid to 3 outside directors and 2 outside Audit & Supervisory Board members in the period prior to the company’s transition to a Company with an Audit Committee and compensation paid to 5 outside directors in the period subsequent to the transition. Two of the incumbent outside directors in the period subsequent to the transition served the company in the same capacity in the period prior to the transition. *3 The amount listed above for stock-based compensation to directors is the combined total of the amount of stock-based compensation for fiscal 2014 distributed in September 2015 to those who qualified as beneficiaries from among directors who were incumbent as of March 31, 2015, and the amount reported as cost in the current business year as the equivalent amount of stock-based compensation for fiscal 2015 that the company plans to distribute to directors who were serving as of March 31, 2016. *4 In addition to the aforementioned items, the salaries (including bonuses) for directors who serve concurrently as employees (2 persons) amount to 28 million yen. *5 The number of directors eligible for compensation includes 2 directors (outside directors) and 4 Audit & Supervisory Board members (including 2 outside Audit & Supervisory Board members) who retired at the close of the 89th Ordinary General held on June 25, 2015, as well as 1 director (excluding directors serving as Audit Committee members) who retired at the close of the 90th Ordinary General held on June 28, 2016. *6 No director of the company received 100 million yen or more in the total consolidated compensation (including compensation for the director of its principal consolidated subsidiaries). Training for Management Executives Anritsu seeks to ensure that its management executives fulfill the roles and responsibilities expected of them as individuals entrusted with the key governance functions of a publicly listed company. All directors and executive officers undergo training designed to promote understanding of their roles and responsibilities and to help them acquire and appropriately update the necessary knowledge base. To encourage outside directors to acquire a deeper understanding of the market environment and industry trends, Anritsu continually explains its philosophy, vision, policy, mid-term business plan and organization, and provides an overview of the market and the company’s business operations as well as product information. We also offer opportunities for outside directors to hear status reports on the execution of operations from executive officers responsible for each division, tour various worksites and exchange views with management executives, in an ongoing effort to increase their understanding of Anritsu. We create programs for developing the next generation of senior managers, providing executive candidates with the opportunity to gain sufficient understanding of issues related to leadership, finance, laws and regulations, corporate governance and compliance, as well as the specialized knowledge, which is required of management, and to continuously update their knowledge as needed. Sharing Sustainability Issues and Bolstering Knowledge among the Management Executives In the current consolidated fiscal year, 4 outside directors gave lectures on their respective research themes and areas of expertise for executive officers and other management executives of Anritsu. This was a meaningful approach from the viewpoint of fostering managerial personnel. Assessing the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors The Anritsu Board of Directors conducted an assessment and review of the board’s effectiveness. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 116 Corporate Governance 1. Assessment method and process (1) Assessment procedures were decided through consultations between non-executive directors (5 outside directors and 1 full-time Audit Committee member), the representative director and president, and the chief corporate officer. (2) All 11 directors who were incumbent as of March 31, 2016 (including directors serving as Audit Committee members) responded to a survey focused on issues laid out by the Anritsu Corporation Basic Rules of Corporate Governance. Major items covered by the survey are as follows. • Role and responsibility of the Board of Directors (appropriateness of deliberations and resolutions) • Participation and contribution by each director • Knowledge, experience, competence, balance and diversity of directors and the board • Management of the Board of Directors (provision of information, time allocation, environment for free and lively discussion) • Stakeholder perspective • Status of recommendations presented to the Board of Directors by the Audit Committee, Independent Committee, Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee (3) To analyze and verify the survey results, non-executive directors and the representative director and president met to exchange opinions and held a constructive discussion that included identifying outstanding issues. (4) The Board of Directors met to share the current assessment and review results and outstanding issues and to deliberate on initiatives for the future. 2. Summary of Assessment Results on the Effectiveness of the Board of Directors We confirmed that the composition of the Board of Directors is appropriate in terms of both the number of directors and selection of internal and external management personnel for enhancing Anritsu’s global management structure toward expanding business in a way that reflects the source of the Group’s corporate value, and that we have in place a system for conducting constructive discussion and decision making on matters that are important to Group management and for supervising the execution of operations by directors. We also confirmed that each individual director, in his or her respective capacity as members of the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Independent Committee, Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee, possesses sufficient understanding of the roles and responsibilities that he or she is expected to fulfill in pursuing profitable and sustainable growth for the Anritsu Group and in enhancing its corporate value in the midto long-term future, and that each director draws on his or her insights based on extensive experience and advanced expert knowledge to engage in a lively discussion in the respective committees with the participation of all members, including outside directors. Meanwhile, we received the following recommendations from outside directors with respect to issues we need to address to further enhance the effectiveness of the Anritsu Board of Directors by creating opportunities for reporting and deliberation in addition to the meeting of Board of Directors to support the board’s supervisory functions. • Creative ways to deepen discussion and enhance deliberation by the Board of Directors • Approach to reporting and deliberation for grasping and supervising not only the company’s operations but also its overall management system • Approach to reporting and deliberation on the status of execution of duties by executive directors aimed at discussing midto long-term issues and their solutions • Involvement of Audit Committee members in nomination and compensation procedures • Participation by outside directors other than Audit Committee members in audits of business divisions 3. Our Response With respect to issues raised by the latest assessment and review on effectiveness, the Board of Directors will strive to make improvements by implementing the necessary initiatives to further enhance the board’s effectiveness. Anritsu plans to periodically assess the effectiveness of its Board of Directors to practice stronger corporate governance, and we will continue to pursue our vision for the future. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 117 GRI Guidelines Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of G4-1 05 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 05、08-10、12-14 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Back Cover G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 06-10 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 04 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are G4-6 10、11 specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 04 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 04、07-10 Report the scale of the organization, including: ・Total number of employees ・Total number of operations ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) G4-9 04 ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) ・Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-10 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 56-57 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 04 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure,ownership, or its supply chain, including: ・Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) G4-13 None ・Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 36 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 36 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 04、11 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 03、14 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 14 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ・Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ・If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-20 11 ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or ––The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material ・Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. None G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. None Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 13,103 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 13,103 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of G4-26 103-108 whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 18-23 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 03 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 03 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 03 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back Cover a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-32 Core c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 71 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. G4-34 15、109-117 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. 15、109-117 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and G4-36 15、109-117 whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 118 GRI Guidelines Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is G4-37 15、37、105、106 delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: ・Executive or non-executive ・Independence ・Tenure on the governance body G4-38 ・Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments 15、109-117 ・Gender ・Membership of under-represented social groups ・Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ・Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or herfunction within the organization’s G4-39 109 management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: ・Whether and how diversity is considered ・Whether and how independence is considered G4-40 109-117 ・Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered ・Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Website Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: ・Cross-board membership ( Anritsu Group ・Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders G4-41 Charter of Corporate ・Existence of controlling shareholder Behavior, Chapter 5 ), ・Related party disclosures 134 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission G4-42 15 statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics 116 a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 15、116、117 b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-45 15、43 b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and G4-46 15 social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 15 G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report 15 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 37-41、43 G4-50 The nature and total number of critical concerns communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them 40 a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ・Fixed pay and variable pay: -Performance-based pay -Equity-based pay -Bonuses -Deferred or vested shares G4-51 ・Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 115 ・Termination payments ・Clawbacks ・Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’economic, environmental and social objectives Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are G4-52 115 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and G4-53 115 proposals, if applicable. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 02 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines G4-57 37-41 or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 37-41 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: ・The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach G4-DMA 14、15 ・The results of the evaluation of the management approach ・Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic ● Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 04 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Annual Report Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 119 GRI Guidelines Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government NA ● Market Presence G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 56 ● Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 20 Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 99 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 92,99 ● Energy Website(Group Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Impact Data)、 79, 80, 99 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 17、79 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 17、79、80、99 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 95-97 ● Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 81、82 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 81、82 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 83 Biodiversity G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk NA ● Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 70、71、99 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 70、71、99 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 70、71 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 80 Website (Environmental G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Data of Each Site）, 85, 99 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 83、84、99 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 88、89、99 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills NA ● Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 90-98 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 91 ● Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significantfines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations NA Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting G4-EN30 70、91、92 members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 100 ● Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 51、52 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 51、52 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 56 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 56 Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 61 ● Training and Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 59、60 ● Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group memberG4-LA12 4、56、57 ship, and other indicators of diversity Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 120 GRI Guidelines Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report Pages ● Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 50、51 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken 50、51 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Human Rights Investment Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human G4-HR1 50、51 rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, includG4-HR2 39、55 ing the percentage of employees trained ● Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken NA ● Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition G4-HR5 36、50、51 of child labor ● Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the eliminaG4-HR6 36、50、51 tion of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken NA Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 54 ● Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 50、51 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 50、51 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Society Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 64-67 ● Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 39、40 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 39、40 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NA ● Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes NA ● Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations NA Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 50、51 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 50、51 Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms NA Product Responsibility ● Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 28、29 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and G4-PR2 NA services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes ● Product and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by G4-PR4 NA type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 26、27 Marketing Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, G4-PR7 NA promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data NA ● Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services NA Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 121 GRI Guidelines Independent Review Index Independent Review Daisuke Goto Representative Director, ideaship Inc. The Anritsu Group has been steadily advancing each governance, that premonition will no doubt become a year to enhance its CSR report. In this year’s report, certainty for many stakeholders. we were presented with the new concept of ”Social I would like to suggest reviewing the content Innovations Where Everyone Wins.” Under this idea, from the readers’ standpoint, which should be a Anritsu seeks to maintain a firm grip on current comparatively easy improvement to make for the social needs and technological progress to provide Anritsu Group, which has consistently enhanced its innovative solutions that generate value for all. While CSR report over the years. For example, offering an this is an approach that rests on the accumulated appropriately placed explanation of its Atsugi and results of the initiatives it has pursued for over 120 Tohoku sites—their offices, activities and relative years, it also signifies a new step forward. This is a importance to overall operations—would deepen natural extension of the Anritsu Group’s company the understanding of readers. I think there is also philosophy and stance, the resources that characterize room for improvement in the way the report explains its business activities, and trends in the external the background for initiatives and how issues are environment, and it instills great expectations among identified. readers. From a longer term perspective, Anritsu could Such a challenge must be sustained by a system of consider further innovation in its CSR report. Perhaps corporate governance. Anritsu Corporation made its it is time for Anritsu to begin conceiving the next transition into a Company with an Audit Committee stage of its CSR reporting, based on perspectives in June 2015, and the fact that it has begun to report that include decisions on: (1) how to track progress on its assessment of the effectiveness of its system with respect to the future direction envisioned for together with the results offers us a premonition of the Anritsu Group, (2) the nature of midto longa future in which the Anritsu Group will continue to term risks and opportunities, and (3) the appropriate achieve steady progress. As it continues to examine disclosure of information in a manner befitting a the content of its reporting in the coming years global enterprise. and communicate improvements in its corporate Response to the Independent Review We have been guided by Mr. Goto, Representative standpoint of readers as we strive to incorporate Director of ideaship Inc., since the start of our CSR his suggestions regarding reporting on efforts Department. Anritsu has always sought to offer to strengthen our internal systems of corporate solutions for social issues through its business, based governance and describing the background of our on the technology and know-how accumulated over initiatives and recognition of issues. the 120 years of its history. This renews our motivation We will review our CSR from a fresh perspective to receive high marks for our CSR management to and share social issues by communicating with date and expectations for future CSR activities. stakeholders as we continue to strive for solutions. We will be mindful of reviewing content from the CSR·CS Promotion Team, Corporate Communication Department, Anritsu Corporation Anritsu CSR REPORT 2016 122 The global headquarters building, where the office environment encourages open innovation
