CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 29 Together we develop society. This has been KMD's KMD first made a commitment to apply the Ten DNA throughout the Company's history going back more Principles of the UN Global Compact in 2011. We are than 40 years. We are an integral part of Denmark's proud and pleased to uphold this commitment and once public sector, and our IT systems bring us into contact again supported the Global Compact with a donation of with thousands of Danes every single day. We have a USD 5,000 in 2015. hand in almost one million Danes receiving their salaries, parents receiving child allowances and The Global Compact provides KMD with a general pensioners receiving state benefits. Our systems protect framework for its CSR work. This work is coordinated by sensitive data from hackers, and we help social care the Company's CSR Board, chaired by the CEO and workers and teachers to work more efficiently. otherwise comprising the Senior Vice Presidents for Innovation, Legal & Business Support, HR, Procurement We therefore see it as our obligation to act responsibly and Communication & Marketing. The CSR Board defines toward the societies of which we are part. We are an guidelines for the Company's CSR efforts, and monitors IT company that seeks to create digital shortcuts for and ensures progress on the targets set for the various customers and society. In terms of work on corporate focus areas. In addition, KMD's works council serves as social responsibility (CSR), this means KMD wants to a reference group for the development of CSR work. create digital shortcuts that contribute to a richer, safer and more sustainable society. KMD considers its overall CSR efforts to be satisfactory. In 2015, we revised our CSR strategy, which reflects our Best wishes use of core competencies in our work on CSR. Under the heading Together we develop society, we focus on Eva Berneke three main areas: health, education and security. In CEO, KMD A/S addition, we have clear targets for our work with our employees, climate & environment and supply chain. The various themes have been selected based on our CSR policy, which clearly states that, for KMD, CSR is about making an active contribution – rather than presenting a barrier – to social, economic and environmental sustainability. In 2015, we focused on creating new partnerships and ensuring we uphold all our commitments and conform to all relevant requirements in terms of international and national guidelines and legislation. Our work on the four themes is described in more detail below. STATUTORY REPORT This report constitutes the statutory report on corporate social responsibility for KMD A/S pursuant to section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report provides an overview of KMD's work as a socially responsible business. Further information about KMD's CSR efforts can be found on its website at www.kmd.dk/csr. However, that additional information does not form part of the Company's reporting pursuant to section 99a. 30 31 TOGETHER WE DEVELOP SOCIETY RESULTS IN 2015 In 2015, KMD launched the campaign Together we develop society. The same message is manifested Since the launch of khanacademy.dk in March 2015, a in our CSR strategy and is a clear extension of our total of 12,038 users have registered on the platform4. focus on digital solutions within health, education and security. KMD EDUCATION AWARD In 2014, KMD established the KMD Education Award We see great opportunities in using digital solutions as as a pilot project for student teachers enrolled at a a response to the demographic and financial challenges university college. In 2015, KMD awarded a national facing societyDenmark. These solutions offer many prize of DKK 25,000 for the first time. This is presented advantages but also present many challenges, which is to an individual or group of teaching students who why we need to concentrate on sharing solutions and has/have taught material based on digital resources knowledge, while remaining aware of the challenges during their teaching practice. Teaching students from increased digitization may present for some groups in all seven of Denmark's university colleges are eligible. society. Each university college nominates its own winner, and the national winner is then chosen from the seven EDUCATION regional entries. The competition reflects KMD's wish KMD maintained its focus on the education sector in to put the use of digital resources in Denmark’s nine2015 and supported the following four initiatives: year compulsory school system in focus and to create a positive attitude to this at the country’s teacherHOMEWORK HELP ONLINE training colleges. In this way, we can support the KMD partnered with the organization Lektier Online in training of the teachers of the future using the teaching 2012, with employees offering help with homework from tools of the future. three call centers at our locations in Ballerup, Odense and Aalborg1. The main target group is children and More than 70 students took part in KMD Education young people from disadvantaged areas, who typically Award in 2015, and the winner was Mia Lynnerup get little help with homework from their parents. Boys Olesen from the teacher-training program at in particular tend not to use the physical homework Metropolitan University College, Copenhagen. cafés in their local communities2. In 2016, KMD Education Award will be renamed KMD Since 2012, more than 120 employees have provided Educa Award. help on more than 3,500 occasions3. As of 31 December 2015, 27 employees were involved in the project. OPEN INNOVATION X In 2015, KMD joined forces with the Technical University LØKKEFONDEN AND KHAN ACADEMY of Denmark (DTU) and IBM to develop the project In collaboration with LøkkeFonden and with assistance Open Innovation X (OiX). This aims to facilitate open from Matematik Akademiet, in March 2015 KMD innovation between students and companies across launched a Danish version of the world's most used competitor boundaries, with students being set a series online educational resource – the internationally of real-world challenges. KMD wants to show that recognized American Khan Academy. KMD's help has innovation is a process involving an open approach made it possible to provide support for the complete in which knowledge and competency sharing across mathematics syllabus Danish public school by means of companies and students provide a richer source of translating Khan Academy from English into Danish. inventiveness and opportunities for innovation than the traditional approach to R&D. Khan Academy is a platform that enables students to improve their skills. At the heart of the platform are In 2015, a total of 65 students took part from a number a number of exercises, tests and instructional videos, of different subject areas and educational institutions. which have previously been available only in English. HEALTH AND CARE 1 KMD's employees are able to swap four normal working hours KMD views health and care as an important area of the a month for shifts as online helpers. All of the helpers are given welfare state where digital solutions have great potential introductory training and are then offered further training in homework help on an ongoing basis. 2 State and University Library, Study of pupils' opportunities for help with homework, 2010. 3 4 Calculated at 31 December 2015 by Lektier Online. Calculated at 31 December 2015 by Khan Academy. 32 to reduce costs and improve quality of life for both Two managers from KMD were mentors for two people patients and the wider public. who had previously been deployed to Afghanistan and Kosovo, and who, after ending their military career, DANEAGE were looking to enter the civilian job market. Both In 2015, KMD continued its collaboration with DaneAge have subsequently found jobs, and KMD has decided – Denmark's largest organization for the elderly – on to continue its involvement with the scheme and, their joint e-learning program. The program targets among other things, will increase the number of mentor those with limited computer literacy as part of the processes from two to four in 2016. organization's drive to raise the general level of IT skills among senior citizens. The introduction of digital post SAFETY ONLINE from 1 November 2014 has made the new digital reality In 2015, KMD was the main sponsor and a key partner a challenge for many senior citizens. in the development and launch of CodeX, the digital teaching material used to educate students in years The program was developed jointly by developers from 5-6 about safety online. KMD's contribution involved KMD and volunteer IT teachers from DaneAge to give developing the material, coding and project more senior citizens the chance to update their IT skills, management. A total of 100 school classes trialed the and complements the thousands of IT courses the beta version of CodeX in 2015. The target is for 10,000 organization already runs each year. By the end of students to use the material in 2016. 2015, the program had attracted more than 76,966 unique users since its launch in 2012 and 22,231 users CodeX is issued by the Danish Council for Digital in 2015 alone5. Security in conjunction with the Danish Agency for Digitisation and the Danish IT Industry Association In 2015, the program was used by 48% of all DaneAge's (ITB). Other participants include the Danish Consumer teachers. This is a decrease of 9 percentage points from Council, the Danish Centre for Cybersecurity and a 2014, which meant KMD and DaneAge failed to achieve number of other partners and sponsors. their target of the program being used by at least 60% of all DaneAge's teachers. OTHER MEASURES In 2015, KMD donated DKK 30,000 to the Indian DANISH LUNG ASSOCIATION AND THE CHILDREN'S organization and children's home Helpline Trust, located LUNG ASSOCIATION in Bangalore. This donation covers the entire food In 2015, KMD continued its partnership with the Danish budget for the five employees and 45 children aged Lung Association and, not least, the Children's Lung 6-18. In addition, KMD donated 10 laptops for the older Association, donating DKK 100,000 to the latter for its children's schooling. The children also receive homework work with children with lung disease and their families. help and mentoring from employees linked to KMD's The money was collected by means of the Company Indian operation in Bangalore. The children have visited donating DKK 5 for every kilometer swum, cycled or run KMD's offices in Bangalore and taken part in various by employees in KMD IRONMAN triathlons and the KMD other events arranged by KMD in Bangalore. 4:18:4. In 2015, KMD's employees had the opportunity to In addition, a total of 75 lung patients, lung specialists donate their Christmas gifts to the organization and their families took part in the KMD 4:18:4. KMD's WaterNlife. A total of 239 employees chose to do so, employees also had the chance to test their lungs at which will provide a supply of clean water to 239 KMD's locations in Aalborg and Odense, when the children in Kenya in 2016. Danish Lung Association carried out lung function measurements in May 2015. KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to Together we develop society to be satisfactory. MENTORS FOR VETERANS In 2015, KMD teamed up with a group of other companies to help a number of veterans from the Danish Armed Forces into the civilian job market. 5 An increase of 2,398 users on 2014. Calculated at 6 January 2015. 33 GOALS FOR 2016 EDUCATION CARE AND HEALTH Homework help online: KMD will continue to offer help DaneAge: KMD and DaneAge will register at least with homework online. The goal is for KMD's employees 25,000 unique users for its e-learning program, with to provide help on at least 1,000 occasions. at least 55% of DaneAge's IT volunteers using the program in their teaching. KMD Educa Award: KMD will present KMD Educa Awards at all seven university colleges across Denmark before Mentors for veterans: KMD will act as mentor for at selecting a national winner in April. The goal is to attract least four veterans. at least 75 participants in KMD Educa Award. SAFETY ONLINE Open Innovation X: KMD will continue with Open Together with other partners in the CodeX project, Innovation X, and the goal is for at least 120 students KMD will work toward at least 10,000 students using to take part in Open Innovation X per semester. the CodeX material. 34 EMPLOYEES RESULTS IN 2015 KMD wants to be an attractive workplace where employees with a non-Danish ethnic background to employees are proud of the contribution we make to reflect the national average in the period through 2020. society – by virtue of both our products and our behavior and knowledge. In 2016, three Syrian refugees will start at KMD's Microsoft Academy (33% of all admissions). KMD will We believe that we will remain strong as a company if also work with the Danish Red Cross on a mentoring we create clear structures for our employees and give scheme for Syrian refugees in Aalborg. KMD hopes them scope for personal and professional development. that this collaboration will lead to work placements or permanent employment opportunities. The constant competition in the IT sector places great demands on KMD's ability to develop and retain HEALTHY EMPLOYEES employees in a job market where there is fierce Average sickness absence was 2.7%, slightly below the competition for the most talented employees. This is national average for private companies with office-based why KMD has launched a number of different initiatives activities. KMD will strive to maintain this level in 2016. intended to help ensure that KMD continues to have the right competencies going forward. Among other things, KMD has established a health insurance scheme for KMD has started an ambitious graduate program, all employees that provides access to advice in the which in 2015 brought in 26 new graduates in project case of sickness absence, preventive measures, crossmanagement and business transformation and disciplinary treatment, treatment insurance development. guaranteeing quick and efficient treatment, and, not least, initiatives to counter long-term sickness absence, KMD increased the number of employees in 2015, partly and the opportunity to obtain confidential advice on through a series of acquisitions and partly because our everything from personal to work-related issues. The continuing growth in our Software Center meant we entire package is geared toward preventing long-term needed more employees with new competencies. This is sickness absence, benefiting both individuals and KMD. why we have also established a new Microsoft Academy, to provide new employees with training in relevant As the main sponsor of KMD IRONMAN and the KMD technologies and thus ensure a competency boost that 4:18:4 triathlons, KMD is keen to make it easy for will benefit the Company for many years to come. employees to exercise at whatever level. With this in mind, KMD organizes training at and outside its DIVERSITY locations for employees who want to train for the Our goal is for the most promising prospective triathlon events. In 2015, more than 450 employees employees in the Danish labor market to choose KMD took part in the KMD 4:18:4, KMD IRONMAN and KMD regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability, religion IRONMAN 70:3 triathlon competitions. or sexual orientation. This is why KMD has a diversity policy, addressing issues such as the representation of KMD also has a number of running and cycling clubs women in Management, attracting more new graduates as well as various other sports and staff clubs. and increased ethnic diversity. KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to In 2015, we took on 26 graduates, and 17% of all new employees to be satisfactory. employees came direct from university or with very little professional experience. KMD has experienced growth in the number of employees with a non-Danish ethnic background such that 2.8% of KMD's employees are now from a nonDanish ethnic background, compared with 2.1% in 2012, when the figure was last calculated. However, this remains significantly below the national average of 7.1%. Denmark is experiencing tremendous growth in the number of young people of non-Danish ethnic background studying relevant academic courses, for which reason KMD wishes to increase the proportion of 35 GOALS FOR 2016 DIVERSITY HEALTHY EMPLOYEES KMD will maintain a share of female managers that is KMD will maintain focus on a healthy workplace based proportionate to the number of women employees on its already successful sports clubs. Special training (27% against 33.3% as of 31 December 2015). programs for employees wanting to take part in the KMD 4:18:4 and KMD IRONMAN triathlons will continue KMD will continue to ensure a high proportion of new across the business. KMD expects more than 500 graduates (17% of all new appointments in 2015 were employees to take part in one of these events. in the Young Professionals category). KMD will also seek to maintain low levels of sickness KMD will establish mentoring schemes for Syrian absence and continue health-promoting measures in refugees with a view to work placements and/or the workplace, including prevention of stress-related permanent employment, and create places for Syrian symptoms. refugees at our Microsoft Academy. 36 CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT RESULTS IN 2015 With 3,200 employees plus large data centers and TRANSPORT Denmark's largest print center, KMD uses a lot of KMD has been working for several years to reduce energy and generates a lot of waste each year. For carbon emissions from transport between its locations, this reason, we are very aware of our environmental and has achieved a reduction of 8.8% since 2013. There footprint and since 2013, our print and data centers was a slight increase in internal transport in 2015, but have been certified under the environmental this is expected to fall in 2016 with the introduction of management standard ISO 14001. KMD will extend the travel-free weeks and a travel-free month in July. ISO 14001 certificate to all KMD A/S locations in 2016. WASTE In 2015, KMD launched a new strategy and policy to In 2015, KMD achieved an overall recycling rate of ensure progress in environmental work and to focus on 63.8% against 62.9% in 20148. our products' positive effect on our customers' energy consumption, based among other things on the latest 61% of KMD's waste comes from its print and data report from the international think tank GeSI, which centers. The proportion of waste recycled from these estimates that the IT industry could reduce its current in 2015 was 83.9%, on par with 2014 (84%)9. carbon emissions by as much as 20%6. In 2015, KMD focused on increasing the recycling ENERGY CONSUMPTION rate for waste from office and canteen facilities. We Since 2008, KMD has made energy savings of 8.8 established sorting facilities for bio-waste in the million kWh, equivalent to the annual consumption of canteens and introduced follow me printing, which more than 1,700 detached houses7 or 28.2% of our reduces wasted prints. The full effect will be seen in total energy consumption in 2008. 2016. KMD recycled 30.2% of its waste from offices and canteens, an improvement of 3.4 percentage points In 2015, KMD made energy savings of 183,680 kWh on 2014. with total electricity consumption of 30,168,896 kWh, a slight decrease of just under 0.2 million kWh PRODUCTS compared with 2014 (0.6%). Our offices and print 2015 saw the launch of KMD Atrium, a fully integrated center lowered consumption, while the data centers facility management system that can guarantee savings recorded a slight increase as a result of outsourcing for our customers of up to 15% on energy consumption parts of KMD's server platform to our partner Tech through improved monitoring and overview. Mahindra. An upgrade means that we expect energy consumption in connection with outsourcing of the Efficient operation of our server parks and a constant server park to increase in 2016. However, KMD expects focus on energy efficiency enable us to offer customers to achieve savings of up to 1 million kWh a year once more energy-efficient performance than if they were to the upgrade is complete. In addition, our total operate their own data centers. We also offer a whole consumption of heating rose by 535 MWh in 2015. series of services in the area of welfare technology, for example patients and healthcare professionals can meet KMD's total carbon emissions from direct energy virtually, thus saving on transport and reducing carbon consumption (heating and electricity) totaled 12,441 emissions as a result. tons, down 7.1% on 2014. The majority of this decrease was due to a reduction in our electricity consumption In 2016, KMD will work to map the concrete climate and in the CO2-equivalents for electricity, while there effect of a number of our products and services so as was a slight increase in heating consumption. KMD to be able to demonstrate what our services can deliver. strives continuously to make its operations as energy efficient as possible, with the lowest possible carbon KMD considers the CSR work relating to climate & emissions. Since 2008, KMD has cut its carbon environment to be satisfactory. emissions from 17,796 to 12,441 tons, a reduction of 30.1%. 8 The goal is 68% by 2017. The recycling rate excludes waste from the locations in Aalborg and Odense. The bulk of KMD's waste is generated at the location in Ballerup, Copenhagen, which is home to KMD's print and data center and just under 50% of its employees. 6 9 SMARTer2030, GeSI, http://smarter2030.gesi.org/ In 2012, KMD set a target to improve its recycling rate by 5 7 An average detached home with four inhabitants consumes percentage points from the baseline of 68.8%. This goal was 5,181 kWh per year. Source: DONG Energy. achieved already in 2014. 37 GOALS FOR 2016 ENERGY WASTE KMD will continue to focus on identifying energy savings There will be continued focus on KMD's recycling rate in both data centers and offices, but still anticipates in office buildings. KMD's goal is to increase the total a significant increase in energy consumption due to proportion of waste recycled to 68% by the end of 2016. outsourcing of the server park to our Indian partner, Tech Mahindra. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT KMD will continue work on the ISO 14001 standard. TRANSPORT We will extend the certificate to cover office locations KMD will continue to focus on reducing internal in KMD A/S and to include section 4.4.3 of ISO 50001 transport between locations. KMD expects to be able (energy management). to reduce the Company's carbon footprint from transport by 10% by the end of 2016. Further measures are PRODUCTS required to achieve this goal. KMD will map the climate effect of selected products and present these to our customers. 38 SUPPLY CHAIN RESULTS IN 2015 Signing the UN Global Compact has committed KMD compliance area. The changes were implemented with to 10 fundamental principles relating to protection of effect from 1 October 2015. human and labor rights, climate and environmental issues, and anticorruption measures. This provides All new employees are given a general introduction KMD with a concrete framework for the requirements to the corporate compliance rules. Moreover, KMD the Company makes of itself and its suppliers. has decided that customer-facing employees should be trained in anticorruption every other year via At the same time, KMD wants to keep tight control of a compulsory e-learning program, which will be its own processes to ensure that the Company complies implemented in 2016. KMD has also finalized and with relevant legislation and its commitments under the implemented authorizations that describe in detail Global Compact, and sets requirements for its own who may act for and enter into commitments for the suppliers that support these commitments. Company with regard to financial undertakings. The rules were implemented with effect from 1 April 2015. PARTNERSHIPS In 2015, KMD worked with the screening tool developed In 2015, KMD extended its whistleblower program to by EcoVadis SAS. We screen all high-risk suppliers on an guarantee an alternative reporting pathway for external annual basis. Suppliers are identified based on criteria reporters as well as employees and members of the such as revenue, geography and industry. A total of 43 Executive Board and the Board of Directors. The suppliers were screened in 2015, seven of which were whistleblower program can be used to report asked to provide further information relating to their circumstances that are in breach of legislation or KMD's procedures and policies. internal rules in relation to seven compliance areas: anticorruption, IT security, authorizations, competition The screening facilitates fact-based dialogue with our law, intellectual property rights, contractual risk suppliers about their CSR work, while placing our management and document management/storage. Supplier Code of Conduct in a concrete context. This will A total of five cases were reported and dealt with make it easier for us and our suppliers to reach our goal through the program in 2015. None of the cases led of all key suppliers working in accordance with the to a change in procedures at KMD or had a negative principles of the UN Global Compact by the end of 2017. effect on customers or other stakeholders. In 2015, KMD was made aware of a number of Overall responsibility for the corporate compliance irregularities relating to the use of student labor at a program has been delegated to the Board of Directors' named Chinese factory that produces servers for several Audit Committee, which has a more agile approach to of KMD's subsuppliers. KMD requested a report from handling cases involving breaches of the program. those of its suppliers who had received deliveries from the named factory. The reports were forwarded to our In addition, KMD works on an ongoing basis to customers, and relevant measures to rectify the safeguard IT security policies and programs, and irregularities have been taken by our subsuppliers. KMD support KMD's goal of secure and correct data will follow up these measures in 2016. management. CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD is certified under the international security In 2015, KMD strengthened its corporate compliance standard ISO 27001 and also has certificates for quality setup, especially with regard to UK and US (ISO 9001) and IT service management (ISO 20000). anticorruption rules, in light of KMD's ownership. KMD is also certified under the environmental management standard ISO 14001. In 2015, KMD focused on revising its policy on anticorruption, including policies on gifts and KMD considers the overall CSR work relating to the entertaining. Among other things, we have standardized supply chain to be satisfactory. the rules for giving and receiving gifts to/from customers and partners in the public and private sectors, and now require employees to report gifts received over a certain triviality limit as well as participation in free-of-charge courses and events hosted by suppliers and other external partners. The reports will be subject to the audit processes in the 39 GOALS FOR 2016 PARTNERSHIPS CORPORATE COMPLIANCE KMD will screen at least 75 selected suppliers and draw KMD will continue implementation of the prioritized up relevant action plans for suppliers identified via compliance measures, which include update and roll-out screenings in the EcoVadis system. of a new anticorruption e-learning program, a general update of policies on the compliance site, and a continuous focus on Tone from the top. 40
