COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN Global Compact 31 July 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 31 July 2016 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to reconfirm the GPT Group’s support of the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We are a leading Australian property company, with total assets under management of approximately AUD18bn of assets across the Retail, Office and Logistics sectors. In this our fourth annual Communication on Progress (COP) report, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles as part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations and the achievement of our purpose. We understand that a key requirement of participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a COP. We support public accountability and transparency and commit to reporting on progress each year in accordance with Global Compact COP Policy. In addition to this COP, GPT makes a Statement of this commitment to the Global Compact to our stakeholders and the general public at http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Community-EngagementDev/United-Nations-Global-Compact. We also continue our commitment to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. Yours sincerely Bob Johnston CEO & Managing Director The UN Global Compact asks companies to support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measureable results Further information / principle and outcomes links 1 Businesses should support GPT’s goal is to have a work environment that It is an employee’s responsibility to No incidents of human rights Code of conduct and respect the protection is free of discrimination, harassment, understand and meet the requirements violations have come to GPT’s Supplier Code of of internationally proclaimed victimisation and bullying. Employees and of working at GPT and identify and attention in financial year conduct human rights; and suppliers must avoid circumstances which may report incidents of non-compliance. 2015. Equal employment 2 make sure that they are not render them susceptible to allegations of illegal, Refer to GPT’s corporate governance Opportunities complicit in human rights unethical or inappropriate conduct. This is principles and policies. Our People abuses. articulated in GPT’s Code of Conduct, Supplier Corporate governance Code of Conduct and Equal Employment Opportunities policy Labour Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measureable results Further information principle and outcomes 3 Businesses should uphold GPT’s goal is to ensure there is no forced or GPT’s Freedom of Association policy GPT had no incidents of: Supplier Code of the freedom of association compulsory labour within its operations or and approach is owned by People and Freedom of Association conduct and the effective recognition parties dealt with externally. GPT encourages Performance. violations or Supplier policy of the right to collective and supports Freedom of Association and Forced or compulsory labour Corporate governance bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced and It is an employee’s responsibility to laws. the elimination of all forms compulsory labour. This extends to understand and meet the requirements Our suppliers 4 Our People of forced and compulsory relationships with our suppliers; contained of working at GPT and identify and We recognise the right to labour; within the supplier policy and supplier code of report incidents of non-compliance. collective bargaining and have 5 the effective abolition of conduct are GPT’s expectations of the activities Refer to GPT’s corporate governance not cancelled any contracts or child labour; and of suppliers principles and policies agreements on the basis of forced or compulsory labour in It is each supplier’s responsibility to financial year 2015. achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the supplier policy and supplier code of conduct. GPT enacts these policies through the Supplier Management Framework. 6 the elimination of GPT is an equal opportunity employer and Details of specific goals can be found Information on performance Equal employment discrimination in respect of promotes an inclusive workplace. GPT's Equal on Our people overview page. against diversity targets is Opportunities employment and Employment Opportunities policy and Diversity found at Our People – Diversity policy occupation. Policy govern its operations. The Supplier It is an employee’s responsibility to Diversity. Supplier Code of Code of Conduct details expectations of understand and meet the requirements conduct suppliers. of working at GPT and identify and Our People report incidents of non-compliance. Corporate governance Refer to GPT’s corporate governance Diversity reporting COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 31 July 2016 principles and policies. It is each supplier’s responsibility to achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the Supplier Code of Conduct. Environment Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measureable results Further information principle and outcomes 7 Businesses should support GPT supports the development and diffusion of GPT enacts the Sustainability Policy Information on performance Sustainability Policy a precautionary approach to environmentally friendly technologies though through the Sustainability against environmental targets Corporate governance environmental challenges; our Sustainability Policy and actions across: Management System. is found in our Environment Sustainability at GPT 8 undertake initiatives to resource use and waste minimisation reporting. Environment promote greater water management environmental climate change and energy and responsibility; and community engagement and development. 9 encourage the development and diffusion of Refer to GPT’s corporate governance environmentally friendly principles and policies. technologies. Anti-corruption Principle Description of Assessment, policy & goals Implementation Measureable results Further information principle and outcomes 10 Businesses should work The goal is to have no incidents of corruption It is an employee’s responsibility to There were no known Code of conduct against corruption in all its within the organisation or in any dealings with understand and meet the requirements incidents of corruption or Whistleblower policy forms, including extortion external parties. GPT has a Code of Conduct, of working at GPT and identify and bribery registered or identified Supplier policy and bribery. Whistleblower and supplier policy that supports report incidents of non-compliance. by GPT in financial year 2015. Corporate governance and underpins our commitment to work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and Refer to GPT’s corporate governance Our suppliers bribery. principles and policies. It is each supplier’s responsibility to achieve and maintain the standards as set out in the supplier policy and to train their employees and contracted parties on their consequential rights and responsibilities. GPT enacts these policies through the Supplier Management Framework.
