Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 01 PTT Public Company Limited (PTT) has published and Sustainability Management Business Unit. It additionally its 8th annual corporate sustainability report as part covers operations conducted through investments in PTT of its commitment to stakeholders in disclosing the Group companies, which comprise PTT Exploration and organization’s important economic, social, and Production Public Company Limited (PTTEP), PTT Global environmental performance over the past year. This Chemical Public Company Limited (PTTGC), Thai Oil Public report covers information during the period from Company Limited (TOP), IRPC Public Company Limited (IRPC), and includes Global Power Synergy Public Company January 1st, 2015 to December 31st, 2015. Limited (GPSC), for the first year. Given this expansion, the scope of coverage for safety and environmental performance will differ from last year’s disclosure. However, environmental performance on greenhouse gas emissions Reporting Approach and energy consumption will specifically disclose data from PTT Group companies in which PTT holds more than 20% The 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report has been prepared of shares in ownership. in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (G4-Core) Guidelines, at the “In accordance” level, and the Oil and Gas In 2015, PTT is committed to improving its reporting Sector Disclosure (OGSD). The report further details PTT’s methods and processes to more clearly demonstrate progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the United the relationship between sustainability performance and Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and has been externally business value. This involved an initial study of the Integrated verified by an independent assurer for completeness, Reporting Framework’s <IR> methodology as an approach accuracy, and credibility, for the 5th consecutive year. to disclosing future organizational performance, and a preliminary evaluation of PTT’s performance in relation to the Reporting Scope United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, the results of which are both detailed in this report. These improvements The scope of this report covers PTToperated businesses, will serve to deliver future benefits in determining PTT’s consisting of the Natural Gas Business Unit, Oil Business material issues, which can subsequently be integrated into Unit, International Trading Business Unit, and Infrastructure future business strategy formulation. In addition to the annual corporate sustainability report, stakeholders may visit PTT’s website, www.pttplc.com, for more information on organizational performance. 02 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Materiality Assessment 1 Identification Identification of material sustainability issues by relevant functions in the organization, assessed according to corporate risks, strategic direction and sustainability management, stakeholder expectations, and global trends affecting the oil and gas industry. 2 Reporting Boundary Determination of the scope of material issues based on internal and external impacts to PTT’s 3 business (e.g., PTT Group companies, Joint Prioritization Ventures), and stakeholders (e.g., suppliers, contractors). Prioritization of identified material issues based on evaluation in two dimensions: opportunity and 4 impact to business, and stakeholder interests and impacts. Content in this corporate sustainability Verification report will cover material issues classified at the medium and high levels. Monitoring and verification of the report 5 development process by the PTT Group Continuous Sustainability Alignment Committee (SAC), Improvement who is responsible for ensuring the report’s completeness and accurate coverage of material issues relevant to the organization and Continuous improvement of the corporate its stakeholders, as well as providing approval sustainability report on an annual basis by for information disclosure. Independent assurers integrating reader feedback from various channels, are also involved in verifying the materiality such as external report assurance, reader surveys assessment process, data processing, and through online forms and PTT’s website, and accuracy in reporting against performance participation in the annual corporate sustainability indicators. report assessment of the Securities and Exchange Commission Thailand and the Thaipat Institute. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 03 Materiality Assessment Matrix Human Capital Development Stakeholder Engagement Risk and Crisis Climate Change Management Safety Corporate Citizenship Corporate Governance Talent Attraction & Retention Impact to Stakeholders Human Rights Capital Project Management Biodiversity Eco-efficiency Fair Operating Practices Supply Chain Management Knowledge Organization Product Stewardship Impact to PTT Reporting Scope From Materiality Assessment Impact Boundary Chapter Material Aspect Internal Impact External Impact Country Shareholders Customers Society Partners Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Organizational Governance Corporate Governance Fair Operating Practices Risk and Crisis Management Human Rights Value Chain Supply Chain Management Product Stewardship Operational Excellence Climate Change Eco-efficiency Safety Capital Project Management Biodiversity People Human Capital Development Talent Attraction & Retention Knowledge Organization Corporate Citizenship Corporate Citizenship 2015 was an auspicious year for PTT. We received WEcoZi received certification from the Industrial Estate Despite these challenges, PTT remains confident in the highest honor of welcoming Her Royal Highness Authority of Thailand for being the first eco-industrial sustainable business management as a means to Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn to preside over the zone at the Eco Champion Level in the country. enhance our organizational resilience. Our success opening ceremony of the Kamnoetvidya Science Furthermore, PTT WEcoZi also participated in the in creating a more sustainable business model has Academy (KVIS) and Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program similarly been recognized. For the fourth year, PTT Science and Technology (VISTEC) – institutions (T-VER) of the Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management was listed as a DJSI World Member in the Oil and dedicated to advancements in scientific learning and Organization of Thailand, recognized for its capacity Gas Industry. research. This achievement is not only the culmination to reduce more than 20,000 tons of carbon dioxide of PTT’s efforts in building capacity for youth, as the equivalents throughout its lifetime. I would like to express my sincerest thanks to all of nation’s future, but reflective of our ambition to increase our stakeholders for their continuous support and our competitiveness on the foundation of knowledge Following the 21st Conference of the Parties to the encouragement. I am assured that PTT will persist in its and innovation – instead of a limited resource-base. United Nations Framework Convention on Climate dedication to deliver a sufficient, accessible, fair, and Her Royal Highness extended our privilege further Change (UNFCCC), where Thailand submitted its sustainable energy supply, while effectively balancing by officially opening the Wang Chan Forest Project Intended Nationally Determined Contribution (INDC), our business conduct on the basis of transparency, in Rayong Province, and the PTT Green in the City PTT committed to supporting the country’s greenhouse accountability, and responsibility to communities, Project on Sukhaphiban 2 Road, Bangkok. These gas reduction efforts by setting the target to reduce societies, and the environment. As the national energy establishments will serve as centers for education on PTT Group’s greenhouse gas intensity by 5%, by 2020, company, we will continue to strive towards becoming forestry and reforestation, and offer the public a place compared to a 2012 baseline. the pride of the Thai people, growing sustainably for to learn about tropical forest ecosystems right in the the future. heart of the city. Not only will this raise the awareness Nevertheless, the past year proved a challenging one on the importance of sustainable forest preservation, for global oil and gas industries, faced with declining oil but also encourage public involvement on such a vital prices and volatility in the world economy. In response, issue, and fundamentally showcase PTT’s mission to PTT focused on developing our areas of strength foster a true learning society. and maximizing the resources in hand; reducing unnecessary costs, combining and consolidating Guided by the concept of creating harmony between investments to reduce capital spending, and building industry, society, and the environment, the PTT on or expanding investments to manage risks and Tevin Vongvanich Wanarom Eco Zone Industries (PTT WEcoZi) Project generate added value. We further pursued our President was envisioned and developed in Rayong Province. objective of securing a sustainable energy supply for and Chief Executive Officer Surrounded by natural green boundaries, the the country by investing in Natural Gas Pipeline No. 5 eco-friendly industrial zone officially opened over the to connect to the existing pipeline network, for a more past year. The success of this project is credited to secure and uninterrupted supply of natural gas. its integration of eco-industrial and environmental Such measures demonstrate our efforts in reinforcing management into the design and development our organizational strength and competitiveness for processes. As a prototype industrial zone, PTT the future. 06 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 07 PTT Public Company Limited, or PTT, is the national At the same time, PTT is determined to create added value for energy company listed in the Stock Exchange of Thailand consumers through business expansion in several dimensions. Consumers (SET). It is a state-owned enterprise under the supervision The overall operations of PTT include PTToperated businesses, of the Ministry of Energy with the Ministry of Finance as comprising Gas Business Unit, Oil Business Unit, International Natural Gas LPG a major shareholder. Engaging in fully integrated energy Trading Business Unit and Infrastructure and Sustainability and petrochemical businesses with the mission to balance Management Business Unit, and businesses invested through stakeholders’ interests, PTT invests in the energy supply PTT Group companies, consisting of petroleum exploration Plastics and chain ranging from upstream to downstream businesses. and production, coal, and petrochemical and refinery businesses. Gasoline Bioplastic Resins Lubricants Infrastructure and Sustainability Management Business Group Manage PTT Group’s infrastructural assets to maximum efficiency, Downstream Petroleum Business Group covering asset and property management, onshore and subsea Upstream Petroleum and Gas Business Group Oil Business Unit: Market petroleum products including refined petroleum products and gas transmission pipelines, NGV Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), lubricating oil, and retail products both in local and distribution for vehicles, land international markets. development, sustainability Petroleum Exploration and Production Business: Invest in petroleum exploration and production including management and project natural gas, condensates, and crude oil from local sources and overseas. International Trading Business Unit: Operate a fully integrated international trade business engineering, and research and consisting of crude oil, condensates, refined oil products, Liquefied Petroleum Gas technology development of PTT Natural Gas Business: Operate a fully integrated natural gas business including natural gas supply from (LPG), petrochemical products and other alternative products such as crude palm oil Group. local sources and overseas, distribution of natural gas to the power sector, industrial sector, and as an and biomass, under a strategic framework designed to enhance national energy security, alternative fuel for vehicles, as well as engaging in natural gas infrastructure network and transportation. in tandem with the expansion of trading bases to all regions around the world, covering Coal Business: Conduct energy business abroad in search of new and renewable energy sources to local procurement, import, export, and overseas trading. bolster energy security for the nation, while building on current businesses. Refinery Business: Invest in the refinery business where PTT procures crude oil and buys refined products from PTT Group refinery companies for further distribution to its customers. Petrochemical Business: Invest in a fully integrated petrochemical business covering production and distribution of upstream, midstream, and downstream petrochemical products. 08 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 09 Headquarters located in CANADA Bangkok FRANCE UNITED STATES CHINA PTT conducts its business through investments in 23 countries worldwide. ALGERIA EGYPT UAE OMAN MYANMAR THAILAND VIETNAM LAOS CAMBODIA In total, PTT Group has PHILIPPINES 30,239 employees. BRAZIL KENYA MALAYSIA SINGAPORE์ BRUNEI INDONESIA www.pttplc.com/en/about/ MOZAMBIQUE MADAGASCAR AUSTRALIA PTT believes that the growing global interest in the establishment of ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) will enhance economic capacity and bridge the development gaps among member nations, resulting in sustainable growth for the region. PTT envisions economic, social and environmental growth from the creation of AEC; therefore, it has conducted studies on member countries, and formulated strategies and business plans for PTT Group in the short, medium, and long terms. These help prepare PTT Group for continued investment expansion that will cover the entire ASEAN region. For example, the construction of oil terminals and pilot service stations in neighboring countries including Laos, Cambodia, Myanmar, and the Philippines. Strategic plans for investment and business operations are adjusted to suit the environment of each country, aiming to elevate the livelihoods of communities and local entrepreneurs. PTT Group’s employees are encouraged to acknowledge and understand relevant business operations and their corresponding positive and negative impacts through awareness raising, continuous readiness monitoring, as well as the involvement of PTT Group management in policies and operations. 10 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Business Strategy HPO High For the past 37 years, PTT has moved forth Performance in fulfilling its vision in becoming the Thai Organization Premier Multinational Energy Company. With the mission to ensure energy security while taking into consideration the expectations Power for of all stakeholders, PTT builds a business Sustainable strategy that places the right balance amongst High Performance Organization, CG Future CSR Corporate Governance, and Corporate Corporate Corporate Social Responsibility. The organizational Governance Social values, SPIRIT, serves as a guideline for Responsibility all executives and employees in striving towards excellence (Synergy, Performance Excellence and Innovation) and ethics (Responsibility for Society, Integrity and Synergy Performance Innovation Responsibility Integrity & Trust & Ethics, Trust and Respect) within PTT Excellence for Society Ethics Respect and for the wider society, allowing the cultivation of a solid corporate culture, a clear direction, and synergy necessary for strong and sustainable growth. 2015 Strategy PTT and PTT Group companies work in collaboration to set strategy on an annual basis. This is done through the analysis of data as well as short and long-term business trends, and the review of SWOT analysis to identify challenges, business opportunities, strategic objectives and core competencies. In doing so, PTT Group is able to formulate the short and longterm strategic plans that are responsive to changing circumstances and potential risks. In 2015, PTT conducted its business based upon the 3 key strategies of technology, sustainability, and portfolio management, as follows. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 11 Technology PTT developed technologies to support business growth focusing on 4 primary areas: Target Performance Allocate at least 3% of PTT Group’s Allocated approximately 5.7% of 2014 net profit for research and development, annual net profit for PTT Group’s and developed a fund and management guideline to enable PTT Group to invest research and development in target technologies for maximum benefits. Study technologies employed in existing Developed substitute products to reduce imports, including anti-corrosive processes in order to develop PTT chemicals for inner-pipe, anti-corrosive chemicals for flange and sorbent chloride. Group’s capacity Drive PTT Group’s innovation culture Collaborated on projects using the expertise of each company to expand research through proprietary technology and to new businesses and reduce research duplications, as well as build the PTT patents Group database for technology management. At present, PTT Group licensed two technology patents including Green ABS by IRPC and PTT Diesel CNG by the PTT Research & Technology Institute. Generate 20% of PTT Group’s revenue PTT Group strives for continuous improvement to increase revenue from technology, from technology by 2020 and is developing an indicator that can clearly identify revenue from technology for long-term use. Sustainability PTT operates an environmentally-friendly business under the Green Roadmap. The Green Process focuses on increasing energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The Green Product guides research and development of products and alternative energy. In addition, PTT increases Public Awareness over environmental conservation to create energy security and respond to stakeholders’ expectations. Target Performance Generate 2% of PTT Group’s revenue Realized 44,000 billion baht from green products accounting for 1.5% of total new from green products by 2020 product development in line with the 2020 target. Reduce greenhouse gas intensity by 5% Reviewed the investments in new projects related to the greenhouse gas emission by 2020 compared to 2012 baseline reduction, due to the impact of oil price fluctuations on the organization’s financial liquidity. However, in 2015, PTT Group could reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 84.74 kgCO2eq/BOE, better than the target of 88.5 kgCO2eq/BOE. This shows that PTT Group is on track to meet its long-term greenhouse gas intensity target. Increase quality forest area to achieve Absorb 1.89 million tons of carbon dioxide per year and on track to achieve the the target of 2.1 million tons of carbon target at 2.14 million tons per year in 2018. dioxide absorption C r e a t e p u b l i c a w a r e n e s s t o Promoted awareness, communicated efforts regarding green technology and communicate reputation in line with the innovation such as PTT WEcoZi and the PTT Group Energy Efficiency Roadmap, strategic target as well as build and as well as enhanced understanding towards the organization and energy issues. maintain relationships with stakeholders 12 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Portfolio Management 2016 Strategy Public trust remains a key challenge for the organization as it may present an obstacle for the business and its sustainable growth. PTT Group’s portfolio management aligns Therefore, PTT has made it the top priority to formulate strategies that with corporate direction and strategy. PTT enhances the acceptance and admiration of the public towards the developed the Investment Compass Matrix as organization as Thailand’s national energy company. PTT defines the a tool for effective investment analysis and PTT 2016-2020 corporate plan under 2 key strategies, as follows. Group’s competitive advantage assessment. Pride with Inclusiveness Strategy includes: Target • Managing stakeholders holistically, proactively and reactively, for example through impact assessment, issue prioritization, and Top Quartile ROIC in Asia-Pacific over Cost outcome monitoring. of Capital • Strengthening internal and external capacities, for example, Performance instilling the organizational values, SPIRIT, into management’s and employees’ DNA alongside with developing them to become PTT • Prepared PTT Group’s investment analysis Brand Ambassadors, especially on R-Responsibility, I-Integrity, and based on Business Groups; developed T-Trust. investment guidelines for various circumstances and presented them at • Operating on the basis of good corporate governance, for example, management’s Top Thinking Session (TTS) upgrading PTT’s anti-corruption actions to the international level, and strengthening the anti-corruption network through collaboration • Developed investment improvement plans with relevant parties. for Upstream Petroleum and Gas, Downstream Petroleum, and Infrastructure and Sustainability Treasure for Sustainability Strategy includes: Management Business Groups to be presented at the management’s Strategic Thinking Session (STS) meeting. The plans • Upstream Petroleum Business Group’s corporate plan including guide the development of corporate plans that PTTEP and Coal Business, for example, maintaining production of aligns with the business direction. current projects, proving new reserves and increasing production, as well as reducing operational costs. • Gas Business Group’s, Infrastructure Business and Sustainability Management Group’s and GPSC’s corporate plans include increasing energy efficiency in operational processes, growing energy networks to serve long-term natural gas demand, and expanding investments in renewable energy. • Downstream Petroleum Business Group’s corporate plan including Oil, International Trading and Petrochemical and Refinery Business Units, for example, providing support to social enterprise policy, process efficiency improvement, and PTT Group collaboration. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 13 In 2016, PTT will focus on the implementation of the Pride & Treasure of Thailand Concept through the enhancement of organizational value R-I-T, by seeking support from several Champions as follows. Mr. Sarun Rungkasiri Chief Operations Officer, Downstream Petroleum Business Group and Club Corporate social responsibility aspect to reinforce the President of Thai Volunteer volunteer work of PTT Group employees on social activities. Force Mr. Wirat Uanarumit Chief Financial Officer Business operation aspect on the foundation of good corporate governance, transparency and ethics, as well as instilling the sense of honesty, integrity and anti-corruption of all kinds. Mr. Auttapol Rerkpiboon Senior Executive Vice President, Oil Business Unit Corporate communication aspect to build trust and understanding towards PTT’s operations in achieving the nation’s energy security and economic prosperity, while balancing stakeholders’ expectations, and gaining public confidence and trust. 14 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 15 PTT defines missions in order to engage each group of stakeholders by providing various channels of engagement to perceive the stakeholders’ expectations. Country Community and Society Provide long-term energy security for Be a good corporate citizen, manage environmental impacts, and engage in the improvement of livelihoods for communities Thailand and support economic growth Engage with communities in areas of operations to gather their opinions and build understanding on PTT’s projects, Organize regular meetings between by conducting public participation for the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No. 4 (Rayong-Khaeng Khoi), the Onshore PTT management and the Minister Gas Transmission Nakornratchasima Project, and the Onshore Gas Transmission Nakornsawan Project. A grievance of the Ministry of Energy on important was received from the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No. 4 (Rayong-Khaeng Khoi). (For more information, please issues, to ensure that its business see ‘Capital Project Management’ under the Operational Excellence Chapter). aligns with governmental policy. Engage with communities and societies through collaboration with various institutions, such as the PTT Reforestation Expect PTT to be a transparent, accountable Institute (to continue the ‘Wang Chan Forest Project’ and officially launch ‘PTT Green in the City’), the Green Globe organization that adheres to principles of good Institute, and the Sustainable Energy Foundation. governance; set fair energy prices and disclose Expect PTT to conduct its business for Thai people, and be a source information that can be easily understood. of pride of Thai people through ensuring economic security, transparent and fair operations, and develop innovations for the environment. PTT is committed to engaging with stakeholders through a fair, efficient, and systematic approach, to identify important stakeholders, integrate Shareholders Partners their expectations into company strategy, and Deliver decent returns from Host the Annual General Meeting for Shareholders commercial operations (AGM) according to the Thai Investors Association’s AGM consistently monitor and communicate with relevant Jointly operate business Expect PTT to operate Checklist standard to gain feedback from shareholders on the basis of fairness business transparently, stakeholders. Expect PTT to work towards and communicate performance. PTT received a full score and enhance long-term good governance and energy security, develop from the AGM Checklist Assessment, which was classified business potential accountability, and to technologies, promote as ‘Excellent.’ have a role in Thailand’s renewable energy, be able sustainable growth. to compete internationally, and Management Approach continue to expand investments. PTT’s stakeholders are classified according to 6 main groups: country, community and society, shareholders, customers, partners, and employees. PTT’s stakeholder engagement Customers Build customer satisfaction and Conduct a Customer Satisfaction Survey to improve engagement through good product and service quality and to continuously improve strategy, policy, and management approach are developed by quality products and fair pricing performance. the responsible functions using information from stakeholder Organize an annual Supplier Relationship engagement activities, issue management, grievance PTT Call Center 1365, which provides services, coordinates Management Seminar to communicate the organization’s Expect PTT to provide products supply chain management policies and management mechanisms, and stakeholder perception evaluation. The with lower energy costs requests, receives grievances, and follows up on issues. approaches, and to gain suppliers’ opinions on results are used to determine appropriate engagement improving procurement processes for better efficiency. methods to each of their needs, and set KPIs to monitor The seminar also increases suppliers’ understanding performance. and satisfaction within the scope of regulations and PTT’s requirements, and enhances effectiveness in In 2015, PTT developed a stakeholder management system to collaboration. be used in tandem with business decision-making, which has already been utilized in the Strategic Investment Management Employees Support employee capacity The President and CEO directly communicates with the executives and employees through various channels Process. It is planned that the system will expand its coverage development and ensure the quality of life such as e-mails, Townhall Meetings, and social networks (Facebook: Tevin at PTT). for use with important decision-making processes to ensure that PTT can proactively and comprehensively respond to Expect PTT to incorporate findings Hold a monthly PTT Joint Consultant Committee Meeting to review grievances and suggestions from employees. both stakeholder needs by integrating results from stakeholder from the employee engagement survey to improve human Conduct annual Employee Engagement Surveys and incorporate findings into satisfaction and perception surveys into the decision-making resources management. policies and improvement plans in order to improve employee engagement in the process. future. 16 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited In 2015, PTT remained steadfast in its commitment to conducting business upon the foundation of sustainability – delivering globallyrecognized performance standards. The PTT Group Sustainability Alignment Committee, consisting of representatives from PTT business units and PTT Group companies, assumes an important role in establishing the company’s strategic sustainability direction, providing support for and deploying the PTT Group Sustainability Management (SM) Framework across PTT Group, and monitoring sustainability performance through various verification procedures, including annual self-assessments, 3-year third party assurance, and external report verification. Progress on sustainability performance is further reported to the Corporate Governance Committee on a quarterly basis. PTT’s performance in 2015 can be summarized, as follows. an izational Governan O rg ce Content Human Rights People Details of sustainability management plans were updated to ensure better alignment Reporting Safety, and Health with the PTT Group Operational Excellence and Reputation Management System (OEMS). Operational Stakeholder Environment Excellence Sustainability Forums were held for PTT Group employees specializing in Engagement each element of the SM Framework to share Product Fair Stewardship Operating knowledge and learn from recommended Practices practices in sustainability. Such activities allow for the standardization of recommended Supply Chain Corporate practices across PTT Group, ensuring that Management Citizenship they can be applied to different operations as appropriate. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 17 Deployment Performance The PTT Group Sustainability Management Project PTT’s sustainable business operations and continued organized a company-wide sustainability training course performance in alignment with the SM Framework resulted in order to communicate the contents of the SM Framework in its successful selection as a member of the Dow Jones to PTT employees at all levels. For PTT Group subsidiaries, Sustainability World Index, Oil and Gas Sector, for the 4th the SM Framework was deployed through the PTT Way consecutive year. This accomplishment reflects PTT’s of Conduct. PTT played a supportive role in enabling the adherence to business standards that value the relationship organization to announce its own sustainability policy. between economic, social, and environmental dimensions Presently, 25 PTT Group companies and subsidiaries of sustainability, and on engagement with all stakeholders. operate their businesses in accordance with the SM It is, moreover, a testament to the organization’s ability, both Framework. in terms of size and performance, in delivering sustainable returns to its shareholders. Extending further to successes Conformance at the group level, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC were all selected as DJSI Members, an outcome of not only the PTT Group subsidiaries, under the scope of the PTT Way continuous sharing of recommended practices, but PTT of Conduct, carried out self-assessments to determine their Group’s commitment as a whole to creating and generating initial level of conformance to the SM Framework. Results long-term value for all stakeholders. have subsequently been used in developing business strategies and plans, and reported to respective levels Finally, in understanding its responsibility as a role model of management. Following this process, subsidiaries in sustainability, PTT committed to expanding a sustainable underwent various verification procedures as stipulated society by promoting the concept of sustainable by PTT, where an independent third-party assurer was development and sharing its own experiences across assigned to assess functions responsible for sustainability different national and international platforms. Ultimately, management on their maturity in various dimensions of this will foster a strong, sustainable economic foundation sustainability performance, according to the elements of for the secure growth of the nation. the SM Framework. The SAC received regular updates on maturity assessment results. 18 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT is committed to good governance as a means to efficiently determine, control, and make decisions on organizational matters. In doing so, PTT embeds sustainability principles reflected by the development of a sustainability management system alongside proactive risk and crisis management in order to achieve the organization’s vision. Corporate Governance and Fair Operating Practices PTT upholds the principles of good governance as a foundation for business operations. Transparency, accountability, fair operating practices, and balancing stakeholders’ interests are fundamental to attaining public trust and driving PTT towards its mission on providing energy security. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 19 The Board of Directors, management, and employees are strictly required to comply with PTT’s Corporate Governance Policy, and adhere to the Corporate Governance, Ethical Standards and Code of Business Ethics Handbook (CG Handbook), which guides business conduct and shared organizational values, along with the consideration of all stakeholders. To guarantee that business operations are conducted upon the basis of good governance, PTT appointed the Corporate Governance Committee to monitor, review, and provide recommendations to the corporate governance working group on a quarterly basis. PTT instills an organizational culture that enhances the understanding of the Board of Directors, management, and employees on their duties and responsibilities over fair operating practices. This enables the In order to confirm effective good governance practices company-wide application of good governance and ensure that the organizational management principles, and communication and engagement approach is appraised based on international standards, with relevant stakeholders. In achieving this, PTT has PTT recurrently arranges internal and independent taken on a wide range of approaches, for instance, assessments. In the previous year, PTT was amongst the appointment of a corporate governance working group, Top 50 ASEAN Plc, according to the ASEAN CG Scorecard. and employees’ acknowledgement of the CG Handbook Similarly, PTT has been recognized for its excellent prior to commencing their duties. PTT also promotes performance for 7th consecutive year from the survey of understanding on good governance principles through Corporate Governance Report of Thai-listed companies CG E-Learning and CG Day, as well as broadcasts conducted by the Thai Institute of Directors. news through the CG Intranet. In addition, PTT requires employees in all levels to disclose any conflicts of PTT’s internal assessments include assessment on interest on an annual basis. This is to identify immediate committees and employees of all levels. Committee preventative measures which are necessary to averting assessments promote accountability in governance, probable risks to the organization. In the past year, there and are beneficial in improving effectiveness of overall were no cases of significant conflicts of interest. business operations. These comprise assessments on the entire committee and individual directors (including In 2015 self-evaluation and peer evaluation), committee assesments on particular issues, and assessment conducted by independent assessors. An independent there were assessment by the State Enterprise Policy Office, Ministry of Finance, is conducted on an annual basis, while that no conflict of by the Thai Institute of Directors occurs every two years. interest At the employee level, PTT assesses their knowledge and as cases understanding on governance principles, which in 2015 showed a satisfactory result of 94.41%, higher than the disclosed expectation of 85%. in PTT’s Conflict of Interest report. 20 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Group CG Day “Shade of Sharing…Passing the Power Forward” Every year, PTT Group co-organizes PTT Group CG Day to encourage employees’ understanding on good governance, and build a network of good people. Likewise, the event promotes good business conduct based on the principles of transparency and fairness, which extends to its stakeholders. This cooperation is the effort of 6 companies, including PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC,TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. The educational and entertainment activities at this event further provided participants and their business partners with knowledge from discussions by senior executives on “The Role of PTT Group in Promoting Ethics and Transparency to Its Stakeholders,” and also included an exhibition on PTT’s good governance performance towards their stakeholders, and musical plays. “taskAs ina state-owned enterprise and public company, PTT has a challenging responding to the expectations of many different stakeholder groups. It is vital to gain understanding, acceptance, and trust from society help them to understand the benefits from our goodwill. We also put emphasis on our internal stakeholders, be it employees or executives, to uphold fair operating practices in a way that will holistically benefit all groups of stakeholders. I would like to urge all employees to always bear in mind the principles of good corporate governance. Corporate governance is not a rigid procedure nor one-size-fits-all principle; there are no specific guidelines on a given situation. However, it requires a deep understanding and consciousness of these principles. Our company’s internal activities are useful in that regard – it reinforces our commitment to CG, contributes to the sharing of opinions and understanding, and helps us to learn from each other on the appropriate responses for any particular situation. These efforts are working to continuously shape PTT Group’s executives and employees into the good and responsible individuals that they are. ” Mr. Tevin Vongvanich President and CEO Remark on the “Role of PTT Group in Promoting Ethics and Transparency to Its Stakeholders” at PTT Group CG Day 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 21 Anti-corruption PTT Group strictly opposes all forms of corruptions – either direct or indirect. PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC manifested this commitment through the ratification of and membership in Thailand’s Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption. Moreover, in the previous year, PTT added the Anti-corruption Policy into the PTT Way of Conduct and CG Handbook, to instill an awareness of anti-corruption into employees’ way of thinking – for zero corruption in PTT Group. Risk Management and Internal Control Sustainability Legal Management ICT Management Security, Safety, Health and Environment Organization PTT Way of Development Conduct Corporate Accounting, Finance, Tax and Insurance 14 policies, as follows: Human Resources Management Internal Audit Corporate Strategy Procurement Anti-corruption Corporate Corporate Social Communication Responsibility In 2015, PTT in collaboration with the Ethical Standard In achieving its anti-corruption commitment, PTT Promotion Bureau under the Ombudsman of Thailand encourages all employees to inquire when in doubt, and and the Securities and Exchange Commission to organize report any suspicious activities, misconduct, or cases a training course on ethics and anti-corruption for PTT contradicting PTT’s Code of Business Ethics. Punishment Group employees, whose roles are involved in good measures are applied on those failing to adhere to the governance conduct, as well as for interested employees. Anti-corruption Policy. In 2015, PTT was assessed on The course aimed to instill knowledge and understanding the Anti-corruption Progress Indicator by the Securities on all aspects of anti-corruption, and was closed with a and Exchange Commission and Thaipat Institute, and satisfaction score of 86.6% from the post-training survey. awarded the 5th Level, or ‘extended to involved parties,’ In 2016, PTT will continue to organize the training so as to – the highest level for the assessment, reflecting PTT’s further elevate good corporate governance standards for commitment in deploying the Anti-corruption Policy to all relevant employees. relevant stakeholders, and remaining disassociated with any cases of bribery. 22 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Respect for Human Rights Risk and Crisis Management PTT upholds the United Nations High Commissioner for Effective company-wide risk and crisis management is Human Rights’ ‘Protect, Respect, and Remedy’ Framework fundamental to reinforcing PTT’s resilience in promptly by respecting the rights of all stakeholders. PTT generates managing crises and uncertainties, maintaining trust awareness amongst employees on the rights to which amongst its stakeholders, and reducing long-term business they are entitled through the integration of human rights impacts. PTT has, therefore, established policies and principles in business operations, as doing so helps procedures for proactive risk management across the mitigate the risks of human rights violations at all levels organization, developed a business continuity management and operational sites. To achieve this, PTT has put in place system and preventive measures, as well as promoted the PTT Group Human Rights Guidelines, and defined an organizational risk culture that encourages employee human rights as a major element in the PTT Group SM engagement in risk management at all levels. Framework and PTT Group Security Management Standard. Furthermore, PTT appended the issue of human rights into Building public trust remained a priority area for PTT in the Leadership Development Program and orientation 2015. Given that certain circumstances and negative program for new employees. media portrayal may impact upon PTT’s reputation and the extent of public trust in the organization, PTT initiated a Last year, PTT conducted a human rights risk assessment to strategy for proactive issue management to analyze news identify business activities that could pose potential risks to trends and enhance public understanding on issues that human rights, enabling PTT to determine preventative and may generate both shortand long-term impacts. Inclusive risk mitigation measures. Assessments were conducted on stakeholder engagement was likewise strengthened to activities under PTT’s operational control in 22 countries, gather public opinions and clarify points of concern. For and involved the identification of issues, impacts on instance, PTT developed various activities to disseminate vulnerable groups, and impact likelihood at national, knowledge on energy to the public, and to explain PTT’s role business, and individual levels. In addition, PTT drafted a as national energy provider. Engaging with stakeholders human rights risk assessment procedure for relevant parties on these issues is thus part of the wider effort in preparing to apply in their operations. the organization for new and emerging risks that could potentially bring about unprecedented impacts on PTT’s business. In order to promote human rights principles Meanwhile, PTT has continued to manage risks arising and their implementation from economic uncertainties to adapt to fluctuations in in the organization, the the energy industry and volatile prices of petroleum and PTT Leadership and Learning Institute (PLLI) petrochemical products. This was achieved by reviewing regularly organizes a training course providing and updating guidelines to reflect current economic basic knowledge on human rights for employees conditions, including by implementing risk management working in the field of human resources, legal, and tools in each business unit, reducing costs and increasing sustainability management. The course aims to efficiency in production, and closely monitoring market provide knowledge on national and international conditions. human rights frameworks, enriching participants’ understanding about the value and dignity of humans – the basic principles of human rights. The training also emphasizes on the application of human rights knowledge in relevant areas of work. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 23 Preparation for Emerging Risks PTT recognizes the importance of managing emerging risks that may significantly impact business objectives, or even alter the broader context of business operations. As a result, such risks are incorporated into company risk profiles so that they may be closely monitored and managed, allowing PTT to heighten its preparedness despite any current ambiguities surrounding the impact and likelihood of those risks. At the same time, it also helps PTT to seize opportunities from those risks to achieve secure and sustainable growth. PTT anticipates that long-term emerging risks would revolve around natural gas production. Besides uncertainties in the volume of natural gas reserves available in the country, trends currently indicate an increase in the costs of developing natural gas reserves and petrochemical bases, as well as an increase in natural gas prices concurrent with a decrease in production volume. This would likely result in the reduction of production capacity of PTT’s Gas Separation Plant, preventing it to meet domestic demand. Moreover, technological advancements in finding economically viable alternative energy sources might also impact the competitiveness of natural gas compared to other types of energy. Overall, these factors are crucial to the long-term growth of PTT Group and its ability to provide energy security for the country in the future. Risk Culture employees can identify risks, develop mitigation measures, and monitor risk indicators to assess PTT encourages all of its executives and employees to take efficiencies in risk management plans. ownership in risk management. This involves engaging in effective risk management practices, and being aware of any • Advanced Level: Value at Risk risks that could occur in the process of their work, such as Provide employees with knowledge on how to unexpected risks and emerging risks with unclear impacts. calculate risk values, as a tool to demonstrate possible For the management levels, PTT ties Key Risk Indicators (KRI) losses from business uncertainties. Support employees to executive performance so as to stimulate accountability for in understanding the advantages and disadvantages risk management, further linking these KRIs to organizational of risk value models, and help them to summarize results risk profiles. At the employee levels, PTT promotes a risk for executives to further manage risks. culture by providing learning and development programs on risks and risk management in core training programs In addition, PTT promotes an effective risk culture by working and technical training programs under each career path, to change the perception that PTT Group employees may allowing employees to understand and apply risks as have on unexpected events, specifically the Black Swan appropriate to their roles and responsibilities. Examples Events, which have low likelihoods of occurrence but include: considerably high business impact. This is to strengthen employees’ capacity to effectively and systematically • Elementary Level: Risk Awareness prepare for such events, and to integrate them into relevant Develop employee understanding on the meaning of management systems. Not only that, the PTT Way of Conduct risks, to highlight the importance of risk management, also serves as a common guideline for all employees to and to raise awareness on risks. increase their confidence in risk management to mitigate impacts throughout PTT Group’s supply chain. In 2015, PTT • Intermediate Level: Risk Management Principles and improved its emergency and crisis management plan by Guidelines using the Black Swan Events as the basis of crisis simulations. Provide learning on PTT’s Enterprise Risk Management, Lessons learned from these crisis simulation activities were which is in compliance with international risk management also utilized to improve PTT’s emergency plans and business standards including COSO ERM and ISO 31000, so that continuity management. 24 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT strengthens its supply chain management in order to develop a strong capacity for business growth together with its suppliers, in tandem with managing supply chain risks to promote Thailand’s energy security. PTT further strives towards product stewardship to respond to the expectations of its customers. Supply Chain Management Supplier Management PTT’s supplier management is classified into 2 levels: Corporate Level – procurement of products and services, and Business Unit Level – procurement of products specific to each business unit’s requirements. In 2015, PTT announced the PTT Group Sustainable Procurement and Supplier Management Policy and began implementing the revised Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) Risk Assessment Tool and risk evaluation criteria to effectively prevent and mitigate risks. Two dimensions of risks were assessed: supplier risk, and risk to PTT as a buyer, covering economic, environmental, safety and reputational risks in terms of Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 25 No Non-compliance Cases in the Supply Chain 100% 100% More Than Supplier Audits of Audited Suppliers 1 Trillion Baht Conducted as Planned with Corrective Action Revenue from Supply Chain Plans have Improved Collaboration Their Performance their impacts to PTT and its stakeholders. The risk assessment, regulations from suppliers and contractors. Additionally, conducted on 228 supplier groups as classified in the vendor PTT developed a performance assessment system for list, divided suppliers according to 3 risk levels: Strategic, the post-delivery of products and services that evaluates Key and Manage. Suppliers falling under the Strategic group suppliers on factors such as quality, delivery, servicing, are required to conduct the Sustainability Performance operations, as well as safety, occupational health and Assessment. Those whose scores on the assessment are lower environment in cases of risk. At the initial stage, suppliers than the threshold specified by PTT must submit corrective will be informed about their assessment results to further action plans with a committed timeline. develop their capacity. However, suppliers scoring lower than PTT’s required threshold will be removed from the Suppliers whose trade value with PTT exceeds 2 million vendor list. baht are required to sign an acknowledgement of and strictly adhere to the PTT Group Supplier Sustainable Code PTT performs audits on suppliers and contractors for oil of Conduct (SSCoC). The SSCoC details the scope of products on a regular basis, enabling PTT to work with business operations in accordance with applicable laws and them on identifying risks, formulating corrective action regulations. There are 4 areas where compliance is necessary: plans, and following up on actions. This is to ensure that fair operating practices, corporate social responsibility, safety, their management and practices are in compliance with and environmental management. PTT encourages suppliers PTT’s requirements, applicable labor and environmental to recognize the importance of embedding sustainability laws, as well as standards, including, ISO 9001, ISO into business operations through the introduction of ESG 14001, and OHSAS 18001. In 2015, PTT completed audits Standard Terms of Reference (TOR) in the general TOR, and on 24 suppliers as planned. Suppliers whose audit results has communicated its expectations to 100% of its suppliers. did not meet PTT’s expectations, for instance, suppliers In the case that an incident of non-compliance is found, PTT with deteriorating and unsafe conditions inside their plants will implement a stop work authority that lasts until corrective and labs, were required to submit timely corrective action actions are taken, or terminate the contract. In 2015, there plans for PTT’s consideration, and carry out improvements were no claims or non-compliance cases concerning laws and as necessary. 26 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Risk Management for Business Continuity All business units manage supply chain risks as guided by the Enterprise Risk Management System, and set specific KRIs suitable for different work characteristics to mitigate risks that could impede business operations, and ensure energy security both quantitatively and qualitatively. For the International Trading Business Unit, risk management measures are designated according to each type of product. This includes, for instance, entering into a long-term contract with petrochemical gas suppliers based on analysis of long-term domestic demand for petrochemical gas; and partnering with refinery companies in PTT Group to sign a long-term contract with crude oil suppliers as a way to secure quality crude oil delivery. In chartering freight, PTT employs the PTT Ship Vetting System, which is in line with the Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) standard, to ensure safe product transport and minimize impacts on the environment and on communities. Supplier Engagement PTT regularly organizes the Supplier Relationship Seminar collaboration with suppliers and contractors for continued to communicate its policies and business directions, supplier satisfaction. This includes training courses that sustainable business practices, and Green Procurement promote sustainable supplier management. For example, guidelines to suppliers for their acknowledgment and PTT Group Sustainability Management Training covers an implementation. PTT additionally uses this opportunity element on supplier management; Procurement Training to verify issues that are of interest to suppliers, so as integrates ESG criteria into the supplier selection and to improve future engagement processes. Following procurement processes; and Green Procurement. Likewise, the seminar, any issues raised are compiled for further PTT focuses on developing employees’ skills in using newly consultations with relevant functions to determine solutions, developed systems to support procurement activities. and results from the seminar have also been incorporated The systems include work tracking and product approval into the development of a PTT Supplier Guidebook, processes in which supplier performance assessments available for download at www.pttplc.com. are added after the product is delivered. Finally, PTT appoints sustainability-related KPIs for procurement staff, PTT builds its employees’ capacity, specifically those incentivizing them to integrate sustainability into their related to procurement activities, to enhance effective decision-making process. In 2015, the overall supplier satisfaction towards the collaboration with PTT’s procurement unit increased to 87% due to the improvements in efficiency, 87% and supplier engagement. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 27 Supply Chain Collaboration PTT collaborates with PTT Group companies in order to improve efficiency, elevate supply chain management, and Petroleum Terminal Improvement create alignment throughout the organization. In the past year, PTT moved forward in the Group Integrated Supply The Petroleum Terminal Improvement Project at Chain Management and Optimization (GISMO) Project, Suratthani and Songkhla Provinces was initiated to solve a collaboration between PTT Group refinery companies a number of issues: high costs of transporting ethanol including TOP, PTTGC, and IRPC. GISMO is consisting of: by truck from Central Thailand to Southern Thailand, the potential to encounter road blockage from protests, and greenhouse gas emissions. In response, PTT • Petrochemicals and Refining Integrated Supply Chain reallocated oil tanks and is in the process of building Management (PRISM): Maximizing the efficiency of oil ethanol receiving pipes to transform the transportation tankers by long-term freight chartering to transport mode into sea transport – which is slated for completion crude oil from petroleum production sites to refineries in 2016. Apart from contributing to energy security for located in various areas, as well as sharing loading areas on the vessel. Consequently, the cost saving customers in the South, PTT expects to achieve costamounts to 100 million baht per year. One of the savings from transportation by 9.3 million baht per year sub-projects under PRISM, crude oil and petrochemical and a reduction in greenhouse gas emission by 812 tons products price forecasting, helped PTT Group to of carbon dioxide equivalents per year. incorporate current economic conditions into business planning, and additionally promoted regular information sharing on price forecasts to the government over the past year. • Group Logistics Management (GLM): Preparing logistics infrastructure to serve future business expansion, as well as to build capacity through collaboration between 11 companies under the Downstream Petroleum Business Group to reduce costs and add value. In the past year, a product discharge standard was developed for refineries in PTT Group, in addition to a standard for truck transportation, and an assessment form on truck conditions. The project focuses on reducing greenhouse gas emissions through several methods, for example, collecting carbon dioxide emissions data from PTT Group’s transportation activities, conducting studies on backhaul management, changing transportation methods by using mobile silos, and providing reward mechanisms for transport contractors as a motivation to reduce fuel consumption and to recognize the importance of operating in an environmentally-friendly manner. 28 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Products and Customers PTT recognizes the importance of innovating socially and environmentally responsible products and services that respond to the changing needs of customers, alongside with domestic and international market trends. Research and Development With the commitment to become a leading energy company in technological advancement and investments in renewable and bio-energy, PTT developed the PTT Group Technology Strategy to serve as a guideline for group-wide research and development. The guideline ensures that research and development progresses along a viable path, as well as aligns with organizational vision and objectives. The Technology Taskforce, comprised research and development departments from PTT Group companies, is tasked with the joint mission to determine the organization’s direction in technology and innovation, and driving real-life applications for innovations. PTT I2C Gate Business Unit Request, PTT Research and Technology Institute, and Voice of Customer (VOC) Ideation Scoping Research & Pilot Commercialization Development PTT employs the PTT I2C Gate as a tool for screening research ideas and innovations, composed of 5 stages: Ideation, Scoping, Research and Development, Pilot, and Commercialization. The process begins with the formulation of a project plan and budget by considering factors such as business unit requests, Voice of Customer (VOC) input, and employee innovation ideas, to develop the Annual Research and Development Plan and the Research and Technology Institute (RTI) 5-Year Business Plan. Following, the plans are submitted to the PTT Board Committee for approval prior to further action. The use of the PTT I2C Gate enables PTT to appropriately respond to a diversity of internal and external stakeholders’ needs and opinions, and further provides the benefit of reducing unnecessary investments in research. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 29 PTT Research and Technology Institute PTT Research and Technology Institute (RTI) is a national research center dedicated to integrated research and development in the petroleum and petrochemical fields. The mission of RTI is to be a national energy, petroleum, and petrochemical research institute supporting PTT Group and government policy through the creation of social and business value from progressive technologies and environmental awareness. By 2020, PTT aims to generate at least 20% of PTT Group’s revenue from technology, and is in the process of developing an indicator that can clearly identify revenue from technology for use in the long-term. At present, the R&D Performance Index is used to monitor progress in product research and development, where the Index value in 2015 was at 327, higher than the targeted 326. A total of 53 new products and services were developed, of which 13 received patents and 3 received petty patents. Highlights of products and services include: Colorful PV Solar Panel, Anti-Corrosive Chemicals for the Natural Gas Pipeline System; Rainfall Forecast Model for Water Management in Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate, Rayong Province, and automotive and industrial lubricants. Pilot Electric Vehicle Charging Station In the future, Thailand will witness an increasing trend in the use of electric vehicles. To meet this anticipated demand, PTT initiated studies in 2010 to understand systems and standards associated with electric charging stations, and in 2011, constructed its first pilot station at the PTT Research and Technology Institute. Over the past year, PTT expanded upon this research and constructed an additional 6 electric vehicle charging stations in areas within and outside of PTT Service Stations. The objective of these stations is to enhance public awareness on electric vehicles, and advance further knowledge on these services from real-life application. All stations adhere to the European International Electrotechnical Commission Standard and the Japanese CHAdeMO Standard, and are able to support diverse types of electric vehicles. In terms of green product development, PTT has established the target to generate 2% of revenue from green products by 2020. In 2015, revenue from green products amounted to 1.48% of total revenue. Furthermore, five products from the Rayong Gas Separation Plant received carbon footprint certifications from the Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (TGO), which are NGV, Ethane, Propane, LPG, and Natural Gas Liquid (NGL). 30 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT Group Bio-Hub Revenue from Green Products (percent) 2 1.53 1.48 1.34 PTT Group is committed to developing Thailand as a center for the production and trade of bio-fuels and bio-plastics within 20 years, by collaborating with Sasin Graduate Institute Year 2013 2014 2015 2020 of Business Administration, Chulalongkorn University, to research and develop a strategy Performance Target that can lead the country towards the stated Sales Volume of Biofuels in Thailand objective. The Bio-Hub would include an (million liter) industrial center for bio-fuel, bio-chemicals 8,789 8,586 and bio-plastics set in the same location as 6,331 6,538 required raw materials; and an integrated utilities infrastructure to support production 3,716 3,724 2,540 2,748 units delivering the highest efficiency in energy use and production, and even produce organic fertilizer and recycle water for agricultural Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 purposes and renewable energy. Bio-gasoline Target High Speed Diesel Target Given that the activities of PTT Group are highly relevant to bio-industry, be it in terms of the organization’s capacity in bio-fuels or 2 ServiceandStations bio-plastics, PTT Group is, therefore, determined to build awareness and understanding amongst 1 Product Group Received Green the public, create markets for bio-products, reduce investment risks and build confidence for Life Eco-label for international investors, to create value and business opportunities from this new industry – generating income for Thailand in the future. Green for Life Eco-label PTT developed the Green for Life Eco-label (self-certified) to communicate the organization’s commitment to, and encourage awareness amongst stakeholders of, product and service responsibility. The Eco-label was created on a scientific basis and in line with international certification standards, ensuring that it is accurate, verifiable, relevant, and non-misleading. In 2015, efforts in improving environmental performance efficiency for service stations resulted in the certification of 2 service stations and 1 product group, as indicated below: • PTT Service Station, Wong Waen Branch Reduced water consumption by 22% following installation of the wastewater treatment system to reuse wastewater; reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 49.8 tons carbon dioxide equivalents per year following installation of a solar energy generation system; and reduced waste to landfill through organic waste composting and trash separation by 19 tons per year. • PTT NGV Service Station Pro-technology Reduced electricity consumption per sales volume by an average of 26.64%; reduced greenhouse gas emissions by an average of 27.2%, and reduced waste to landfill through organic waste composting and trash separation by 8.85 tons per year. • Packaging for PTT Lubricants, consisting of: 1 New packaging for automotive lubricants 5 Different packaging sizes for Benzene and Diesel automotive lubricants. The new packaging reduced High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) plastic use by 5 to 12.73%, resulting in a lower carbon footprint compared to old packaging methods, due to footprint reduction during raw materials procurement. In 2016, PTT plans to increase service labeling by at least one service per one business unit. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 31 Product Life Cycle Analysis PTT Group focuses on conducting life cycle assessments grades as planned. Assessment results have further been for products from the Petroleum Exploration and integrated into process improvements for greater efficiency. Production Business Unit, Natural Gas from the Rayong PTT has begun to expand coverage of LCAs for products Gas Separation Plant, Petrochemical and Refinery in PTT Group, and is under the process of developing a Business Unit, and fuels. For water and carbon footprint 2016-2020 Product Life Cycle Risk Assessment Plan to assessments, PTT has committed to assessing products cover more PTT Group products in the future. from the Infrastructure and Sustainability Management Business Unit. Results from the above assessments Customer Relationship Management are analyzed to improve production processes, reduce environmental impact throughout a product’s life cycle, Customer views and concerns are received through the and generate shared value with relevant stakeholders, from annual satisfaction and engagement survey, where the suppliers recruiting environmentally-friendly raw materials, feedback is employed for performance improvements to customers choosing products that produce minimal to respond better to customer needs – to reinforce PTT’s environmental impact. ability to attract and retain customers over the long-term. In 2015, there were no incident of non-compliance with In 2015, PTT conducted LCAs and water footprint national and international regulations concerning the health assessments for products from the Rayong Gas Separation and safety of products and services, product labeling, Plant, namely Olefins and HDPE, for a total of 27 product customer data privacy, or marketing communications. Customer Satisfaction Survey Results (percent) Natural Gas Oil Petroleum and International Natural Gas Electricity Industry Petrochemical Trading Products 2015 Target 95 91.2 89 91.5 91 ≥90 2015 Satisfaction Level 97 92 90.6 92 92 89 2016 Target ≥95 93 91.6 93 93 ≥90 Remark: In 2015, the International Trading Business Unit expanded its coverage of customer satisfaction surveys to include the Contract Management Group, from initially including only Trader and Operation Groups. Results from the 2015 Customer Satisfaction Survey indicated an increase in the level of satisfaction for the Oil and Natural Gas Business Units from 2014. However, for the International Trading Business Unit, reasons for the decrease point to customers’ perception on the lengthy timeframes required to process necessary paperwork, and its complexity. Nevertheless, customers expressed satisfaction for customer relations and the willingness from PTT to provide assistance; accuracy in contract paperwork and timely product delivery. In 2016, PTT aims to improve the quality and speed of service provision, to reduce complexity and length of time in processing paperwork, and communicate with business partners regularly on PTT’s work processes. Finally, PTT will work to ensure that it can maintain its strength in customer relations for the long-term. 32 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT is committed to enhancing the health and safety of employees and communities and preserving the environment in all of its operations through proactive management approach and reducing impacts from business operations. PTT combines technology and best management approaches to improve performance, while focusing on monitoring key emerging issues. ENVIRONMENT Environmental responsibility is at the heart of how PTT Group operates, and is reflected through the 2020 Strategic Objectives. With the commitment to continuous improvement, PTT Group sets appropriate indicators to improve the effectiveness of environmental performance in all areas so as to reduce impacts from its operations on all stakeholder groups. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 33 256.51 Million Baht 1 69.78 Million Gigajoules 2 587,433 Tons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalents 2 Cost Savings from Energy Saving GHG Scope 1 and 2 Environmental Investments Emission Reduction 0.101 cases 5.49 Million Cubic Meters 3 396.11 Tons 3, 4 Land Transport Accidents Water Consumption Hazardous Waste Reduction per 1,000,000 Kilometers Reduction Climate Change and Energy Management Climate change has increasingly been thrust to the center intensified global pressure, particularly following COP21 of the national and international stages, and is an issue held by the United Nations Framework Convention on that is receiving heightened interest from a diverse range Climate Change (UNFCCC). PTT recognizes that climate of stakeholder groups, from governments to investors and change has implications on its business in both the short societies. As an environmentally and socially responsible and long terms, and spans across several areas, for organization, PTT Group is cognizant of its role in managing instance, natural disasters, droughts, as well as the rise greenhouse gas emissions in the most effective manner. of consumer awareness that may alter product selection Doing so helps to curb financial and non-financial impacts behavior. In response, PTT Group has set the target to on the organization. reduce greenhouse gas intensity by 5% by 2020 compared to 2012, and has integrated greenhouse gas management At present, national policy on greenhouse gas reduction into its strategies for deployment to all operational levels in targets tends toward a more challenging direction given accordance with the Green Roadmap. 1 Scope of data covers Upstream Petroleum and Gas Business Group and Downstream Petroleum Business Group. 2 Scope of organizations covers companies under PTT’s operational control in accordance with the Quality, Safety, Health and Environment Policy (QSHE Policy), including PTT and companies in which PTT holds the majority of shares or equal amount of shares as other shareholders. 3 Scope of data collection covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. 4 Total hazardous waste to landfill from operations was reduced as waste was sorted at the source, which improved the effectiveness of waste disposal and aligns with PTT Group’s Strategic Objective to reduce the amount of industrial waste to landfill to zero by 2020. 34 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited In 2015, PTT Group continued engaging with policy of controlling greenhouse gas scope 1 and 2 emissions makers on issues concerning climate change, and revised to be within 88.6 kilograms of carbon dioxide per barrel of the process management strategy to enhance energy oil equivalents. Likewise, PTT achieved the intensity target efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in set by the State Enterprise Performance Appraisal (SEPA) line with the organization’s Green Process strategy. PTT on direct and indirect greenhouse gas (scope 1, 2, and Group has further established a target to participate in the 3) at 380.81 kilograms of carbon dioxide per barrel of oil Thailand Voluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER), equivalents. As a result, PTT Group is on track to achieving and incorporated carbon pricing into the investment its long-term greenhouse gas target. decision-making process. The Group achieved the target Greenhouse Gas Intensity Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (kilogram carbon dioxide per barrel of oil equivalents) (million ton of carbon dioxide equivalents) 89.6 89.6 89.1 87.8 88.6 84.7 88.5 34.82 33.92 34.30 34.20 31.24 31.12 31.12 2.33 2.38 1.80 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target Performance Target Direct Indirect Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse Gas Remark: PTT recalculated greenhouse gas emissions in 2013 2014 to align with the scope of this report. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 35 Methane Leakage Management Project PTT improved its operations based on results received from assessments on methane leakage in PTT’s operational areas and PTTEP’s S1 drilling platform during 2013-2014. As a consequence, 10,700 tons of carbon dioxide equivalents were saved, accounting for cost savings of 3 million baht per year. In 2015, 9 operational areas were assessed in which the findings and results will be used to develop plans for 2016. Additionally, PTT organized an international workshop to educate PTT Group’s employees on best practices in methane management, inviting experts from various organizations including the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA), Embassy of the United States in Thailand, United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), and Cairn Energy Co., Ltd. to share knowledge to relevant PTT Group’s employees. As the nation’s leader in energy conservation with the commitment to reduce climate change impacts, PTT integrated its energy efficiency plan into the PTT Group Energy Efficiency Master Plan to ensure alignment of group-wide energy management. PTT committed to energy intensity reduction at 1.9% per year until 2017 compared to business as usual in 2011, and is currently under way to set the 2020 long-term target. In 2015, PTT reduced energy intensity to 0.775% per year compared to business as usual operations, which accounted for 500,000 gigajoules per year, equivalent to the cost savings of 194 million baht per year1. Key initiatives included the energy reduction project at Rayong Gas Separation Plant, where PTT invested 1,500 million baht to set up a heat exchange system at the pressure enhancer unit of pipeline No.32 in order to utilize waste heat. The project improved energy efficiency of the production process and reduced energy by 2,082,237 gigajoules and greenhouse gas emissions reduction of 98,000 tons of carbon dioxide. 1 Assuming the energy consumption value at 387.92 baht per gigajoule, according to PTT Group’s average consumption 2 The Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No. 3 from Rayong Gas Separation Plant continues to Amata Nakorn Industrial Estate in Panthong District, Chonburi Province, onward to Wang Noi District, Ayutthaya Province, and connects to the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Thai – Myanmar in Nontaburi Province. 36 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Energy Management Project The PTT Group Energy Management Project was initiated in 2012 with the objective to analyze PTT Group’s capacity in energy conservation. The diagnostic phase is comprised of the study of corporate environmental and energy conservation policy, analysis of internal and external conditions, data, and issues within operational areas; short-term target setting and formation of long-term energy conservation strategy, monitoring of management effectiveness, and overall enhancement of the Energy Intensity project in order to achieve set targets. (percent per year compared to business as usual) Currently, the project’s target group consists of companies and functions whose activities 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.9 consume significant amounts of energy such as PTT Rayong Gas Separation Plant, PTTEP, 1.03 Target 0.78 PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. Performance Year 2013 2014 2015 Remark: The scope of data covers PTT Rayong Gas Separation Plant, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. Integrated Water Management Due to the increasing trends of water consumption in the 2 water pump stations between Prasae and Nong Pla Lai domestic, agricultural, and industrial sectors, and longwater reservoirs, and developing a water allocation strategy term drought as a result of climate change, PTT Group for Chonburi Province. Such measures allowed for the is committed to effective and proactive integrated water organization to achieve the 2015 target of ensuring that the management. The PTT Group Water Management Team water reserve was sufficient for water demand. Finally, PTT works closely with the government networks and the private effectively contributed to enhancing the abundance of water sector to prevent and reduce risks of water shortage that resources for the benefit of the surrounding communities. may impact on stakeholders. For the internal water management, PTT Group operated By cooperating with Rayong Province’s eastern water in line with the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) principles management committee, PTT Group is able to monitor to enhance the effectiveness of water consumption in the and evaluate water conditions and develop response production process and reduce raw water consumption in measures in a timely manner, such as through building water-stressed operations – saving water by 5.49 million cubic meters per year. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 37 Water Storage Capacity in Rayong Performance Target (million cubic meter) 200 268 200 220 200 255 200 2013 2014 2015 2016 Weather Forecast Technology and Water Management in Rayong PTT Research & Technology Institute conducted research to forecast the amount of primary water sources in Rayong from 3 water reservoirs: Nong Pla Lai, Dok Sai, and Khlong Yai. The reservoirs have a total storage capacity of 275 million cubic meters, whereas water demand from all sectors in the area is 400 million cubic meters per year – the industrial sector alone accounts for 75 % of total water consumption. As Rayong is PTT’s main production base facing risk of water shortages, PTT forecasts water resource availability by using weather forecast and runoff simulation models to display the relationship between rainfall and runoff for the 3 reservoirs. The findings are then integrated with the information on rainfall simulation from the European Center for Medium-range Weather Forecast’s weather model, allowing PTT to predict the risk of water shortage six months in advance. Enha ess of nc n tive m coo ed the ffec syste ling to Enha n eness of steamced th ctiv tem boi e e effe er sys ler w Performance in 2015 Water Management 2.71 million cubic meters of reused and recycled water e d th ate a te r nc e Enha lized w dw era cle demin eff r p ective ec y r nd rod ness ucti e da Remark: on s f o Reus The scope of data covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, ystem and GPSC. 38 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Air Quality Control Air quality management is an issue of interest for the government, communities and societies, and employees, given its potential impacts on health and the environment. PTT Group, therefore, sets the targets on increased emission rate of oxides of nitrogen (NOx), and sulfur dioxide (SO2) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), to be zero, by the year 2020. PTT Group applies air treatment technology that meets international standards to control and reduce the amount of air emissions within the regulated standard value, such as Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR), and Dry Low Emission NOx (DLE) burner system. In addition, the Continuous Emission Monitoring System was installed at Rayong Gas Separation Plant to monitor air quality on a regular basis, which can also be used to assess air quality impacts for effective operational planning. Oxides of Nitrogen NOx Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) emissions per (ton) distribution unit1: Rayong Gas Separation Plant (kilogram of VOCs per ton production) 20,784.32 20,363.25 16,772.16 0.102 0.110 0.099 Year 2013 2014 2015 Year 2013 2014 2015 Remark: Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission trend decreased due to the application of air treatment technologies within PTT Group. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) emissions per distribution unit1, 2: LPG Terminal (kilogram of VOCs per million liter of production) Sulphur Dioxide SO2 0.280 (ton) 0.254 0.268 0.280 7,833.78 7,881.31 0.210 3,402.97 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 2013 2014 2015 Remark: Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) emissions per distribution The scope in 2013 covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP and IRPC. unit1, 2, 3: Oil Terminal The scope in 2014-2015 covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. (ton of VOCs per million liter of production) 0.340 0.346 0.332 0.327 0.303 Year2013 2014 2015 2016 Target Performance Remark: 1 The performance in 2013 has been adjusted for greater accuracy and suitability. 2 No target was set for 2013-2014. 3 PTT expanded the scope in 2014 to include 5 additional oil terminals, totaling 9 oil terminals and 6 petroleum terminals. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 39 Waste Management Hazardous Waste to Landfill To achieve the Strategic Objective that aims to reduce Rayong Gas Separation Plant the amount of industrial waste to landfill to zero by 2020, (ton) 611.40 PTT Group commits to managing waste in all processes ranging from product design, production planning, 436.31 production process, and waste management. By applying 227 the 3Rs principles to reduce waste at the source, reuse 100 57.90 and recycle waste, environmental impacts are mitigated. Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 In 2015, PTT Group in Map Ta Phut, Rayong Province, initiated the PTT Group Waste Pooling Project. The project Hazardous Waste to Landfill marks the beginning of the development of industrial waste Oil Terminal, LPG Terminal, and Petroleum Terminal database to store information on waste from PTT Group (ton) production process, in order to work towards resources 217.85 217.85 reuse optimization and a reduction in industrial waste to landfill. In 2015, a criterion for industrial waste was 100 identified for the project, and in 2016, PTT Group will 48.15 42.84 cooperate with waste treatment entities in surrounding areas to dispose of waste through means other than the landfill. PTT will elaborate on the progress of the project Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 in 2017. Target Performance Remark: No target was set for 2013-2014. Oil and Chemical Spills Oil and chemical spills prevention is the most important mission for a petroleum business. PTT Group has, therefore, committed measures to mitigate and monitor spills within its operational areas, as well as during product and raw material transportation throughout its supply chain. Aside from setting its annual target, a 2020 Strategic Objective was also set to ensure that the number of oil and chemical spills greater than one barrel is equal to zero. This is to be accomplished by enhancing readiness in the workforce, equipment, and efficiency in systems such as the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA), which enables the control of valves via satellite in case of gas leakage in the gas transmission pipeline system, etc. Finally, emergency plans are developed, and spill prevention drills are conducted regularly with governmental cooperation at the provincial and national levels. In 2015, PTT’s operational areas had no cases of oil and chemical spills to the environment. However, there were 4 cases of spills that resulted from the transportation of products and raw materials, where in most cases, this was caused by transportation accidents from driver fatigue. In remedying environmental damages from spills, supervisors, transport operators, and transport departments have developed appropriate emergency response procedures. For instance, if an oil spill seeps into the soil, the affected area will be removed for treatment as required. Whereas, if a spill occurs in a water source, PTT will investigate the water flow and direction, remove all oil slicks, and constantly monitor the spill area to ensure that no oil remains. In terms of oil spill prevention, PTT adheres to the PTT Group Road Safety Management Guideline, which stipulates procedures for transportation management beginning from a transport risk assessment throughout the entire transport process, to operational control, and driver management, in particular on issues of driver fatigue; path selection, and regular transport vehicle maintenance. Furthermore, PTT organizes awards for drivers and transport operators who demonstrate excellent performance. In the case of the spills that occurred, the causes of each spill were thoroughly investigated, and preventive measures were developed to promptly control each situation in order to manage spills and prevent reoccurrence. 40 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited SAFETY PTT gives utmost importance to safety management in all Manual guides the assessment of work-related health risks stages of business operations, covering from personal, for further establishment of control measures to mitigate process, to transportation safety, and aims to reduce such risks. In 2015, the PTT Group Occupational Health potential impacts to all personnel and surrounding Management System Guideline was developed in line with communities. Safety at PTT begins with cultivating a the international standards, focusing on creating alignment safety culture to reinforce safety behavior for all relevant in safety management amongst PTT Group. stakeholders, namely, employees, business partners, and contractors. PTT strives for continuous improvement In managing its business partners and contractors, PTT under the Security, Safety, Health and Environment (SSHE) integrates SSHE requirements into their terms of references Management System with strategic objectives and annual to ensure that operations are conducted in accordance targets set to consistently monitor performance among PTT with the organization’s standards. In this regard, PTT Group companies. highly values the capacity development of its contractors and thus, initiated several programs in 2015, including the Health and Safety Culture Contractor SSHE Capacity Registration, which welcomed interested contractors to learn about their SSHE capacity through assessments. Another program was the Contractor Fostering an organizational culture of good occupational SSHE Clinic, which allowed contractors to consult with health and safety is fundamental to preventing illnesses and experts from PTT so as to further develop their own injuries. Since the first day of work, all employees are trained management practices. Apart from minimizing losses and as part of their orientation session to raise awareness and impacts from operations, these initiatives helped to elevate enrich their depths of understanding on safety that can be safety standards in the supply chain. In 2015, a total of 50 turned into practice. At the same time, safety leadership is contractors participated in the program. As for 2016, PTT enhanced through activities such as the Safety Tour, where will continue the Contractor SSHE Capacity Registration for management conduct tours on operational sites to observe the second year as well as expand the scope of application actual conditions, helping them to understand problems for more intensive contractor SSHE management in PTT that exist and build employee morale through discussions operations. and consultations. Additionally, the Health Risk Assessment Lost Workday Cases (LWC) Total Recordable Injuries Rate per 200,000 Hours Employees Worked (TRIR) Employees Contractors Contractors3 Target 19 0.16 0.15 (Target 0) 16 0.118 0.119 14 0.099 0.08 0.08 9 0.05 5 3 Year 20131 20141 20152 Year 20131 20141 20152 Remark: 3 lost workday cases for PTT Group employees were due to slips, trips, and 1 The scope covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. falls during work which resulted in injury. 2 The scope covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. 3 Contractors refer to both supervised and independent contractors. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 41 Guided by the Logistic Accident Policy and the target to reduce serious transport accidents to zero, PTT launched the PTT Group Road Safety Zero Accident Management Guideline for its logistic operators network. In 2015, the In-Vehicle Monitoring System (IVMS) was installed in 1,300 oil trucks. The IVMS, combining CCTV and GPS technologies, can track transport trucks from their point of departure until their destination. This allows PTT to monitor unsafe driving behaviors such as speeding, abrupt breaking, and unfastening seatbelts while driving. Furthermore, the Transportation Control Center (TCC) monitors real-time driving conditions over 24 hours, allowing the drivers to monitor and adjust their behaviors. Such efforts have resulted in the continuous decrease in serious transport accident cases over time. Other initiatives to that end include audit programs for logistic operators as well as the PTT Group Logistic Zero Accident Project, which sets PTT Group safety direction and enhances group-wide collaboration. PTT’s Land Transport Accident (number of land transport accidents per 1,000,000 kilometers) 0.124 0.109 0.101 Remark: The number of land transport accidents in 2015 reduced by 10% compared to the 0.05 previous year, and demonstrates a steadily decreasing trend. Although the target was not achieved, PTT continued to manage road transportation safety and monitor performance in various aspects, such as monitoring driver behavior to reduce accidents, investigating the root causes of accidents to determine prevention methods and solutions – all of which contribute to an improving trend in accident rates. Year 2013 2014 2015 Target Performance 42 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Process Safety Security Accidents in operations can be damaging to life, property, Security threats can impact upon the organization’s and the environment, and can pose threats to stakeholders personnel and assets, as well as disrupt business in the supply chain from upstream onwards. PTT Group, continuity. PTT thus assesses security risks such as therefore, strictly manages process safety starting from the criminal threats, drugs, insurgency and protests, and sets management level by establishing the PTT Group Process preventive measures at all stages of business conduct to Safety Management (PSM) Taskforce to build a network of curb security emergencies, resulting in zero to minimum executives and employees from companies in the Group. losses. This is to drive collaboration and sharing of in-depth PSM Technical Implementation results from experienced In 2015, PTT successfully deployed the PTT Group personnel. Furthermore, the PTT Group Process Safety Security Management System in all operations, where Leading Indicator Guideline has also been developed to security assessments were conducted. All operations proactively track performance with an aim to prevent losses. passed the assessment criteria, ensuring their ability to PTT Group’s target is Zero Tier 1 Process Safety Events, limit the severity and losses in the case of an emergency. where safety events in this case are evaluated according Furthermore, PTT signed an endorsement for collaboration to the American Petroleum Institute’s API Recommended among the State-owned Enterprise Network on Security Practice 754 on spills. Finally, to expand the scope of amongst 7 organizations, in order to jointly share process monitoring and generate overall awareness on knowledge in areas of security-related management process safety, in 2015 PTT Group began collecting data approaches, standards, technologies, and possible on Tier 2 Process Safety Events as part of its efforts in threats. Overall, this will increase security management accident prevention. efficiency and strengthen relationships among the state-owned enterprise network. PTT Group’s Tier 1 Process Safety Event in 20151 Completed Fire Fume Chemical overflows investigations ventilation or leakages on cases of security violations that resulted in 2 2 losses, and developed 2 solution plans for all cases 1 The scope covers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC 100% Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 43 Conduct community consultations 36 Operations, 69 Development Projects, Accounting for Accounting for 100% of Total Operations 100% of Total Projects Capital Project Management No. 4 (Rayong-Khaeng Khoi) on an herbal plantation in the area of Abhaiphubet Chaopraya Hospital Foundation, Noen Creating sustainable harmony between communities and Hom Sub-district, Muang District, Prachinburi Province. In the environment is vital as communities are an important response, PTT expressed its intention to provide remedy stakeholder group that may be susceptible to impacts from to the impacted areas, and collaborated with local project operations. PTT is, therefore, committed to reducing governmental agencies in Prachinburi Province, the Energy social and environmental impacts throughout a project’s Regulatory Commission, and Abhaiphubet Chaopraya lifetime, starting from pre, during and post-development Hospital Foundation to resolve the issue. phases, by conducting active engagement with communities surrounding operations, environmental impact assessments As demonstrated in the above case, all grievances (EIA), and community grievance management. Building good are monitored by PTT, and information received from relationships with communities and gaining their trust will allow grievances and their methods of resolution are used in for business continuity, and fundamentally, lead to sustainable developing mitigation measures as well as for continuous energy security. monitoring of environmental and social impacts. Not only that, PTT measures the effectiveness of engagement using Community Engagement the Community Engagement Score, and sets targets on community acknowledgement and project acceptance In 2015, PTT continued its work on the Gas Transmission of at least 60%, assessed from survey samples drawn Pipeline Project initiated in 2014 and completed two projects as during the environmental impact study phase. In 2015, planned: the Onshore Gas Transmission Nakornsawan Project community acknowledgement and project acceptance and Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No. 4 (Rayong-Khaeng rates were 69.6% and 87.5%, respectively, and no cases Khoi). The Onshore Gas Transmission Nakornratchasima of relocations of any stakeholder groups took place. Project has progressed to phase 2, where public participation has been conducted in accordance with the Regulations of the Office of the Prime Minister B.E. 2548. PTT further implemented mitigation measures with regard to environmental impacts and grievance mechanisms as identified in the EIA. A newly 100% of current and new projects launched Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline No. 5 Project is currently undergoing the public consultation phase, and conducted community the ESHIA for this project is scheduled for completion in the consultations second quarter of 2016. PTT respects community rights in all of its business activities, and carries out project operations on the foundation of Community engagement stakeholder engagement – opening various channels for 79.6% score of the Onshore Gas Transmission communities and stakeholders to submit their views and Nakornratchasima Project concerns. Based on community consultations during the EIA process and other grievance channels, PTT received concerns regarding impacts from the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline 44 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 45 Biodiversity Impact Management PTT WEcoZi Eco-industrial Zone Development 2015 In order to prevent losses and negative impacts Annual Target: on biodiversity that may arise from new project PTT continued its development of the eco-industrial zone, or Launch PTT WEcoZi and develop an eco-industrial and environmental PTT built upon the successes of PTT development, PTT conducts a biodiversity risk PTT Wanarom Eco Zone Industries (PTT WEcoZi) in the Asia management system according to standard, and build upon the Group Rayong Wanarom Ecoforest by screening process for new projects in line with the Industrial Estate. In support of PTT Group’s Green Roadmap, successes of PTT Group Rayong Wanarom Ecoforest. participating in the Thailand Voluntary requirements of the PTT Group Biodiversity and PTT aims to develop the project as a prototype eco-industrial Emission Reduction Program (T-VER). Ecosystem Services Management Manual. In the zone where industry, communities, and the environment can Performance: It is the first forest area in the eco-industrial case that a project poses high biodiversity risk, co-exist in a sustainable manner, meanwhile increasing PTT PTT WEcoZi was launched on January 28th, 2015 and certified by zone that was registered with T-VER, more studies will be conducted and a Biodiversity Group’s competitive advantage. the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand as the first eco-industrial Action Plan will be developed. zone at the Eco Champion Level in Thailand. The eco-industrial and greenhouse gas emissions by The PTT WEcoZi formally opened on 28th January 2015, with Biodiversity risk screening results over the past year indicated that the new gas transmission details summarized as follows. environmental management system is in accordance with ISO14001 standard. 20,000 carbon dioxide equivalents tons of pipeline projects under the gas separation industry throughout the project life. were not located in any protected areas or posed absorb more than high biodiversity risks. Given this, PTT carried out environmental impact studies as required by the standards of the Office of Natural Resources 1,290 tons of carbon dioxide and Environmental Policy and Planning (ONEP) release over and relevant parties. In addition, to ensure that all biodiversity issues are incorporated into decision-making and business operations, 1,032 tons of oxygen PTT organized 2 biodiversity management back to the environment workshops for employees with responsibilities sufficient for relating to environmental management. The workshops provided them with knowledge on biodiversity management and ecosystem services, 3,870 people per year biodiversity risk assessment, and mitigation plans for projects with high biodiversity risks. The Phuket 2014 More biodiversity is present in the area with over Aircraft Fuel Station was selected as a pilot case to teach employees on Biodiversity Action Plan development. Annual Target: 172 species of trees, animals, birds and insects, creating a more balanced Build fully integrated central 100% of all new projects have been screened 2013 utilities, a green office building, and PTT Group Wanarom ecosystem. for biodiversity risks in Ecoforest Learning Center 2015 In addition, PTT MCC BioChem Company Limited, a “What PTT has accomplished “Developing an eco-industrial Annual Target: Performance: here is propitious, and it has zone supports communities polybutylene succinate producer (PBS), is the first Increase the natural protection Completed the construction of become the most tangible to be happier and have trust company that has located its plant in the eco-industrial prototype for an eco-industrial in PTT, because PTT is helping strip from ecoforest fully integrated central utilities zone. This is a crucial component to strengthen PTT to erase the bad images of comprising industrial water plant, zone.” Performance: Group’s competitive advantage in the long-term in order to manufacturing plants in the a green office building, and Increased ecoforest areas achieve the target of expanding investments in bioplastics Mr. Thada Suthornpan past.” PTT Group Wanarom Ecoforest along the natural protection to 690,000 tons per year, as well as to promote Thailand Director at Industrial Learning Center strip by 8.48 hectares from as a manufacturing and distribution hub of biofuels and Estate Authority of Thailand, Mr. Suchin Poonhirun bioplastics within 2020. Eastern Hemaraj, Map Ta Phut Mayor, 2012, totaling 14.56 hectares Municipality, Rayong Ban Chang Sub-district ,Rayong 46 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT is committed to developing and retaining valuable talent, inspiring its people, and exchanging knowledge to enhance business efficiency – transforming into a learning organization. PTT encourages all employees to be ethical, talented individuals and lifelong learners based upon the 3 principles of Care, Share, and Respect. Human Capital Development Employees are PTT’s enabling force driving the organization towards success in its vision; the diversity of skills and experiences represented in the organization strengthen PTT’s capacity to achieve sustainable growth and attain competitive advantage. Through this understanding, PTT remains fully committed to developing and enhancing employee engagement and retention, building a strong organizational culture, and managing valuable knowledge in the organization for years to come. PTT’s performance in 2015 clearly demonstrates this commitment, evidenced by an increase in the employee engagement score from 4.09 in 2014 to 4.22 – exceeding the target of 4.11. Given that 96% of all employees participated in the annual engagement survey, this serves as an indication for PTT of their willingness to support the organization towards excellence. Moreover, the increase in the engagement level reflects many aspects of PTT’s efforts in caring for the diverse needs of its employees, both in their work and daily lives, such as by building up a Leadership Pool for all career paths, supporting job rotations within PTT Group, engaging with the new generation of employees to enhance understanding of their perspectives and expectations, and improving remuneration structures to promote higher qualities of life. PTT is additionally in the process of developing a conceptual design on long-term incentives for employees to maintain their continued engagement, which has been submitted to management to evaluate feasibility and possible future implementation. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 47 4.22 4,660 Total Number 245 Million Baht Employee Engagement 161 Million Baht of Employees Human Capital Return Score Total Investments on Investment (Out of 5.00) in Employee Training Increasing Employee Engagement Furthermore, PTT recognizes the importance of attracting the right talent in terms of skills and experiences to align Functional Academy with business needs, and provides equal opportunities for all Organize training with employees as lecturers to build interested applicants to become a part of the organization. expertise in each career path. From new graduates to experienced professionals, PTT recruits talents without discrimination based on gender, Excellence People Manager Project religion, cultural beliefs, age, or educational background, Strengthen leadership capacity for line managers. with the view that such diversity matches well with the different perspectives and backgrounds of the organization’s Reunion for Building Engagement Session Project stakeholders. Through continued improvements in employee Engage with the new generation of employees to enhance compensation and benefits, and supporting a better quality communication and gather opinions for improving overall of life, PTT has moved forth in its efforts towards becoming engagement. an employer of choice. PTT has developed plans to instill Sook Jai Dee Project a sense of pride at being a part of the organization for Increase engagement channels for employees and their new employees – allowing them to work to their fullest families to provide advice related to work, family, and potential. This is accomplished through various methods any other issues of concern. such as orientation for new employees, development of an “Excellence People Manager” Project to enhance leadership Global Mobility Package roles for line managers, and improving benefits to better Revise benefits and compensation for employees filling reflect their needs and ways of living. job postings abroad to ensure they are standardized across PTT Group. “The 96% response rate during this year’s Infrastructure and Sustainability Management Business employee engagement survey speaks to the Unit commitment of our employees in seeing PTT Prepare for the expansion of the Infrastructure and as a home and a source of pride.” Sustainability Management Business Unit by instating new career paths, Quality Assurance and Engineering, and Corporate Organizational Excellence, to increase opportunities and career path choices for employees. Mr. Tevin Vongvanich President and Chief Executive Officer 48 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Similarly, PTT supports continuous learning for employees as a way to enable the organization to adapt to and PTT Sustainability Management Training prepare for any changes, as well as retain skilled individuals. The PTT Leadership and Learning Institute PTT Group Sustainability Management Project, in (PLLI) was established with a vital role to promote learning collaboration with the PTT Leadership and Learning opportunities through a diverse number of courses. In Institute (PLLI), organized a company-wide training 2015, PLLI organized 240 training courses for 15 career course on sustainability management in 2015 to equip paths, consisting of Core Courses, Functional Courses, management and employees with the ability to jointly and Leadership Acceleration Programs, totaling an move the organization towards sustainability, in alignment average of 53.99 training hours per person. PTT further with PTT’s strategy and direction. A total of 44 training developed success profiles and individual development sessions were held for 3,425 participants – 80% of the plans to specifically cater to individual employee needs in a targeted 4,300 participants – of whom evaluated their comprehensive manner. A total of 68.77% of all employees satisfaction with the course at 4.21 out of 5.00 following have completed their individual development plans training completion. The sustainability training course has (IDPs), short of the 100% target due to the establishment now been integrated as a core course in the PLLI, and of the Infrastructure and Sustainability Management will be organized on an annual basis. Business Unit, as the organization underwent changes to develop new career paths, namely Quality Assurance and Engineering, and Corporate Organizational Excellence. PTT SPIRIT values are the foundation that shape Nevertheless, PTT still continued to engage in regular management and employees into talented and ethical employee training and development throughout. individuals, responsible to the organization and society. The expansion of the organization with the new business unit also signified an increase in the number of new SPIRIT Commitment Score employees. To respond to this need, PTT developed and improved behavioral-based interviewing techniques to better reflect the success profiles of each career path, and connected the organization’s core values and core competencies to each career. These developments 2020 target allowed the recruitment committee to have a more concrete framework for conducting behavioral-based interviews, permitting a more systematic approach to 80% selecting and evaluating potential candidates, reducing the time needed for each interview, leading to better selections of candidates that more accurately met the specific needs of each position. 2013 2014 2015 59.0% 66.8% 70.5% PTT continuously works to elevate the quality of its performance assessment system to reinforce alignment with the organization’s SPIRIT values. All employees are required to develop individual KPIs that can concretely reflect their behavioral performance, and all levels of management must be 53.99 hours able to demonstrate through evidences that their performances are in line with SPIRIT values. The integration of behavioral KPIs as part of the employee performance assessment can Average number of account for more dimensions of performance, and build a training hours per employee closer relationship between career management and SPIRIT values for a stronger organizational culture. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 49 Knowledge Management In 2015, knowledge sharing in the organization generated more than 10,000 million baht in business value through PTT is committed to transforming from a resource-based to cost-savings, increased sales, and higher levels of efficiency a knowledge-based organization, with the goal of becoming in operations. The Knowledge Management Team of the a learning organization by 2020. PTT values effective Organizational Development Department developed the knowledge management as a way for employees to develop Knowledge Management Maturity Assessment Survey as a tool their own capacity as experts, and to support innovations to evaluate organizational capacity in knowledge management from various dimensions, where results would be used that can deliver value to PTT Group’s business, financially towards improving the efficiency of the knowledge sharing in and non-financially. business operations. During the past year, the PTT KM Maturity Assessment score was at 61%, compared to the target of 60%. Approach to Knowledge Management at PTT In order to ensure that PTT will continue to progress towards the long-term 2020 target of an 80% score, in 2016 PTT will The PTT Group Knowledge Management Committee is analyze opportunities for improvement in each business unit, responsible for knowledge management through People, and strengthen the efficiency of knowledge sharing by using Process, and Technology; sharing Practices and elevating the BRIGHT system, an online knowledge database for PTT them to Best Practices, and ultimately building Synergy and Group employees. The BRIGHT system provides employees Competitiveness within PTT Group. with a channel to systematically search for and exchange knowledge, opinions, and store knowledge, and enhances more effective collaboration. People Process Technology 2 PTT encourages its employees to develop skills in presentation and communication by providing them with opportunities 1 3 4 to become internal trainers, leading courses within career paths in which they are specialized, as a way of extending the knowledge and experiences of different employees from Practices generation to generation. Not only does this approach foster good relations between employees themselves, but also creates an atmosphere of learning through knowledge sharing and mutual experiences. In 2015, PTT organized 5 training sessions Best for 78 employees, who in turn were able to deliver 99 training Practices courses, translating into a cost-savings of 9,257,400 baht by reducing the need to hire external trainers. “PTT’s knowledge management approach Synergy & should be carried out systematically – there Competitiveness should be courses and content that respond to the organization’s strategy and business needs. To build experts that are able to communicate their knowledge effectively, PTT needs to advance individual development and cultivate a constant willingness to learn amongst employees. Therefore, we should provide employees with work that challenges “I think that exchanging knowledge them, build up their confidence, and offer in the BRIGHT system is like keeping opportunities of learning by doing. This will something valuable in a treasure chest. allow employees to understand their capabilities Whatever is considered a piece of and see where they want to develop their skills. knowledge or experience, no matter how Managers can then respond with appropriate small, can be useful.” training and development opportunities.” Mr. Songwoot Srichairatanakool Mr. Chansak Chuenchom Sales Promotion Officer, Executive Vice President, Engineering and Retail Services & Administration Division. Project Management 50 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited PTT is committed to being a good corporate citizen by supporting the creation of long-term benefits for all stakeholders, through clearly defined social activities and solid management approaches, covering community and social development, human resources development, and natural resources conservation – for the mutual progress of Thai society and a secure and sustainable future. PTT strongly values solid relationships, trust, and confidence amongst its stakeholders. Guided by the Community Development and Community Relations Guidebook (CD-CR), the organization’s approach to community relations covers all stages of engagement from social analysis, stakeholder prioritization, development of projects and activities, target-setting, through to implementation. In the meantime, PTT ensures that community development approaches are consistent across the organization and aligns with business strategy, organizational budget, and above all, community needs. PTT’s corporate citizenship activities focus on 3 main areas: Human Resources Development, Community and Social Development, and Natural Resources Conservation. Over the past year, PTT contributed a total of 1,407.88 milllion baht to community and social development, divided into 1.67% in commercial initiatives, 64.22% in community investments, and 34.11% in charitable donations. Performance is summarized as follows. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 51 193,136 Hectares 21,823Hours 1,971 Hours 130 Households of Trees Reforested Total Employee Total Employee Supported towards 1.987 Million Tons of Volunteering During Work Hours Volunteering Outside Work Hours Energy Self-reliance CO2 Absorption Capacity Human Resources Development Community and Social Natural Resources Conservation Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science Development Reforestation Project to Honor His and Technology (VISTEC) Community Biogas System from Majesty the King Kamneotvidya Science Academy Pig Farming Wang Chan Forest Project (KVIS) Community Energy Training PTT Green in the City PTT Art Project Course Vetiver Plantation for Landslide PTT Rayong Football Academy HRH Princess Maha Chakri Reduction Project Capacity Development for Thai Sirindhorn Herbal Garden Language Teachers at Border Patrol Police Schools For more information on PTT’s community projects, please visit www.pttplc.com Human Resources Development In recognizing that developing human resources remains essential to enhancing livelihoods and building the capacity to transform the country into a knowledge-based economy, PTT has dedicated its efforts to providing educational opportunities at all levels. From basic education to research and development for science and technological innovation, specialized knowledge in petroleum and petrochemicals, and fostering creativity in thinking, PTT highlights the importance for today’s youth to think outside the box as a way to analyze and solve their problems. At the same time, PTT also supports quality sports education for youth to encourage a balance between physical and mental well-being. 52 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Vidyasirimedhi Institute of Science and Technology (VISTEC) and Kamneotvidya Science Academy (KVIS) On the 6th of August 2015, PTT received the gracious honor of welcoming Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn as the chair to the opening ceremony of KVIS and VISTEC. The official opening of these two academic institutions marks not only the culmination of PTT’s dedication to the “Learning Triad for Sustainability,” which comprises of KVIS, VISTEC, and PLLI, but supports PTT in moving from a resource-based to a knowledge-based organization. With KVIS officially starting classes in June, and VISTEC in August, these institutions provide students with learning opportunities that can significantly enhance their capacity in science and technology. Ultimately, this will build competitiveness and contribute to national development in the future. “Our country should conduct research that is applicable in real life – with our own patents. Research should create benefits for industry. At Thailand’s current capacity, that can be achieved, but what is needed is essential equipment that require significant amounts of investment. I hope that Thailand will have a position not only in the ASEAN region, but globally. I believe that all students here have the same objective as PTT Group in building this institute for Thailand’s national development.” Ms. Wanruedee Wannaphakdee PhD Student at VISTEC “I decided to attend KVIS because of its state-of-the-art facilities and its readiness in many areas. There are not too many students in each classroom, the teachers are brilliant, and the important thing is that I get to practice my English. You could say that KVIS has provided me with a lot of opportunities, without which I would not have been so prepared and able to learn so many different things to improve own abilities.” Ms. Nutthanicha Prahomthip 10th Grade Student at KVIS Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 53 PTT Art Project To promote creativity amongst Thai youth and artists, and to foster the development of Contemporary Thai Art, PTT collaborated with Silpakorn University to organize the 30th PTT art under the theme, “Image of the Future.” The competition encouraged participants to express their thoughts, feelings, and imagination on how ways of living in the present will impact upon life in the future different perspectives, such as living conditions, the society, environment, etc. From all over the country, 545 contestants PTT Rayong Football Academy submitted 665 pieces of artwork to the competition, of which 24 winners received awards granted by Her Royal PTT established the Sports Services Alliance Co, Ltd. in order Highness Princess Soamsawali. to manage professional sports in the form of the PTT Rayong Football Academy, to generate income for youth development in Rayong Province, develop learning and excellence in the sport of football, and encourage the beneficial use of leisure time. Part of the aim of this project is to reduce the potential for youth to associate with harmful influences and activities, to stimulate the local economy and employment, and fundamentally strengthen the social fabric of Rayong Province through unity and close familial ties. Performance in 2015 includes: • Establishment of the PTT Rayong Football Academy to select talented youth players between the ages of 15-16 who are interested in football to train with professionals, and support their education. More than 500 young players expressed their interest, out of which 13 were selected into the Football Academy. Capacity Development for Thai • Organizatin of the PTT Group Cup, a youth football Language Teachers at Border Patrol league in Rayong, to promote youth participation and Police Schools the regional level, and nationally under the Department of Physical Education. The PTT Group Cup would instill The Sustainable Energy Foundation, in collaboration with a sense of sportsmanship, support healthy lives, and Office of Language Development in Border Patrol Police the beneficial use of free time. Schools and Local Development of the Chiangrai Rajabhat • Stimulation of local employment through local University, and Border Patrol Police Unit 32, launched a procurement, which led to income generation of capacity development project to enhance Thai language approximately 5 million baht per year through the sales teaching skills for teachers from Border Patrol Police of food and beverages, and activities before and during schools. The objective of the project was to increase the football games. levels of literacy among students, and equip them with the • Contribution of more than 1 million baht in income tax ability to understand different subjects. Since the project’s back to the people of Rayong for their continued development. inception in 2012, PTT has continued to organize training sessions and followed up on improvements in teacher performance from Border Patrol Police Schools, Unit 32, in Chaingrai, Phayao, and Nan Provinces. These projects have, up to the present, developed over 49 model teachers who are able to transfer their knowledge and Thai teaching skills to others. Apart from this, a Community Science Curriculum has also been developed to support teaching and learning procedures in the sciences, along with a handbook of scientific knowledge to encourage students to learn and sharpen their skills in scientific analysis. 54 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Community and Social Development PTT has been involved in the development of community livelihoods by building upon its energy expertise to create opportunities and generate community benefits. The following projects represent PTT’s commitment to building strong community self-reliance in energy. Community Biogas System from Pig Farming Achievements from the Community Biogas System from Pig Farming Project The objective of the Community Biogas System from Pig Farming Project was to form a model community where members are involved in the management of their own energy systems. Located in Tha Manao Sub-district, Chai Badan 130 households in Tha Manao Sub-district received direct benefits District, Lopburi Province, the project encouraged community members to play an active role in disseminating and sharing practical knowledge on energy management to other interested communities, where upon success, the community would Reduction in LPG use by 7,936 936 kg per year (23.69 tons CO e per year) become a knowledge hub for community energy management 2 in the central region. Based on studies from 24 sub-districts across the country, Tha Manao Sub-district was found to have relatively high energy expenses per household, and was Reduction in diesel use by 10,800 liters per year (29.3 tons CO e per year) dealing with issues of environmental impact due to wastewater 2 released from pig farming. Nevertheless, the Tha Manao electricity use by 6,491 units of electricity community exhibited strengths in community participation and Reduction in readiness of resources for alternative energy development. As (3.89 tons CO e per year) 2 a result, PTT worked with the Tha Manao community to expand upon the biogas production and transmission system using swine manure, which originally could produce biogas from one farm for use in merely 10 households, to production in four pig farms for 130 households, composed of a pipeline distribution Greenhouse gas reduction of 56.88 tons CO e per year 2 system extending 4,166 meters. For continuous development, the community plans to expand the biogas distribution system to an additional 900 households, through collaboration with the Ministry of Energy and Lopburi Provincial Energy Office, Resulting in total costsavings of 518,980 baht per year to achieve ultimate goal of becoming a “Tambon without LPG” by 2018. Increase in agricultural revenue by An important contributor to the success of this project was the active participation of Tha Manao community members in all 423,780 baht per year stages of project development – from preliminary surveys to including from increasing yields of sugarcane production gain an overview of the situation, to sharing and disseminating by using sludge from biogas production instead of knowledge, project design and development, installation of chemical fertilizers, from sales of sludge, and increased the biogas production and transmission system, and system value from pig sales due to contract farming. maintenance. Not only did the project inspire community ownership of their own biogas production and distribution system, it was able to mitigate initial problems concerning Income generation by environmental impacts from wastewater discharge as well any community conflicts associated with pollution from pig 121,360 baht per year from construction and maintenance farming. Owing to this success, the community was awarded of the biogas system the Sub-district Administrative Organization Energy Awards by the Energy Policy and Planning Office, Office of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy. Furthermore, PTT was also awarded the Outstanding State-Owned Enterprise Awards for social and environmental performance by the State Enterprise Policy Office. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 55 Biogas System from Pig Farming Vetiver Plantation for Landslide Reduction Project Pig Pen Between 2013 and 2015, PTT collaborated with communities in 14 areas throughout the country to develop appropriate, scientifically-proven methods for landslide prevented through the use of vetiver and vegetation planting (by Manure preserving soil cover on a sloping surface through the construction of perpendicular boundaries, thereby reducing the speed and direction of water flow). Fermentation H2S Scrubber Blower Tank The 14 pilot areas were utilized as case studies to gather and disseminate knowledge on landslide prevention through Pumping vetiver and vegetation plantation. Following implementation Unit of these projects, communities were able to reduce costs associated with landslide remediation by 90,476 per year Storage per area, and generate income from harvesting planted Tank vegetation by 27,357 baht per year. Moreover, communities Gas were able to deeply recognize the benefits of vetiver use, Pipeline were able to exchange and expand upon this knowledge for LPG Stove greater results, and even participate in vetiver conservation Retention Pond networks with other like-minded communities. “This project would not have happened without an understanding of harmony. Everyone has come together, from the farm owners to community members and local organizations; because harmony is the key to success – achieve that and benefits 14 Areas will naturally follow. The pig farmers are happy, the community is happy, because everyone was able to benefit. At the end of the day, the success from this development lies with the community.” 2015 Dr. Sumet Tantivejkul Communities in 14 areas Secretary-General of the Chaipattana Foundation across the country used vetiver and other vegetation Community Energy Training Course through mechanical means to prevent landslides, and PTT believes that building knowledge and understanding became learning models for of energy for communities will help them to develop skills landslide prevention at the and ways of thinking for energy management – leading 2014 community level. towards true community self-reliance. In this view, over Plant vegetation, such as local flora and the past year PTT organized a community energy training vetiver that can grow in the selected areas, course to promote integration of the Sufficiency Economy Policy into community energy management approaches. to reduce long-term land erosion. The course emphasized on developing ways of thinking, planning, and analyzing, and consisted of 3 main 2013 subjects: Energy, Energy Management, and Community Development Planning. A total of 2 training courses were Develop mechanical blueprints for use in landslide risk held for approximately 100 people. In 2016, PTT plans to areas, in 14 areas across the country. continue organizing energy training courses. 56 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 57 Natural Resources Conservation Reforestation Project to Honor His Majesty the King “PTT Reforestation Institute is Through the PTT Reforestation Institute and relevant partnership networks, PTT has jointly been involved in the restoration and conservation of natural resources to maintain ecosystem abundance in areas surrounding operations and across the PTT Group continued to maintain the 1,600 million m2 a leader in forestry and forest country, as well as the promotion of community conservation. Over the past year, PTT sustained these commitments in forest area planted in honor of the 50th anniversary of restoration, delivering innovations forest conservation, expanding conservation networks, and managing knowledge on natural resources and environmental His Majesty the King’s ascension to the throne. In 2015, for a balanced ecosystem conservation. Performance highlights are summarized below. an additional 5,364.8 hectares were planted in order to and reducing global warming meet the 2024 target of increasing quality forest area in for a sustainable future.” Thailand to absorb 2.1 million tons of carbon dioxide. Wang Chan Forest Project PTT established an integrated learning center on forestry and forest restoration on an area of 56.16 hectares in Pa Yup Nai Sub-district, Wang Chan District, Rayong Province. The learning center is to serve as a resource for education and research, and a place to compile PTT’s knowledge assets on social and community development for public dissemination. Not only is the forest area an important source of water for Rayong Province, an area of 29.64 hectares has also been listed as a pilot site under the T-VER certification of the TGO due to its carbon dioxide absorption capacity of 176 tons per year, and will also be used as a pilot site for carbon credits in the future. PTT Green in the City PTT launched the “PTT Green in the City” Project on Sukhaphiban 2 Road, Bangkok, to support the expansion of green spaces in the city, and as part its enduring commitment to reforestation. An area of 1.92 hectares was developed as “new lungs” for city dwellers, and is divided as follows: 75% as forest area, 10% as water area, and 15% for industrial use. The project focused on creating a diverse forest ecosystem with more than 250 tree species, designing a water management system that contributes to ecosystem balance, and designing an environmentally-friendly building that can blend into its surroundings. PTT Green in the City received recognition from the Low Emission Support Scheme (LESS) of the TGO, owing to its carbon dioxide absorption capacity of 68.24 tons and ability to release a total of 54.59 tons of oxygen. 58 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited GHG emissions 2 Scope 1 (million ton CO2 equivalents) Scope 2 Total waste to landfill1 (ton) 32.15 31.24 31.12 31.12 508.57 2015 1.91 2.33 2.38 1.80 904.68 Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 193,136 Hectares Energy Consumption (GJ) of Trees Reforested; 332.8 1,355.96 1.987 Million Tons of CO 268.1 307.1 243.5 2 Absorption Capacity 2013 Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) More than 1 Trillion Baht in revenue generated from supply chain Total workforce Independent contractor collaboration 0.010 0.010 2015 More than 10,000 Million Baht 0.037 in business value generated through 3 0.020 3 2014 cost-savings, increased sales, and higher efficiency (person per 200,000 hours worked) Remark: 1 The scope of measurement for environmental performance covers the following PTT Group companies: PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, IRPC, and GPSC. 2 Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption covers PTT Group companies in which PTT holds more than 20% of shares in ownership. 3 The scope of measurement for 2014 does not cover GPSC. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 59 Economics 1 GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2015 G4-EC1 Sales revenues Million Baht 2,605,062 2,026,912 Operating costs Million Baht 2,374,014 1,803,585 Employee wages and benefits2 Million Baht 8,785 8,792 Dividend payments for the performance of the year Million Baht 31,401 28,562 Payments to government Million Baht 3,772 4,003 G4-EC4 Tax privileges from the Board of Investment, Thailand Million Baht 6,315 3,723 Remarks: 1 Due to the change in the Accounting Policies effective since January 1, 2015, the Group has restated and presented the financial statements for 2015 and 2014. Please see more details at Annual Report 2015. 2 Employee wages and benefits for employees managed under PTT include: PTT’s employees, PTT’s secondment and employees in subsidiaries under PTT financial management. The scope does not include the Chief Executive Officer and top executives. Employee wages and benefits include salaries, bonuses, contributions to provident funds, etc. (if applicable). 3 Revised numbers. 60 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited people GRI Required Data Unit 2013 2014 2015 Male Female Male Female Male Female G4-10 Permanent employees Manpower 2,953 1,441 3,009 1,507 3,083 1,577 Outsourced workers1 Manpower 1,945 2,029 2,113 Workforce2 Manpower 6,339 6,545 6,773 Employees by area • Bangkok3 Manpower 1,550 1,264 1,593 1,313 1,594 1,361 • Others4 Manpower 1,359 164 1,370 181 1,442 200 • Overseas5 Manpower 44 13 46 13 47 16 G4-LA12 Employees by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 651 317 677 341 652 331 • 30-50 years old Manpower 1,591 810 1,665 837 1,729 900 • Below 30 years old Manpower 711 314 667 329 702 346 Employees by level • Executive (Level 13-18) Manpower 146 56 141 58 141 67 • Middle management (Level 10-12) Manpower 334 220 342 240 343 257 • Senior (Level 8-9) Manpower 761 475 812 470 842 462 • Employee (Level 7 and below) Manpower 1,712 690 1,714 739 1,757 791 G4-LA1 Total new employees Manpower 317 270 305 New employees Manpower 196 121 154 116 177 128 New hire rate % 6.64 8.40 5.12 7.70 5.74 8.12 New employees by area • Bangkok Manpower 120 110 114 95 94 110 % 4.06 7.63 3.79 6.30 3.05 6.98 • Others4 Manpower 76 11 40 21 83 18 % 2.57 0.76 1.33 1.39 2.69 1.14 New employees by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 2 0 2 0 0 0 % 0.07 0.00 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 • 30-50 years old Manpower 29 18 22 19 11 14 % 0.98 1.25 0.01 0.01 0.36 0.89 • Below 30 years old Manpower 165 103 130 97 166 114 % 5.59 7.15 4.32 6.44 5.38 7.23 Total employee turnover6 Manpower 156 136 158 Employee turnover6 Manpower 93 63 89 47 103 55 Employee turnover rate % 3.15 4.37 2.96 3.12 3.34 3.49 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 61 GRI Required Data Unit 2013 2014 2015 Male Female Male Female Male Female Employee turnover by area • Bangkok Manpower 62 59 67 47 26 22 % 2.10 4.09 2.23 3.12 0.84 1.40 • Others4 Manpower 32 4 25 1 7 1 % 1.08 0.28 0.83 0.07 0.23 0.06 Employee turnover by age • Over 50 years old Manpower 72 28 64 25 70 32 % 2.44 1.94 2.13 1.66 2.27 2.03 • 30-50 years old Manpower 11 15 18 18 14 11 % 0.37 1.04 0.60 1.19 0.45 0.70 • Below 30 years old Manpower 11 20 10 5 19 12 % 0.37 1.39 0.33 0.33 0.62 0.76 G4-LA3 Number of employees entitled to parental leave7 Manpower 2,953 1,441 3,009 1,507 3,083 1,577 Number of employees taking parental leave8 Manpower 0 21 0 27 0 38 Number of employees returning to work Manpower 0 21 0 27 0 38 after parental leave9 Number of employees returning to work Manpower 0 15 0 25 0 NA after parental leave who are still employed for the next 12 months10 Retention rate % 0.00 71.43 0.00 92.59 0.00 NA G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee 11 Hour per 37.52 47.87 32.44 39.15 48.84 64.06 employee Remarks: NA Not available Average hours of training per employee 1 Outsourced workers refers to contractors who deliver tasks specified in the (hour per employee) Male annual TOR and do not include short-term outsourced workers during the year e.g. sub-contractors, consultants, housekeepers, etc. Female 2 Workforce = Permanent employees + Outsourced workers. 3 The data of number of employees by area in 2013 have been adjusted after including overseas employees in 2014. 4 Others refers to other provinces outside Bangkok where PTT’s offices are 64.06 47.87 48.84 situated. The data of number of employees by area in 2013 have been adjusted 37.52 39.15 after including overseas employees in 2014. 32.44 5 Overseas employees include employees working abroad in Cambodia, China, UAE, Laos, Myanmar, Malaysia, Philippines, and Singapore. 6 Total employee turnover in 2013 has been adjusted. 7 Number of male employees entitled to parental leave in 2013 has been adjusted Year 2013 2014 2015 to include paternity leave benefits. 8 Number of employees taking parental leave in 2013 has been adjusted. 9 Number of employees returning to work after parental leave in 2013 has been adjusted. 10 Number of employees returning to work after parental leave who are still employed for the next 12 months in 2013 has been adjusted. Data for 2015 has not been included in the reporting cycle. 11 Hours of training and further study are included in the average hours of training per year per employee. 62 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited safety PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Research & Technology Institute Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Gas Transmission (GTM) NGV Service Stations 2015 Coverage (%) Head Office Prakanong Office Rayong Office Gas Terminal Oil Terminal Transportation Reporting Scope Year Aviation Retail Lubrication Near miss incident Total workforce and Independent contractor 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Total workforce and Independent contractor 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Total workforce and Independent contractor 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Occupational illness Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • frequency rate (OIFR) Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NR NA Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NR NA Fatalities Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • • • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Absentee rate (AR) Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Lost workday case Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • (LWC) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Lost day rate (LDR) Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total recordable injuries Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • case (TRIC) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total recordable injuries Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • rate (TRIR) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Lost time injury Total workforce 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • frequency rate (LTIFR) Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Total workforce 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Independent contractor • • • • • • • • • • • • • Remarks: NA Not available NR Not relevant • Total Workforce refers to employees and supervised contractors. • Contractor refers to independent contractors only. • Working hours at service stations include those working at PTT-owned and operated stations only. Reporting includes total workforce only. • Working hours at NGV Service Stations cover NGV Mother Station only. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 63 GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA61 Lost workday case (LWC)2 • Total workforce Person 5 7 4 • Independent contractor Person 2 1 0 Total recordable injuries case (TRIC)3 • Total workforce Person 13 17 5 • Independent contractor Person 4 7 1 Total recordable injuries rate (TRIR)3 • Total workforce4 Person per 0.11 0.13 0.03 • Independent contractor5 200,000 hours worked 0.14 0.10 0.02 Lost day rate (LDR) • Total workforce Lost days per 0.79 0.46 0.28 • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked 1.23 0.45 0 Absentee rate (AR) • Total workforce % 1.54 1.32 1.53 • Independent contractor % NA NA NA Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR)3 • Total workforce Person per 0.07 0.05 0.03 • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked 0.07 0.01 0.02 Occupational illness frequency rate (OIFR)3 • Total workforce Person per 0.01 0.00 0.00 • Independent contractor 200,000 hours worked NA NA NA Fatalities • Total workforce Person 3 0 0 • Independent contractor Person NA 0 0 Near Misses • Total workforce & independent contractor Case 134 154 146 Accident • Number of accidents from using Case 19 8 14 corporate vehicles6 • Number of land transport accidents Case 0.12 0.11 0.10 per 1,000,000 km7 Remarks: NA Not available 1 The reporting boundary covers domestic operations only, not broken down at the regional level . OH&S data is also not broken down by gender because PTT equally regards the importance of safety for all employees, in accordance with PTT’s Code of Business Ethics. The data excludes contractors working on construction projects that have not yet been handed over to PTT, such as the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Project. 2 Monitored by calendar day, and is recorded after the day on which the incident occurred. 2020 target is equal to zero. 3 Do not include first aid cases. 4 2020 target for total workforce is equal to 0.066 per 200,000 hours. 5 2020 target for independent contractors equals to 0.086 per 200,000 hours. 6 2015 target equals to 6. 7 2015 target equals to 0.05. Lost day rate (LDR) Lost time injury frequency rates (LTIFR) (lost days per 200,000 hours worked) (lost days per 200,000 hours worked) 1.23 0.07 0.07 0.79 0.05 0.46 0.45 0.03 0.28 0.02 0.01 0 Year 2013 2014 2015 Year 2013 2014 2015 Total workforce Independent contractor 64 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Environment PTT Operated Business PTT Building Terminal Research & Technology Institute Gas Separation Plant (GSP) Gas Transmission (GTM) NGV Service Stations 2015 Coverage (%) Head Office Prakanong Office Rayong Office Gas Terminal Oil Terminal Transportation Reporting Scope Year Aviation Retail Lubrication Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 2015 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 2015 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • Direct energy consumption 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Electricity purchased 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • Water withdrawal 2015 • • • NA • • • • • • • NR • 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 100 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • Effluents 2015 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • NR NR • 2014 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • • NR • 100 2013 NR NR NR NR • NR • • • • • NR • Produced water 2015 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2014 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2013 NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Waste disposal 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • NR • 100 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • NR NA Oil and chemical spills 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 2013 • • • • • • • • • • • • • Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) 2015 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2014 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 100 2013 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 2015 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 2014 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR 100 2013 NR NR NR NR • • NR NR NR NR NR NR NR Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 2015 NR NR NR • NR • • NA NR NR NR NR NR 2014 NR NR NR NR • NR • • NA NR NR NR NR 100 2013 NR NR NR NR NA NR • • NA NR NR NR NR Volume of methane (CH4) emitted 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Direct methane (CH4) emissions 2015 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2014 • • • • • • • • • • • • • 100 2013 • • • NA • • • • • • • • • Remarks: NA Not available NR Not relevant Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 65 water GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal Million m3 3.03 3.24 3.63 • Surface water Million m3 0.14 0.19 0.27 % 4.58 5.73 7.44 • Seawater Million m3 0.01 0.01 0.01 % 0.23 0.24 0.19 • Water supply Million m3 2.84 2.92 3.18 % 93.81 90.28 87.50 • Groundwater Million m3 0.04 0.11 0.15 % 1.38 3.42 4.10 • Rainwater Million m3 0.00 0.01 0.03 % 0.00 0.33 0.72 Total salt/brackish water (seawater + once through cooling) Million m3 0.01 0.01 0.01 Water from all other sources (surface water + groundwater) Million m3 0.18 0.30 0.42 G4-EN10 Recycled & reused water Percentage of water withdrawal 0.96 5.04 6.00 Million m3 0.03 0.17 0.23 Water intensity m3boe 0.008 0.009 0.009 Remarks: • Strategic Objective 2020: Reduce water consumption in high risk areas and limit the increase of water consumption in areas with high consumption. • In 2015, PTT revised its collection and reporting methodologies for Rayong Gas Separation Plant to ensure more completeness of data. Data from previous years have also been recalculated to match the new methodologies and are included in this report. • Increase in water supply usage was due to testing of equipment for the demineralized water project at Rayong Gas Separation Plant (Eco-Cure Project), which utilizes membrane technology and EDI system in place of the existing system, allowing for more environmentally-friendly operations. • Increase in freshwater withdrawal was due to testing of the fuel storage tank at Surat Thani Petroleum Terminal (Fuel and LPG). • Increases in the volume of recycled and reused water were also a result of the Eco-Cure Project. emissionS GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN22 Total water discharge Million m3 1.20 1.26 1.49 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Ton 105.28 121.28 132.64 Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Ton 3.82 3.85 4.72 Remarks: • Total water discharge COD and BOD increased as Rayong Gas Separation Plant underwent routine maintenance for its Comprehensive Wastewater Treatment Plant, during which the water recycling system was temporarily stalled for improvements. However, the quality of effluents was not affected and remained in line with legal requirements. 66 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited waste GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23 Waste from routine operations Ton 13,117.03 13,303.74 15,517.39 Total hazardous waste disposal Ton 4,943.52 2,933.41 4,448.45 • Secure landfill Ton 895.03 513.03 110.42 • Reuse Ton 3.55 7.05 0.05 • Recycle Ton 167.72 202.09 537.36 • Recover Ton 2,852.56 1,905.22 3,335.31 • Others (incineration, compositing, deep well injection) Ton 1,024.67 306.07 465.30 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton 8,173.51 10,370.33 11,068.95 • Landfill Ton 52.27 116.12 24.04 • Reuse Ton 1.63 540.51 0.12 • Recycle Ton 2,169.23 458.40 1,788.62 • Recover Ton 0.00 8.47 161.18 • Domestic waste Ton 5,950.38 9,246.82 9,095.00 Waste from non-routine operations (e.g. construction waste, Ton 2,503.81 3,136.40 2,993.39 spill clean-up waste, crisis management waste) Total hazardous waste disposal Ton 37.18 1,899.74 1,725.25 • Secure landfill Ton 23.30 99.39 131.83 • Recycle Ton 0.00 110.84 0.00 • Recover Ton 12.88 724.58 1,537.48 • Others Ton 1.00 964.93 55.94 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton 2,466.63 1,236.67 1,315.47 • Landfill Ton 0.00 68.51 25.43 • Reuse Ton 2,450.00 1,080.20 710.00 • Recycle Ton 0.00 78.99 287.30 • Domestic waste Ton 16.63 8.96 5.31 Waste On-site storage Ton 60.19 64.77 467.85 Remarks: • Decrease in the amount of waste to landfill from routine operations is due to the separation of waste that occurs at the beginning of the disposal process, allowing for more appropriate waste disposal methods, in alignment with the Strategic Objective 2020 of “Zero Hazardous Waste to Landfill.” • Volume of waste from non-routine operations includes waste generated from the construction of capital projects and risk and crisis management. • There is no established threshold for hazardous waste, as all operations must report their total volume of hazardous wastes sent for disposal. • In 2015, the Increase in waste from routine operations was due to the routine maintenance of Rayong Gas Separation Plant #5. Total Hazardous Waste Disposal Secure landfill Recycle (ton) (ton) 895.03 537.36 513.03 167.72 202.09 110.42 Year 2013 2014 2015 Year 2013 2014 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 67 spills GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN24 Oil and chemical spills From PTT operational boundary • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 1 1 0 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 6.00 0.30 0.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (transportation): truck transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 8 6 4 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 40.95 42.03 18.25 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (transportation): ship and barge transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA 0 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA 0.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA 0.00 Significant spill (Volume ≥ 100 barrel) From PTT operational boundary • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 1 0 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 26.00 0.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (transportation): truck transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 3 3 4 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 90.80 83.00 129.35 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills 0 0 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 0.00 0.00 0.00 From 3rd party (transportation): ship and barge transportation • Number of hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA 0 • Volume of hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA 0.00 • Number of non-hydrocarbon spills Number of spills NA NA 0 • Volume of non-hydrocarbon spills m3 NA NA 0.00 Remarks: NA Not available • Volume of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon spills include spills which occur in operational areas, as well as those from truck and shipping transportation, that result in a volume of more than 1 barrel of oil spilled to the environment. In the case of spills, PTT executes spill response procedures to control spills within the shortest time possible in order to minimize environmental impacts, for instance, with booms and skimmers. emissionS GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN21 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Ton 6,749.70 7,798.05 9,472.17 VOCs Intensity Ton per million barrel oil equivalents (mboe) 17.69 21.12 24.38 Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) Ton 969.46 970.33 1,145.90 NOx intensity Ton per million barrel oil equivalents (mboe) 2.54 2.63 2.95 Sulphur dioxide (SO2) Ton 121.00 138.56 77.35 SO2 intensity Ton per million barrel oil equivalents (mboe) 0.32 0.38 0.20 Remarks: • Strategic Objective 2020: Zero emission rate of SO2, NOx, and VOCs. • VOCs emissions increased as PTT expanded the scope of reporting included 7 aviation depots and 92 PTT-owned and operated service stations. • SO2 and NOx emissions from all facilities remain below the legal threshold for air quality. 68 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited energy GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN3 Total direct energy consumption GJ 45,240,812 46,963,071 48,339,286 Total indirect energy consumption GJ 2,676,817 2,817,088 2,620,978 Electricity purchased GJ 2,676,817 2,817,088 2,620,978 GRI Required Data Unit PTT Group 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN3 Total energy consumption GJ 288,423,645 331,372,596 261,592,484 Total direct energy consumption • PTT operational control GJ 268,127,556 307,138,291 243,485,680 Total indirect energy consumption GJ 20,296,089 24,234,305 18,106,804 G4-EN5 Direct energy intensity • Oil and gas production GJ/mboe 228,497 165,510 190,238 • Refinery throughput GJ/Ton refinery throughput 1.53 1.13 1.91 • Petrochemical throughput GJ/Ton petrochemical product 3.76 11.20 2.88 Remarks: • Strategic Objective 2020: Reduce energy intensity by at least 1.9% annually based on a business as usual (BAU) scenario until 2017. • Only electricity purchased is counted as part of indirect energy consumption. • Energy intensity of Oil & Gas Production, Refinery and Petrochemical Businesses covers Rayong Gas Separation Plant, PTTEP, PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. CH4 Methane (CH4) Emitted and CH4 EmissionS GRI Required Data Unit PTT Group 2013 2014 2015 Volume of methane emitted (leakage, venting, and flaring) m3 72,826,380 83,405,431 77,698,553 Direct CH4 emissions (extracted from GHG) Ton 49,443 56,566 52,686 G4-OG6 Volume of flared hydrocarbon m3 789,082 686,912 764,932 Volume of vented hydrocarbon m3 46,332 32,745 55,562 Remarks: • PTT conducts analyses on methane leakage from various cases. Continuous reporting and preventive measures on future methane leakage are also considered. • Restatement: In 2015, PTT updated its methane leakage calculation methodologies for better accuracy and consistency. Data from previous years have also been recalculated and are included in this report. • The volume of methane emitted includes leakage, gas vented from processes (CO2 separation and ethylene production), methane emitted from vented emissions, and flaring. • Direct CH4 emissions include those from aforementioned sources, as well as direct CH4 emitted from combustion sources. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 69 GHG GHG and Methane (CH4) emissionS GRI Required Data Unit PTT 2013 2014 2015 Total GHG emissions Ton CO2 equivalents 10,889,108 11,776,221 11,762,998 G4-EN15 GHG Scope 1 Ton CO2 equivalents 10,506,883 11,371,147 11,407,679 G4-EN16 GHG Scope 2 Ton CO2 equivalents 382,224 405,074 355,319 G4-EN17 GHG Scope 3 Ton CO2 equivalents 122,310,077 122,819,319 129,633,169 GRI Required Data Unit PTT Group 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN15 GHG Scope 1 • PTT operational control Ton CO2 equivalents 31,241,208 31,122,074 31,115,981 • PTT equity share Ton CO2 equivalents 20,302,869 20,950,243 20,701,762 G4-EN16 GHG Scope 2 • PTT operational control Ton CO2 equivalents 2,329,662 2,382,210 1,800,870 • PTT equity share Ton CO2 equivalents 1,374,324 1,406,599 1,080,016 G4-EN17 GHG Scope 3 Ton CO2 equivalents 122,329,999 122,819,319 125,722,575 G4-EN18 GHG Intensity • Oil and gas production Ton CO2 equivalents/Million barrel oil equivalents 48,995 35,617 38,130 • Refinery Ton CO2 equivalents/Ton refinery throughput 0.1286 0.0877 0.0899 • Petrochemical Ton CO2 equivalents/Ton petrochemical product 0.6817 0.6461 0.5499 Remarks: • Strategic Objective 2020: Reduce GHG intensity by 5% based on business as usual (BAU) scenario, from a 2012 baseline. • The organizational boundary of PTT based on the operational control approach is in compliance with the PTT Group SSHE Policy. • The organizational boundary of PTT based on the equity share approach includes all domestic subsidiaries in which PTT directly owns more than 20% of shares or indirectly owns 100% of shares. • Scope 3 emissions include the combustion of fuel sold by PTT only. • Restatement: In 2015, PTT recalculated GHG emissions up to 2012 to better reflect completeness of data due to the sales of shares from BCP, SPRC, and BUP unit. • Restatement: In 2015, PTT recalculated GHG emissions up to 2012 to better reflect accuracy and continuity of data due to improved collection processes from CO2 separation and ethylene production activities, as well as methane leakage from the NGV business. • GHG intensity of the Oil and Gas Production Business increased in 2015 compared to the previous year due to lowered production in Greater Bongkot South, despite a decrease in absolute emissions of approximately 5%. • GHG intensity reporting boundary for the Refinery Business includes PTTGC, TOP, and IRPC. • GHG intensity reporting boundary for the Petrochemical Business includes IRPC, HMC, PTTGC and PTTAC, and demonstrates a decreasing trend. GHG emissions of PTT Group Scope 1 Scope 2 (million ton CO2 equivalents) (million ton CO2 equivalents) 31.24 31.12 31.12 2.33 2.38 1.80 20.30 20.95 20.70 1.37 1.41 1.08 Year 2013 2014 2015 Year 2013 2014 2015 PTT operational control PTT equity share 70 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 71 In 2015, PTT received a total of 77 awards and certifications from 45 institutes National Awards 57 34 Awards Institutes such as International Awards 20 11 Awards Institutes such as Sustainability Report PTT remained the member in Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) Award 2015, Best Award and Dow Jones Sustainability Emergingth Markets Index (DJSI Emerging Markets) in Given by the Securities and the Oil and Gas Industry: OIX for the 4 consecutive year. Exchange Commissions, the Thai List Companies Association, Given by RobecoSAM and and the Thaipat Institute S&P Dow Jones Indices • Board of Directors 2015 Granted an award from • Sustainability Awards • Special Prestige Award HRH Princess Maha • Thailand for the Board of Chakri Sirindhorn at The King of Thailand Sustainability State Enterprise Directors with the Thailand Corporate Vetiver Awards Investment Awards Outstanding Awards: Continually Good Excellence Awards 2015 • The King of Thailand Vetiver • Outstanding Information Performance event Disclosure and Transparency Awards, Outstanding People Given by the Stock Exchange Given by Thai Institute of Director, • Award for Excellence in Social Public Participation – Disaster of Thailand Award • Award for the environmental together with the Thai Chamber Responsibility Mitigation or Environmental and social work of Commerce and Board of Trade • 3 Outstanding Awards for Green Rankings 2015 In 2015, PTT was Protection Outstanding Industry • Outstanding Innovation Award, of Thailand, the Federation of ranked 93rd from Thai Industries, the Thai Bankers’ Excellence in Leadership, • The King of Thailand’s Award 2015 in the Energy for the 6th consecutive year Excellence in Human Resource PTT was ranked 111th in the global 500 largest Certificate of Excellence, Association, the Thai Listed Green Ranking 2015 and the 2nd companies Management Category Given by the State Enterprise Companies Association, and the Management, and Excellence Dissemination and Technology Federation of Thai Capital Market in Financial Management in the Energy Category Given by Fortune Transfer Given by the Ministry of Industry Policy Office Organizations Given by Thailand Management Given by Newsweek Magazine Magazine Global 500 Given by Chaipattana Association and Sasin Foundation, Office of the Graduate Institute of Business Royal Development Projects Trophy of Honor Administration of Chulalongkorn Board, and Vetiver Network University Asian Excellence International Trophy of Honor from Prime Minister General Prayuth Recognition Awards Chan-ocha to PTT for being listed as a member of the 2015 from the 5th Asian Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) for the 3rd Excellence Recognition consecutive year and to 4 PTT Group subsidiaries also Awards 2015, listed as members of DJSI 2014 PTT Wanarom Eco Zone The Asset Corporate Asia’s Most Admired Industries (PTT WECoZi) 3 awards for individuals: Awards 2015 Brand 2014 Given by the Stock Exchange of Thailand passed the assessments • Asia’s Best CEO and was certified from 3 (for 5th consecutive year): Platinum Award Winners received in the Energy Business institutes; namely, Dr. Pailin Chuchottaworn for the 7th consecutive year Given by World Consulting Colorful PV Rest Area Research National Public Service Award in the • Asia’s Best CFO: Given by the Asset Magazine and Research Center (WCRC) Excellent Service Development category • Eco-industrial Zone Mr. Wirat Uanarumit Received the Creative Technology for Society Award Eco Champion Award, • Best Investor Relations Co., Ltd. 2015 from the Best Machinery Technology Award PTT Contact Center 1365 and the automatic buying the first in Thailand Professional: system from direct debit received the award at the Mr. Pijin Apiwanthanaporn ASEAN Corporate Granted Outstanding Given by the Ministry of Science and Technology Good Level from the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand Governance Awards Award for 4 aspects: Given by the Office of the Public Sector 3 awards for the organization: • ISO14001: • Best Investor Relations • Most Organized Investor Development Commission ASEAN Corporate Governance Relations Environmental Management System • Best Environment Awards as the Thai listed Responsibility • Strongest Adherence to from the Management System • Best Corporate Social company, as the TOP 50 ASEAN Corporate Governance ESG100 Certificate • PTT service stations were voted from Certification Institute (Thailand) Responsibility PLCs according to the ASEAN consumers as the Most Favorite Brand, for the • Most Consistent Dividend Received ESG100 Certificate for its outstanding CG Scorecard 2015 criteria Policy 12th consecutive year • Thailand Voluntary Emission Given by Corporate Governance environmental, social, and governance practices Reduction (T-VER) of PTT WECoZi Asia Magazine Given by ASEAN Corporate • Best Annual Report in Thailand • PTT lubricant products were voted as was registered by Thailand Governance Given by Thaipat Institute No.1 Brand, for the 5th consecutive year Given by the Alpha Southeast Greenhouse Gas Management Asia Magazine Given by BrandAge Magazine Organization (Public Organization) 72 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited GRI, IR, UNGC and UN SDGs content index Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) General Standard Disclosures Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Statement 4-5 G4-2 Key Impacts, Risks, and Opportunities 5, 9, 22-23 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6-7 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 9 G4-6 Countries of operation 8-9 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 Markets served 6-9 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 8, 47, 60 G4-10 Total workforce by type 60 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Performance.aspx G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 6-7 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, No significant changes regarding the structure, ownership, or supply chain organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain in 2015. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 33 by the organization G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTprinciples, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Sustainability/Pages/Collaboration.aspx G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTorganizations in which the organization is part Sustainability/Pages/Collaboration.aspx Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17* List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 1 equivalent documents, and whether any entity is not covered by the report G4-18* Explain the process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries, and 2-3 how the organization implements the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19* List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 3 G4-20* Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect 3 G4-21* Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect 3 G4-22* Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 1 and the reasons for such restatements G4-23* Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and 1 Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24* List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 14-15 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Stakeholder-Engagement/Pages/ default.aspx G4-25* Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 14 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Stakeholder-Engagement/Pages/ default.aspx G4-26* Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 14 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Stakeholder-Engagement/Pages/ default.aspx G4-27* Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 14-15 organization has responded Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 73 Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 1 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 G4-31 Contact point for the report Front cover G4-32 GRI Content Index for “in accordance” option the organization has chosen 72-77 G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice regarding external 78-79 assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization http://www.pttplc.com/en/About/Organization/ pages/Organization-Chart.aspx G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Governance/Pages/CorporateGovernance.aspx G4-36 Appointment of an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for 16 economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Annual Report 2015 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Annual Report 2015 officer G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its Annual Report 2015 committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 19 avoided and managed G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with 16-19 respect to economic, environmental, and social topics G4-46 Role of highest governance body in reviewing the effectiveness of the 23 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the 2 organization’s sustainability report and ensures all material Aspects are covered Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10, 18-19, 21, 46-49 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful 21 behavior, or matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or 21 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity * Indicators G4-17 to G4-27 have been externally verified by an independent third party organization. Specific Standard Disclosures: Economic Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Economic Performance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 10-12 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 59 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 33-34 activities due to climate change G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 59 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50-57 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 50-57 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts 27, 50-57 Specific Standard Disclosures: Environmental Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Energy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 33-36 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN3* Direct energy consumption 68 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption 68 G4-EN5* Energy intensity 36, 68 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 33, 68 Water G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 36 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN8* Total water withdrawal by source 65 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly impacted by water withdrawal 36-37 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 65 74 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Biodiversity G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 44 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Biodiversity/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 44-45 biodiversity G4-OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk 44 has been assessed and monitored Emissions G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 38 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Climate-Strategy/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN15* Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 34 G4-EN16* Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 34 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 69 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 69 G4-EN21* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 38, 67 Effluents and waste G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 39 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN22* Total water discharge by quality and destination 65 G4-EN23* Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 66 G4-EN24* Total number and volume of significant spills 39, 67 G4-OG6* Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon 68 Products and Services G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 28 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/ Product-Safety.aspx G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 28-31 Compliance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Stewardship/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN29 Value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonNo issues of non-compliance with environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations laws and regulations in 2015. Transport G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 40-41 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Security-Safety-Health/Pages/default.aspx G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and 39-41 materials Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 24-25 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/ default.aspx G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria 25 * Indicators G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN21, G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, and G4-OG6 have been externally verified by an independent third party organization. Specific Standard Disclosures: Social Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Employment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 46-47 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management.aspx G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 60-61 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 47 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 61 Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 40-42 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Security-Safety-Health/Pages/default.aspx G4-LA6* Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 40, 63 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases 40 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 75 Profile Description Page/Link/Comment Training and Education G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 46-47 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management.aspx G4-LA9* Average hours of training per year per employee 48, 61 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 46-49 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 48 reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 47 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management.aspx G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 60 category Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 24-25 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/ default.aspx G4-LA14 Percentage of new employees screened using labor practices criteria 25 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/ Supply-Chain-Management-Performance.aspx G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply 25 chain and actions taken Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Fair-Practice/Pages/default.aspx G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and received No grievances about labor practices filed in 2015. through formal mechanisms Non-discrimination G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management.aspx G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Fair-Practice/Pages/PerformanceFairOperating. aspx Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Career/SustainableHuman-Resource-Management/Pages/ Sustainable-Human-Resource-Management.aspx G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk Fair-Practice/Pages/PerformanceFairOperating. aspx Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 22 G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights 22 reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 24-25 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/ default.aspx G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 25 Local Communities G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 43 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Project-Management/Pages/default. aspx G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 43, 50-51 and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local 43 communities G4-OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and 43 indigenous peoples Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 21 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Fair-Practice/Pages/default.aspx 76 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited Profile Description Page/Link/Comment G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 21 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption occurred in 2015. Public Policy G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/PTTSustainability/Pages/Collaboration.aspx G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient Political contributions are prohibited under PTT regulations. Compliance G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Fair-Practice/Pages/default.aspx G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 25, 34 for non-compliance with laws and regulations Supplier Assessments for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 24-25 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Supply-Chain-Management/Pages/ default.aspx G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened using social impacts criteria 25 Involuntary Resettlement G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Economics/Project-Management/Pages/default. aspx G4-OG12 Operations where involuntary resettlement took place 43 Asset Integrity and Process Safety G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 40, 42 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/Social/ Security-Safety-Health/Pages/default.aspx G4-OG13 Process safety events, by business activity 42 Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 30 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/ Product-Safety.aspx G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No incidents of non-compliance concerning codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services health and safety of products and services in 2015. Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 30 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/ Product-Safety.aspx G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary No incidents of non-compliance concerning codes concerning product and service information and labeling product and service information and labeling in 2015. G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys 31 Fossil Fuel Substitutes G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 29-30 http://www.pttplc.com/en/Sustainability/ Environment/Product-Stewardship/Pages/ Product-Safety.aspx G4-OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased 30 * Indicators G4-LA6 and G4-LA9 have been externally verified by an independent third party organization. Green text means indicators with added commentary in GRI Oil and Gas Sector Disclosure (OGSD) INTEGRATED REPORTING <IR> Integrated Reporting <IR> Capitals Capital Description Page Financial The pool of funds that is available to organization for use in the production of goods or the provision of services; 27-30, 33, 47, and obtained through financing, such as debt, equity or grants, or generated through operations or investments. 50, 58-59 Manufactured Manufactured physical objects that are available to an organization for use in the production of goods or 24-31, 44-45, the provision of services (e.g., buildings, equipment, and infrastructure). 52, 57 Intellectual Organizational, knowledge-based intangibles including intellectual property (e.g. patents, copyrights, software, 46-49 rights and licenses) and organizational capital (e.g., tacit knowledge, systems, procedures and protocols). Human People’s competencies, capabilities and experience, and their motivations to innovate. 28-31, 46-49 Social and The institutions and relationships within and between communities, groups of stakeholders and other networks, 14-15, 27, 46-49, Relationship and the ability to share information to enhance individual and collective well-being (e.g. shared norms, common 50-57 values and behaviors; key stakeholder relationships; intangibles associated with the brand and reputation; social license to operate). Natural All renewable and non-renewable environmental resources and processes that provide goods or services that 32-39, 43-45, support the past, current or future prosperity of an organization (e.g. air, water, land, minerals and forests, 54-57 biodiversity and eco-system health). Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 77 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress – Advanced Level Criterion Description Page 1 The COP describes mainstreaming into corporate functions and business units 16-17 2 The COP describes value chain implementation 24-27 3 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights 18-22 4 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles 22 5 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration 22 6 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labor 24-25, 40, 42 7 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the labor principles 24-25, 40, 47 8 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labor principles integration 19, 25-26, 40 9 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship 11, 28-29 10 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles 11 11 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship 11, 29 12 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti-corruption 21 13 The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle 21 14 The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption 21 15 The COP describes core business contributions to UN goals and issues 22 16 The COP describes strategic social investments and philanthropy 50-57 17 The COP describes advocacy and public policy engagement 21, 42 18 The COP describes partnerships and collective action 20-21, 27, 30, 42, 51-57 19 The COP describes CEO commitment and leadership 4-5 20 The COP describes Board adoption and oversight 16-17 21 The COP describes stakeholder engagement 14-15 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) Criterion Description Page 1 End poverty in all forms everywhere 50-55 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture 54-57 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 50-57 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 46-49, 51-55 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 46-48 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all 56-57 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all 54-55 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment 46-49 and decent work for all 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 29, 44-45, 51-52, 54-55 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries 9, 50-55 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 40-45, 52-55 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 28-31 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 28-31, 32-36 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development 36-37 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, 54-57 combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 16 Promote peaceful land inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all 18-22, 43, 47-48 and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 9, 14-15, 50, 59 78 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited LRQA Assurance Statement Relating to PTT Public Company Limited’s Corporate Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2015 This Assurance Statement has been prepared for PTT Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is intended for the readers of this Report. Terms of engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by PTT Public Company Limited (PTT) to provide independent assurance on its Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 (“the report”) against the assurance criteria below to a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier using Accountability’s AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 approach. Our assurance engagement covered PTT’s operations and activities in Thailand and specifically the following requirements:  Evaluating the nature and extent of PTT’s adherence to all three AA1000 AccountAbility Principles inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness.  Evaluating the reliability of sustainability performance information for only those selected specified indicators listed below at facilities directly under PTT’s operational control: Economic: Community investment (G4-EC1) Environmental: energy consumption within the organization (G4-EN3), energy intensity (G4-EN5), water withdrawal by source (G4-EN8), direct and indirect GHG emissions (G4-EN15 & 16), NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions (VOC) (G4-EN21), water discharge by quality and volume (G4-EN22), total weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23), number and volume of significant spill (G4EN24), volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon (G4-OG6) Social: type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days (G4-LA6), number of process safety events (G4-OG13) and average hours of training per employee (G4-LA9).  Confirming that the report is in accordance with: GRI G4’s reporting guidelines and core option GRI G4’s oil and gas sector disclosures. Our assurance engagement excluded data and information from PTT’s operations and activities outside of Thailand and its suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the report. LRQA’s responsibility is only to PTT. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. PTT’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of PTT. LRQA’s opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that PTT has not:  Met the requirements above  Disclosed reliable sustainability performance for the selected specified indicators as no errors or omissions were detected  Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this report. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a moderate assurance engagement is less than for a high assurance engagement. Moderate assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. LRQA’s approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with Accountability’s AA1000AS (2008) Type 2 approach. The following tasks though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement:  Assessing PTT’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured correctly. We did this through interviewing PTT’s employees who are engaging directly with stakeholder groups and reviewing associated records. This document is subject to the provision on page 2. Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited 79  Reviewing PTT’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were included in their report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by PTT and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether PTT makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards sustainable development.  Auditing PTT’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misstatements in the report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the report.  Reviewing supporting evidence made available at a representative facility for each of PTT’s business operations. These facilities were: the head office in Bangkok a gas pipeline operation, western route, Ratchaburi an oil and gas terminal in Surathani the gas separation plants in Rayong. Observations Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:  Stakeholder inclusivity: We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from PTT’s stakeholder engagement process. However, PTT should consider engaging further with under-represented groups. For example: independent contractors, providing maintenance services, to learn their views on PTT’s occupational health and safety issues (G4-LA6) and whether the performance indicator needs to capture their data.  Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues concerning PTT’s sustainability performance that have been excluded from the report. PTT reviews regularly their material issues, against their established and extensive criteria for determining material issues, to reconfirm that their material issues are still relevant. The criteria for determining materiality are not biased to PTT.  Responsiveness: PTT has processes for responding to various stakeholder groups. Principally the report is prepared with the aim of providing performance data and information to investors or wholesale clients. However, we believe that in addition to the strategic disclosure of how PTT corporately addresses material issues, future reports should share information on their involvement at the community level; i.e. explain what PTT’s operating facilities do to manage these same material issues.  Reliability: PTT uses a well-defined and centralized system to collect and calculate its data and information associated with the selected specific indicators. PTT also carries out its own internal data verification process to ensure the reliability of its reported performance data and information. LRQA’s competence and independence LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent. This verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for PTT and as such it does not compromise our independence or impartiality. Signed: Dated: 4 March 2016 Opart Charuratana LRQA Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance 14th Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND LRQA Reference: BGK6036723 Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2016. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. PTT Green in the City Sukhaphiban 2 Road, Bangkok Reader Feedback Survey PTT Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 Feedback received from this survey will be used for the improvement of the 2016 Corporate Sustainability Report. Thank you for your kind cooperation. Please indicate an X in the box and provide additional comments and opinions in the space provided. 1 Please specify your relationship with PTT Investor/Shareholder Employee Customer Partner 2 Please indicate your interest in reading the 2015 Sustainability Report Get to know PTT Academic Government Support investment decisions Media Student For research/education Community around operations Prepare own sustainability report Others (Please specify) Others (Please specify) 3 Please rate your view on the completeness and reliability of the 2015 Sustainability Report: • Understanding of PTT’s material issues • Alignment between sustainability performance High Medium Low Improve and PTT’s sustainability strategy High Medium Low Improve • Completeness and reliability of content High Medium Low Improve • Report content meets your expectations High Medium Low Improve 4 Please indicate which of the following PTT material issues you are interested in Corporate Governance People Human Rights Safety, Health and Environment Fair Operating Practices Corporate Citizenship Stakeholder Engagement Supply Chain Management Product Stewardship Reporting and Reputation Others (Please specify) 5 Does this report cover all material aspects relevant to PTT’s sustainability? If not, please specify which aspects should be included in future reports: 6 Please provide other comments and suggestions on how the sustainability report can be improved in the future: Reader Feedback Survey Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 PTT Public Company Limited บริการธุรกิจตอบรับ ใบอนุญาตที่ ปน. (น.) 12 ปทจ. จตุจักร ถ้าฝากส่งในประเทศไม่ต้องผนึกตราไปรษณียากร PTT Group Sustainability Management Project PTT Public Company Limited 555 Vibhavadi Rangsit Road, Chatuchak, Bangkok 10900 Thailand Tel: 66 (0) 2537-1636 Email: sustainability@pttplc.com
