Working on your future Sustainability report 2015 Table of contents Foreword by the chairman and CEO Company profile The changing society Our sustainability policy Our most important sustainability programs Commitment to our customers Commitment to our employees Commitment to society and local communities Commitment to the environment Commitment to conducting fair, honest and transparent business Sustainability reporting Methodology KPI per Materiality index GRI G4 table UN Global Compact COP table In the spotlights Most remarkable sustainability results for 2015 Commitment to Commitment to our customers our employees 150,000 55% customers of the employees is (very) proud to work for Telenet; a score no less benefitted from a full and free check-up than 6 percentage points above thanks to the ‘Helemaal mee Tournee’ the Belgian average Commitment to society and Commitment to local communities the environment 1,915 hours Climate Neutral thanks to continuous efforts to reduce of community work invested by CO2 emissions and an active investment Telenet employees in CO2 compensation Commitment to conducting fair, honest and Commitment to transparent business the environment 145 suppliers 445 tons 145 out of 147 assessed suppliers achieved an average to good CSR engagement score in the of waste avoided through the recycling dynamic EcoVadis scorecard and revaluation of used decoders and modems Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 1 Foreword by the chairman and CEO Dear customer Dear partner Dear shareholder The annual sustainability report offers an excellent 1. Super-fast broadband connections opportunity to reflect on the achievements and the future of our company. In doing so, we consciously look beyond The explosion of fixed and mobile data usage demands our own products, services and balance sheet figures – at constant expansion of the capacity of the network. That is the world that surrounds us and in which we want to be a why we continue to invest in our hybrid network of glass fiber responsible player. optic and coaxial cable. And we expand – as the first operator We tailor our policy to the most important market in Europe – the cable network to a giga speed network. By developments and socio-economic trends. This one stands doing so, we guarantee faster network connections for our out for us: we are all becoming massively more digital. customers with higher data volumes – anytime, anywhere. Some notable facts: Internet usage doubles every eighteen months. Mobile 2. Smart technologies data usage even doubles every twelve months. We provide our customers with innovative products and The majority of Flemish families own at least four devices services that enable them to run their businesses or fully that are connected to the Internet. relax. Paramount to this is fast and smooth access to smart Over a period of four years, mobile data usage increased technologies. And simplicity is key: clear pricing plans, userfifteen-fold. friendly devices and intuitive apps ensure that everyone can easily keep up with the digital age. At home and at the office. Pioneer in the digital age 3. Memorable experiences The way in which people work and relax is therefore rapidly changing. This poses new challenges to our company, to The technology as such does not matter to our users. What which we respond with three promises to our customers: does matter is how it helps them gain new knowledge, carelessly relax or freely interact. All experiences to which Telenet contributes directly. With quality entertainment for consumers and high-quality solutions for companies. 2 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Balance for sustainable growth Worldwide Industry Group Leader. For the fourth consecutive year we were nominated as ‘best in class’ in the global media As a leading Belgian telecom and entertainment company, industry. Since 2011 we also support the ten principles of the Telenet strives for sustainable growth, with a good balance UN Global Compact, and recently embraced the Sustainable between financial results and social responsibility. Development Goals drafted by the United Nations in September 2015. 2015 was once again a year during which we reported solid operating and financial results – with a total revenue growth of 6 percent – and laid the foundation for a healthy, prosperous A promising future growth for all stakeholders. In 2016, we want to continue focusing on sustainable growth. We are aware of the important social role that Telenet It is our ambition to be a leading provider of converged plays locally. We make a positive contribution to society, connected entertainment and business solutions in Belgium. the economy and the environment. We do so through Quality connectivity, smart applications for companies, our products and services, by creating jobs, community inspiring entertainment solutions and rich customer involvement and a responsible use of resources. experiences are key to this. Telenet remains fully committed to being a responsible and The recent acquisition of BASE Company also marks a year sustainable company that strengthens its relationship with of change, with new growth opportunities. We now own our its stakeholders through consultation and dialogue. Our most own mobile network, which offers new technological and important stakeholders are our employees, our customers, commercial perspectives. The acquisition also makes Telenet the shareholders, social groups, governments and regulators, a national player, with a social responsibility to all stakeholders labor unions and suppliers. in both parts of the country. Our actual social contribution is demonstrated, among Therefore, 2016 will be the year in which we thoroughly rethink others, by our ranking in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability our sustainability strategy. Not to drastically change course, Index. This recognizes leading companies in each industry but to ensure that in terms of sustainability, we also maintain for their responsible economic, ecological and social our leading position among Belgian companies. performance. In 2015, Telenet reconfirmed its position as Bert De Graeve John Porter Chairman Chief executive officer Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 3 Company profile Telenet is a leading provider of media For example, we continuously CO2 reduction and investments in and telecommunications services. improve our existing applications, CO2 compensation, Telenet was able Telenet focuses on the delivery of constantly expand the technological to present climate-neutral operations cable television, high-speed internet possibilities and grow our content for 2015. and fixed and mobile telephony offering. A convincing marketing At end December 2015, Telenet with services to primarily residential approach, creative product mix and headquarters in Mechelen had customers in Flanders and Brussels efficient customer service ensure that 2,415 employees and total revenue through a hybrid Fiber Coax network. Telenet continues to appeal to new of 1.8 billion euros – growth of nearly Through this performance network, target groups. 6%. At end-2015, Telenet reached Telenet provides high-quality In August 2014, Telenet announced 2,177,500 customers. entertainment services to residential ‘De Grote Netwerf’, an investment customers in Flanders and Brussels, Telenet’s main shareholder is project of 500 million EUR over a as well as professional communication Liberty Global, which owns 56.6% of period of 5 years to expand the cable services to companies in Belgium and the shares. network in Flanders to a vast network Luxembourg. that eventually will reach broadband More information about Telenet The recent acquisition of BASE speeds of at least 1 gigabit per and the results can be found in the Company – which was approved by second and a download speed of at Financial Report 2015 the European Commission in early least 1 Gbps. February 2016 – turns Telenet into an Furthermore, the company provides integrated telecom and entertainment oxygen to the Flemish entertainment company, with operations in Flanders, sector through investments in the Brussels and Wallonia. media company DeVijver Media and It is our ambition to become a leading financial injections in the STAP fund. provider of converged connected As a growth company, Telenet is entertainment and business solutions conscious of its increasing social in Belgium by 2020. responsibility. The company carries As a leading player in the area of out an active sustainability policy, media & telecommunications, with attention to the ecological, Telenet attaches much importance to social and economic aspects. Thanks innovation and development. to sustained efforts in the area of 4 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Our values Passion Cooperation Leadership Customer centricity Accountability Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 5 The changing society As a responsible company, Telenet aims to offer an answer to the socioeconomic challenges and technological developments that determine the way in which we live and work – today and tomorrow. We recognize the following important social trends that require our special attention: Climate change Yet Europe continues to attract Finally, the aging population is an migrants who for humanitarian, important demographic trend. The global warming of the climate is economic and geopolitical reasons Our society is aging in two ways: no longer in question. The increasing are looking for a new home in the ‘old life expectancy increases while the presence in the atmosphere of gases continent’. The migration flow that proportion of elderly people in the such as methane and carbon dioxide accelerated in 2015 showed a striking total population is growing. This is creates a greenhouse effect with trend: the new generation of migrants pressuring our health care systems, serious consequences for humans relies on mobile telecommunications which require a more innovative and and the environment. In 2015, the to plan routes and maintain contact proactive approach. Here too digital global community took a major step with fellow travelers and the applications can offer a sustainable forward: at the end of December at the home front. solution, both preventive and curative. Climate Conference in Paris, almost Despite the globalization, more all governments pledged to reduce emissions from fossil fuels by 2030 in and more people are finding a new Economic growth appreciation for their immediate order to limit global warming to 2 °C surroundings. Local products and & jobs above the pre-industrial level. The services are on the rise – partially climate agreement recognizes the because of their lower impact on the According to experts, the internet significant role played by corporates. environment. economy contributed to a growth It calls on them not only to limit of 21% of GDP of the G8 countries harmful emissions, but also to take Another notable demographic trend between 2005 and 2010. New the lead in the search for new and is the growing urbanization. Already technologies and extensive environmentally sound technologies. more than half of the world population digitalization are resulting in a new resides in cities. In the next decades economic dynamic, with new growth this is expected to increase to 80%. models, such as the share economy. Demographic changes This creates new challenges in terms The digital economy does require of livability, energy supply and mobility. ICT plays a crucial role in this. different skills – so-called ‘21st The steady progress of transport, century skills’ – from existing and telecommunications and international Digital innovations can create ‘smart future employees, with STEM trade leads to a strong globalization. cities’ that offer a better quality of (science, technology, engineering What is new is that the global power life. In Belgium too, governments, & mathematics) competencies, balance is increasingly shifting: the enterprises and research institutes creativity and entrepreneurship being economic dominance of the West are joining forces to give shape to the key. It is up to the government and the is being challenged by the East and ‘smart cities’ and ‘smart regions’ of the corporate world to strengthen these South. This has major implications future. Such a ‘smart city’ is based on skills through education and lifelong for the position of Europe, where the continuous connection of people, learning. economic growth and job creation are devices and objects. This of course will under pressure. not be possible without an intricate, Similarly, the vision of work is ready efficient and accessible network. for change. Because digitalization 6 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Massively more digital, key proof points 56% 6 out of 10 Flemings have 1x/day 1 Mio Belgians of Flemish households have a tablet a smartphone are watching YouTube 5/sec Number of products 6 out of 10 Belgians stream music 5.8 million Belgians are on Facebook bought online in Belgium on a daily basis 43% 6 out of 10 > 50% of Flemish households has 4 or regularly reads e-books or Belgians regularly watches tv more connected devices e-magazines or video online allows us to choose where and when devices that is connected to the action and to protect in particular we work, the relationship between internet (on average four devices per those who are vulnerable, such as employee and employer is changing. family). At the same time, all of us also children, in the digital world. If companies wish to attract talented use more applications. For example, people, they have to offer meaningful two thirds of Belgians watch movies, jobs to employees. As well as a good videos and TV over the internet and balance between work and private life. over 60% streams music on a daily basis. The ecommerce beam also results in increased usage: every Massively more digital second 5 products are ordered via online shopping. Finally, mobile data In the digital world the user’s demand usage is increasing exponentially, with for speed and data has significantly a multiplication factor of 15 over a fourincreased. In particular, digital natives year period. – the generations that grew up with the internet and mobile phones – have At the same time, the consumer higher expectations. is becoming increasingly aware of the risks related to the use of ICT, Research has shown that data in particular in terms of privacy, use doubles every 18 months. On protection of personal data and the the one hand, this is a result of the prevention of data fraud. It is our multiplication of the number of responsibility to take appropriate Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 7 Our sustainability policy The materiality matrix Sustainability is a multi-faceted concept – more than one can company can tackle at the same time. Therefore, Telenet has made the conscious decision to focus its efforts on the most relevant issues: the materialities. Telenet determines the importance of the various material matters in close consultation and dialogue with its stakeholders. The result is a schematic representation of the sustainability priorities and their relative importance: the materiality matrix. In April 2015, a new materiality matrix was defined. Privacy & data security HIGH Fair, responsible Best-in-class quality & transparent products and services business conduct Pricing & Importance to stakeholders billing transparency Open internet Customer experience Being an innovative and leading company Customer’s energy consumption Attracting, Offering customerResponsible retaining and centric products employer developing talent Electronic waste and equipment recycling Reducing environmental impact Customer health & safety Supply chain management Safe use of internet by children Role in society Promoting skills for the 21st century society MEDIUM Media landscape Employee engagement MEDIUM Influence on business success HIGH Selecting the 20 most How is relevant topics in the telecommunications the materiality matrix and media industry designed? In 2012, Telenet designed its first determine how important they Talking with materiality matrix. deem each of the 20 issues to stakeholders to gauge Telenet. For the most recent their interest in the To ensure that Telenet’s sustainability exercise in 2015, a total of 1,405 20 most important policy remains aligned with the most were surveyed. questions current interests of its stakeholders, the materiality matrix was updated in The senior management the spring of 2015. determines the (potential) effect of each issue on the commercial The materiality matrix is developed success of Telenet according to a structured process: The materiality matrix is an important A detailed analysis of relevant tool in Telenet’s sustainability policy. economic, social and ecological considerations in the A clear and measurable objective is Determining the telecommunications and media set for each materiality, as shown in (potential) impact of sector results in a long list of table ‘KPI per Materiality’ (pages 59-61). the 20 most 100 topics important questions on Telenet’s The long list is further refined and operating success categorized into a short list of 20 topics The most important stakeholder groups (private and corporate customers, employees, investors and shareholders, suppliers, policy makers/regulators, consumer organizations, media and sector organizations) are consulted to New materiality matrix Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 9 The Sustainability Strategy: LEAP The LEAP program represents Linking Environment And Profit and makes sustainability an integral part of Telenet’s overall business vision and long-term strategy. It rests on three pillars: 1. Connect: 2. Care: 3. Cascade: creating digital opportunities responsibility to our integrating sustainability into stakeholders everyday life Since its establishment in 1996, Telenet has been a leader in the Telenet has the ambition to play a Our social responsibility extends digitalization of Flanders and Belgium. responsible role in the community to beyond the walls of our company. The physical network ensures fast which it belongs. We actively involve Sustainability should play an important and flexible connections and brings our stakeholders in the policy and align role in the daily life of our stakeholders. technological innovation within the our approach with the themes that We achieve this, for example, by reach of our customers. We encourage are important to them. Our materiality continuously improving the energy education and training that teaches matrix best illustrates this. efficiency of our business operations. people the skills to get the most out of ICT. In addition, we invest in creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. 10 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Decision-making process Board of Directors Senior Leadership Reputation Corporate Affairs Team (SLT) Board Director 10 members, 3 of which are Top 12 managers Board consisting of SLT and Manages daily activities and independent directors board members provides reports Sustainability progress as fixed Design, implementation and agenda item Assesses and directs checking the sustainability improvements to Meets fortnightly program as a permanent Telenet’s corporate item on the agenda reputation, including sustainability aspects Meets at least once per quarter Meets every two months Towards a new sustainability strategy The recent acquisition of BASE our sustainability strategy. Not to Company marks a year of change. drastically change course, but to From now on, Telenet is a national ensure that we maintain our leading player with a social responsibility to position among Belgian companies in all stakeholders in both parts of the terms of sustainability. country. Therefore 2016 will be the year in which we thoroughly rethink Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 11 The commitment to our stakeholders At Telenet, each department is responsible for developing structural stakeholder relationships. At the corporate level, Telenet maintains dialogues with the following stakeholder groups: Customers Investors Employees Telenet uses the Net Promotor As a listed company, Telenet actively assesses the Score (NPS) to assess the Telenet openly, actively and satisfaction of its employees satisfaction of its customers. simultaneously communicates through the annual with all its investors. Zoom survey. Telenet applies four values to every new product: Telenet issues financial Telenet employees work in an simplicity, transparency, reports in accordance with environment that encourages focus on loyal customers, and International standards such personal development. forward-looking. as the International Financial Telenet gives young Reporting Standards (EU) and Telenet maintains transparent employees the opportunity the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. communication around to develop their talent in the sensitive issues such as price Young Grads program. adjustments. Telenet employees Through our social media are surrounded by an channels we actively engage in organization that constantly dialogue with our customers.. changes to encourage their growth, for example through The New Way of Working. 12 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Suppliers Local community Policy makers Telenet uses a code of Telenet consults local Telenet does not use external conduct on sustainability communities and lobbyists and does not that has to be signed by every neighborhood committees support political parties. supplier. for major projects, such as the Telenet is a member of roll-out of ‘De Grote Netwerf’ Telenet evaluates and specific professional project in Flemish cities and monitors the sustainability risk organizations, such as the municipalities. of each supplier through the ISPA (Belgian Internet Service EcoVadis platform. Telenet sponsors local Providers Association), Cable initiatives such as Alle Belgium, Cable Europe and the Telenet develops structural Gezinnen Online in Mechelen Platform Telecom Operators partnerships with suppliers and Ghent. and Service Providers who have a strong social dimension, such as the company IMSIR. Important memberships Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 13 Our most important sustainability programs Telenet remains committed to being a responsible and sustainable company that takes into account the social, economic and environmental aspects of its business operations. Sustainability however is a multi-faceted concept – more than one company can tackle at the same time. At Telenet, we therefore consciously choose to focus our efforts on the most relevant issues – the materialities – which we define in close consultation with our various stakeholders. These materialities also form the foundation for the various sustainability programs that we actively support as a company: Commitment to our customers Commitment to our employees Commitment to society and local communities Commitment to the environment Commitment to conducting fair, honest and transparent business Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 15 Commitment towards our customers The best service delivery A forward-looking for our customers approach to customer engagement 16 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | It is our ambition to develop lasting trust relationships with our customers by investing in best-in-class, customer-friendly products and service, by implementing a transparent pricing policy, and by striving for memorable experiences that enhance customer satisfaction. The wellbeing of our customers is key to this. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 17 The best service delivery for our customers At Telenet, we put in all effort to offer ACE also means that we take a critical innovative products and services to look at ourselves from the perspective our customers. The technology as of our customers. We earn their trust such does not matter to our users. every day by ensuring user-friendly What does matter is how it helps products, a transparent pricing policy them gain new knowledge, carelessly and clear communication. relax or freely interact. These are all experiences to which Telenet actively contributes, thanks to access to fast network connections with high data volumes, quality entertainment for consumers and high-quality business solutions. Positive customer experiences form the foundation for sustainable growth. For that reason, Telenet since 2014 has been investing in the Amazing Customer Experience Program (ACE), through which we constantly monitor, analyze and report on the experiences of our customers. As a result, we are able to more quickly identify pain points and provide targeted corrections. Since the start of ACE, we are proving more than ever that Case customer satisfaction is not an empty Helemaal mee Tournee phrase for us. As such, the number of customers that the Ombudsman for Since September 2014, Telenet is pro-actively conducting home visits Telecommunications feeds back to us at customers for a full and free check-up of their indoor installation. has been declining: 250 Telenet technicians ensure that customers are able to fully use their Telenet products and are fully up to date with the digital age: 1 file per 1,485 services delivered in 2013; They check the Wi-Fi service and optimize it if needed. 1 file per 1,639 services delivered They connect all mobile devices to the Wi-Fi network. in 2014; They recover forgotten passwords. 1 file per 2,081 services delivered They replace the modem free of charge for a newer model, if needed. in 2015. They check the wiring of the HD Digibox-Digicorder. They guide the customers through useful apps such as Yelo Play. In 2015, the Telenet technicians visited 150,000 customers. Another 150,000 will be added to this in 2016. With the ‘Helemaal mee Tournee’ Telenet is setting itself apart in customer-focused service provision, with a positive impact on customer satisfaction: the Net Promotor Score (NPS) increased with 43 points among visited customers. The total NPS impact was + 3.1 points. 18 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Best in class and user-friendly products Simple and easy also always state the legally required On social media, such as Facebook, information about waste treatment, Twitter and LinkedIn, we enter into product choices information about energy use, and the dialogue with our customer. SAR values of mobile phones. Whop and Whoppa. King and Kong. On our story platform SNAP Play, Play More and Play Sports … (snap.telenet.be) the customer Thanks to a limited offering it is Availability will read more about the use of easy for the customer to compare Telenet products and about our different products and to make a fast, Telenet remains close to its customers entertainment offering. balanced choice. and actively guides them towards On the Online Telenet Community the best digital experiences. We use Forum, customers ask questions, various channels to achieve this: Clear product share experiences and make suggestions to improve new or information On television channel 444 and the existing products. Telenet YouTube channel short With every Telenet product, the videos provide extra product customer will find a leaflet with the information. general conditions, and installation On My Telenet, customers can guide and an explicit CE certificate or subscribe to various commercial technical flyer, if needed. Telenet will newsletters. Hello Telenet? Availability of the customer service & technical helpdesk in 2015 Some notable numbers Via telephone Via internet, e-mail and Via social media mail 78 percent of phone calls are We can be reached every day from answered within 120 seconds. The online customer service was 8AM to 10PM and in the weekend visited 850,000 per month. This from 8.30AM to 6PM, even on We achieved a First-Time Right platform offers customers specific public holidays (with the exception percentage (customer receives step-by-step plans and useful of Christmas and New Year). optimal assistance during first contact) of 71 percent. information to initially resolve We achieved 324,580 registered problems on their own. social media mentions, a decrease My Telenet was visited over with 1.8 percent compared to 2014. 17 million times through the year The hottest topic in 2015 was Game and reached 1 million unique of Thrones: #choosesides. visitors, an increase with 4 percent compared to 2014. 80 percent of complaint emails and letters were answered within two days. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 19 Transparent pricing policy Prices and rates electronic invoice, will automatically period for product bundles, Internet, receive an email notification when a fixed or mobile telephone and without surprises new invoice is available on My Telenet. television, with the exception of the They can view their invoices for up to paid channel package Play Sports, We strive to transparently show our fourteen months. which is subject to the legal contract prices and any other costs both on term of six months. our websites and in our promotions or advertisements. For example, our Proactive website shows the total price for the communications The newest tariff plans product, including monthly costs such as decoder rent and the cable for everyone Is Telenet making important changes subscription fee. to its products or services? Then Telenet will contact customers for who We communicate one-off costs for its customers will be notified well in it is cheaper to change to a product activation, installation or the exchange advance. In case of a change that may formula that better matches their of hardware as clearly as possible. have a significant impact, customers product use. On our website we clearly show all will be informed via email or will receive potential one-off costs. the relevant information along with their invoice. Clear invoices No notice period A transparent invoice that clearly lists all details, contributes to the The Telecommunications Act limits trustworthiness of the company. the contractual duration of all telecom Therefore we take extra care here. services to six months. Telenet goes Customers, who choose to receive an beyond this: it removed the notice Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is the best At end-2015, we achieved a NPS score measure for the quality of our of -5.36. products and services. Therefore, The NPS also counts towards 15% Telenet every month asks close to of the bonus system of executive 12,000 residential and business employees. A convincing proof that customers what they think of the this score is important to Telenet. Telenet products and related services – such as installation, availability and the quality of the contact center. The Net Promotor Score (NPS) is an objective measure of the customer satisfaction and guides the improvement and optimization of our products and services. 20 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | A forward-looking approach to customer engagement Telenet strives for a permanent Wi-Free – a network of hotspots functionalities, such as improvement of the customer and home spots for which Rewatch TV. experiences and therefore actively customers, thanks to EAP Yelo Play – an app with a digital employs an innovation policy across technology, have to register TV guide, smart search function, various activity domains: only once. multiple screen view, and ability Optimization of the network Product innovation: Telenet to swipe to a larger screen. infrastructure: Telenet customers customers know that they always Service innovation: Telenet benefit from high-speed internet have the best and most innovative is setting a new standard for connections with large data products on the market. Examples customer-focused servicing thanks volumes thanks to investments in: from the last few years: to the ‘Helemaal mee Tournee’ The ‘Grote Netwerf’ – a giga Play and Play More – a balanced initiative. speed network that eventually package of channels, with will enable broadband speeds of local channels, international at least 1 gigabit per second. movies and series. This includes innovative television Case Always stronger together with Play Sports In July 2015, Telenet launched the successor to Sporting Telenet. Play Sports innovates through a broader offering and an intense total experiences that bring sports people and supporters more closely together. Sports enthusiasts are in the front row for the best in the area of soccer, hockey, volleyball, basketball, car and motor sports, golf and cycling. They come closer to their heroes thanks to live reporting, new sports magazines and a Play Sports app that adds an extra dimension with revealing live statistics, extra summaries, the goal alert function, etc. Play Sports ensures top entertainment on and on the side of the screen, as well as a total sports experience. Case New modem In November 2015, Telenet started installing its newest Eurodocsis 3.0 modem. This is a crucial switch in its transition to the network of the future that will enable internet speeds of at least 1 gigabit per second. In addition, this new modem meets the latest Wi-Fi standard (802.11ac), which for compatible devices is already creating a faster Wi-Fi connection. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 21 Commitment to our employees Notable Attracting, A sustainable Welfare at work HR numbers developing and employment policy engaging talent 22 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | As an employer, Telenet wants to be a passionate partner that encourages strong work performance and personal growth in a continuously changing society. We have selected an employment policy that enhances talent and maximum engagement. And we ensure that everyone is happy at work. Notable HR numbers 4 Recognized as ‘Top Employer’ for 242 vacancies successfully filled 60 percent of vacancies 4 consecutive years filled internally 35.54 hours of training per FTE 55 percent of employees is proud 2,569 employees can work remotely to work for Telenet 1,915 hours of community work 35.4 percent of employees is female; 74 at the Senior Management level occupational accidents invested by Telenet employees 45 percent is a woman Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 23 Attracting, developing and engaging talent Recruitment We encourage our employees to take In addition to general courses, control of their own development Telenet also offers specific talent As a large, dynamic company, Telenet trajectory (empowerment) and to look development programs. For example, always has a diverse offering of beyond traditional education. In doing newly promoted managers within vacancies. We share this through so, we apply a 70-20-10 model: the IT and Engineering departments traditional and less-traditional receive extra guidance through the 70% learning on the job; channels, such as newspaper ads, ‘from colleague to manager’ program. specialized job sites, our own website 20% learning through coaching and They explore their own behavioral ( jobs.telenet.be) and social media, feedback; styles, their role as a manager, and their such as Facebook and LinkedIn. We impact on the team. Extra coaching 10% learning through formal regularly organize one-day recruitment is available for our advisors within trainings and courses. events where applicants go through the Sales & Customer Operations the entire process in one day. The third part comprises a wide organization. They learn how to make Through our ‘Refer a friend’ program, selection of internal trainings and a stronger connection with customers employees can also recommend external courses by Cevora and other by sincerely listening to their questions colleagues. partners. The offering is particularly and needs. Many of these advisors diverse with sessions around become team coaches thanks to this Our goal is to attract people from all mindfulness, people management, special trajectory of six months of backgrounds – with a wide range of and presentation & business writing theoretical and practical experience, skills and professional experience. skills. We make extensive use of followed by an assessment. Telenet is convinced that a diverse alternative learning methods, such employee base contributes to more as company theater, role playing and creativity, a strong service delivery, and individual coaching sessions. better corporate results. That we grow through diversity, with a healthy mix of male and female, young and old. That the meeting of cultures and beliefs results in increased creativity and for more color in our ideas and products. In addition to external recruitment, the internal rotation system is an important way to fill vacancies, accounting for 60 percent in 2015. Talent development We foster acquired talent through various talent programs and trainings. Development trajectories are mapped out individually and are linked to the competency model. 24 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Mid-year & end-year performance. The basis package for all working is tailored to that. Telenet employees comprises a gross salary, is a company with a flat, informal reviews plus fringe benefits such as meal organizational structure, with a lot of and eco vouchers, hospitalization interdepartmental working groups. Allowing talent to flourish also requires and group insurance, and subsidized regular moments of reflection And as a high-tech company, we telecom facilities. The bonus system is between employees and managers, use ICT to promote that open linked to the end-of-year performance during which the daily performance communication: and is not just determined by the result is evaluated and development of the personal goals, but also by the A large part of our internal trajectories are mapped. collective performance of Telenet, communications takes place Telenet identifies two important including the NPS score. For executive through our intranet ‘Tine’. moments: employees, this parameter has a Our employees receive regular weighting of at least 15 percent, which business updates and information The mid-year conversation is a further highlights the importance of about training and development development meeting with a special customer satisfaction. programs. focus on personal growth and development intentions. Communications between parties The end-year appraisal focuses Engagement takes place – in particular in the case of working from home – on the realization of individual through communication tools objectives of the last year. Telenet encourages its employees to actively contribute and engage. such as Skype for Business. Since 2014, the performance Because doing so benefits our Employees use several forms of management process is standardized products and services and therefore communications, such as chat, for all entities within Liberty Global. our customers. audio and video conferencing and The Pearl Platform allows the setting the ability to share their screen with of goals, biannual progress meetings, Open communication is a key colleagues. and end-of-year assessments. Pearl condition for this: people should be able to speak without hesitation A special tool is the internal also provides self-evaluation tools for social network ‘De Gele Draad’. employees. when they have something to say. In particular if they are swimming Employees exchange ideas via Telenet employees are rewarded against the current. Our way of private or public online groups. fairly and competitively for their The engagement of our employees is also shaped by the annual ZOOM Engagement Survey which measures their satisfaction, In 2015, we achieved an engagement score of 55 percent Case – no less than 6 percentage point Young Graduate-program above the Belgian average. The ZOOM survey also asks questions about the The Young Graduate-program is a two-year training program for recently coaching quality of direct managers. graduated master students. For them, this is a good basis to further develop their skills. These young professionals are evenly distributed across all departments of the company and for two years become full members. During that period, they follow a number of targeted trainings around core competencies such as innovation, leadership, and customer focus. Through pitchand presentation sessions, the participants in the Young Grads program get the opportunity to present their competencies and skills to the Senior Leadership team. In January 2015, a group of 15 Young Grads – including 8 new employees and 7 existing employees – started the training program. They are all younger than 28 and have been working less than 2 years for Telenet. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 25 A sustainable employment policy Telenet makes sustainability and Outplacement: the employer The OR (Ondernemingsraad the welfare of its employees central offers the employee a set of guiding Conseil d’Entreprise) is an equal to its employment policy, which is services and advice to enable him representation and comprises the developed in close consultation with to find employment with a new same number of employer and the social partners. This is evidenced employer as soon as possible, or employee representatives, and is by a number of specific initiatives: to develop a professional activity involved in the social, economic as a self-employed person. and financial policies of the The New Way of Working: in Outplacement is arranged for by company. Reports from the OR are, September 2013, we rolled out law. In 2015, 16 employees were as required by law, published to all teleworking in a structural manner. offered outplacement. employees. In 2015, 2,569 individuals – including consultants – possessed the ability The CPBW (CPBW: Comités voor to work remotely. Teleworking Diversity and equal Preventie en Bescherming op gives employees more flexibility het Werk CPPT: Comités pour and responsibility to organize their opportunities la Prévention et la Protection au work, resulting in a better work-life Travail) is a consultative body that balance. Telenet uses the guideline Telenet promotes equal opportunities represents all employees and that of one day of teleworking per week. and diversity and condemns all forms is composed equally. It comprises This way, employees will remain of discrimination. We actively work on both employer and employee connected to their colleagues and diversity to ensure our organization is a representatives, the occupational the company. good reflection of the broader society doctor and the internal service for and our customer base. prevention and protection at work. Sabbatical: a career pause is We pay extra attention to the The CPBW is actively involved in part of the legal regulation of time recruitment and promotion of women. the health policy for employees credit. The maximum duration is in the performance of their work, one year of the entire career and In 2015, the number of female the global prevention plan and the can be either a full suspension or employees was 35.4 percent. annual action plan. This includes a reduction of working hours. The Telenet also has a strong the domains of labor safety, regulation states that an employer representation of women in senior health supervision, ergonomics, cannot refuse the time credit to management (45 percent of women) hygiene, workplace decoration, an employee that meets all legal and in the Board of Directors the psychosocial aspects of work, requirements – unless at that (2 women). including bullying, violence and time more than 5 percent of the unwanted sexual behavior and the population is using its time credit. (living) environment. The CPBW Upon return, the employee must take up the same position. In 2015, Consultation with primarily has advisory tasks around 381 employees took advantage of social partners new and changing technologies, work procedures, the design of the this possibility. Every month, Telenet has formal workplace, work means, protection Employment plan for older meetings with the committees for measures, trainings, instructions, employees: companies with more prevention and protection at work periodic check-ups, etc. than 20 employees must develop (CPBW) and with the Works Council such a plan in order to realize an (OR), a consultative body that fully increased participation rate of represents employees. employees of 45 years and older. 26 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Welfare at work Safety, welfare and the environment sustainable health policy. In addition, is responsible for the general are integral parts of the overall the adjustment of internal procedures coordination of the welfare policy business policy. around the psychosocial aspects of and is supported by external work was a major focus area. Extra environmental coordinators, the Once every three years, Telenet attention was given to the prevention prevention advisors and occupational conducts a comprehensive health against stress and burn-out. By doing doctors from the external prevention survey based on the S-ISW list, so, Telenet is proactively responding service. So called ‘Welfare which measures a number of welfare to recent survey results that show an champions’ are also appointed for indicators, such as stress, motivation, increase of psychological problems each department, who are partially unwanted behavior and absenteeism. among the Belgian professional responsible for the communication on Furthermore, it identifies risk factors, population. and the follow-up of the health survey such as how burdened employees feel every three years. in their job, and the risks at a team and The results are reported every year organizational level. In 2014, the health to the General Direction Supervision Telenet makes its employees aware, survey was completed by 75 percent on Welfare at Work, which is part of and activates them, with regard to of all employees. The results were very the Federal Government Service welfare and the psychosocial aspects similar to those of 2011. Employment, Labor and Social of work. For example, we create Consultation, and to the committees trainings on how to handle stress, In the Global Prevention Plan, for prevention and protection at work. how to be assertive, how to manage Telenet lays down the welfare and conflict, mindfulness, problem solving, environmental goals for the next five In 2015, there were 74 occupational interpersonal intelligence, speaking years, as identified through audits, accidents, of which 19 occupational enthusiastically before a group, risk analysis, safety inspections, accidents with temporary incapacity, mind mapping & radiant thinking, complaints, reports, and the results of 32 with some medical care, and fast processing and remembering of the health survey. This is in accordance 23 accidents to or from work. There information… When needed, we refer with the act on the welfare of workers were no fatal occupational accidents employees on an individual basis in the performance of their work. or accidents with confirmed for counseling and coaching via an permanent disability Every year, we update and specify the employee assistance program or other goals of the annual action plan. In 2015, The welfare policy is carefully forms of personal coaching. the most important actions focused monitored at both the business on following up on the health survey and department level. The and elaborating on projects around a Manager Compensation & Benefits Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 27 Commitment to society and local communities Investment Investing in Strengthen Ensuring digital Investing and Innovation the digital digital skills, inclusion in the local and creative enhance online community: economy safety stronger together 28 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | The digitalization offers significant growth opportunities for society. By investing in innovation, we as a company help build the knowledge society of today and tomorrow. We ensure that everyone is given an opportunity to develop their digital skills and safely uses the digital tools. We encourage digital entrepreneurship and are giving the Flemish media landscape a boost. Finally, we want to be a warm company that is rooted in the local community. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 29 Investment and innovation Digital innovation is of crucial almost its entire service area, with operation profit – the difference importance to the prosperity of our speeds of up to 100 Mbps. 100 percent between turnover on the one hand, region. It ensures a rising quality of of Telenet Internet customers surf the and the cost of goods and sales on the life, sustainable growth and new jobs. web at speeds of 30 Mbps. In 2015, the other hand. The total contribution was The European Commission for that average Internet speed was 114 Mbps. up 9.2 percent from 2014. reason intends to stimulate the digital In 2015, our total contribution to the economy and boost the European Belgian treasury was 440.1 million GDP by 5 percent by 2020 and create euros, or 81 percent of realized 3.8 million new jobs. Our country too is investing in digitalization through the Digital Belgium action plan. This links investment in a state-of-the-art digital infrastructure with high-speed Internet to the strengthening of the digital skills and the closing of the digital gap. In the European Digital Economy & Society Index (DESI), Belgium scores well: it ranks second in connectivity, third in Internet use, and fourth in the integration of digital technology in society and the economy. Telenet actively contributes to digital innovation by investing in the network and in high-quality products and services. In 2015, investments totaled 383.6 million euros – or 21 percent of corporate revenue. The majority of these commercial investments were used to expand and improve the network. Thanks to EuroDocsis 3.0 technology, Telenet today reaches 30 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Overview investments Contributions to the Belgian treasury Rental of set-top boxes for Network investments digital television Corporation tax on the 3% results 115.1 37% 225.4 43% Payroll tax Difference 4.4 between payable and deductible 53.1 17% VAT Maintenance of the network and 1.2 Social security other maintenance Customer installations Company contributions and taxes in millions of euros Case De Grote Netwerf & Nexus In the digital world, user demand for high-speed Internet and large data volumes is increasing significantly. For example, data usage doubles every 18 months. This requires a high-speed network. With De Grote Netwerf project, Telenet is accepting the challenge. Between 2014 and 2019 we will systematically expand the capacity of our network from 600 MHz to 1 GHz. As a result, private and corporate customers will enjoy broadband speeds of up to 1 Gbps. Flanders will become the first European region of this size with a 1 GHz network. To make this possible: we will invest 500 million euros over a 5-year period; we will replace or modify all 150,000 amplifiers and 1.8 million other components, such as splitters and taps; we will create 250 new jobs in Flanders. At end-2015, De Grote Netwerf already reached 53 Flemish cities and municipalities and over 100,000 customers. With the Nexus project, Telenet moreover strives to connect the SME zones and business parks to the high-speed network. To do so, we will invest another 9.5 million over a 5-year period. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 31 Investing in the digital and creative economy To succeed in the knowledge which is building a unified platform, We support Flemish television economy, creativity and and Doccle, which is building unified productions and movies through entrepreneurship should be platform to exchange, process and STAP, an investment program of encouraged. By doing so, we create archive documents from various 30 million euros that runs from 2013 economy added value and sustainable suppliers. to 2017. One of the most notable growth in a competitive global market. productions is Chaussée d’amour, As a local player in the Flemish The growing start-up community has a Flemish drama series that was media ecosystem, Telenet has been already proven that it pays off to bet on created in conjunction with the committed for years to a strong innovation and creativity – with a good production house De Mensen, Flemish audio-visual landscape: dose of courage and entrepreneurship. and for which all ten episodes We support local broadcast were released simultaneously in Since 2014, Telenet encourages initiatives, such as Studio 100, Ment May 2016 for Telenet Play and Play young digital entrepreneurship via the TV, Acht and Njam. More customers. Telenet Kickstart start-up acceleration program, in collaboration with the We hold a 50% stake in DeVijver Antwerp-based incubator Idealabs. Media and are working with Telenet also actively invests in growth channels FOUR and FIVE on the companies such as Pebble Media, convergence of TV and Internet. 32 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Case Telenet Kickstart, powered by Idealabs Start-ups are essential to the digital ecosystem. For that a convertible loan of 50,000 euros during the reason, Telenet provides oxygen to young entrepreneurial growth phase. talent. Over a period of 2 years Telenet is investing 1 million In September 2015, eight start-up teams were selected euros through this project in the Flemish digital business from over 400 applications. landscape. They were given the opportunity to develop a digital The Telenet Kickstart program is supported by the solution in one of the following domains: professional incubator Idealabs and takes place in two phases of 4 months each. During the acceleration phase, connected entertainment: ideas around music, the start-up teams convert their innovative idea into a photography, video and gaming; workable prototype or MVP (minimum viable product). connected living: ideas around employment, aging, If they thus convince the jury, they will be given the healthcare, wellbeing and ecology; opportunity to further refine their MVP into a marketready product that can win over customers and investors. connected business: ideas around digital business solutions. Telenet Kickstart provides guidance to the start-ups throughout the process, by: The second year of Telenet Kickstart, powered by Idealabs, concluded at the end of June 2016. expertise – A network of experienced mentors coaches the teams in fiscal, legal, psychological, Meanwhile, the start-up teams from the first cohort of technical and marketing matters. the Telenet Kickstart program (2014-2015) continue their journey. Some teams (INTUO and Scriptbook) recently technology – The start-ups can access top-notch convinced new investors, with investments of up to telecom, cloud and entertainment platforms. 1 million euros. work space – The Idealabs hub in the heart of Antwerp More information: www.telenetkickstart.be is an inspiring second home for the entrepreneurs. financing – The teams receive 25,000 euros in seed funding during the acceleration phase and Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 33 Strengthen digital skills, enhance online safety In today’s knowledge economy, digital We are also a member of the STEM Children and young people should skills are imperative. academy, which mainly supports not only acquire digital skills, but also extracurricular STEM activities. learn how to use digital tools in a safe There is a particular need for people manner. Through its main shareholder, with the STEM profile: Science, In this context, Telenet supports Liberty Global, Telenet is a Gold Technology, Engineering and CoderDojo Belgium, a non-profit Partner of the annual Safer Internet Mathematics. organization that teaches boys and Day, a European awareness campaign girls between the ages of 7 and 18 in a Nevertheless, for years there has for a safer internet use. To increase the group setting to code, build websites, been a shortage of graduates in the online safety of children and youth, we and develop apps and games. Every technical and science branches of also offer parental control solutions for week, free ‘Dojo’ gatherings are education. It is therefore important all our Internet and television services. organized in some 40 locations in that the children and young people Flanders and Brussels. Every month, of today choose STEM. In 2012, the the organization reaches more than Flemish government decided to 1,400 children. On 7 May 2015, more encourage careers in mathematics, than 1,100 children between the science and technology through ages of 10 and 14 gathered in the the STEM action plan. Education Genkse Limburghal for a MegaDojo plays a major role in this. But programming event. also social partners, media and companies are supporting the plan. In November 2015, Telenet signed the STEM charter. 34 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Ensuring digital inclusion In an inclusive digital society, technological innovations should be available to all. We work closely with strategic Case partners, such as the government, Alle Gezinnen Online social organizations and other industry players to introduce the wider society Digital inclusion is more than the availability of a PC or Internet and socially vulnerable groups to connection. Underprivileged families have at least as much need for innovative ICT applications. For this technological skills and attitudes. ‘Alle Gezinnen Online’ started from reason, Telenet applies a social fee to that philosophy. Fifty underprivileged families in Ghent for a year and a all its telecom products and services half received a computer with Internet access, digital literacy courses (Internet, television, fixed & mobile and technical support. This allowed them to discover the added value of telephony) and thus goes beyond digital applications and reconnected them with the digital society. what is legally required. In 2015, The project ran from 2013 to mid-2015 and was a collaboration between 111,827 customers enjoyed the social Telenet, the City of Ghent, Digipolis Gent, OCMW Gent, Oikonde and fee, up 8.5 percent from 2014. Leerpunt, a Center for basis education The Telenet Business department also offers – in cooperation with the Flemish government –SchoolNet, a commercial solution with a social purpose: tailor-made Internet for all schools and libraries in Flanders. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 35 Investing in the local community: stronger together! As a committed member of the local our employees’ active engagement. In 2015, Telenet employees thus community, Telenet invests in various From 2015, every Telenet employee invested 1,915 hours of community social projects. can take one day paid leave per work. The ‘Give a smile’ program calendar year to volunteer on one of enables Telenet employees to In 2015, our financial contribution to the projects supported by Telenet: dedicate their annual teambuilding charities and community initiatives Kom op tegen Kanker, CoderDojo, activity to a charity. We work with the was over 1,351 million euros. STEM, Vélo Afrique and Big Ride for non-profit Time4Society, which offers But we go beyond mere financial Africa. customized socially oriented events. support: we encourage and support Contributions to charities and community initiatives 2015 2014 Total financial contribution to charities and € 1,351 m € 2,112 m community initiatives Community investments per type Social welfare Economic Health Digital inclusion development 1% 10% 15% 25% 75% 74% Digital inclusion Economic development 2015 2014 Employee 1,915 870 volunteering work hours hours 36 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Case Case Telenetters cycle Telenetters are for charity the warmest employees During the Ascension Weekend in 2015, The Flemish radio station Studio Brussel for the past 10 years Kom op tegen Kanker organized its has been raising money for charity during the Christmas period. ‘1,000 km’. 598 teams of 8 people each During the Warmest Week (‘De Warmste Week’), listeners can paid an entry fee of 5,000 euros – thus choose a charity for which they would like to raise money. raising a total of almost 3 million euros. Two teams from Telenet also couraFor the 2015 edition, a number of Telenet employees sold geously participated. Telenet paid half candles to support 6 initiatives in which they themselves are of the registration fee and provided active or which they support: every new Telenet team member with a The non-profit Mama Lufuma is building a shelter for street brand new cycling outfit. children in Congo. In June 2015, the Telenetters jumped Bednet offers synchronous long-distance education for back onto their bikes again for the chronically ill students. Big Ride for Africa, a multipleday cycle tour for the benefit of Vélo Afrique supports the construction of local schools by Lessons for Life, an international cycling in Africa. non-profit that promotes educational Sniffing Snouts is a shelter initiative for dogs and cats. opportunities in Africa. The Big Ride is an initiative from Liberty Global, The National Multiple Sclerose Center is a hospital and Telenet’s main shareholder. In 2015, rehabilitation center for MS patients. more than 500 cyclists cycled one of the 200 km-long routes in Europe Levedale is a residential and service center for adults with – finishing together in Amsterdam. intellectual disabilities. Among them were around 30 sporty The ‘warmest employees’ of Telenet together raised Telenetters. 3,000 euros. Telenet gifted an additional 5,000 euros for each of these initiatives. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 37 Commitment to the environment Investing in CO2 reduction CO2-Compensation 38 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | We are taking our responsibility to reduce our impact on the environment by reducing our CO2 emissions throughout the value chain. We also commit to recycling our electronic devices and are taking action to significantly reduce the energy consumption at our customers’ homes. Thanks to these efforts and to investments in CO2 compensation, we achieved our goal of being climate neutral in 2015. Telenet is climate neutral I 2015 Metric ton CO2 Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 using the 26,415 7,616 27,166 7,818 27,510 10,513 28,867 12,289 12,306 location-based methodology market-based methodology 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon Offsets Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 39 Investing in C02 reduction Climate change through CO2 emissions as possible, in consultation with the vehicles was 111 g/km an increase by is the environmental challenge of owners of the leased properties. 1.8 percent compared to 2014. our time. To contain the negative mobility alternatives for consequences, we must limit global warming this century to 2° C above preEnergy efficiency of company cars – Since January 2013, employees can industrial levels. Telenet supports this the network combine their company car with goal, and in September 2015, along with a rail subscription. Or they can opt other Belgian industry partners and We ensure important savings by for a smaller lease car with lower NGOs, signed the charter in support of investing in the network and by CO2 emissions and a compensation the Climate Conference in Paris. replacing old equipment with more for unused budget. They can also It remains our ambition to grow Telenet efficient equipment. The energy opt out of the company car in as a company while reducing our efficiency – Power Usage Efficiency exchange for a compensation. impact on the environment. No easy (PUE) – of the 53 technical stations is continuously measured in real Train-Bike@Work – Telenet task: Telenet’s electricity consumption time to enable fast adjustment and provides rental bikes from the increases every year on the back of optimization of the systems and social workshop ’t Atelier for train rising demand for data processing processes. commuters. and the increasing availability of digital services. In 2015, Telenet’s overall energy Energy efficiency of Energy efficiency in efficiency improved by 37.6 percent the data centers customers’ homes relative to the reference year 2007. A detailed overview is included in the Telenet supports the European To reduce our customers’ energy sustainability results 2015 on page 56 code of conduct on data centers consumption at home, Telenet invests of this report. to increase their energy efficiency. in various innovative solutions: As a company, we take the following The data centers are responsible Set-top boxes: An increasing actions to increase energy efficiency: for the second-largest share of total number of households are electricity usage. To improve the using an energy-saving box that Power Usage Efficiency values, we automatically switches off when Electricity invest in LED technology, alternating it is left in standby mode for a consumption within pulsion for climate cabinets, and turbo compressors for cooling units. We are long time, and that has a smart own buildings and also replacing old cooling equipment energy function. Consequently, the decoder consumes less than 1W in leased premises and are increasing the use of the standby mode. These recent setserver farm. top boxes are more than 20 times Since mid-2008, Telenet uses more energy efficient than those 100 percent green energy within its own buildings. Hostbasket has been Mobility and of the first generation. The number of digital television customers doing the same since 1 January 2010, transportation increased by 2 percent in 2015. On Belcompany since September 2010, average, the set-top boxes used and Interkabel since 2012. Telenet We encourage responsible mobility 2.8 percent less energy than in 2014. opts for renewable energy sources solutions among our employees: such as solar panels. In the course of Modems: The new generation 2013, Telenet expanded the scope of clean vehicles – The average of wireless internet modems its CO2 reporting to leased building, CO2 emission of all passenger (HomeGateway 3.0) with 3-in-1 which even today do not all use green vehicles in 2015 was 107 g/km, a functionality (Internet, telephony, electricity. In 2015, the share of grey 4.5 percent improvement from Wi-Fi) consumes 24 percent less electricity was 7.3 percent. In the 2014. The average CO2 emission energy than the average modem. coming years, this grey electricity will of the newly deployed passenger be converted to green energy as much 40 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Case Telenet & IMSIR: tailor-made reverse logistics Every year, Telenet recycles more than This reverse logistics process follows strict procedures 220,000 decoders and modems that its endand complies with stringent quality standards. At customers return to the Telenet Centers or that are the end of 2011, IMSIR obtained the ISO9001 quality replaced by Telenet technicians. certificate for this. Telenet was looking for a sustainable and cost-efficient The sustainable partnership between Telenet and reverse logistics solution, that could substantially IMSIR every year results in an important contribution reduce waste and that had a social dimensions. Since to the environment. For example, in 2015 we avoided 2007, we collaborate with the company IMSIR in Boom more than 445 tons of waste through the recycling that offers job opportunities to individuals with limited and revaluation of used decoders and modems. The access to the labor market. cooperation with IMSIR also creates jobs for more than 50 individuals with limited access to the labor market. The 50 IMSIR employees have a structured approach And the project offers opportunities to dozens of to work: the received goods are unpacked, counted and interns from special education, and internships for job sorted. They are then tested on modern test benches. seekers looking to re-enter the labor market. The decoders and modems that still function well, are refurbished by the IMSIR team and put in a new The reverse logistics cooperation between Telenet and package. They are then completely ready for use. IMSIR in 2011 was awarded the audience award in the Supply Chain Awards, and in 2013 the audience award Devices that no longer function properly, are recycled. for the best project of the past 10 years. Smart Meters: Between 2014 Flemish government, VOKA, and Telenet’s old PCs are given a second and 2018, three million buildings the KU Leuven. Through the Smart life thanks to PC Solidarity, the in Flanders will be fitted with a E-project, Telenet focuses on the Belgian branch of the non-profit smart electricity meter. The meter intelligent data streams needed for Close the Gap. By doing so, Telenet at any time will show how much the system. yearly donates quality, used desktop the available energy costs and computers, laptops, tablets and smart how much energy is generated phones to good causes. by heat pumps and solar panels. Investing in waste In 2015, 0.67 percent of the customers Consumption can be adjusted reduction who bought a new mobile handset accordingly. Telenet together with traded in their old device at a Telenet network manager Eandis is working Telenet wants to minimize the amount Mobile sales point. Ecowave processes on a pilot project in Mechelen. of waste by reusing material, correctly some of these mobile devices and Smart Grid or smart energy disposing of waste and reducing resells others as second-hand devices. network: Telenet participates paper waste. in the Flemish platform Linear Reusing material: a large proportion that is testing the possibilities of the decoders and modems is of a ‘smart grid’. The research recycled. Telenet works with the program was initiated by the company IMSIR in Boom for this. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 41 Correct disposal of waste: First and When waste is inevitable, we put in activities on the property before it was foremost, we try to avoid waste as every effort to ensure it is disposed acquired by Telenet. The tanks were much as possible: of correctly. Normally, the waste removed, results of the soil and ground that we produce is recycled or water investigation were finalized Rational paper use: Since permanently removed through energy and submitted for approval by the 2010, Telenet is 100 percent recuperation (e.g. incineration). For authorities in 2016. FSC. We have implemented its waste disposal, Telenet works with several initiatives to limit paper For a proper disposal of the waste SIMS Recycling Solutions and SITA. consumption. We remind our created by our customers, Telenet is SIMS Recycling Solutions processes employees to print double-sided or affiliated with several governmentdiscarded electric and electronic even less through secure printing recognized organizations. For every products and ensures 95 percent of and badge printing. purchase of a Telenet product, a the material from these devices is contribution is made to Recupel Digitization of our recycled into reusable raw materials and Bebat. For other waste streams, administration: Our supplier or energy. Telenet is also improving the such as packaging and ad prints, we accounting department processed registration of its waste streams. pay an annual contribution to Fost 56,330 invoices in 2015 (86 percent In 2015, no new incidents involving Plus, Val-i-Pac, and the non-profit of the total) digitally – a huge paper significant spills occurred, but three Interventiefonds Oud Papier. saving. Since 2013, Telenet uses past incidents were resolved or electronic meal vouchers and in underwent ongoing treatment. The 2015, 1,869 employees opted for case of a hydraulic oil spill in 2014 was an electronic pay slip. Finally, in formally closed upon approval by the 2015 47.3 percent of our customers authorities in January 2015. Ongoing opted for an electronic invoice. ground watering in follow-up of a fuel Smart Packaging: Since 2013, our leakage in 2012 will continue until 2017. HD Digicorder is in a new package: a In December 2015, historic spilling was small, cardboard box with a handle. discovered when two underground Thanks to this environmentally fuel tanks were found on the parking friendly packaging, we save no lot of our headquarters in Mechelen less than 285 tons of paper and during construction works. These 600 tons of CO2 every year. tanks date back to the former military 42 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | CO2-compensation Telenet puts in a lot of effort to reduce Since 2011, Telenet is in a structural In 2015, we made additional CO2 its CO2 footprint. Still, this is insufficient partnership with the nature compensation investments in the to achieve our goal of climate neutral organization Bos+, dedicated to better Ugastove project, which distributes operations. We close the gap by and more forests in Flanders and environmentally friendly stoves planting new forests. These reduce the world. in Uganda. the overall amount of CO2 in the atmosphere and compensate for the excess emissions. Case Bos+, Nature-friendly forest management with a social dimension Telenet cooperates with the non-profit nature However, the benefits stretch far beyond mere carbon organization BOS+ on a sustainable reforestation sequestration. The forest is reviving the local fauna and project in Ecuador. flora, providing shadow, clean air and food. Growing trees and the planting and management of forests are In cooperation with local NGOs, Bos+ is working to also creating jobs and have resulted in the activation of restore a forest that has been largely cut since the dozens of local residents. middle of the last century. Since the start of the project in 2011, 533,000 mainly native trees were planted, good The project also meets two international standards for a reforestation of 500 hectares with an estimated for climate projects: Verified Carbon Standard and accumulated carbon sequestration storage of Climate, Community and Biodiversity Alliance. The 10,006 tons in 2015. impact is effectively measured in collaboration with the University of Ghent. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 43 Commitment to conducting fair, honest and transparent business Towards our customers: Towards our suppliers: strict and Towards our protecting privacy and transparent standards stakeholders and security the society 44 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | As an important Belgian player in telecommunications, media and entertainment, Telenet wants to maintain and strengthen the trust of its stakeholders. We pledge to conduct our business in a fair, responsible and transparent manner. To do so, we apply the highest corporate governance standards. We build open and transparent relationships with our employees, customers and suppliers, but also guard out operational performance: We protect the privacy and personal information of our customers. We screen our suppliers for ethical business practices. We respect legal requirements and implement codes of conduct within our organization – a clear example of our commitment. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 45 Towards our customers protecting privacy and security Telenet manages a vast amount of information on their introduction day We combine all these awareness information from and about its clients. on the importance of confidentiality campaigns and procedures with a That responsibility requires us to of information – and subsequently watertight protection of our hardware pay special attention to privacy and regular updates on the latest risks and software. Our applications and security. This care is deeply rooted as posted on the intranet Tine. This systems are protected to prevent in various consultative bodies and also covers Belgian and European outsiders from gaining access documents: legislation and regulations on the to confidential information. The collection and processing of personal hard disks of all our laptops and The Customer Data Policy data. Every year, we also organize an field terminals are protected with describes what information we information session around bribery encryption software that automatically process, why we do so, and what and corruption. This is mandatory for encrypts the entire content of the our customers’ rights are. This executives. In 2015, 142 employees hard drive. document applies to the full received an introduction to privacy commercial activities of Telenet. We also ensure the hardware and and security while attending the The Customer Data Policy is software of our products remain mandatory Business Discovery Day. publicly available on our website. In up to date. Some of these updates 2016, Telenet expects to amend the At the start of each project we assess are visible to our customers, but the Privacy Policy, in accordance with the privacy & security risks and adjust updates often occur automatically. the relevant legal provisions. our security requirements accordingly. In 2015, Telenet received 7 complaints Since 2014, the Privacy Council For example, when we deliver SIM from third parties about breaches of discusses all privacy matters and cards to our customers, they will their privacy. The Belgian Commission priorities. The Privacy Council receive the corresponding PIN in a for the Protection of Privacy last year comprises representatives from the separate letter. And if they ask us a sent us 3 requests for information with various departments. privacy sensitive question, we first regard to the processing of (personal) thoroughly check their identity through customer data. The Security Council formulates a specific procedure. strategic recommendations around risks and threats arising from the malicious or erroneous use of data. The Cyber Security Road Map outlines the most important security projects and is revised annually based on the recommendations of the Security Case Council. This is part of the ISO Telenet Security Pack 27001 standard that we apply in developing our Information Security Telenet provides its customers with the tools to protect their own Management System (ISMS). Our privacy and security. The Telenet Security Pack is a user-friendly security policies, requirements optional software package that customers can use to install an and management standards are advanced firewall and thus protect their computers against viruses fully modeled on the international and spyware. In addition, they can block certain websites per user and ISO 27002 standard. decide how long their children are allowed to surf the web every day. Privacy and security are not just In 2015, 77,821 residential customers installed the Security Pack. empty words for Telenet. All our permanent employees receive 46 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Towards our suppliers: strict and transparent standards The products and services that we When we select a supplier, these The Code of Conduct covers the purchase from our suppliers have as criteria are given a relatively large following themes: much of an ethical, environmental and weight, in addition to the price and environmental standards for the social impact as our own products quality of the goods or services to be supplier’s activities, products and and services. And as such deserve just supplied. services; as much attention. Telenet rewards Once the contract is agreed on, we its partners that strive for sustainable fundamental human rights (such very precisely include the security operations and encourages others as the prohibition on forced and and environmental specifications: to improve in that area. That goal is child labor); guidelines on equipment and raw firmly embedded in our procurement materials, specifications on energy working conditions (such a working process. consumption and packaging, waste hours and termination procedures); We require our suppliers to provide and recycling. health and safety at work; the following information with every In addition, all suppliers sign the quotation: business ethics (such as Vendor Disclosure Form, which anti-corruption). social policies in the workplace; consists of our Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption Policy. It also officially Suppliers also guarantee to comply respect for legislation and confirms that there is no conflict with the principles around regulations on child labor; of interest between the suppliers Responsible Purchasing and Supply commitment to efficient and their representatives on the Chain from our parent company transportation; one hand, and between Telenet and Liberty Global. These principles persons affiliated with Telenet on the contain international labor standards, environmental efforts in business other hand. including the International Labour operations. Organization Core Conventions, the UN Treaty on Human Rights, Bribery and Corruption, Health, Safety and the Environment. Telenet Supplier Policy Telenet enforces its Supplier Policy by: • Suppliers and subcontractors should comply to the conventions of the International Labor Organization • Communicating the Supplier Policy to all its suppliers (ILO) in relation to prohibition on child and forced labor, worldwide. All supplier contracts do include clauses discrimination and freedom of association. regarding labor standards and policies. • Covers all labor policies and standards, including health • Regularly assessing its suppliers on policy compliance. and safety, working conditions and remuneration. • Driving audits to check policy compliance. When suppliers • Is publicly available. are suspected to breach the policy, a formal audit is done. • Is firmly embedded in the procurement process. • Providing support and guidance to non-compliant suppliers through the implementation of corrective actions and recovery plans. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 47 EcoVadis: 43 percent achieved a partial CSR Telenet continuously encourages its score, meaning their approach is suppliers to raise their sustainability tell the tale ad-hoc and unstructured. Their and undertakes the following initiatives risk is assessed as medium, with for this: To measure the ethical, environmental potential corrective measures. and social risks of its suppliers, developing a supplier manual that is Telenet since 2013 uses the dynamic not a single supplier was placed in given to every new supplier; scorecard of EcoVadis. This assesses the high-risk category. developing a quality handbook with the CSR performance of companies In 2015, a risk analysis was carried the warehouse partner; on 21 indicators, grouped into 4 out on 147 Liberty Global suppliers. themes: environmental risk, social risks organizing an annual ‘day of the Two suppliers were placed in the (working conditions and human rights), contractors’ gathering, with a prize high-risk category. A recovery plan was ethical risk and supplier risk. On this for the best contractor; established for both. The 145 other basis, every company is given a score suppliers achieved an average to training new employees at between 1 and 100. Telenet uses this good CSR engagement score. In 2015, installation companies on customer system to compare and benchmark Liberty Global rewarded Cisco with service and technical aspects; the performance of its suppliers. the ‘Sustainable Supplier Award’ for Therefore we know exactly where a including bonus/malus clauses in reaching a top score in EcoVadis. (potential) supplier fails and what it can the contract with critical suppliers. do to improve its CSR performance. We regularly monitor our suppliers and, in case of a suspected breach, will start a formal audit. In case of non-compliance with CSR principles, Telenet will initially help the supplier to Example EcoVadis Scorecard take corrective action. If no agreement is reached on an acceptable recovery plan, the business relationship may be terminated. In 2013, Liberty Global launched a comprehensive review of its largest suppliers, using EcoVadis SP Solutions. Telenet suppliers were also surveyed. 77 percent of Telenet suppliers accepted the invitation. Of those: 57 percent achieved a confirmed Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) engagement score, which means that they have a structured and proactive CSR policy. These are the ‘low-risk suppliers’. 48 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Towards our stakeholders and the society As a large company, Telenet is very whistleblowers. In 2015, no violations All complaints are handled by the conscious of its role in the society. were found on fair competition and Company Compliance Officer and the monopoly practices. Telenet did chairman of the Audit Committee. We want to conduct our business in a receive a fine of 5,000 euros from fair, honest and respectful manner. Compliance with the codes of conduct the Vlaamse Regulator voor de Media is periodically monitored through And this goes beyond what is required (VRM Flemish Media Regulator) for Entity Level Controls (ELC) and IT of us by law. To guarantee the integrity the late registration of Fox. General Controls (ITGC). On an annual and performance of our business, Telenet did update its Code of basis, these monitors are tested by the we are convinced that we must meet Conduct which was rolled-out in 2015 main shareholder Liberty Global and the highest standards of corporate to the Senior Management team and the auditor (KPMG). governance. We therefore monitor all mission-critical functions within the aspects of our business with internal In 2011, Telenet also signed the United organization. and external codes of conduct. Nations Global Compact. This In addition, there are special codes contains ten principles with regard Our Code of Conduct is signed of conduct for anti-corruption to human rights, environment and by the management board, senior and bribery, competition and anti-corruption. Telenet undertakes management, and all employees with privacy issues that apply to the entire to apply these principles to guide its confidential roles. The code includes workforce. strategy, corporate culture and daily a number of business policy principles operations. On an annual basis, Telenet and covers themes such as equal Through training and information reports on the progress achieved on opportunities, fair competition and sessions, Telenet employees are these principles, as shown in the table anti-corruptions, confidentiality of regularly informed about these codes on p. 67 of this report. information and protection of privacy, of conduct. Violations can be reported proper accounting, conflicts of anonymously. In 2015 – for the eighth interest, insider trading and business consecutive year – no violations were integrity, protection of safety, health reported. and environment, and rules on Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 49 In 2015, we signed the Sustainable contributions in 2015. The company The high ethical standards that Developments Goals of the UN, invested 1.19 million euros in Telenet imposes on itself, also 17 internationally agreed targets for the lobby activities including salaries, apply to its advertising and development of a more sustainable administrative fees and sponsoring publicity campaigns. Telenet society and economy. contributions acts in accordance with the rules of the JEP – the Jury for Ethical Telenet’s anti-corruption policy is Furthermore, Telenet uses specific Practices in Advertising. The JEP in line with international regulations, codes of conduct on energy is a self-disciplinary body of the the Belgian legislation and the policy efficiency. For example, it endorses advertising sector in Belgium and of Liberty Global. The anti-corruption the European Code of Conduct on guards the correct and fair nature policy has been approved by the Board Energy Efficiency of Data Centers of advertising messages. The JEP’s of Directors and the Audit Committee. and the Voluntary Agreement of the decisions are considered opinions. It is extensively communicated to all EU action plan on Energy Efficiency These opinions are published on the employees and agents, contractors in general and the Eco Design JEP’s website. Telenet follows these and suppliers. Directive on Power Consumption of recommendations as far as possible. In Complex Set-top boxes (CSTBs) in The policy is further clarified with the 2015, there were no alleged breaches particular. help of specific examples and practical of ethical advertising practices. In 2014, guidelines. It contains a prohibition The Corporate Governance Charter five alleged breaches were reported. on the giving and taking of bribes, a contains a summary of the rules and Finally, through its main shareholder limitation on the giving and receiving principles around which the Corporate Liberty Global, Telenet is a member of gifts, and a reminder to observe Governance of the company is of AAPA – the Audiovisual Antilaws and regulations, restrictions on organized. The charter can be found Piracy Alliance. The AAPA represents the giving and taking of gifts, and an on the Investor Relations website of major European players in the digital obligation of transparency around Telenet. television and telecommunications political donations. Telenet did not spend any money on political 50 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | sector and maintains relationships with the European institutions in order to promote effective legislation. Telenet itself takes the following Freedom of expression: actions with regard to anti-piracy: maximum but not absolute Our set-top boxes are in accordance with the guidance As a leading provider of Internet services, we have a special social responsibility with regarding piracy. regard to the freedom of expression. Our general principle: we do not limit it in any way except when requested to do so by an authorized authority. Our customer contracts (general conditions) contain clauses for the Together with other Belgian Internet providers, we signed a Protocol with the Belgian prevention of piracy. Gaming Commission in which we, in cooperation with the Federal and Regional Computer Crime Unit, take action against websites offering illegal gambling. The We strictly comply with the privacy judicial powers can also require us to block websites that violate copyrights or that requirements included in contracts distribute illegal pornographic material. for the broadcasting of programs of large studios and broadcasters, and Finally, we are a leading member of the Association of Internet Service Providers in have a cooperation agreement with Belgium (ISPA) and adhere to their code of conduct to – in cooperation with Child IFPI Belgium (International Federation Focus – prevent and combat child abuse via chat applications and websites. of Phonographic Industry) to remove illegal content from newsgroups on the internet. Case Telenet’s Code of Ethics for Advertising and Promotional Activities Telenet’s commercials and advertisements must represent the products and services in a fair and accurate manner, with respect for the relevant laws and marketing guidelines. With its four core values – ‘catching, attentive, agreeable and entrepreneurial’ – Telenet goes beyond the fair and accurate advertising practices required by law. These values are essential to our good reputation with our stakeholders. All claims in advertisements and other statements to customers and potential customers must be done on a sincere and reasonable basis. Moreover, they must be tested before they are published or distributed. This applies to all advertising statements across all types of media. As well as to oral presentations and even casual conversations wherein objective, factual or quantifiable remarks are made about our products or services. Finally, suppliers such as research bureaus or (digital) marketing agencies take care of the protection of privacy and information when they collect, use and retain information about customers. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 51 Sustainability reporting Our approach to reporting: general principles Scope Commitment 2015. To us, extra-financial information is as important as financial information. This sustainability report is an With this document, Telenet wants Telenet is working to have more explanation of extra-financial to report truthfully on the economic, environmental aspects and social data parameters and indicators from all social and ethical activities and externally verified. This report is read sectors of the company Telenet over environmental achievements that and approved by Birgit Conix, the CFO the calendar year 2015 (01/01/2015 are most relevant to the company of Telenet. to 12/31/2015). This report follows and its stakeholders. In this annual The policy of Telenet’s sustainability Telenet’s Financial Annual Report 2015, report, Telenet provides an overview program was checked through an published in March 2016. Every year, of the goals it strives to achieve, of the internal audit. Deloitte most recently Telenet publishes an update on its latest achievements and of the new did this in 2013. CSR activities in a sustainability report. initiatives that are being developed to When the report mentions Telenet, realize the sustainability goals of the we, us, the company, the corporation, company. Explanation of key the group or the business, it refers to In its sustainability management, numbers Telenet Group Holding NV, including Telenet strives to adhere to the general its subsidiaries and within the context The reported results and key social applicable principles of inclusion, of the Belgian market engagement. numbers relate to all Telenet offices materiality and responsiveness. This Data and information about the extraand locations. report emphasizes the strengths and financial practices and performance weaknesses of each of the defined of the Telenet Group from the year physical aspects and provides us 2015 are reported through two with the opportunity to continuously additional documents: improve processes and performance. Telenet Financial Annual Because all concerned departments Report 2015 respect the results of this analysis, we Telenet Sustainability Report 2015 can make an important contribution to the further progress of the ratings in Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 53 GRI G4 Core The extra-financial parameters and standard disclosures, and on the other indicators reported in this document hand provides relevant information are organized in accordance with by plotting the twenty material issues the Global Report Initiative (GRI) on the G4 Material Aspects and by guidelines. This report complies with reporting on at least 1 of the indicators GRI G4 guidelines on a core level, per aspect. Where information was which means that the report on the available, multiple indicators were one hand is focused on the general included in the report. Relevant topics Category Aspect G4 Indicator Boundary Boundary outside within organization organization Privacy & data security Economic Customer privacy PR8 Telenet NV customers Fair, responsible and Economic Society SO8 Telenet NV only relevant within transparent business organization conduct Best-in-class quality Economic Compliance PR9 Telenet NV customers products and services Pricing and billing Economic Marketing PR7 Telenet NV customers transparency Communications Customer experience Economic Product and Service PR5 Telenet NV customers Labeling Being an innovative and Economic Indirect Economic EC7 Telenet NV customers, society leading company Impacts Offering customer-centric Economic Compliance PR9 Telenet NV customers, suppliers products Open internet Social Access to content PA7 (Telecommunication Telenet NV customers Sector Supplement) Attracting, retaining and Social Labor LA1, LA9 & LA10 Telenet NV employees developing talent Responsible employer Social Labor LA5 Telenet NV employees 54 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Principles to determine the content of the sustainability Significant changes report and restatements Telenet takes various elements into telecommunications companies Telenet is part of Liberty Global plc account when deciding on the content today. With this report, Telenet and in order to align group reporting, for this report. Telenet has identified its wants to show how the company the reporting for Telenet from 2014 main stakeholders, identified the key will encourage economic, social is fully aligned with that of its main expectations from these shareholders and environmental developments shareholder, Liberty Global. As a result, and describes how Telenet meets both locally, regionally and globally. various definitions and measure points these expectations. In addition, the Telenet does this with a focus on the were adjusted. The figures with regard company looks at its own performance material aspects, provided to it by its to environmental and social results in in the broader sustainability context stakeholders. the report were restated for the past by determining, among others, the 3 years (2012, 2013 and 2014). most important trends faced by Contact Financial information CSR information Rob Goyens Ineke Rampart +32 15 333 054 +32 15 366 262 rob.goyens@telenetgroup.be ineke.rampart@telenetgroup.be Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 55 Summary of the performance Note: In alignment with the Financial Reporting, we follow the US notation style in the figures Environmental performance Metric 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy consumption Non-renewable fuel LPG kWh 0 0 1,978 0 Diesel kWh 20,507,485 20,156,793 19,410,317 19,780,916 Petrol kWh 0 60,840 320,977 96,741 Natural gas kWh 5,730,652 4,268,305 3,774,485 3,906,108 Burning oil kWh 21,985 0 0 0 Gas oil kWh 369,349 396,518 167,228 188,806 Fuel oil kWh 0 0 0 0 Jet fuel kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 26,629,472 24,882,456 23,674,986 23,972,571 Electricity, heating and cooling Electricity kWh 86,265,195 90,024,444 92,677,700 100,550,691 Heating and cooling kWh 0 0 0 0 Total kWh 86,265,195 90,024,444 92,677,700 100,550,691 Electricity sold kWh 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumption1 kWh 112,894,667 114,906,900 116,352,686 124,523,261 Energy intensity Energy intensity kWh of electricity 267 206 136.9 96.7 per terabyte of data usage Electricity generated from onsite renewables Kwh 31,536 31,227 28,882 32,662 GHG Emissions Scope 1 emissions3 Tons CO2e 7,210 6,903 6,385 6,571 Scope 2 emissions4 Tons CO2e 18,803 19,766 18,165 19,045 Scope 3 emissions5 Tons CO2e 402 497 2,960 3,251 Total location-based GHG emissions Tons CO2e 26,415 27,166 27,510 28,867 Total market-based GHG emissions Tons CO2e 7,616 7,818 10,513 12,289 Emissions intensity (scope 1 and 2) Tons CO2e per 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 terabyte of data usage Emissions from business travel Tons CO2e 385 467 356 512 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse Metric tons 0 0 0 63 Recycling Metric tons 387 1,024 1,239 1,040 Incineration Metric tons 192 178 182 202 Landfill Metric tons 0 0 0 0 Composting Metric tons 19 18 13 16 Total waste generated Metric tons 597 1,219 1,435 1,322 Recycling rate % 65 84 86 79 Water withdrawal by source Municipal water supplies m3 13,222 13,600 15,293 18,224 Other m3 0 929 1,045 1,076 Total m3 13,222 14,529 16,338 19,300 Initiatives Emissions reductions Tons CO2e NA 243 109 105 Energy saved through efficiencies kWh NA 1,080,627 555,000 555,000 Costs savings from environmental initiatives € NA NA 137,221 74,774 Revenue generated from environmental initiatives € NA NA 0 0 56 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Social performance Metric 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total community investment € NA 1,740,148 2,112,129 1,351,559 Total workforce and breakdown by employee category Employees Headcount, year end 2,133 2,189 2,247 2,415 Outsourced employees Headcount, year end NA 1,815 1,766 1,938 Employees by contract type Permanent contracts Headcount, year end 2,013 2,187 2,245 2,415 Temporary contracts Headcount, year end 3 2 2 0 Employees by contract type Full time Headcount, year end 1,787 1,821 1,868 2,014 Part time Headcount, year end 346 368 379 401 Average age General In years NA 38 38 38 Men In years NA 39.5 39 40 Women In years NA 35.5 35 36 Employees by age group Under 30 years old Headcount, year end NA 499 483 537 30-50 years old Headcount, year end NA 1,449 1,516 1,613 over 50 years old Headcount, year end NA 241 248 265 Division of employees by department Engineering/technical profiles % of total staff NA 27 26 27 Sales & Customer Care % of total staff NA 37 36 33 Marketing & Product Management % of total staff NA 5 5 5 Telenet Business % of total staff NA 14 15 16 IT % of total staff NA 8 8 9 Staff & administration % of total staff NA 9 10 10 Women in management Women in management positions % of total 29 30 25 25 management workforce New employee hires and employee turnover New employee hires by age group and gender Under 30 years old Headcount NA 177 155 126 30-50 years old Headcount NA 100 122 120 over 50 years old Headcount NA 6 4 4 Total Headcount 266 283 281 250 New hires – male Headcount 151 162 153 141 New hires – female Headcount 115 121 128 109 Rate of new hires Rate (%) 12 13 13 10 Employee turnover by age group Under 30 years old Number of leavers NA 94 104 93 30-50 years old Number of leavers NA 96 89 95 over 50 years old Number of leavers NA 11 30 27 Total Headcount 183 201 223 215 Employee training Average training hours Hours per FTE 43.2 39.9 31.6 35.5 Average training investment € per FTE 567 554 522 530 Occupational health and safety Work-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 Employee performance reviews Employees reviewed % 100 93 93 95 Social performance Metric Employee performance reviews by gender and employee category Male Female Male Female Male Female Senior Management % NA 100 80 100 100 100 100 Managers/ Supervisors % NA 93 100 94 100 99 100 Non-management % NA 94 90 92 91 91 95 V Key figures and percentages shown only relate to (employees of) Telenet NV Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 57 Telenet’s reporting and refrigerants and propellants Location-based (e.g. in air-conditioners units methodology and fire extinguishing system). and market-based Relevant gases: CO2, N2O, CH4, emissions All environmental and social data hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) and relate to the period from 1 January perfluorocarbons (PFCs). As prescribed by good practices, to 31 December – unless noted we publish both the location-based otherwise. The environmental data Scope 2 (indirect): emissions from and market-based emissions, that Telenet reports is in accordance purchased electricity, heating and which provide a good illustration with the GHG Protocol Corporate steam. Relevant gases: CO2. of the impact of our purchase Standard of 31 December 2014, the Scope 3 (indirect): emissions from and production of alternative World Resources Institute and the business air and land travel (e.g. energy. Location-based emissions World Business Council on Sustainable flights taken by employees and car are calculated using the average Development. We use the operational travel by private cars), water and conversion factors of the national grid control approach for this. waste (e.g. emissions from water for the entire electricity consumption. usage and from waste that results This does not take into account Our ‘scope 1’ and ‘scope 3’ emissions from that activity), emissions activities that reduce emissions, such are calculated using the emission from the recycling of customer as the purchase of CO2 compensation factors (2014) of the UK Department devices, and movements through or the use of electricity from for Environment Food & Rural Affairs installation and service cars of renewable energy sources. Market(DEFRA). Our ‘scope 2’ emissions are third parties. In 2014, we added based emissions are calculated using calculated using the DEFRA emission for the first time emissions from a conversion factor of zero for all the factors (2014). Our footprint was movements through installation used electricity that comes from adjusted for 2011 and 2012 to take into and service cars of third parties to locally generated renewable energy account the substantial changes to the our ‘scope 3’ emissions. Relevant and from certified green energy conversion factors made available by gases: CO2, N2O, CH4 (if applicable). contracts. DEFRA for company reporting in 2013. Our ‘scope 3’ data does not take For more information, go to http://www. Scope 1 (direct): emissions from into account any emissions that libertyglobal.com/cr/cr-report-2015. sources that the companies own result from the use of set-top boxes html and view our full criteria for and control, including emissions by our customers. environmental reporting. from static combustion (e.g. fuel in generators for heating or power supply), mobile combustion (e.g. fuel for own or leased fleet) 58 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | KPI per Materiality Materialiteit KPIs Resultaat (2015) Toelichting Doelstelling Best-in-class Net Promotor Score (NPS) -5.36 NPS scores are on a range -7.6 quality products between -100 to +100, and services resulting from subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promotors. Privacy and data Number of breaches of 0 More information on page 46. To be defined. security data protection RepTrak score protecting 67.5 67.5 data and privacy of customers Fair, responsible BrandTracker score on 63 This reflects our customer To be defined. and transparent ‘Considerate’ experience of the extend to business conduct which Telenet does its best to be attentive and respectful. The score increased by 5.0% compared to 2014. Total number of 0 More information on page 49. Not applicable. legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Pricing & billing Customer Effort Score 12.9% Measures how much effort a 10% transparency customer has to take in order to get an answer or a solution: the lower, the better. # phone calls received per 32,2 31 calls per 1,000 1,000 invoices invoices Being an RepTrak score for 69.1 70.2 innovative and innovation leading company Customer Customer churn rate 7.3% This is the average weighted To be defined. experience customer churn for video, internet and fixed telephony. # visits ‘Fully Up to 150,000 customer Another 150,000 Date’ Tour visits in 2015 customer visits are planned for 2016 Offering BrandTracker score 69.0 The score for this indicator To be defined. customer-centric “Products are simple and increased by 5.4% compared products easy to use” (customer to 2014. experience) Attracting, Employee turnover 5.0% Voluntary employee turnover To be defined. retaining and stood at 5% in 2015, a developing talent decrease from 6% voluntary turnover in 2014. Training hours per FTE 35.5 Training hours per FTE To be defined. increased by 11% compared to 2014. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 59 Materialiteit KPIs Resultaat (2015) Toelichting Doelstelling Employee Employee engagement 55% The employee engagement To be defined. engagement score (Zoom) score of 55% for 2015 is the sum of engaged and highly engaged staff based on six-point scale. This new measurement was introduced in 2015. Open Internet Policy on net neutraRefer to page 51 Not applicable. lity and adhering to related rues Responsible % women in management 2 female directors on the The goal is to have employer positions (Board of Board since early 2016, 45% at least 3 women Directors and SLT) of Senior Leadership Team on the Board of consists of women Directors by the beginning of 2017. Number of lost days (on 14.62 lost days per To be defined. which it was not possible 200,000 hours worked to work duet o work-related illnesses or accidents) % of employees covered 100% Continue 100% by collective bargaining coverage in 2016 agreements and beyond. Supply chain # suppliers monitored 147 suppliers were assessed LG will continue management with EcoVadis by Liberty Global in 2015. expanding the assessment program to a further 50 suppliers in 2016. Safe use of Investments in the local € 202,388 To be defined. internet by community, category children ‘digital inclusion’ Role in society Number of start-ups In 2015, 8 new teams In 2016, we accelerated through joined the Telenet Kickstart continue Telenet Kickstart program, bringing the total accelerating amount of accelerated start-ups in start‑ups to 18. partnership with iMinds and Start it @kbc, Belgium’s largest start-up community. Total community invest€ 1,351,559 To be defined. ments (€) RepTrak score for 62.5 62.5 citizenship Promote skills # children and 17,900 To be defined. for the 21st teens trained in the century society CoderDojo-workshops 60 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Materialiteit KPIs Resultaat (2015) Toelichting Doelstelling Reducing environCO2-emissions (in tons) The total sum of locationTo be defined. mental impact including compensation related and market-related emissions (12,289 tonnes of CO2 equivalents) were 100% offset in 2015, making Telenet a climate-neutral company. Energy efficiency (KWh/€ 68.9 The energy efficiency ratio To be defined. revenues in million increased by 1% compared to intensity) 2014. In comparison to base year 2007, Telenet is 37.6% more energy-efficient. Customer’s Customer Premise The total energy To be defined. energy Equipment (CPE) energy consumption from consumption use (MWh) customer-premise equipment (set-top boxes and modems) in 2015 was 359,314 MWh. Electronic waste Recycling rate of 100% of Telenet’s hazardous Maintain recycling and equipment hazardous waste (%) waste was recycled in 2015. rate of hazardous recycling waste at 100%. CPE refurbishment (%) 35.5% of newly deployed setTo be defined. top boxes and modems were from refurbished stock. Capital expenditures In 2015, refurbishment (reuse To be defined. saved (€) & waste (kg) and recycling) of set-top avoided through reverse boxes and cable modems logistics realized a € 24 million reduction of capital expenditures and avoided 445 tons of waste. Health and safety Policies and practices Refer to page 19 Not applicable. of customers with respect to Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) of handsets Media landscape Investments in the STAP € 6.4 million To be defined. fund and local media productions (€) Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 61 GRI G4 General standard disclosures Indicator General Standard Disclosure Telenet Sustainability Telenet Financial External Report 2015 Report 2015 Assurance G4-1 CEO statement. Foreword by the chairman and CEO, page 2-3 G4-3 Name of the organization. Company profile, page 4 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Company profile, page 4 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Company profile, page 4 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization Company profile, page 4 operates. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Company profile, page 4 Shareholder structure, page 27 G4-8 Markets served. Company profile, page 4 G4-9 Scale of the organization, including employees, Company profile, page 4 operations, revenues and quantity of products and services. G4-10 Total number of employees broken down by Social performance, contract and gender and employment type, and page 57 supervised workers. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by KPI per Materiality, page 60 collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the supply chain. The commitment to our stakeholders: suppliers, page 13 + Towards our suppliers, page 47-48 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Our approach to reporting: regarding the organization’s size, structure, general principles, ownership, or its supply chain. page 53-55 G4-14 How the precautionary approach or principle is Towards our stakeholders addressed by the organization. and the society, page 49-51 G4-15 External economic, environmental and social Towards our stakeholders charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the and the society, page 49-51 organization subscribes. G4-16 Memberships of associations maintained at the The commitment to our organizational level. stakeholders, page 13 + Towards our stakeholders and the society, page 49-51 G4-17 Entities included the report. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53-55 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Our approach to reporting: Aspect Boundaries. general principles, page 53-55 G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for Our sustainability policy: defining report content. the materiality matrix, page 8-9 + Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 55 62 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Indicator General Standard Disclosure Telenet Sustainability Telenet Financial External Report 2015 Report 2015 Assurance G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization. GRI G4 Core, page 54 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization. GRI G4 Core, page 54 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided Our approach to reporting: in previous reports. general principles, page 55 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53-55 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the The commitment to our organization. stakeholders, page 12-13 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders The commitment to our with whom to engage. stakeholders, page 12-13 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. The commitment to our stakeholders, page 12-13 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Our sustainability policy: through stakeholder engagement. the materiality matrix, page 8-9 + Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53-55 G4-28 Reporting period. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Our approach to reporting: general principles, page 53 G4-31 Contact point for questions. Contact, page 55 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization GRI G4 Core, page 54 has chosen. G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Our approach to reporting: external assurance for the report. general principles, page 53 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization. Decision-making process, Corporate page 11 governance statement, page 24-46 G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and Our values, page 5 + norms of behavior. Towards our stakeholders and the society, page 49-51 *GRI Sector Guidance Telecommunication Services – Pilot Version, May 2013. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 63 GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures Material Aspects Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) Telenet Sustainability Omissions External (G4-19) and Performance Indicators Report 2015 Assurance Privacy & data security G4-DMA Towards our customers: protecting privacy and security, page 46 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Towards our customers: regarding breaches of customer privacy and protecting privacy and losses of customer data. security, page 46 PR3 (Telecommunication Sector Supplement) Towards our customers: Description of reporting organization’s policy, protecting privacy procedures/management systems, and and security, page 46. compliance mechanisms for consumer privacy. Geographic scope of our Identify geographic areas covered by policy. policy is Belgium. Fair, responsible and G4-DMA Towards our transparent business stakeholders and the conduct society, page 49-51 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiKPI per Materiality, competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Fair, responsible and practices and their outcomes. transparent business operations, page 59 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and Towards our total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonstakeholders and the compliance with laws and regulations. society, page 49 Best-in-class quality G4-DMA KPI per Materiality, Best products and services in class and user-friendly products, page 59 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonTowards our compliance with laws and regulations concerning stakeholders and the the provision and use of products and services. society, page 49 Pricing and billing G4-DMA Transparent pricing transparency policy, page 20 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of nonTowards our compliance with regulations and voluntary codes stakeholders and the concerning marketing communications, including society: alleged breaches advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of ethical advertising of outcomes. practices, page 50 Customer experience G4-DMA The best service delivery for our customers, page 18 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Customer satisfaction, satisfaction. page 20 Being an innovative and G4-DMA Investment and leading company innovation, page 30 G4-EC7 Development and impact of Investment and infrastructure investments and services innovation + Case De supported. Grote Netwerf & Nexus, page 30-31 64 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | Material Aspects Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) Telenet Sustainability Omissions External (G4-19) and Performance Indicators Report 2015 Assurance Offering customerG4-DMA KPI per Materiality, Best centric products in class and user-friendly products, page 59 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonTowards our compliance with laws and regulations concerning stakeholders and the the provision and use of products and services. society, page 49 Open internet G4-DMA Freedom of expression: maximum but not absolute, page 51 PA7 (Telecommunication Sector Supplement*) Freedom of expression: Policies and practices to manage human maximum but not rights issues relating to access and use of absolute, page 51 telecommunications products and services. Attracting, retaining and G4-DMA Attracting, developing developing talent and engaging talent, Sustainability Report, page 24-25 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Social performance, Due to our limited hires and employee turnover by age group, gender page 57 geographic scope, and region. Telenet does not differentiate between regions, therefore employee data is not reported per region, but at company level. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per Social performance, employee by gender, and by employee category. page 57 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and A sustainable lifelong learning that support the continued employment policy, employability of employees and assist them in page 26 managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving Social performance, regular performance and career development page 57 reviews, by gender and by employee category. Responsible employer G4-DMA A sustainable employment policy + Welfare at work, page 26-27 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce A sustainable represented in formal joint management-worker employment policy, health and safety committees that help monitor Consultation with social and advise on occupational health and safety partners: committees programs. for prevention and protection at work, page 26. Coverage is 100% of Telenet NV and Telenet Mobile. *GRI Sector Guidance Telecommunication Services – Pilot Version, May 2013. Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 65 GRI G4 Specific standard disclosures Additional Disclosure on management approach (dma) Telenet Sustainability Report Omissions External performance and performance indicators 2015 assurance indicators* G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Energy efficiency in customers’ Resulting emissions and services. homes + Environmental of products is not performance, page 40, 56 reported. To be reported as soon as possible. G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environmental Scope 2. performance, page 56 G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environmental Scope 3. performance, page 56 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Environmental performance, page 56 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and Environmental disposal method. performance, page 56 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. Investing in CO2 reduction, page 42 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Towards our suppliers (EcoVadis using environmental criteria. results), page 48 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative Towards our suppliers, environmental impacts in the supply chain. page 47-48 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Towards our suppliers (EcoVadis using human rights criteria. results), page 48 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative Towards our suppliers, human rights impacts in the supply chain and page 47-48 actions taken. * These additional performance indicators are not considered the most important materialities for the purpose of this report: which is to comply with the GRI G4 standard ‘in accordance’ at ‘core’ level. We nevertheless add them for stakeholders that are looking for additional information. 66 | Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | UN Global Compact COP Area Indicator Description Page Human rights G4 HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human 48 rights criteria G4 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in 47-48 the supply chain and actions taken Labour G4 10 Total number of employees etc. 57 G4 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective 59 bargaining agreements G4 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 57 employee category G4 LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 57 career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Environment G4 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 56 G4 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 56 G4 EN5 Energy intensity ratio 56 G4 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 56 G4 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 56 G4 EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 1 56 G4 EN16 Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2 56 G4 EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 3 56 G4 EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity 56 G4 EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 56 G4 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 56 G4 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 42 G4 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 48 environmental criteria G4 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in 47-48 the supply chain Anti corruption G4 56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and 5; 49-51 norms of behavior Telenet | Sustainability report 2015 | 67 www.concerto.be Corporate Communications T. 015 33 30 00 www.telenet.be Responsible editor Telenet, Rob Goyens Liersesteenweg 4, 2800 Mechelen
