REPORT ON THE PROGRESS OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 CONTENTS Preface .......................................................................3 About the report ...............................................5 Overview of the company ............................6 Interlux company in numbers ...................7 Composition of the company.....................8 Human rights .......................................................10 Labour ......................................................................11 Environment ..........................................................17 Anti-corruption.....................................................21 Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 A WORD FROM THE CEO THE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR US – the Professionalism and openness, respect and responsiInterlux company – means first the business policy chosen bility – these are the main values of Interlux on which by us. We strive for our goals and profit responsibly. basis the company grew to the important leader of the market of medicine and laboratory technologies acting We understand that every act of the company has a certain successfully in the whole region of the Baltic States and counteract and changes the social, natural and economic appreciated by the international-level partners. environment. Thus, when solving all issues of our daily activities, we consider the social, environmental and transparOur goal and challenge is better health and welfare of ency aspects more than the legal acts usually require. doctors and patients, scientists and healthy life specialists, all Interlux-trusting partners and the society. Interlux joined the United Nations Global Compact four By involving more and more different audiences and years ago and observes the 10 principles of the Global fields, we also take more obligations and try to satisfy Compact in the fields of human and employee rights, your expectations to the best of our ability and creenvironmental protection and fight against corruption ate a higher social value for the environment, observe unquestionably. the highest quality and harmonious development This year we state responsibly again that we will observe standards unquestionably, become an example and our attitudes and obligations considering the 10 princiencourage other participants of the market to behave ples of the Global Compact in the fields of human and responsibly. employee rights, environmental protection and fight We also treat the management of the supply chain reagainst corruption firmly and support the initiatives of sponsibly and prefer socially responsible partners and the United Nations Global Compact. ensure that our products meet all environmental reWhen creating socially responsible business, we both quirements and have the minimum influence on the alcreate the value for us and the surrounding community. ternation of the climate. We create a safer, healthier and better environment. Responsible employment is an integral part of responWe have been working in the field of medicine for over sible business. To guarantee all human and employee 20 years and ensure timely provision of safe, most adrights, ensure safe and healthy work environment and vanced and effective technologies and means to Lithuaensure our employees will only use safe and most econian treatment and scientific institutions and enterprises. logic devices – it is the standard of activity of our compaAs our part in the market and number of employees grow ny. The priorities of Interlux are constant training of the every year, we also grow in a sense of social maturity and a qualification of the employees and care of their health deeper attitude towards the social responsibility. and extra social guarantees. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 The transparency is understood in the collective of Interpersonalized medicine by implementing pharmacogelux both as observation of the laws and absolutely ethic netic examinations helping to choose effective medical activity on which the model of the company’s activity is treatment that is most suitable for a certain person. We based. The employees observe the Behaviour Code of also constantly strive to provide the safest work devices Interlux sincerely and the company constantly improves to the medical staff and offer ecologic, safe and healthy the collective’s knowledge by organizing trainings. products to the inhabitants for their healthy life and disease prophylaxis. We also understand the direct impact of our products and services in the fields of medicine, science and inWhen developing harmoniously, creating our business dustry responsibly, so we choose the most advanced responsibly and participating in social project and ortechnological solutions helping to raise the medical and ganizations, we are happy to contribute to the creation scientific level and improve the society’s health. of a safer and happier society with our work. We are sincerely thankful to all our partners and congenial persons For example, Interlux became guide of molecular diwithout which we would not have been able to impleagnostics to Lithuania and catalyser of incrustation of ment any high goals of a socially responsible company the latest oncologic and radiologic technologies in the in 2015. Like every year, we will try to raise the bar of country that also introduced especially modern sterresponsible activities higher and increase the range of eotaxic radiosurgery with a doctor-robot to the Baltic socially responsible initiatives next year. States. Presently the company is laying foundations of Respectfully yours Dr. A. Matuzevičius Director of lnterlux Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT WE ARE PRESENTING YOU THE 4TH report on the progress of social responsibility of the Interlux company where we will familiarize you with the social initiatives, environmental protection, human rights and corruption prevention processes in the company and progress in the work relations in 2015. After Interlux joined the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the fields of human and employee rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption in 2012, the company compiles reports on the progress of social responsibility for the society every year. Main trends of social Reports are compiled in Lithuanian and English. E-report responsibility of lnterlux: versions are announced in the website www.interlux.lt and in the website of the Global Compact www.global• Transparent and responsible activity. compact.org. • Social employment. This report on the progress of social responsibility is in• Reduction of the negative impact on the environtended for the audiences interested in the company’s ment. activity – partners, employees, shareholders, society, institutions and all desiring to familiarize with the „Inter• Support of social initiatives in the fields of propalux“ company more comprehensively. gation of healthy life and safe medicine, training of young scientists, ecology, protection of human rights, corruption prevention and encouragement of responsible business. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ABOUT THE COMPANY INTERLUX IS AN INTERNATIONAL COMthe company ensures the rights of its employees by supPANY providing safe and effective highest qualiporting the freedom of associations and recognizing a ty medical, scientific and industrial technologies and right to collective negotiations, does not propagate any healthy life products to its customers in Lithuania and forcible work and exploitation, children’s work or disother Baltic States. crimination on the employment or at a workplace. Representing the brands of over 250 most famous globLike other members of the alliance in the world, Interlux al manufacturers, Interlux chooses the most optimum manages the chain of supply and sales so that they meet solution satisfying the customer’s needs in the best way the highest environmental requirements and preclude by distributing the most modern medical, scientific, vetchanges in the climate. The company also supports envierinary and diagnostic systems, laboratory equipment, in ronmental initiatives, encourages the development and vitro diagnostic reagents and disposable medical devices. distribution of environment-friendly products and technologies. Interlux uses the natural resources responsibly Cooperating with the best and most innovative global and tries to use paper and other resources, which are manufacturers of medical technologies, we are able to directly related with the environmental pollution and alensure the most advanced treatment for our patients ternation of the climate, as rationally as possible. and safer and more effective work for the medical staff. In 2015 Interlux also made every effort in the contribuThe standards of the activity of Interlux meet the highest tion of fights against all forms of corruption (including global quality standards – it is one of the main reasons racket and bribery) and participated in initiative governwhy the manufacturers of global medical and scientific mental and organizational activities encouraging the retechnologies and diagnostic systems choose our comduction of corruption phenomena in business. The Ethic pany as their representative in the Baltic region. lnterCode for the employees of Interlux became a standard lux was also certified in accordance with the LST EN ISO model of the Anticorruptive Guide compiled by the 9001:2008 standard of the quality management system authorities and was recognized as defining the model, proving that the services of the company meet the highprinciples and references of transparent and incorrupt est standards. business especially particularly, rationally and clearly. We always try to become more perfect, so we monitor the quality of the direct activity of the company – the position of a quality manager of the company was estabMISSION lished for this field of responsibility. To improve people’s health, create the value for the paBeing a member of the United Nations Global Compact tients and medical staff, satisfy their needs by impleand the National Network of Responsible Business Commenting new-generation advanced, safe and effectives panies of this alliance, Interlux keeps on acting successtechnologies and developing innovative technological fully in accordance with the 10 principles of the United solutions. Nations Global Compact in the fields of human and employee rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption. VISION Interlux decided to join the United Nations Global ComTo become the first choice of customers and partners in pact and undertakes its obligations honestly on the the fields of medicine, science and industry in the Baltic basis of the main values on which its business is always States and be regional leader of innovations of medical, based. Interlux declares the respect of the international scientific and industrial laboratory and healthy life soluprotection of human rights and guarantees it does not tions. contribute to the violations of human rights. Moreover, Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 INTERLUX COMPANY IN NUMBERS ESTABLISHED: in 1994 STAFF over 70 employees INCOME: over 15,5 million EUR RANGE OF PRODUCTS: : over 1 million CUSTOMERS: dover 500 health care, veterinary, scientific and industrial enterprises and institutions in Lithuania PARTNERS: over 250 business partners around the world Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 COMPOSITION COMPETENCE this word is used about Interlux in OF THE COMPANY the responses of customers mostly. The criterion of competence became a cornerstone in the development of the structure of Interlux. The artiThe service subdivision of Interlux has huge experience, cles and services provided by Interlux are divided into becomes more perfect and grows constantly and engroups. Each group is serviced by experienced employsures smooth installation and irreproachable care of the ees with specific education and qualification necessary products and technologies provided by Interlux. for excellent knowledge of that segment. The geography of Interlux covers all 3 Baltic States. The Today there are 5 groups servicing 5 different groups of agency of Interlux – Interlux SIA – acts in Latvia successfully. products in the Interlux company. The purposeful and concentrated activity enables the emThe potential of Interlux is supplemented by two indeployees of Interlux to go deep into the essence of every pendent companies belonging to the group of Interlux kind of work and become more perfect and observe the companies – these are Labdata developing and implework principles of responsible business; it enables the menting laboratory IT solutions and Sormedica selling leading staff to develop the strategies of activity based surgical, oncologic and radiologic products. on the principles of social responsibility systematically as well as ensure their successful implementation. Family Medicine and Analytical and Industrial Healthy Lifestyle Diagnostic technologies technologies group group Installation Scientific and Therapeutic and In vitro Diagnostic and technical Laboratory Image Diagnostic technologies group service Research technologies Therapeutic technologies group group Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ABOUT THE COMPANIES BELONGING TO THE INTERLUX GROUP SORMEDICA – is a provider of latest safe and effective invasive medical technologies and advanced treatment methods for surgery, oncology and radiology. The range of devices and solutions implemented by the enterprise involves different equipments for the treatment of oncologic and cardiovascular diseases killing most lives. In Lithuania and other Baltic states, SORMEDICA installs the technologies developed by the leading global companies, such as Stryker, Bard, Wright Medical Technology, Accuray, Intuitive Surgical, Carl Zeiss Meditec, Edwards Lifesciences and Volcano. Established in 2012. Number of employees: 12 INTERLUX LATVIA is a provider of advanced technologies for medicine, science and veterinary medicine as well as laboratory solutions, in vitro diagnostic reagents and disposable medical devices in Latvia. Established in 2006. LabData – is a company providing IT services, imNumber of employees: 14 plementing and maintaining innovative technology and process control management solutions in the fields of laboratories and medicine. The services of the enterprise working in the Baltic States involve laboratory information systems, specialized IT solutions for medicine and management of donation processes as well as process automation solutions for laboratories and hospitals. Established in 2004. Number of employees: 4 Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS THE INTERLUX company and its employees are The human rights are also observed in the internal and against any violations of human rights, discrimination, external communication of the company. The marketing violence, abuse, forcible and children’s work, intolerand communicative material prepared by the company ance to attitudes as well as lifestyle, positions or state of is strictly controlled and cannot be related with any form health. of video or audio discrimination or violence or encourage discrimination or intolerance to attitudes as well as These attitudes and principles of the internal and external lifestyle, positions or state of health. activity are declared in the Behaviour Code of Interlux collegially and all the employees of Interlux observe it. The human rights are also ensured in the documents of Interlux defining the policy of the staff. The human rights are observed in the collective and communication with customers. The Interlux company does not tolerate any discrimination and no discrimination phenomena were noticed in the course of 2015. In 2015 there were no discrepancies related with the principles of the Global Agreement consolidated in the Global Compact. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 LABOUR In 2015 72 persons worked for the company: 40 men and 32 women. ACCORDING TO FIELDS: 8 administration employees, 29 employees of the sales field, 10 service employees, 9 financial employees and 9 storage and logistic employees worked for the company. 85 per cent of the employees had higher university The new positions enabled to organize work in the eneducation, 4 per cent – higher non-university education, terprise more qualitatively and contributed to better sat9 per cent – further education and 1 per cent – secondisfaction of the employees’ needs and realization of the ary or special secondary education. principles of social responsibility. Interlux is an average company to the extent of LithuFor example, the company started paying more attenania; it pays especially much attention to the staff and tion to the management of the supply chain and choice observes the principles of honest payment and socially and harmony of suppliers after creating the positions of responsible employment. the head of the chain supply, procurement manager and commerce director. The procurement head and head of In 2015 the company spent on premiums even 39 PER the chain supply shall ensure in the management of the cent of the post-tax income and it grew by even 40 persupply chain that the devices, equipment and other procent in comparison with 2014. cured articles used by the company meet the environ8 new workplaces were created in 2015. mental standards, their packages are reprocessed and In 2015 the Interlux company created 4 new positions: the devices are chosen which have the minimum impact on the environment and do not harm people’s health. The commerce director ensures proper maintenance Commerce director and monitoring of these processes. Procurement manager In 2015 special attention was paid to the professional Head of the supply chain and intensive training of employees. The employees of Interlux spent 395 business days just for the professional Service manager improvement in foreign countries. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 TRANSPARENTLY FROM THE VERY BEGINNING EVER EMPLOYEE signing a labour contract with Interlux created more possibilities for the employment Interlux is familiarized under the signature with the of young students in the company and match their work following: with the studies. In 2015 two higher school students worked for Interlux. • Register of the introductory instructions of work safety and health as well as instructions in the workplace; The company always pays much attention to the adap• Procedural rules; tation programme of employees. The programme helps the newcomer to get all necessary information and learn • Ethic Code; everything that is necessary for effective and produc• Fills out the “Declaration of Private Interests”. tive work and successful integration into the collective as quickly as possible. The „Newcomer’s Book“ – tips reTHE GOALS OF STAFF ceived by all new employees of Interlux – was renewed in 2015. These tips provide comprehensive information about the company, its values, references of social reTRAINING, COLLECTIVE sponsibility and other necessary information. The edition of this year also includes three stories of success – DEVELOPMENT AND interview with long-year employees of the company sharing their experience at Interlux. MOTIVATION WERE Like earlier, the employees of Interlux fill out declarations of public-private interests helping to support the REACHED SUCCESSFULLY transparency of the company. IN 2015 There is annual assessment of the employees’ activity. During a conversation between the employee and his/ her direct head, the goals reached in the previous periTHE COMPANY HAD set the following main od and competences and personal characteristics of the goals of the staff policy: assessed employee affecting the performance of his/her • To renew anti-corruption trainings at the company work are assessed according to clear and pre-agreed criand develop necessary procedures for this field; teria and the tasks of activity in the future period and fields of self-improvement are determined. It is also tried • To execute the structural changes in order to reach to determine during the annual conversation how the harmonious and systematic development; employee feels at the company, whether his/her needs • To improve the procedures of employee motivation are considered, if the employee feels discriminated, and socially responsible employment. whether his/her rights are restricted by the organization in another way. All the set goals were reached successfully in the course of the year. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 CAREER INFORMATION MANAGEMENT PUBLICATION FOR THE EMPLOYEES THE COMPANY has well organised motivational THE STAFF NEWS are announced in the monthly and professional training program. The main goals of information publication called „LUX“ providing all main training process are streangthening the weaknesses, organizational news and plans of the enterprise, precontinuing improvement and career possibilities in the senting new employees and informing about those havorganizational structure. ing left the company. The e-edition also provides news of individual subdivisions of the company and news Information about the new career perspectives, open about corporative, social events and initiatives. positions is publicated in company intranet. Principles of company carrer management provide empoyees with possibility to get priority pretending for the open positions. MANAGEMENT‘S WORK DIALOGUE WITH COUNCIL EMPLOYEES INTERLUX PAYS special attention to the internal THERE IS THE WORK Council at lnterlux – it is an communication and dialogue between the manageindependent organ which goal is strengthening of the ment and employees. A social dialogue enables idendialogue between the employees and heads. The Work tifying problems and correcting them quickly and acts Council encourages the collective members to commuas a motivation means – by contributing to the managenicate with the heads and inform about noticed violament of the company and being involved in the decision tions of the Behaviour Code, gaps in the staff policy or making process, the employees understand the goals other problems. The mission of the Work Council is also and values of the company and act in a synergic way. to suggest changes, mediate and represent the employees in the negotiations with the heads. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 MANAGEMENT REPORTING GROUP MEETINGS THE MANAGEMENT GROUP (consisting of THE REPORTING meetings of the activity are held the heads of the company’s groups and subdivisions, by the company twice a year. All the company’s employ13 people in total) was established in 2013 in order to ees participate in these meetings and the activity of the reach smooth movement of information streams in the company’s subdivisions, results and challenges, struccompany and improve the work control; they meet on a tural and organizational changes and staff topicalities regular basis and solve relevant issues related with the are presented. management, finance, communication, development Besides, the election of the best employees is also orgaand staff of the company etc. nized once a year. Two best employees are elected: one – All the employees of the company are encouraged makaccording to the financial results of the work activity and ing suggestions on the issues to be considered at sesthe other one – according to the assessment of professions of the Management Group directly to the heads of sional characteristics and intercommunication between their group or write and send them by e-mail or leave in the employees; they are determined according to the a suggestion box. maximum number of Luxes obtained within a year. The best employees are encouraged. SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE POSSIBILITY TO EMPLOYMENT COMBINE WORK AND FAMILY THE INTERLUX company appreciates its employOBLIGATIONS ees very much and treats the employment responsibly. Responsible management means assurance of all human and employee rights, a close dialogue between the employer and employees, their involvement in the deciLIKE IN THE PREVIOUS YEARS, the employsion making and planning process and extra social guarees of lnterlux can choose to work according to the flexantees, care of the employee’s health and work satisfacible schedule and combine work, personal and family tion, encouragement to participate in the social activity obligations in this way. Students are enabled to combine both in the initiatives of the company and personally. their studies and work. Two employees of Interlux used this right in 2015. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 EXTRA SOCIAL MONITORING GUARANTEES OF EQUAL RIGHTS LIKE PREVIOUSLY, the employees of Interlux DISTRIBUTION OF SEXES: in the company: 40 were given one-time benefits in case of a child’s birth, men and 35 women worked for the company in 2015. death of a family member or on the occasion of the first 9 men and 4 women were heads. In comparison with marriage in 2015. In 2015 3 benefits were given for the 2013, there were more women-heads in the company as birth of a child, 1 benefit – for the death of a family memthere were 8 men-heads and 2 women-heads in 2013. ber and 1 – on the occasion of marriage. Neither employee worked according to time-limited labour contracts. The employees are enabled using extra free days like so-called “mother days” and “father days” without restriction. 25 mother days and father days were used in 2015. ENCOURAGEMENT In 2015, the number of used paternity leaves was 34 calendar days, the number of pregnancy and birth leaves OF VOLUNTEERING – 140 calendar days and the number of child’s care leaves – 880 calendar days. In 2015 the men were ill and did not work for 91 calendar days and the women – 120 calendar days. THE EMPLOYEES Interlux also participate in different social campaigns, such as charitable sport events, on the own initiative; the company encourages this initiative and supports it if possible. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 MOTIVATION HEALTH TOOL – „LUX“ OF EMPLOYEES LUX” CAN be given by a direct head or that of anothHEALTH IS the personal value of every person and er subdivision and director of the company to the emthe total society. Interlux creates healthy work condiployees whose merits and contribution to the common tions, guarantees all legally consolidated ergonomic results of work were evaluated and recognized. standards in the workplace and takes constant care of the employees’ health. A „LUX“ is a sign of thanks to an employee for thorough and honest work, excellent results of work, efforts and Like every year, all the employees were enabled to check additional initiative, cooperation and collegiality and their general state of health in 2015. Moreover, in order assistance to each other in order to reach the goals of to preclude the disease and protect the employees from every employee and company. severe and sometimes fatal complications, Interlux took care of free vaccination from seasonal diseases to all the 541 „LUX’es“ were given in 2015. desiring collective members traditionally. There are no records about accidents and injuries in the register in 2015. Taking care of the employees’ health, the employees of Interlux, who had worked for the company for three months, were given additional health insurance in 2015. Thanks to this insurance, the employees were able to perform a prophylactic check-up, use the services of sport clubs and get competent services provided by health specialists in case of getting ill. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ENVIRONMENT HAVING OVER 770 employees, acting in three Baltic States, in especially sensitive markets of medical, BUSINESS AND scientific and industrial technologies, Interlux affects the social development of the country and region. SOCIAL For example, in 2015 we became Nr. 498 among the Lithuanian companies paying the highest amount of taxes. ENVIRONMENT This is our contribution to the assurance of social services in the state. In the field of laboratory medicine, Interlux ensures In order to contribute to the solution of social problems timely provision of the most advanced and safest devicin the community, the company uses three “whales”: es. Interlux also takes care of devices for safe and quick • commercial – it chooses to provide Lithuania with decontamination of biohazardous laboratory sewage the articles necessary for the propagation of healthy meeting the highest safety and environmental requirelife, just safe medical devices and latest-revolutionments. ary medical technologies eliminating most probIn the field of diagnostic technologies, Interlux lays the lems which were impossible to solve before; foundations of personalized medicine by implementing • knowledge and values – being leader of the medical pharmacogenetic examinations of the choice of differtechnological field, Interlux contributes to the popent medicaments for a certain patient, such as proper ularization of healthy life, disease prevention and choice of psychotropic, cardiologic, pain-relieving and programmes and events for the encouragement of oncologic medicaments according to the patient’s DNA timely prophylactic check-up; code, so that they are assimilated well and act effectively. • scientific catalyser – the production provided by Sormedica belonging to the Interlux group became a Interlux enables the scientists to work more quickly certain flagman in oncology – the first stereotaxic radioand qualitatively and a higher-level laboratory and surgery centre with the most modern present technoloother modern devices enable improving the level gy for the treatment of cancer in the Baltic States was esof scientific achievements and contribute to the imtablished in Latvia. In this centre, tumours are removed provement of the total medical and scientific sector. with a complicated robotic system CyberKnife enabling to treat patients effectively if their tumours appeared In 2015 Interlux established the e-shop www.hifamed.lt next to sensitive organ systems or in obstinate parts of where competent employees of the company with huge the body. This modern technology shortens the duration experience select ecologic, safe and innovative devices of treatment significantly, allows avoiding painful comfor the disease prevention and prophylactic check-up, plications and the procedure does not cause any pain or first aid, healthy life etc. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 other unpleasant senses often accompanying the treatthe Lithuanian Movement of Doctors “Treat Responsiment of tumours for the patient. bly” etc. In the field of blood safety, Interlux also provided a sysThe effectiveness and expedition of servicing the custem ensuring an absolutely new safety level for donor tomers of Interlux is ensured by harmoniously and blood – installed the most modern pathogen inactivaqualitatively acting subdivisions of Customer Service, tion technology in the Baltic region, i.e., “blood cleaning” Logistics and Service with almost thirty motivated infrom practically all known infections and other pathotercommunicating specialists who shall satisfy all, even gens. the most urgent or complicated needs of customers in a timely and proper manner. A quick reaction and high The company supported such scientific-practical events qualification of the employees of Interlux correcting as the international conference „Immunohaematology various failures allows saving the customers’ resources and examination of blood components: solutions and and reducing the costs related with technological breakthe latest scientific trends“ organized by the Lithuanian downs or stoppages. Society of Laboratory Medicine and the Faculty of Medicine of Vilnius University or the first republican conference „Modern medicine: the latest methods of disease objectivization and individual treatment” organized by ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE AND CARE ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION TAKING CARE of the environment, we try to preINTERLUX AS a supplier ensures the reprocessing serve the biological variety and ecosystems and slow of packages of all sold articles. We signed a contract with down the alternation of the climate. A direct impact on the Package Disposal Organization and pay for the numthe environment related with the work of our company ber of packages sold to our customers. is caused by the use of material resources, energy and The following was paid in 2015 (numbers in tons): transport as the employees use cars for work matters. • Glass – 2,19 t; The preservation of the natural resources remains the priority environmental goal of lnterlux. The company • Plastic – 2,99 t; contributes to the reduction of the negative impact on • Paper – 24,095 t; the environment with all kinds of its activity. • Wooden package – 3,8 t; • Combined (mostly paper) – 3,158 t; • Combined (without paper) – 1,7 t. The disposal of the company’s accumulators, batteries and electric and electronic equipment was assigned to the Association of Manufacturers, Importers and Distributors of Electronic. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 USE OF THE STREAM OF IN 2015 IT WAS tried to reduce the negative imSLOWLY-RENEWING pact on the environment caused by the use of car fuel and exhausted contaminants and the new Car Use Policy SOURCES of the company was adopted. According to this document, in order to reach the stability of investments and ecological harmony, the planned are defined as ones intended to facilitate the performed total long-term price of property [TCO -True Cost of work functions, protect the employees’ health and enOwnership] is also assessed when the company buys a sure their safety, preserve the value of the company’s car. It involves the wear of the value of property, costs property and reduce the impact on the environment. of consumed fuel (on the basis of the fuel rate set by the Interlux keeps on participating in the procurements of company), costs of procurement and replacement of the central information system of public procurements tires (planning the mileage of 40 thousand km per one executed in an electronic and not a paper way in order tyre set), expenditures of technical maintenance and into spare the paper used by the company. Moreover, the surance and obligatory taxes. company often chooses products from reprocessed paWhen buying and assembling a company’s car, the “perper, tries to use paper rationally and choose e-documenmissible costs” are also regulated in the Policy and they tation if possible. INTERLUX IN THE SOCIETY IN ORDER TO CONTRIBUTE bto the harmoes so that its members are able to train their scientific nious and stabile development of the society where it skills at the camp „Melanoma“ organized by the circles of acts, Interlux supports the initiatives of encouragement dermatology and venereology, oncology, clinical pharof the scientific development and education of young macology, pathological anatomy and plastic and reconscientists as well as disease prevention and prophylaxis. structive surgery. Interlux also contributes to the social projects reducing The company also supported the Agency of Students of the social separation and creating safer Lithuania. Vilnius University by contributing to the organization of Over 200 000 Eur was spent on the support in 2015. scientific conferences „Medical Days 2015“. • Initiatives of education of young • Support to small patients scientists. Compassionating the families growing children with For example, Interlux supported the Scientific Society of severe diseases, Interlux supported a few organizations Students of the Lithuanian University of Health Scienctaking care of small patients and their family members in 2015. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 For example, it was the Diabetes Society of Lithuanian Interlux also supported even a few professional societies Children and Young People that organized the 25th of specialists so that they were able to educate their memcamp for young people with diabetes for 50 young peobers and encourage the medical progress in Lithuania. ple with diabetes from all Lithuania. The children and young people were taught the principles of healthy life allowing avoiding any complications and preserving • Propagation of sport. their health and workability. The support was given to the Lithuanian Society of ChilIn 2015 lnterlux supported the Lithuanian Federation dren’s Haematology which members were able to parof Biathlon so that the national team could prepare for ticipate in an international congress of photophoresis the World and European championships 2015 in a better thanks to this support. way. The company supports the Lithuanian Federation The support was also given to the Support Fund of the of Biathlon every year and helps to strengthen and popPaediatric Hospital – for the improvement of the faciliularize this kind of sport. ties of the Paediatric Hospital. The company is also happy to support Kaunas Rowing Club and Vilnius Basketball Club for Young People. Health is impossible without movement, so Interlux en• For the encouragement of disease courages all people to live healthy life actively and move prevention and prophylaxis. as much as possible and is happy to contribute to the activation of various sport activities Interlux participates in different initiatives and events propagating wellness, disease prevention and prophylaxis, such as the fifth campaign „Recognize cancer – destroy cancer” for the prevention of cervical cancer. During this initiative, Interlux contributed to more favourable conditions of prophylactic check-up for women with especially sensitive laboratory technology. Another example: initiative for the commemoration of the World Diabetes Day when Interlux gave a possibility to examine the blood sugar and find out about the danger of diabetes, called plague of the present days, for over 2 000 people. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 ANTICORRUPTION INTERLUX OBSERVES the principles of transparency and responsibility in business. The values of the company and models of activity of transparent anticorruptive behaviour are described in the Behaviour Code. Interlux also has a procedure of declaration of public and private interests – every new employee shall fill out the declaration of public and private interests. ANTICORRUPTIVE BEHAVIOUR TRAININGS CODE IN 2015 there were even three different trainings for the employees of Interlux in the field of anticorruption: THE EMPLOYEES of lnterlux observe the collegial• Anticorruptive trainings – the peculiarities of pracly consolidated Behaviour Code. The employees of the tical application of the anticorruptive rules were company observe the models of values and behaviour taught during the trainings. consolidated in the Behaviour Code willingly and they say the behaviour norms and values consolidated in the • Trainings of the ethic field – formation of the emBehaviour Code are close and familiar to them. We are ployees’ needs in the field of implementation of the happy there were no cases of violation of the Behaviour Ethic Code. Code by the employees in 2015 like previously. Howev• Trainings in the field of interest conflicts – formation er, the company keeps on encouraging its employees to of anticorruptive skills of the employees in the field notice possible case of violation of the Code constantly of interest matching. and inform about them by all means. The Behaviour Code, constant trainings in the anticorruptive field and other organizational means, such as meetings of the employees from the structural subdivisions of the company on the anticorruptive topic, participation in international and national organizations taking care of the development of transparent and responsible business enabled the company to ensure the highest transparency standards and deserve the trust of partners and customers in 2015 like previously Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 TRANSPARENT BUSINESS RELATIONS AND COMPETITION TRANSPARENCY is one of the most important gion – good practice and example of successful business presumptions and principles of socially responsible busirejecting corruption as an absolutely intolerable pheness, but the total extent of corruption is considered one nomenon raises the trust of the country’s business and of the biggest problems of Lithuania. In 2015, 61 point of a wish to join the circle of companies organizing their 100 possible ones and the 32nd position in the list of 168 business in an ethic manner undoubtedly. countries was given to Lithuania in the research of the The concept of transparency of Interlux involves the culTransparency International Corruption Understanding ture of transparent and ethic business, transparent relaIndex. Lithuania occupies the 18th position among the tions with business partners and customers, transparent EU and West European countries; last year it occupied public procurements, transparent policy of wages and the 20th position. tax payment, transparent and honest competition and Transparency and ethic activity for the company Interobservation of the laws of competition. lux are standards observed and nurtured since the very In 2015 there were no cases of corruptive phenomena in beginning and it explains the importance and main esthe Interlux company like previously. sence of these principles to every new collective member. Just unconditional transparency brought Interlux to In order to meet higher quality and information protecthe international arena. Transparent activity meeting the tion standards and raise the transparency bar level even legal basis strictly and observation of the national reghigher, Interlux keeps on developing the external and ulatory norms and standards as well principles of ethic internal risk management programme and strives to imcompetition is model of the activity of Interlux. plement an effective information security management system in accordance with the requirements of the InforWe also prefer speaking about the ethic and transparmation Security Management System in 2016. ent business model actively and sharing our good experience with partners and colleagues in the Baltic reReport on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015 PARTICIPATION IN THE ACTIVITY OF RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS COMPANIES AND ASSOCIATIONS In 2013 we became some of the establishers and mem• lnterlux – member of the Association bers of the Lithuanian Association of Responsible Busiof Manufacturers of Medical ness (www.asociacijalava.lt). Equipment The Association involves the companies and organizaThe company lnterlux also participates in the activity of tions working in their fields which strive to act responsithe Lithuanian Association of Manufacturers of Medical bly and share their experience with others: support the Equipment united by ethic principles of activity and an principles of ethic activity, respect the human and work unanimous goal to ensure the accessibility of the highest rights of employees, spare resources, protect the enviquality medical equipment to every inhabitant of Lithuronment, not to tolerate corruption and strive for the ania as well as socially responsible business behaviour creation of the civil society. for the development of obligations. The Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business is a The Association encourages the activity of ethic business platform of sharing good experience of responsible busiin the market where all manufacturers can compete just ness that encourages learning, growing and expanding in legal and honest ways and the use of the most modthe harmonious development in Lithuania by means of ern and highest quality medical equipment can contribcooperation among the organizations, society and state ute to constant improvement of health of the Lithuanian and creation of their value. citizens and assurance of their longer life. In 2015 the representatives of lnterlux participated in the activity of the Association and organized trainings and seminars actively. Interlux and the Association participate in the activities of corruption prevention and compile the Anticorruptive Guide for companies together; it will be distributed in the whole country. • Participation in the activity of the Lithuanian Association of The participation in the activity of the Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business in 2015 enabled Interlux Responsible Business helping to spread the ideas of honest and responsible The Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business is a business in Lithuania and obtain good experience from national association of responsible business involving partners and colleagues. the companies and organizations which strive to implement the principles of responsible and ethic activity in their activity. Report on the progress OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2015
