METSÄ GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INTRODUCING CARTA INTEGRA, THIS REPORT’S COVER MATERIAL The cover of this report is made of our Carta Integra lightweight paperboard. It is produced at Metsä Board’s Äänekoski mill in Finland. The pulps, comprising 75% of the finished product, come from our mills in Finland. The other raw materials come from reliable suppliers who comply with Metsä Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct and Sustainability Principles. WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES 32 Products and services 34 Quality products from a renewable raw material 36 No compromise on product safety 38 New solutions for the bioeconomy WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU WE CREATE WELL-BEING 40 Raw materials and supply chain 8 Stakeholder engagement 42 Northern forests keep on growing 10 Creating value 44 From forest to markets with certificates 12 Profitable business for 46 Together in a sustainable value chain a sustainable future 48 Reliable logistics with a wide partner 14 Focusing on topics with greatest impact network 15 Advocacy builds on transparency 16 Actively promoting global sustainability WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND 19 Ethical business practices across the ENVIRONMENT Group 50 Resource efficiency and emissions 21 Transparency in tax management 52 Resource efficiency at the core of our operations CREATING VALUE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 54 Efficient energy solutions advancing 23 Metsä Forest the bioeconomy 24 Metsä Wood 56 Side streams used in valuable ways CONTENT 25 Metsä Fibre 58 Cutting our emissions to water and air 26 Metsä Board 27 Metsä Tissue 60 Sustainability data by unit 2 Year 2015 highlights 64 GRI index 4 Opening words 28 Diverse employer 68 Scope of the report 6 Sustainability themes and targets 30 Investing in preventive safety 69 Independent assurance statement SUSTAINABLE THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN METSÄ GROUP is a forerunner in bioeconomy utilising renewable wood from sustainably managed northern forests. Metsä Group focuses on tissue and cooking papers, fresh forest fibre paperboards, pulp, wood products, and wood supply and forest services. Metsä Group’s sales totalled EUR 5 billion in 2015, and it employs approximately 9,600 people. The Group operates in some 30 countries. READ ALSO: Metsäliitto Cooperative is the parent company of Metsä Group and is owned by approximately 116,000 Finnish forest owners. METSÄ METSÄ GROUP GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ANNUAL BROCHURE 2015 PUBLISHER: Metsä Group This publication is also available online at www.metsagroup.com/sustainability Sustainability and Corporate Affairs We value your opinion. Kindly send your feedback on Metsä Group’s Sustainability Metsä Group Metsä Group sustainability@metsagroup.com Report to sustainability@metsagroup.com or discuss with @MetsaGroup on Twitter. Financial Statements Annual Brochure 2015 2015 YEAR 2015 HIGHLIGHTS CONSTRUCTION OF THE BIOPRODUCT MILL ON THE WAY The next-generation bioproduct mill will produce pulp, other bioproducts and bioenergy with 240% -34% electricity self-sufficiency and IMPROVED is free from all fossil fuels. SCORING IN WWF’S ENVIRONMENTAL PAPER COMPANY Read more on pages 25 and 38. FOSSIL CO2 EMISSIONS INDEX PER PRODUCT TONNE SINCE 2009 Read more on page 55. Read more on page 53. 100/100 IN CDP 7% BETTER ENERGY EFFICIENCY SINCE 2009 Read more on page 55. 2 year 2015 highlights METSÄ BOARD HAS FINALISED ITS TRANSFORMATION TO A LEADING EUROPEAN PAPERBOARD COMPANY BY INVESTING EUR 170 MILLION IN DEVELOPING ITS HUSUM MILL IN SWEDEN. Read more at www.metsaboard.com PERSPECTIVES ON THE SICKNESS BIOECONOMY ABSENTEEISM 3.9% Stakeholders with different backgrounds gathered for a roundtable discussion on the bioeconomy. Read more on page 5. Read more on page 31. 84% METSÄ GROUP OFFERS PEFC™ AND FSC® GROUP CERTIFICATION TO FOREST OWNERS. 1,000 EMPLOYEES ENGAGED OF WOOD CERTIFIED IN GROUP-WIDE SUSTAINABILITY TRAINING Read more Read more on page 18. on page 23. Read more on page 44.. 47% OVER 1,000 DAYS WITHOUT ACCIDENTS IN DÜREN, GERMANY LOWER LOST-TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE AT METSÄ WOOD SINCE 2014 Read more on page 31. Read more on page 30. FSC Licence Code FSC-C014476 year 2015 highlights 3 A YEAR OF CONCRETE STEPS FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND THE BIOECONOMY The year 2015 has good chances of becoming historically important in industry investment ever in Europe against the SDGs, we notice its positive advancing sustainability and the bioeconomy. During the year, the major contribution to several goals: climate actions, partnerships, responsible and long-term undertaking, the international agreement on reducing consumption and production as well as life on land and below water. We carbon dioxide emissions, was eventually reached in Paris. The global forest create value in various ways to our stakeholders in local, national and industry plays a key role in offering sustainable products and solutions for international operating environments. reaching the targets. As one of the leaders in the industry, Metsä Group Furthermore, our customers have put SDGs on their agendas and in the continuously works towards improving its performance in this area. Since spirit of global partnerships, one of the SDGs, we aim to work together 2009, we have reduced our fossil CO2 emissions by 34% and, equally with them to gain competitive advantage from sustainability throughout important, we have 100% traceability of our main raw material renewable the value chain. wood from sustainably managed forests. Another large-scale commitment with a successful launch was the PART OF OUR JOBS – EVERY DAY United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that transformed Sustainability is also part of each Metsä Group employee’s job from the the wide sustainability agenda into concrete targets, making it also a useful forests and mills to the customer interface. This year, we arranged workguideline in evaluating a company’s or any other organization’s perforshops where we challenged over a thousand of our employees to think mance. When evaluating our new bioproduct mill, the biggest forest deeper about what sustainability means in their daily work. One of the key METSÄ GROUP SALES 5.0 BILLION PERSONNEL 9,600 METSÄLIITTO COOPERATIVE GROUP’S PARENT COMPANY OWNED BY 116,000 FINNISH FOREST OWNERS METSÄ FOREST METSÄ WOOD METSÄ FIBRE METSÄ BOARD METSÄ TISSUE WOOD SUPPLY AND TISSUE AND FOREST SERVICES WOOD PRODUCTS PULP PAPERBOARD COOKING PAPERS SALES SALES SALES SALES SALES EUR 1.5 BILLION EUR 0.9 BILLION EUR 1.4 BILLION EUR 2.0 BILLION EUR 1.0 BILLION PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL PERSONNEL 900 2,000 850 2,600 2,800 4 opening words findings was that our customers are increasingly interested in hearing about increasingly taking an interest in choosing solutions that fulfil the requireour profound work in the field. For example, Metsä Tissue’s sales and ments of both quality and sustainability. marketing teams tell us that over 90% of their customers are either interTo keep forging ahead requires insight, persistency and a solutionested or highly interested in sustainability topics and are interested in seeking attitude. With these attributes, we are committed to continue our hearing more. The trend is clear. work for ever better solutions. I hope this report with its practical cases As Finland is the most forested country in Europe, sustainable use of illustrates the importance of this area. We are open to dialogue, so feel free wood is at the center of our approach towards a bioeconomy. Today, the to contact @MetsaGroup on Twitter. forests grow more than they are used in the areas where we operate. The new bioproduct mill currently under construction in Äänekoski, Finland, is a concrete step in realizing the bioeconomy. In addition to producing high-quality pulp and new bioproducts, the new mill, with 240% selfSustainably yours, sufficiency in electricity, will also provide bioenergy to society as electricity Riikka Joukio and district heating. Another bioeconomy booster is the ecosystem of small and medium-sized enterprises, a key part of the bioproduct mill concept: by SVP, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs increasing the use of the mill’s side streams and creating new business Metsä Group opportunities with them, we will create value to our stakeholders cumulatively in many layers. Building a successful bioeconomy requires commitment, cooperation and actions from various players and stakeholders in society. To bring stakeholders with different points of view together, we arranged a roundtable discussion on advancing the bioeconomy. The attendees of the event representatives from the regulators, financiers, NGOs represented by WWF Finland, as well as future research offered different perspectives on the issue and generated an in-depth and rewarding discussion. WORKING FOR SUSTAINING BIODIVERSITY IN FORESTS The increasing use of wood has raised discussions on sustainable logging amounts and biodiversity in forests. Metsä Group’s target is to ensure and sustain the biodiversity in forests, an action also required by the Finnish Forest Act and forest certification schemes. Additionally, we cooperate with WWF Finland to annually train our personnel to take biodiversity issues into consideration also in commercial forests. The basic idea of a bioeconomy is to decrease dependency on fossil raw materials and fuels in the long term. The wiser we can utilize the versatile properties of wood, the sooner we can reach the target. Our customers are SALES KEY FIGURES 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 SALES BY COUNTRY Sales, EUR million 5,016 4,970 4,938 5,001 5,346 % Operating result, EUR million 542 417 335 241 29 Operating result, excl. non-recurring items, EUR million 537 418 343 256 314 Return on capital employed, % 13.7 11.1 8.9 6.7 1.1 Return on capital employed, excl. non-recurring items,% 13.6 11.4 9.1 7.1 8.5 Equity ratio, % 43.2 37.9 37.9 34.7 28.1 Net gearing ratio, % 25 46 77 87 132 Finland 17 Investments, EUR million 492 143 214 204 227 Germany 13 United Kingdom  10 Italy 5 France 5 Sweden 5 Poland 3 Norway 3 Rest of Europe  17 Other countries  22 opening words 5 OUR WE CREATE SUSTAINABILITY WELL-BEING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT THEMES • • • • Ensuring ethical business practices Improving safety at work Assuring responsible management Contributing to local livelihoods and society WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES PRODUCTS AND SERVICES • Turning renewable wood into sustainable, safe and recyclable products • Providing customer-focused services and solutions • Innovating for continuous improvement and renewal WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLY CHAIN • Promoting sustainable forest management, certification, biodiversity and multiple use of forests • Enhancing sustainability in the value chain • Ensuring the traceability of raw materials WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS • Making efficient use of raw materials, energy and water • Increasing the value of side streams • Maximizing the share of bioenergy • Minimizing emissions to water and air 6 opening words ETHICAL BUSINESS SAFETY AT WORK Lost-time accidents -15% frequency annually: -10% Performance 2015 Coverage of code of conduct training: 100% 87% WELL-BEING Sickness 3.9% Performance 2015 absenteeism: <3% Performance 2015 TARGETS AND PERFORMANCE SUPPLY CHAIN WOOD OTHER RAW LOGISTICS MATERIALS New target for Sustain the amount of certified wood: >80% All risk-rated raw material 2016–2017: key vendors audited Ensuring the sustainability of 84% by the end of 2015 our main logistics No high-risk vendors flows Performance 2015 Performance 2015 CLIMATE RESOURCE Fossil CO2 emissions per product tonne -34% EFFICIENCY Process water use 2009–2020: -30% Performance by 2015 per product tonne 2010–2020: -17% ENERGY Energy efficiency improvement 7% -15% 2009–2020: 10% Performance by 2015 Performance by 2015 opening words 7 WE CREATE WELL-BEING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Metsä Group employs 9,600 people and creates thousands of jobs in logging and transport companies and the retail business, among other sectors. Millions of people use our products every day. We are an international company with strong roots in Finland and require our employees and suppliers to comply with the highest ethical standards. We invest in safety at work and promote responsible management. We want to be a fair and open neighbour in our local communities. 3.9% SICKNESS ABSENTEEISM -15% LOST-TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY SINCE 2014 8 We create well-being CREATING VALUE page 10 FOCUSING ON TOPICS WITH GREATEST IMPACT page 14 ACTIVELY PROMOTING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY page 16 87% CREATING VALUE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED Metsä Forest IN THE CODE OF CONDUCT Metsä Wood Metsä Fibre Metsä Board Metsä Tissue page 22 We create well-being 9 CREATING VALUE WE CREATE WELL-BEING Close cooperation with our stakeholders is key in creating value locally, nationally and internationally. RESOURCES AND COMPETENCES STAKEHOLDERS Sub­ Customers contractors PERSONNEL and and • 9,600 employees in 26 countries consumers Research suppliers • Personnel turnover 7.9% organizations Read more on page 28 Own Investors personnel and Authorities, WOOD AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS Shareholders analysts legislators • Supplying 30 million m3 of wood with and political 100% traceability Media decision • Pine, spruce, birch and aspen from makers northern European forests Corporate Read more on page 40 networks NGOs ENERGY Trade • Primary energy consumption 28.8 TWh associations • 86% of production made with bioenergy Other Read more on page 54 forest Cooperative’s owners ownermembers WATER Local • Water consumed 294 million m3 communities • 99% surface water Read more on page 52 Schools and FINANCIAL universities • EUR 2,878 million in liquidity and undrawn credit facilities • Capital employed EUR 4,063 million CREATING Read more on the Financial Statements VALUE LOCALLY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND 93.5% permanent employees INNOVATIONS EUR 678 million in wages, salaries and • EUR 18 million in R&D benefits (incl. social security and pension costs) • Networks and bioeconomy partnerships 100 school visits and 850 summer jobs Read more on page 38 EUR 410 million to Finnish forest owners from wood sales EUR 300 million to harvesting and PRODUCTION transportation entrepreneurs in Finland • 29 production units in 7 countries 30 million seedlings delivered to forest owners in 2015 in Europe 86% of purchases* from suppliers in production countries • Over 20,000 suppliers Supporting the growth of bioeconomy ecosystems Read more on pages 46 and 50 *excluding wood 10 We create well-being Building the bioeconomy and offering each day better products and solutions is our common interest. Achieving it requires cooperation, reliability, responsible profitability and renewal, which are also the values steering Metsä Group. Our unique know-how in making the most of wood, combined with the global need for renewability and the circular economy opens up new possibilities for making a positive impact. CREATING VALUE INTERNATIONALLY Pulp, paperboards, wood products, tissue and cooking papers worth EUR 5 billion in sales Added-value for new bioproducts, biomaterials CREATING and bioenergy increasing VALUE NATIONALLY EUR 49 million of dividends to other shareholders than the Cooperative’s owner-members Vast employment impact: each direct forest industry job creates 3 other jobs indirectly EUR 82 million as interest expenses EUR 50 million paid as interests Safe, high-quality products to support sustainable growth, improve to Metsäliitto Cooperative’s owner-members, the standard of living and raise the level of hygiene globally based on the proposal of the Board of Directors Reducing the dependence onfossil resources The value of export from our mills in Finland EUR 2.7 billion, corresponding to 5% of Finnish export Leading the way in boosting the circular economy Producing 16% of Finnish renewable energy; with the start of the bioproduct mill in Äänekoski in 2017, the share will increase R&D&I resulting in technological innovations and bioeconomy solutions Advancing the circular economy: over 90% of side streams from production utilized as materials or in energy generation We create well-being 11 WE CREATE WELL-BEING PROFITABLE BUSINESS FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Today, sustainable solutions are sought in all fields of business and by society at large. Since operating sustainably with northern wood – a renewable and the world’s most versatile raw material – Metsä Group is in a strong position to offer solutions in building the bioeconomy. All of our businesses offer alternatives for the use of fossil materials with both the current and upcoming products. The bioeconomy is based on the sustainable use of renewable raw materials and is a good example of the natural circular economy. Due to the international climate agreement signed in Paris in 2015, countries around the world are exploring ways to enhance bio-based and low-carbon economies. In this respect, the forest industry’s role in enabling this has now been widely recognised. THE FINNISH BIOECONOMY IS BASED ON FORESTS The concept of the bioeconomy has become familiar in Finland. A national bioeconomy strategy has been prepared and is one of the key projects of the current Government Programme. Understanding of the bioeconomy has evolved and is today modern and inspiring: it seeks to reduce our dependence on fossil resources, prevent the weakening of ecosystems, and facilitate economic development and the creation of new jobs. Actors in the bioeconomy play an important role in the circular economy, where the manufacture and use of products are designed in a manner that eliminates waste and allows materials to be recycled and retain their value. 12 We create well-being In Finland, where Metsä Group has most of purposes many times. Burning industrial wood as risk management. For example, buffer zones must its operations, the bioeconomy is largely based on fuel, which is currently broadly subsidized, should be left by waterlines in planning and executing forests due to our vast forest resources, whereas not be favoured as it distorts competition in the harvesting in order to mitigate the effects of elsewhere in Europe it is mostly associated with raw-material market for wood and does not nutrient leakages to waterbodies. The legislation agriculture. Generally, the solutions we provide support the circular economy. also requires measures when procuring coniferous consist of the current forest-based products as well We also work to ensure our competitiveness, wood to restrain the potential damages caused by as bioenergy, biomaterials and biochemicals, all of which is influenced by changes in both regulation bark beetles for the growing stock. which offer an alternative to the use of fossil-based and the pricing of different resources, among Regular in-time thinning and careful plangoods. Read more about bioproducts on pages others. ning of loggings are tools that can both prevent 38–39. In addition to climate and efficiency measand minimise storm damage. The dense road ures, the availability of water is another critical network in our forests enables access to repair BIOECONOMY – CUSTOMER’S resource for forest industry processes. Even storm damages. Most of the forest roads are open CHOICE though water is an unevenly distributed resource for public and recreational use for all those who While some alternatives to fossil-based materials globally, most of our production units are located want to pick berries and mushrooms or merely already exist, new ones are urgently needed to in Finland where the surface water resources are hike in forests. make global resource use more sustainable. In this rich. The share of ground water use in all of our Pests pose a potential risk for forestry all respect, Metsä Group offers competitive, highoperations is less than 2%. Therefore, our asset is around the world. The phytosanitary risk assessquality and sustainable alternatives already today our ability to operate around rich water resources ments are carried out by the authorities who and is one of the leading actors in accelerating the where other parties’ functions or well-being are regulate the plant health legislation and are change. Although legislation and guidelines are not weakened due to the industry’s need for water. responsible for controlling that no new pests are important tools in making progress, the final After purifying the process water with the best introduced. In 2015, it was announced that Asian decision on how quickly we can move to a available technology, it is returned to waterbodies. long-horned beetles (Anoplophora glabripennis), bioeconomy remains with the end-users: At what which had most likely arrived in Finland in point in time will we choose to buy our food in LONG-TERM FOREST RISK overseas transport some years earlier, had infested paperboard packaging instead of plastic wrapMITIGATION trees in southern Finland. Instant action was taken ping? When shall we build our house of carbonDebate on the sustainable use of forests is a by the authorities to prevent further spreading storing wood instead of extracted materials? current issue, and one that is developing hand in and the situation is further observed. hand with the bioeconomy discussion. The debate STRONG BELIEF IN THE FUTURE has been gathering opinions from various perspecENSURING CONTINUITY WITH The need of the bioeconomy and its products call tives such as from forest industry companies, OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT for research, development, innovation, highly research institutes and NGOs. Risk management’s purpose is to ensure continucompetent personnel, funding and favourable In northern Europe, the forests are a vast ity of operations in the short and long term. At legislation. Encouragingly, there is evidence of resource: in Finland, for example, currently some Metsä Group, risk management covers all levels of changes being made in certain markets such as in 40% of the annual growth of wood is left unused. the value chain from securing wood supply to food packaging where fossil-based materials are Since employing sustainable practices in forest production units and customer deliveries up to being replaced with materials made of renewables. management and use for a long time now, our preparedness in the event of any possible product Also wood is gaining popularity as construction forests are growing healthily, providing wood liability cases. material. today more than ever before. In all of its operaEnterprise risk management at Metsä Group Metsä Group uses each part of a tree for the tions, Metsä Group promotes sustainable forest consists of internal risk assessments through the purpose that brings the best value. Also side management and use of wood. value chain, cooperation with insurance compastreams from production are utilized as materials In addition to taking care of the growth of nies as well as systematic loss prevention work to or for energy production. We aim for higher wood and advancing the recreational use of mitigate risks. For example, insurance companies efficiency and lower emissions in our wood and forests, preserving biodiversity is ensured with the carry out annual risk surveys at the production product transports as well as in all our other PEFC™ and FSC® forest certification schemes in units, focusing on key property damage risks, e.g. operations. We work with the best partners for our wood supply areas. Both schemes aim to caused by fire, as well as business interruption risks enhancing the circular economy in networks, and manage the risks related to the well-being of due to property damages and problems in supply increasingly offer sustainable solutions for forests as well as protect waters and other natural of purchased raw materials. Major risks, such as different needs. values. In Finland and Sweden, the practice of fire, machine breakdowns and environmental In terms of maximizing value creation mapping the status of endangered species is damages, are covered by Group-wide insurance through the entire life-cycle, after the primary use, exceptionally comprehensive. program. fibre and wood products should be re-used to the Additionally, the renewal and biodiversity next best purpose. This way they are kept in aspects are taken into account under the Finnish circulation as comprehensively as possible. Wood Forest Act, originating from 1886, that requires products and fibre can be re-used for different the renewal of the forest and comprehensive forest FSC Licence Code FSC-C014476 We create well-being 13 WE CREATE WELL-BEING FOCUSING ON TOPICS WITH THE GREATEST IMPACT Sustainability at Metsä Group is driven by the strategy and a focused sustainability approach based on a comprehensive assessment of the most important sustainability topics from our business areas as well as our stakeholders’ points of view. These most significant, i.e. material, topics were defined and fuels. The use of bioenergy plays a significant role here as together with our stakeholders in the materiality process in well. 2011 and its re-evaluation in 2014. In the assessments, we considered stakeholder expectations and the existing or FOUR SUSTAINABILITY THEMES COVERING potential impact to the success of our five business areas. ALL OF OUR OPERATIONS The thorough analysis consisted of management and expert Based on the materiality analysis, our sustainability agenda interviews, internal workshops as well as an in-depth has been structured under four themes. In this report, each evaluation of sustainability trends, risks and best practices. theme is presented with its own colour. ‘We offer sustainable The final results and the implementation plan of the choices’ describes the issues related to our products and re-evaluation were approved by Metsä Group’s Executive services; ‘We bring the forest to you’ discusses raw materials Management Team in 2014. and the supply chain; ‘We work for a better climate and environment’ gathers the resource efficiency and emissions; MATERIAL THEMES FROM A PRODUCT’S and ‘We create well-being’ describes our stakeholder engageEND-USE BACK TO THE FOREST ment. Read more about these four themes and the Metsä Group’s materiality grid consists of twelve topics that related targets as well as our performance starting on page 6. are notably important for Metsä Group’s businesses as well as for internal and external stakeholders with varying emphasis. Some, such as sustainable forest management and preserving biodiversity, have always been at the heart of Metsä’s way of working. With new forest industry investments, such as ours in the bioproduct mill in central Finland, and in Husum, Sweden, we see these subjects TOP 12 MATERIAL TOPICS attracting new attention from stakeholders such as custom1 Safety at work ers and the NGOs. Increasing the amounts of wood used 2 Sustainable forest management raises the questions of how much more wood can be utilised sustainably and how will increased harvesting affect 3 Product safety biodiversity. 4 Product and process innovation As these questions are vitally important to Metsä 5 Material and energy effiency Group, we enhance open dialogue and cooperate with 6 Bioenergy different parties to raise awareness of different aspects of 7 Sustainable supply chain sustainable forest management and the use of northern 8 Emission to water and air wood in our operating areas. Our stakeholders are increasingly interested in other 9 Circular economy material topics such as new bioproducts or contributing to 10 New bioproducts the circular economy with the efficient use of raw materials 11 Supporting local livelihoods and society and production side streams as well as smart manufacturing 12 Water use practices. Resource efficiency, including material and energy efficiency, is also part of a wider global discussion relating to Read more about these topics from colourmarked chapters in this report. global challenges such as the need to replace fossil materials 14 We create well-being ADVOCACY BUILDS procurement country, Finland, is about 80% of its entire forest area; in contrast, the share of certified forests in Asia and South America, for ON TRANSPARENCY example, has only recently reached 2%. At present, certification covers about 10% of forests globally. As our production units are located in areas where there is abundant surface-water Metsä Group engages in dialogue with numerous stakeholders resources, our operations do not jeopardize these at the national, EU and international levels, and contributes to the resources or threaten other uses of water in these development of regulatory frameworks. Our focus is on the key areas. Our mills use the best available technology policy areas such as climate, energy and environmental policies. and are top notch in environmental efficiency. Metsäliitto Cooperative is registered in the EU’s Transparency Register, operated by the European Parliament and the European Commission, and has signed the Transparency We advocate a level playing field for forest-based Register Code of Conduct. The Register proindustries a situation where all relevant parties have vides information on who is engaged in activities an equal chance of succeeding. We advocate a free aiming at influencing the EU’s decision-making market mechanism to promote a sustainable bioecprocesses, what interests are being pursued and onomy. There should be no public interventions that how many resources are invested in these distort competition in raw material markets. The activities. ultimate aim is to guarantee the global competitiveness of the European forest industry to maintain and BIOPRODUCT MILL AT THE CENTRE increase industrial production in Europe. This is OF MULTI-STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE beneficial not only for its economy but also for the In 2015, Metsä Group announced an investment climate, environment and the well-being of people. in the first, next generation bioproduct mill in Why? There are various reasons. Metsä Group, the world. Metsä Group engaged in an extensive for example, operates in areas with vast natural multi-stakeholder dialogue at the national and resources and ensures that they are well managed. EU levels to present the new bioproduct mill The forest certification level in our main wood concept: its benefits and impacts on the economy, employment, wood supply, environmental impacts, as well as its extremely efficient use of resources and side streams. One example of this was the Environmental Impact Assessment process for the new bioprodWE PROMOTE uct mill, which increased dialogue and informa• the sustainable use of forests to guarantee tion flow between the authorities, decision raw material for the needs of the makers and Metsä Fibre in Finland. Public bioeconomy stakeholder events were organised as part of the • the use of renewable raw materials process and continued even after the permit was • the role of fresh fibre to keep the fibre granted in March 2015. circulation vital and to enable efficient recycling • wood construction and wood products as carbon storage • climate change mitigation by offering substitutes to fossil based products, as well as by improving energy efficiency and increasing bioenergy use • resource efficiency • the efficient utilization of production side streams and waste in circular economy • recyclable and safe bioeconomy products • product and food safety Innovation as well as transport and trade policies are also important issues for us. We create well-being 15 WE CREATE WELL-BEING ACTIVELY PROMOTING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY In 2015, we continued as acting participants of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the forest certification organisations PEFC™ and FSC®. One of the global highlights of the year was the 2015 United Nations Conference on Climate Change, COP 21, where a global climate agreement was achieved. As a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and its Forest Solutions Group (FSG), Metsä Group was present in the COP21 that was held in Paris at the end of 2015. The conference agreed on a new international agreement on climate change, applicable to 195 countries, to limit the increases in global average temperature to 2°C compared to pre-industrial levels. We also participated in the WBCSD Low Carbon Technology Partnership initiative (LCTPi) that was launched at the Paris conference. In the LCTPi, the global forest sector promotes solutions through the sustainable use of forests and the use of forest products as carbon sinks. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) recommends in its Fourth Assessment Report: “In the long term, a sustainable forest management strategy aimed at maintaining or increasing forest carbon stocks, while producing an annual sustained yield of timber, fibre or energy from the forest, will generate the largest sustained mitigation benefit.” The LCTPi demonstrates that businesses are supporting the global solutions to mitigate climate change, and are taking action to help keep our world on the 2°C pathway. In September, United Nations Member States adopted the Sustainable Development Goals as a part of a new sustainable development agenda. The main focus of these 17 goals is on eradicating poverty and promoting sustainability from the points of view of human well-being, economic growth, sustainability and the planet’s carrying capacity. Metsä Group’s strategy and sustainability targets are well aligned with the goals that aim at sustainable production and consumption, increasing the use and production of renewable energy and protecting the biodiversity of nature and forests. FSC Licence Code FSC-C014476 16 We create well-being WITH WWF FINLAND AND OTHER NGOS FOR BIODIVERSITY Metsä Group has been an official partner of WWF Finland since 2011. During 2015, we partnered in a project that resulted in guidelines and training on the management of herb-rich forests and sunlit habitats in commercial forests. Read WWF Finland’s Secretary General Liisa Rohweder’s comment about the cooperation on page 43. WBCSD In partnership with WWF Finland, we also assembled experts and We regularly participate in the operations of the World Business authorities with diverse backgrounds for a roundtable discussion Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and are a member of its Forest Solutions Group (FSG). The FSG aims to promote sustainpromoting the bioeconomy. WWF also rates our performance in the able forestry and expand the markets for responsible forest-based Environmental Paper Company Index (EPCI). The Index looks at the products through global cooperation. Its agenda focuses on promotenvironmental aspects of a company´s policies and targets, as well ing certification and other best practices in sustainable forest sustainable sourcing, the environmental performance of the overall management, among other aspects. Its most important ways of production and transparency of reporting. It raises awareness on key working include open dialogue with key stakeholders. The FSG also environmental parameters to evaluate the forest, climate and the water supports global action to fight climate change. footprint of pulp, board and tissue products. Read more about our improved scorings on page 53. Metsä Group is in direct dialogue with various NGOs in Finland UN GLOBAL and globally, and also indirectly through its partner networks. The COMPACT Metsä Group has been committed to the Finnish Forest Industries Federation engages with various environmental UN Global Compact corporate responsiNGOs. These include for example the Finnish Association for Nature bility initiative and its principles in the Conservation, WWF Finland, the Finnish Nature League, Birdlife, the areas of human rights, labour, the Finnish Society for Nature and Environment, and Greenpeace. Metsä environment and anti-corruption since Group also meets NGOs as a member of the Finnish Forest Industries 2003. The Group’s Sustainability Principles are based on these widely Environmental Committee. As a member of WBCSD, we cooperate accepted guidelines. with NGOs on a global level. These organisations include WWF CASE THE BIOPRODUCT MILL SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a useful and concrete framework in reflecting Metsä Group’s activities with broader global objectives. Metsä Group’s major ongoing investment, the bioproduct mill in Äänekoski, Finland, will support many SDGs. The bioproduct mill, a pioneer in sustainable industry, will cause no fossil CO2 emissions since it will only use biobased fuels. Having a direct climate impact, the mill is an important bioenergy producer. As of 2017, it will increase the share of Finnish renewable energy by 2 percentage units. In addition to pulp and bioenergy, a broad range of other bioproducts and biochemicals will be produced to support responsible consumption. 100% of the production side streams will be upgraded in a unique ecosystem of companies to increase resource efficiency and decrease dependence on fossil resources. The mill will create 1,500 new jobs in Finland, for example in wood supply and logistics. The investment will significantly support the growth of the Finnish forest-based bioeconomy. All the wood will come from sustainably managed forests with 100% traceability. The new, mill with its state-of-the-art technology, will be world class in environmental efficiency regarding emissions to water and air, which will be reduced significantly. Odorous gases, for example, will be captured and converted back to chemicals needed in production. The innovation used is an important step towards a closed chemical cycle. Operating by the world’s richest water resources, the bioproduct mill will not diminish any other party’s access to water. We create well-being 17 WE CREATE WELL-BEING International and the International Union for Conservation of Nature CASE (IUCN). In 2015, Metsä Board gained success in three different scorings by CDP, (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the international EXPLORING SUSTAINABILITY non-profit organization providing a global system for companies and AS PART OF DAILY WORK cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental FROM MILLS TO SALES information. Read more about it on page 26. Sustainability is part of everything we do at Metsä Group. To raise awareness of our sustainability approach and the material topics as well as deepen the DEVELOPING FOREST CERTIFICATION GLOBALLY dialogue with our own personnel, who are one of our key stakeholder groups, we arranged various workshops in 2015. At Metsä Tissue alone they were Only around 10% of the world’s forests are certified; however, 84% of organised for nearly 400 employees, at all mills as well as for sales and the wood used by Metsä Group has international PEFC™ and FSC® marketing personnel in different countries. Group-wide, the number of forest certification. We promote forest certification in all of our areas of employees trained in 2015 was over a thousand. operation and work for its development internationally. We have a The sustainability workshops aimed to help employees in different roles representative at the PEFC International Board of Directors and take define the most relevant sustainability issues related to their own work and part in the work of FSC International. Read more about forest the products they work with. They also provided them with a better understanding as well as concrete tools required to discuss sustainability topics certification and sustainable forest management on pages 42–45. with their customers. According to the insight of Metsä Tissue sales and marketing teams, COLLABORATION WITH THE INDUSTRY over 90% of their customers and other stakeholders are willing to have or ASSOCIATIONS proactively ask for further information about our work regarding sustainAt the European level, Metsä Group participates in the work of the ability. The issues of increasing importance in customer relations include sustainable forest management, the renewability of wood, and our efforts in Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI). Metsä Group using resources ever more efficiently. Safety at work comes first at our mills, hold’s the Chair for CEPI’s Environment and Safety Committee, where closely followed by our efforts to improve energy efficiency. we promote environmental policies, food and product safety, the role of renewable raw materials in the circular economy, and resource efficiency. We are also a core member of the Bio-based Industries Consortium, CASE which promotes the bio-based industries and its Public Private Partnership. COOPERATION WITH ELECTRICITY In Finland, we are an active member of the Finnish Forest Industry Federation (FFIF). During the Finnish Parliament election campaign in COMPANIES SIGNIFICANTLY spring 2015, the FFIF together with its members promoted issues IMPROVES SAFETY AT important to forest industries. We take part in several national forest WORK IN FORESTS industry associations in the main operating countries as well as in several As a result of cooperation between Metsä Group and local electricity compasector-specific associations at the national and European level. In nies, Metsä Group’s and its harvesting contractors’ data and information systems are now showing the location of more than 130,000 kilometres of addition, Metsä Group communicates its views directly to decision power lines. As 75% of Finland’s land area is covered with forests, a large makers. We provide industry and trade associations as well as legislators number of low-voltage lines are located in the forest areas and not usually and decision makers with information on the impacts of various policies indicated on basic maps. and legislative initiatives on our operational environment. The information about the location of the power lines benefits both employees working in the forest and for the society at large, as it significantly Read more at metsagroup.com/sustainability reduces the risk of hitting a power line during harvesting or transportation and therefore ensures a more reliable power supply. Around 1,000 harvesters and forwarders operate on Metsä Forest sites every day. SPONSORSHIPS AND DONATIONS FOR THE WELL-BEING OF CHILDREN According to Group-wide principles on sponsoring and donations, Metsä Group’s sponsorship and donation strategy focuses mainly on sponsoring projects that aim to improve the well-being of children and young people. Support to political activities is subject to a separate approval by the Board of Directors. In 2015, Metsä Group did not give material support to political parties. 18 We create well-being ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES ACROSS THE GROUP Code of Conduct is the basis for our ethical business practices. It is a compilation of good practices that all employees must SUSTAINABILITY apply in all situations. The Code encourages open discussion, GOVERNANCE a transparent flow of information and fairness in all situations. STRUCTURE There is also a separate Supplier Code of Conduct for our suppliers and our target is METSÄLIITTO to have it included in all new or renewed contracts. Read more about our supplier COOPERATIVE management on pages 46–49. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Both the Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for Suppliers build on the Highest body to approve the guiding ten universally recognized principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which policies as well as the outlines for Metsä Group is committed to. The Code is supplemented by Sustainability Princisustainability. The annual Sustainability ples, which set out the guidelines for Metsä Group’s sustainability management. Report is presented to the Board. METSÄ GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM Prepares guiding policies, monitors sustainability performance and annually revises the sustainability targets. Sets the key advocacy topics and follows their progress. Sustainability and Corporate Affairs has a permanent sponsor representation at the body. SUSTAINABILITY STEERING TEAM Steers sustainability at the operative business level, identifies opportunities and risks as well as approves the sustainability report’s contents. Contains representatives from all the business areas as well as from the relevant corporate functions. SUSTAINABILITY AND CORPORATE AFFAIRS FUNCTION The Sustainability and Corporate Affairs function supports Metsä Group’s businesses in gaining competitive advantage and promotes sustainable operations in Metsä Group throughout the value chain. We create well-being 19 to ensure access to remedy in any suspected cases and consultation between the corporation’s WE CREATE of business-related abuses. management team and personnel. The EWC, WELL-BEING All forms of corruption and bribery are comprising elected employee representatives, prohibited in the Code. We train our employees regularly discusses issues that concern the personon anti-corruption, which is included in the Code nel. of Conduct training. This year’s additional Employees are given training as part of their training focused on sales and procurement GOVERNANCE CASES IN 2015 orientation and refresher cources are organized on personnel; anti-corruption was part of agreement In March 2011, Metsähallitus, a state enterprise, needs-basis. Training all employees in the Code of policy and competition training. During the year, filed a claim for damages at the District Court of Conduct is one of our Group-level sustainability we finished our extensive consultations, already Helsinki. It demanded that Metsäliitto Cooperatargets. Reporting on behavior contrary to the started in 2014, with agents acting on our behalf. tive and two other forest industry companies Code of Conduct is everyone’s responsibility and Advice was given to our own employees in a few jointly pay compensation for alleged damages can be done by notifying one’s supervisor, the cases concerning gifts of unusual value. However, caused by prohibited cooperation with regard to Group’s General Counsel or the Compliance we discovered no confirmed incidents of corrupprices in the wood market. The claim by MetsähalOfficer. All formal reports are handled through tion. litus is pending and relates to the 3 December the Code of Conduct process and it can be also 2009 decision by the Market Court, according to used for seeking advice. CONSULTATION BETWEEN which the above companies violated the Act on EMPLOYEES AND MANAGEMENT Competition Restrictions in the raw wood market HUMAN RIGHTS AND ANTICooperation within undertakings is one of our from 1997 to early 2004. In addition, some CORRUPTION main ways to be in official dialogue with our municipalities, parishes and a group of Finnish As stated in the United Nations Guiding Princiemployees and prevent any possible disputes individuals have instituted similar proceedings. ples on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), beforehand. The cooperation is carried out in each Metsäliitto Cooperative considers the claims corporations have the responsibility to respect of our business areas with the aim to develop the unfounded in their entirety. human rights and act with due diligence, and with corporation’s activities and provide employees In December 2015, the District Court of a good understanding of its existing and potential with possibilities to influence the decisions that Etelä-Savo deemed a Metsä Group employee to human rights impacts. Metsä Group acts accordaffect their employment, working conditions and have committed an industrial safety offence. In the ing to this principle to “know and show” in issues position in the company. The main focus is on the accident pieces of dilapidated roof in a warehouse related to human rights. Our Code of Conduct local level where shop stewards represent wider collapsed. Nobody was injured, but the Court prohibits the use of forced and child labour, and groups of employees. ordered the employee to pay day fines and Metsälioutlines about working conditions and safety at The multinational European Works Councils itto Cooperative was additionally ordered to pay work. We are also preparing a public statement on (EWCs) acting in our different business areas are corporate fines of EUR 100,000. The judgement is the UK Modern Slavery Act according to the law. important channels for internal communications under appeal. We work to identify the existing and potential risks related to our entire supply chain. Based on CASE our current knowledge, we recognize that the potential risk for human rights abuses lies in our supplier chain rather than in our own operations; NEW STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE accordingly, we are continuously striving to IN SOCIAL MEDIA mitigate this potential risk. In 2015, our focus has Metsä Group introduced new channels for stakeholder communications in 2015. We are now active on been on increase our knowledge of our suppliers. Twitter and LinkedIn, and have both Facebook and Instagram profiles. Our employees are also encourCredit control and procurement have taken a new aged to participate in dialogue based on their own fields of expertise. Being active in social media increases the transparency of our operations and provides good opportunities to discuss issues that are screening tool into use to evaluate our suppliers. important to our stakeholders. We want to be known as a strong and responsible thought leader in the This tool can be used, for example, to ensure that forest industry. none of our suppliers is on a sanction list due to Active presence in social media has opened doors for new dialogues with our stakeholders and the human rights or other violations. We acknowledge concerns brought to our attention by them. In May 2015, a discussion about gender equality in working the recent significant increase of refugees and life stormed in social media. A female technology student, who applied for asummer job at a forest other immigrants in Europe, which might increase industry company in Finland, posted her experience on Facebook. The person felt that she was mistreated due to her gender as she inquired about the summer position over the phone. the risk of forced labour, and pay special attention Over the next days, the Facebook post with hashtag #vaikkaolennainen (“#even though I’m a to it in our procurement processes. Our new woman”) was shared 13,000 times and acknowledged by the online and printed news media as well. sustainability target for 2016–2017 aims to ensure Although the student never specified the company by name, Metsä Group investigated the case the sustainability of our main logistics flows of the internally and publicly apologized for one person’s insensitive comments at one of its mills. It was Group. Read more about it on page 49. clearly stated that the company’s policy is to provide equal opportunities for all job applicants. Metsä Group’s openness was also positively recognized in the media. As part of the Code of Conduct process, we also have effective grievance mechanisms in place 20 We create well-being TRANSPARENCY IN are reported, collected and paid in a timely manner according to the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction where Metsä Group operates. TAX MANAGEMENT GROUP-LEVEL TAX MANAGEMENT The management of the tax affairs within Metsä Group is conducted by the Group-level tax team in close cooperation with the management of the Metsä Group Tax Policy, approved by the Board of Directors, Group companies. The tax team monitors tax was established to govern the main tax principles applied in the risks involved in business transactions and advises Group. It also helps to recognize and control relevant tax risks. the Group companies in implementing the tax principles in their daily business as well as in business restructurings. The use of external tax advisors is controlled by the tax team to ensure According to the policy, all tax decisions made relevant legislation as well as the Organisation for appropriate and adequate planning and structures, within Metsä Group and all other measures and Economic Co-operation and Development which are in accordance with the tax principles of actions that affect taxation must be legal and in (OECD) Transfer Pricing Guidelines. Costs and Metsä Group. accordance with the applicable tax laws and income are allocated to the company they belong Documentation requirements, for instance regulations. All tax decisions are based on sound to. Profits or losses can only be transferred from country-by-country tax reporting, will significommercial reasons and proactively support the one unit to another by applying the methods cantly increase the administrative burden of tax goals of the Group’s business activities. Corporate allowed by the tax laws and rules in the countries management in the future. Tax team closely structures and other arrangements created only concerned. All tax decisions and other actions follows the developments in both international for tax reasons are not implemented. affecting taxation are properly documented. and domestic tax legislation and implements the All transfer prices between Group companies, Metsä Group is committed to full tax relevant changes in business structures and relating to both the sale of goods and services, compliance and a good working relationship with transactions as well in tax reporting within Metsä shall be set on an arm’s length basis following the the tax authorities in various jurisdictions. Taxes Group. We create well-being 21 WE CREATE WELL-BEING CREATING VALUE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Metsä Group comprises five business areas that each represent different parts of our unique value chain. We partner with our customers to discover optimal solutions and achieve increased competitive advantage. 22 We create well-being METSÄ FOREST SERVICES TO SUPPORT SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY Metsä Forest serves both forest owners and Membership in PEFC™ is a free benefit the wood refining industry. We are the market for the owner-members of Metsäliitto leader in wood trade and energy wood in Cooperative. We also help our members to Finland. join the FSC® (Licence Code FSCC014476) certification system by offering FSC group certification. We supply all the wood Metsä Group uses and provide the ownerRegeneration services – soil preparamembers of Metsä Group’s parent company, Metsäliitto Cooperative, tion, seedlings and planting – are sold in as well as other forest owners, with extensive services in wood trade order to help forest owners establish a new and in forest and nature management. forest. We offer a service in which we take We can trace 100% of the wood we use back to the forest stand responsibility for the new stand until it is level and know that all the wood we purchase originates from sustainwell-established. ably managed forests. Our forest management is based on extensive The e-services we provide for our and internationally high-quality forest data. All our owner-members owner-members are the most advanced in have their own designated forest specialist who helps them in the the market. They ensure that both they and management of their forest property. Forest management plans are our forest professionals always have roundtailored to combine the forest owner’s own goals with sustainable and the-clock access to up-to-date forest data at profitable forestry. We also map valuable nature habitats without cost the office, in the forest and at home. for our owner-members. CUSTOMER’S VIEW FSC GROUP CERTIFICATION FOR METSÄ FOREST CUSTOMERS Helsinki-based Päivi Renman and her siblings inherited a forest area in eastern Finland in 2008. They opted for a turnkey agreement with Metsä Group for the management of their forest. “We want to take good care of our forest but we lack the expertise ourselves,” says Renman. As part of the service package, their forest was included in the Metsä Group FSC group certificate. Metsä Group employees took care of the group certification procedures on behalf of Renman and her siblings, who were also given a presentation about the FSC compliant management of their forest. In accordance with the FSC criteria, the certificate does not cover the areas surrounding their summer cottage and the nearby lake – areas where Renman and her siblings love to pick berries. “As forest owners, we are committed to complying with the FSC criteria, while Metsä Group’s professionals are responsible for the actual forest management,” says Renman. Joining the certification through Metsä Group was easy, and there is high demand for FSC certified wood in the market. “With FSC certification, I’m expecting an even more consistent demand for our wood.” We create well-being 23 WE CREATE METSÄ WOOD WELL-BEING WOOD PRODUCTS FROM NORTHERN WOOD Metsä Wood offers competitive wood products for construction, industrial customers and distributor partners. We manufacture products from northern wood, a sustainable raw material of premium quality. Our key strength is industrial efficiency delivered CUSTOMER’S VIEW through commitment, reliability and quality. We use 100% traceable wood from northern forests, and our facilities are surrounded by these forests, METSÄ WOOD AND SAINT-GOBAIN which ensures a reliable supply. BUILDING DISTRIBUTION The northern wood has multiple excellent – FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE properties. As a building material, it is lightTOGETHER weight, fast to build with, and sustainable. The Saint-Gobain Building Distribution is Europe’s leading strength-to-weight ratio of wood is in a class of its building materials merchant. With 63,000 employees in 27 own compared to other building materials. countries, the Building Distribution Sector has a solid network Prefabricated modular wood elements also shorten of generalist and specialist trading brands serving the renovaconstruction time significantly. Wood products are tion, new building and home improvement markets. Cooperarecyclable, and as a renewable raw material wood tion between Saint-Gobain and Metsä Wood expands over several countries in Europe. stores carbon throughout its life cycle. As a partner of Saint-Gobain, Metsä Wood has committed The market for wood products is continuously to their responsible purchasing and environmental timber growing alongside population growth and urbanipolicies. For Saint-Gobain this is a strict requirement in sation, as construction and transport volumes are selecting partners. increasing globally. Metsä Wood’s success is based “We wish to partner only with companies who are commiton our ability to create value for customers in the ted to sustainability through biodiversity, legality and promotion of certified and responsibly grown and harvested timber”, form of efficient ways of operating and new says John Groen, Procurement & Marketing Manager Timber product innovations. We hold a strong position in & Panels at Saint-Gobain Building Distribution. ”Sustainable Europe and have ambitious growth targets, forest management and 100% traceability of wood are a particularly in Asia and the United States. prerequisite to us.” Saint-Gobain recognises Metsä Wood as a model supplier with regards to sustainability. “This is supported by the findings in our Responsible Together Tool, which records traces the commitments of the suppliers in sustainability. We are aligned with Metsä Wood in our commitment to sustainability.” 24 We create well-being METSÄ FIBRE INVESTING IN A FOREST-BASED BIOECONOMY Metsä Fibre is a world-leading producer of bioproducts and bioenergy. The main brand is Botnia. We are strengthening our position in the softwood pulp market by investing in a new bioproduct mill in Äänekoski. The products – sustainably and cost-efficiently produced side streams include lignin products, producer gas, sulphuric softwood and birch pulp – are specially developed for the acid, textile fibres, biocomposites, fertilizers and biogas. production of high-quality tissue and writing papers, specialty The mill is designed to allow for a broad and diverse range products and board. The pulps are made from a completely of products manufactured by a unique bioeconomy ecosystem renewable raw material. With four pulp mills in Finland, we are of companies. also a significant producer of bioenergy. Operating in the same mill integrate with Metsä Fibre’s Metsä Fibre is currently building the first, next-generation existing Äänekoski mill, the American company CP Kelco is bioproduct mill in the world in Äänekoski, central Finland. In already partnering with Metsä Fibre in Äänekoski. What do addition to high-quality pulp, it will produce a broad range of they have to say about the current partnership and the planned traditional bioproducts such as tall oil, turpentine, bioelectricity mill? and wood fuel. Potential new products created from production CUSTOMER’S VIEW CP KELCO AND METSÄ FIBRE – PARTNERS IN THE BIOECONOMY CP Kelco is the innovation leader in the modification of cellulose-based raw materials. With bioproducts derived from natural, renewable raw materials, CP Kelco is an excellent partner for Metsä Fibre. “Cellulose is one of the key raw materials for the production of our bioproducts and Metsä Fibre is one of our key raw material suppliers. Reliable supplies of cellulose with consistent quality and on-time deliveries are critical for our business,” says Oliver Ruppert, Technology & Capabilities Senior Manager CMC at CP Kelco. “It is also important that the key raw material is renewable in order to have an aligned approach across the entire value chain.” CP Kelco’s CMC (carboxymethyl cellulose) products, manufactured from celluloses and supplied to CP Kelco by Metsä Fibre and other suppliers, are used in a wide variety of applications. These include paper making, detergents as well as several food and beverage applications such as ice cream. CMC works as a thickener, viscosity modifier and emulsion stabilizer. Oliver Ruppert has closely followed the planning and building of the new bioproduct mill: “Metsä Fibre’s sustainability mindset is very strong and the new investment into the bioproduct mill is a great example where multiple elements are combined to become a world class sustainability company.” We create well-being 25 WE CREATE METSÄ BOARD WELL-BEING PREMIUM PAPERBOARDS SUSTAINABLY Metsä Board is a leading European CUSTOMER’S VIEW producer of folding boxboards and white linerboards made from fresh forest fibre. Our lightweight METSÄ BOARD paperboards are developed as the – BEST PERFORMER perfect fit for consumer goods, retailAMONG L’ORÉAL’S PACKAGING COMPONENTS ready and food service packaging. SUPPLIERS At the end of 2013, L’Oréal presented its The pure fresh forest fibres Metsä Board uses in its products commitments with regard to Sustainable are a renewable resource, traceable to their origin in Development by 2020 through the ”Sharing northern sustainably managed forests and recyclable after Beauty With All” programme. use. “Suppliers are an integral part of the environmental, social and ethical commitIn 2015, Metsä Board gained success in three different ments made by L’Oréal,” says Mathieu scorings by CDP, (formerly the Carbon Disclosure ProDufour, Purchasing Category Director – ject), the international non-profit organization providing a Printing & Specialties at L’Oréal. “The Group’s global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, objective is that by 2020, 100% of L’Oréal’s manage and share vital environmental information. strategic suppliers will be involved in our sustainability programme.” Currently its Scoring 100/100, we were identified as a Nordic leader suppliers’ activities represent 28% of L’Oréal’s for the quality of the climate change related information it carbon emissions. discloses to investors and the global marketplace, and Consequently, since 2009, L’Oréal has awarded a position on the Nordic Disclosure Leadership involved its suppliers in measuring and Index (CDLI). The position was earned by disclosing high reducing its carbon footprint by asking them quality carbon emissions and energy data through CDP’s to work with the CDP in the CDP Supply Chain programme. climate change programme. Metsä Board has been participating in the Secondly, Metsä Board achieved leadership status in CDP supply chain programme since 2013, the materials sector of the CDP’s Forest programme. Of the improving their scoring year on year to reach 180 global respondents for CDP’s forests information 100 B in 2015. “Among our Packaging Comporequest, only nine were awarded leadership status. nents suppliers, Metsä Board is the best performer for 2015. It demonstrates once Last but not least, Metsä Board gained A-list status for again Metsä Board’s action and commitment its actions to improve water security and better manage this to tackle climate change.” shared resource. It was the only forest industry company and the only European company on the A-list. 26 We create well-being METSÄ TISSUE COMFORT AND HYGIENE Metsä Tissue offers tissue paper products to households and professionals in Europe and is the world’s leading supplier of baking and cooking papers. Our main brands are Lambi, Serla, Mola, Tento, Katrin and SAGA. Our Katrin products and solutions bring that environmental, social and economic 254%. All Katrin tissue products are manuwell-being and functionality to public impacts are in perfect balance. According to factured in our mills in the Nordic countries washrooms, hotels, schools, restaurants, research1), drying your hands with a paper and in continental Europe and they all are industrial workplaces and healthcare environtissue is the most hygienic way as it decreases labelled with the Nordic Ecolabel (Nordic ments. The Katrin range includes tissue the amount of bacteria on the finger pads by Swan) or/and the EU Ecolabel. hygiene products, professional wiping and up to 76% and on the palms by up to 77%. cleaning towels, napkins, compatible dispensWhen comparing to drying hands with a ers and supplementary accessories. warm air dryer the total number of bacteria 1) Source: University of Westminster: Changes in the Our customers and partners gain was found to increase on average on the number of different types of bacteria on the hands before and after drying using paper towel, continuous cloth cumulative benefits with Katrin: we ensure finger pads by 194% and on the palms by roller towel, warm air dryer and jet air dryer (2010). CUSTOMER’S VIEW SOL AND METSÄ TISSUE – HOLISTIC APPROACH FOR CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND SUSTAINABILITY “SOL is a Finnish family-owned service industry business and for us it is important to work with reliable Finnish partners such as Metsä Tissue,” says Camilla Ottosson, Director at SOL Palvelut. ”Metsä Tissue’s Katrin products, such as papers and dispensers, are of excellent quality and therefore highly appreciated by our customers.” “They also fit our desire to offer services that reduce environmental impacts: the dispensers optimize paper consumption according to the varying needs of different locations and are designed to have a long life span. Using the papers, which have been awarded environmental labels, has significant hygiene benefits.” But it is more than just the products that matter. As a multiservice company with cleaning, facility and property services, SOL offers a service concept that aims to make the customers’ lives easier. SOL’s and Metsä Tissue’s long standing partnership builds on this holistic, customer-focused approach. “Together, we work closely with our customers, visiting their premises and providing them with expert advice on which products and services best suit the end-users according to their requirements, such as an office with many different users,” explains Ottosson. “For both of us, our priority is a satisfied and loyal customer.” We create well-being 27 WE CREATE WELL-BEING CASE METSÄ FIBRE PERSONNEL BUILDING THE MILLS OF THE FUTURE Metsä Fibre’s “Mills of the Future” is a new operating model that has been designed by the METSÄ GROUP’S KEY PERSONNEL DATA 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 personnel and is based on a flat organisation, self-steering teams and shared leadership. Team Number of employees 1) 9,599 10,410 10,741 11,447 12,525 members take joint responsibility for their work Share of permanent employees, % 2) 93.5 94.1 94.3 94.0 94.2 and share tasks among the team. They can make Average age, years 2) 44.6 44.5 44.4 44.1 43.8 independent decisions and have the opportunity Average years served, years 2) 16.7 16.8 16.7 16.3 15.6 to increase their responsibilities and make the Employee turnover, % 2) 3) 7.9 7.4 9.5 12.0 7.8 most of their skills. Ratio between men/women, % 2) 78/22 79/21 78/22 78/22 79/21 The new operating model was outlined last Share of women in management, % 4) 15.8 15.0 14.3 13.3 12.9 year during interviews with Metsä Fibre employees and workshops with over 200 attendees. A 1) Full-time equivalent (FTE) on 31 December. 2) The figures covered 99% of Metsä Group employees in 2011–2015. pilot project started in the beginning of 2016. 3) The figure includes also redundancies caused by restucturing of business. 4) Management includes Board of Directors, Executive Management Team and business areas’ management teams. “Mills of the Future” is one of Metsä Group’s ways of remaining competitive and staying one step ahead: as the most preferred partner, supplier and employer. REMUNERATION DATA Compensation per production country*) Finland Germany Slovakia UK Poland Russia Sweden Ratio of the annual total Metsä Group follows a common principle for compensation for the organisation's remuneration based on the position evaluation, highest paid individuals (highest one employee’s competence and performance, and their per cent) to the median annual total development. Remuneration for all positions compensation 5.1 3.4 5.2 4.0 8.9 8.2 3.2 complies with the legislation and collective Ratio of the percentage increase of agreements of the country in question. In Metsä highest individual salaries (highest Group’s operating countries, there is a moderate one per cent) to the average distribution in both salary increases and median percentage increase 0.9 0.2 1.0 0.2 0.2 2.1 1.2 salaries at different organisational levels, and all employees within a position evaluation level receive Ratio of basic salary and equal compensation. Common criteria is used in remuneration of women to men, salary reviews to ensure a fair and competitive level based on comparable average job of compensation. grades indexes 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.9 1.0 0.9 0.9 * Including 93% of white-collar personnel 28 We create well-being DIVERSE EMPLOYER Metsä Group offers a diverse range of opportunities for professionals in different fields. We increasingly offer individual development paths. In 2015, Metsä Group’s human resources manageTRAINING PROFESSIONALS TO KNOW ment focused on supporting business areas and AND SHOW THEIR STRENGTHS Group Services with a wide range of practical Our specialist training focuses on effectiveness and development activities, strengthening the company’s well-being through, for example, improving prioremployer image and boosting internal job rotation. itising skills. Other key themes have included Fair treatment, equality and responsible leadership self-management and employees recognising their METSÄ GROUP HAS are key elements in our organisational culture. Each own personal strengths and skills. This year, we also Metsä Group employee has a job description and offered special courses on financial administration 9, 599 clear targets, possibilities for continuous development through training and learning, constructive feedback, and a safe working environment. We and purchasing. On-the-job learning is supported at Metsä Board and Metsä Tissue with mentoring programs where expertise and experiences are shared in order to develop personal competences. consider our employees’ work-life balance at every EMPLOYEES IN stage of their career. All Metsä Group employees are entitled to a 26 Personal Development Appraisal (PDA) discussion FOCUSED HUMAN RESOURCES to discuss their work situation, performance and to COUNTRIES DEVELOPMENT plan their personal development activities. We Renewal is one of the Group’s values and therefore a follow the same PDA practices for all employees in key aspect of our operations – we encourage everyone Finland, and have been continuing the harmonisato develop their skills. Renewal is also essential tion of our development discussion practices in, for PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY because a significant number of our employees will be example, Poland, Germany and Slovakia. Some 92% % AS FTE, ON 31 DEC 2015 retiring over the coming years. We offer a variety of of our employees were involved in a PDA in 2015. development and leadership programmes, as well as training tailored to specific team and individual THE RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AND needs. UNIONIZE Finland 53 One of our leadership programmes, Learn-GrowIn Metsä Group’s Sustainability Principles, we secure Germany 12 Sweden 14 Lead (LGL), plays an important role in training our our personnel’s freedom to form unions and the right United Kingdom 5 Russia 4 supervisors. In total 275 supervisors took LGL to negotiate representative collective agreements. In Poland 5 Slovakia 3 training in 2015. In Finland, Qualification in Mantotal 77% of all of our employees fall within the scope Belgium 1 Rest of Europe 1 agement and Leaderhip training is offered to key of collective agreements, and a shop steward system is Baltic countries 1 Other countries 1 management. In 2015, nearly 24,000 training days in place in many of our operating countries. We apply were held (2014: 10,107), with 3,001 employees in each country’s local legislation and regulations on Finland and 2,335 abroad participating in training collective agreements and working conditions. THE GROUP’S PERSONNEL BY offered by the Group. In 2014–2015, our total number of personnel BUSINESS AREA % AS FTE, ON 31 DEC 2015 An Employee’s booklet was developed together fell by 7.8% largely due to structural changes at Metsä with employees from all business areas and locations Wood and the sale of Metsä Board’s Gohrsmühle mill to accompany the Manager’s Notebook, which was in Germany. In total, 1,923 people were affected by published last year. The Employee project aims at the restructuing of business, of whom 279 were made Metsä Tissue 29 supporting a good working community based on our redundant and 423 were temporarily laid off. We Metsä Board 27 Metsä Fibre 9 values and shows that organisational development is a support the redundant employees in finding new Metsä Wood 21 joint effort. positions. We recruited 421 new employees during Metsä Forest 9 Group functions 5 the year. We create well-being 29 million working hours. Positive results have been achieved WE CREATE especially in Metsä Wood, where considerable investments in WELL-BEING improving safety over the past few years have been made. This resulted in an LTA1 improvement of 47% since 2014. In addition to the lost-time accident frequency rate, the figure representing accidents at work that cause one or several days absence from work per a million worked hours, all occurred INVESTING accidents and near misses are also carefully monitored. Our target is to reduce sickness absenteeism below 3%. This IN PREVENTIVE has proved to be a challenging target, but slight improvements have been made and Metsä Group figures are well below the industry average. The rate of absenteeism due to sickness was SAFETY 3.9%. SAFETY OBSERVATIONS AND MANAGEMENT The ambitious zero accident target covers both our own personEveryone has the right to work in a safe and healthy nel and sub-contractors working in our mills. Both of them receive induction in safe working practices when working at working environment. We are proud to say that we are any of our mills. We have been able to achieve good results with on the right track in improving safety at work: lost-time the help of a comprehensive safety management system based accident frequency has declined by 45% in Metsä on preventive measures and an effective system for registering Group since 2010. safety observations. However, there was one fatal incident at our mill premises in Stotzheim, Germany, where one external employee was fatally injured. Our two Group-wide sustainability targets related to safety and well-being at work The personnel’s safety observations play a significant role in are to reduce annual lost-time accidents (LTA1) by 10% and the sickness absence rate our preventive safety efforts. During our regular safety talks, we to below 3%. The long-term goal is zero accidents. consider any potential safety risks and how to avoid them before Safety at work, as lost-time accident frequency, has improved Group-wide by work even begins. Experiences of safety talks held in all our 15% since 2014. In 2015, the rate of lost time accidents was 9.5 (2014: 11.2) per one business areas have been extremely positive. In all safety training, 30 We create well-being we remind people that safety depends on attitude – something that everyone is responsible for. CASE Our safety efforts cover many different aspects of safety. For example, mills must have a sufficient number of compe1,000 DAYS WITHOUT ACCIDENTS AT METSÄ tent people who are familiar with the rules and regulations on TISSUE’S DÜREN MILL IN GERMANY the safe handling of chemicals. Our fire and rescue teams Metsä Tissue’s Düren mill reached a magical 1,000 days without accidents in October actively cooperate with local fire and rescue authorities as well 2015. This is the best ever achievement in terms of accident-free days in Metsä Tissue. as insurance companies. According to Mill Manager Michael Barth, operating a mill for 1,000 days without any accidents is achieved by emphasizing safety every day. Morning meetings start with HEALTHY AND SATISFIED AT WORK safety issues and all potential safety risks are dealt with quickly or immediate preventive measures are taken. “Everyday safety is all about everyone taking care of themWell-being at work is the foundation for success, both for selves and each other,” Barth says. individual employees and the company as a whole. It is always What is the key lesson that you could share with others to help other mills to reach a personal experience consisting of many things: a meaningful similar figures?“ The mill management believes that being aware of potential risks is job, a well-functioning organisation, and a positive feeling the key point. People have to be trained in that, and everyone should be able to about coming to work. At a personal level, well-being is communicate risks. Making the working environment as safe as possible opens the road to a long period without accidents.” affected by whether you are motivated and have sufficient expertise to perform your tasks. It is also affected by health, work-life balance, and the stage of your life. CASE Good management and supervisory work creates the foundation for well-being at work and a healthy working community. Our supervisors have access to tools and training GREAT IMPROVEMENT IN SAFETY AT METSÄ to help them identify any potential threats to their employees’ WOOD’S PLYWOOD AND KERTO® LVL MILLS well-being at work. Shared practices and systems support Metsä Wood’s plywood and Kerto® LVL mills employ about 1,000 people in Finland. management and job satisfaction. People are able to succeed The mills have shown great progress in improving employees’ safety at work, with 54% when things are in order and the common guidelines are clear. lower LTA1 fr. than in 2014. Safety has been the key focus area of 2015, and is highMetsä Group promotes and maintains well-being and lighted in many ways. The overall aim, creating more transparency and changing attitudes, has been backed with very concrete measures: for example, every meeting working capacity with a system based on preventive measures. at the mills starts with safety issues, and all employees must now wear safety glasses. We aim to identify threats to work capacity at an early stage Another aspect under development has been the tidiness of the mill. A clean working and to take the right measures early enough. To achieve this environment has a positive effect on job satisfaction as well as everyday safety. we use a shared, Group-wide model. This model consists of early support, evaluating working capacity in relation to the job requirements, and drawing up a personal working capacity SAFETY AND plan that considers ways to support the employee’s future WELL-BEING DATA 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 career. We seek to create a caring and trusting working Sickness absenteeism, % 1) 3.9 3.7 3.8 3.9 4.2 atmosphere, and ensure that all employees can be treated Work accident absenteeism, % 1) 0.20 0.22 0.25 0.22 0.22 equally. Accident rate 2) 9.5 11.2 13.2 15.7 18.2 Organisation functionality and job satisfaction are Registered occupational diseases, monitored on an annual basis with an Organisation Funcno. of cases 3) 6 7 3 3 5 tionality Survey and a variety of other personnel surveys. In Work related fatalities, no. of cases 1 4) 0 1 1 1 2015, the organisation functionality stood at a good level, 1) Per cent of theoretical working time. Change in calculation 2015. Years 2011–2014 restated according to the new calculation rule. with an overall Group average of 8.2 (2014: 8.1) on a scale of 2) Lost time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work resulting to at least one day sickleave per million worked hours. 4–10. 3) Change in calculation 2015. Years 2011–2014 restated according to the new calculation rule. 4) External employee. WELL-BEING INDICATORS BY BUSINESS AREA 2015 Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Forest Metsä Group Organisational functionality research index 8.3 8.2 8.2 8.0 8.3 8.2 Organisational functionality research response rate, % 1) 79.8 80.7 84.5 76.7 90.1 81.2 Sickness absenteeism, % 2) 4.7 4.2 4.1 3.6 1.7 3.9 Work accident absenteeism, % 2) 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.2 Accident rate 3) 10.7 11.1 7.9 9.7 5.2 9.5 Registered occupational diseases, no. of cases 4) 0 3 1 2 0 6 Work related fatalities, no. of cases 1 5) 0 0 0 0 1 1) Organisational functionality research covered 92% of Metsä Group’s employees in 3) Lost time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work resulting to at least one day 2015 and 100% in 2014. sickleave per million worked hours. 2) Per cent of theoretical working time. Change in calculation 2015. 2011–2014 restated 4) Change in calculation 2015. according to the new calculation rule. 5) External employee. We create well-being 31 WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES FRESH FOREST FIBRE IS SAFE, STRONG AND LIGHTWEIGHT 32 WE offer sustainable choices PRODUCTS AND SERVICES QUALITY FROM A RENEWABLE RAW MATERIAL Products made from renewable raw materials are in high demand, as competition for natural resources is tight. Our business operations cover the entire value chain for wood. We focus on tissue and cooking papers, paperboard, pulp, wood products, page 34 and wood supply and forest services. Our strong wood and fibre expertise is concentrated in fields where we have a clear NO competitive advantage and a bright future. COMPROMISE ON PRODUCT SAFETY page 36 NEW SOLUTIONS FOR THE BIOECONOMY page 38 WE offer sustainable choices 33 WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES QUALITY FROM A RENEWABLE RAW MATERIAL The main raw material of our products is renewable wood, originating from sustainably managed northern forests. We are leading the way in its use: producing wood products, pulp, fresh fibre paperboard as well as tissue and cooking papers. We use every part of the tree as efficiently as possible, which represents sustainability at its best. OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES BENEFITS TO OUR CUSTOMERS RECYCLING, RE-USE AND RECOVERY We are a pioneer The origin of our certified or controlled wood is All products produced by Metsä Group in the sustainable management of forest always known. The wood we use comes from are recyclable.(1 assets as well as providing services to sustainably managed forests. This guarantees the forest owners. end product’s sustainability. Paper and board is the most recycled packaging material in Europe with a rate Wood products are manufactured Wood products are strong, light and consistent in of 81%.(2 Not all paper and paperboard efficiently by using less energy and can be collected, due to for example appearance, and store carbon during their entire life producing less waste. non-recoverable products such as tissue time. and interior decoration materials. Fresh fibre softwood pulp of the highest Fresh fibre pulp is naturally pure and therefore a Fresh fibre is strong, lightweight and safe, quality is made using the best and latest safe raw material for products such as paperand plays a key role in keeping the fibre available technology, with a strong boards, tissue and cooking papers. In addition to loop circulating. Without it, all fibre would environmental performance. pulp which is a biomaterial, we provide bioenergy, run out in about half a year. Each recycle biochemicals and fertilisers generated as bylap deteriorates the quality of the fibre, products at our pulp mills. which is currently used 3.5 times on average. Lightweight paperboards reduce Using Metsä Board’s sustainable paperboards environmental impacts as their manufacreduces the end product’s environmental impact turing consumes less energy, water and throughout their life cycle as the boards are more raw material compared to competing material efficient and produce less waste. grades. Tissue and cooking papers are Tissue papers bring comfort and improve hygiene. 1) Food Service boards can be recycled, if the right facilities exist in a local area. Barrier coated designed to improve health, hygiene and Using biodegradable cooking papers can reduce paperboards can also be used for energy wellbeing. They are produced close to the food waste in professional kitchens by up to 50%. recovery by incineration. 2) Source: Confederation of Paper Industries (CEPI) markets, which mean short transport They also save energy, water and detergents by 2011 data. distances. making dishwashing easier. 34 WE offer sustainable choices CASE SUSTAINABILITY AWARD TO THE FAZER ALKU CEREAL BOX Fazer Alku New Mill’s cereal box won the Sustainability Award in the international 2015 Pro Carton ECMA Awards. The box was recognised for its design and convenience as well as the high cartonboard ratio that makes the pack ideal for recycling. The award takes on extra significance, as this time the focus was on the unique sustainability of cartonboard. The Alku cereal box is made of Metsä Board’s Simcote folding boxboard. CASE SERLA LAUNCHES “FUTURE PAPER” IN SWEDEN AND NORWAY The availability of recycled newspaper and magazine paper is decreasing as the digitalization of media advances. At the same time, e-commerce is flourishing, leading to an increased use of paperboard as packaging material. Metsä Tissue’s brand Serla surfs on these trends and has come up with a smart solution to add fibre from recycled paperboard to tissue paper. The result is a product of the same high quality as before the only difference is that the paper now has a slightly browner hue. Metsä Tissue is thus a trend-setter as the only Nordic tissue manufacturer that uses paperboard fibre in its products. “Framtidens Papper/Papir”, or “future paper”, has been in Swedish and Norwegian stores since October 2015. WE offer sustainable choices 35 WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES NO COMPROMISE ON PRODUCT SAFETY When converting a renewable raw material into products, safety aspects are taken into account already in the research and development phase. This ensures that both their use and recycling is safe for people and the environment. Traceability and approvals of raw materials are key elements in securing product safety. Metsä Group’s products are produced from fresh fibres according formaldehyde emissions to indoor air. Birch and spruce plywood to good manufacturing practice (GMP) and an in-house control and Kerto LVL even fulfil the most stringent formaldehyde plan. The certified ISO 22000 food safety management system emission requirements in the world. ensures that products, such as packaging boards, greaseproof cooking and baking papers and their main raw material, pulp, JOINT APPROACH TO PRODUCT SAFETY meet the strictest safety requirements. Moreover, numerous end Metsä Board’s, Metsä Fibre’s and Metsä Tissue’s joint product use tests of finished products are conducted in both internal and safety network meets regularly to monitor product safety external laboratories. compliance of pulp, paperboard, baking and cooking papers and Raw materials play a key role in the production chain for safe tissue products. Relevant regulations are carefully followed. These products. Metsä Group is committed to only using wood from include food contact material regulations in the EU, the USA sustainably managed forests. We always know the origin of the and the APAC area, chemical regulations such as REACH and wood used in our products. Most of the wood we use comes from biocidal products regulations. Thanks to this network, Metsä Finland and always from certified or controlled forests. Our Group has a unified vision of product safety. production sites are located close to abundant clean waters and Members of the network ensure that new requirements are typically in the middle of forests, close to our main raw material. implemented at the production units. In addition, product safety audits are conducted both internally and with suppliers and MANAGING PRODUCT SAFETY RISKS sub-contractors. Clean waters and fresh fibres, pure by nature, provide a good basis for managing product safety risks. For example, traces of printing HARMONIZED REGULATION AT THE EU LEVEL inks are not present in fresh fibres. Paper’s and board’s use in direct food contact is not harmonized Before intentionally adding any chemicals to our products, at the EU level in the same way as plastic food contact materials. the risks are assessed and safety ensured for their users, our The EU sets out general safety requirements for all food contact employees and the environment. Paperboards, greaseproof baking materials and general obligations of good manufacturing practice. and cooking papers are manufactured without fluorochemicals. In 2016, the Commission will complete a study establishing a We do not use any genetically modified raw materials nor baseline of the current situation concerning food contact materiapprove of nanotechnology-based new substances until more als which currently lack the harmonized measures. information on their safety becomes available. Harmonized regulation at the EU level, supported by The wooden building materials produced by Metsä Wood, industry and GMP guidelines, would simplify the fragmented such as plywoods, laminated veneer lumber Kerto® LVL and European regulatory framework and reduce both compliance Finnjoist I-joists fall far below the Class E1 requirement for costs and costs to consumers. 36 WE offer sustainable choices ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT INFORMATION FOR CUSTOMERS’ USE Metsä Group and its companies have third-party environmental certification and our products have environmental labels. This makes it easier for consumers to make sustainable choices. We also prepare the following environmental product calculations: LIFE CYCLE ASSESSMENT (LCA) Life cycle assessments provide us with information on the environmental impact of products, from procuring raw materials to delivering products to customers. We use LCA information in environmental product declarations. ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATION (EPD) An Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) is verified by a third party and based on a life cycle assessment and other information in accordance with the international ISO 14025 standard. Metsä Board published its first EPD in 2012 for Simcote folding boxboard. Metsä Wood has prepared EPDs for both its Kerto® wood and plywood products. CARBON FOOTPRINT Our carbon footprint calculations are based on product-specific life cycle calculations. We consider the effect on climate warming of the carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions generated during production. The carbon footprint is presented as a CO2 equivalent. PAPER PROFILE ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT DECLARATIONS Paper Profile is a standardised environmental product declaration developed by leading European paper manufacturers. It makes comparing the environmental performance of paper and paperboard products easier for customers. In addition to product composition, it provides information on emissions to the air and water generated during production. Metsä Board also publishes more detailed information on the wood raw materials used in its products. It has published Paper Profile descriptions for all of its paperboard products since 2001. These descriptions can be downloaded from Metsä Board’s website. ENVIRONMENTAL LABELS Environmental labels provide consumers with information on the environmental impact of products. We participate in developing criteria for issuing environmental labels. The EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel and other environmental labels prove that Metsä Tissue’s tissue papers are sustainably produced. SAGA cooking papers have as well been issued the Nordic Ecolabel, also known as the Swan label. It helps consumers choose an environmentally friendly way to prepare their food. Common criteria for environmental labels have not yet been developed for packaging products. WE offer sustainable choices 37 WE OFFER SUSTAINABLE CHOICES NEW SOLUTIONS FOR THE BIOECONOMY In R&D, Metsä Group combines its deep, long-term know-how on upgrading wood to creating solutions for a sustainable future and the bioeconomy. Our main raw material, wood from sustainably managed forests, is the most versatile raw-material in the world, and with persistent research, more valuable utilization possibilities are constantly opening up. Metsä Group is a member in various research clusters that aim to turn science and technology into sustainable biobased solutions. At Metsä Group, research and development efforts focus partners. The ultimate aim is to widen the use the on advancing efficiency and the utilization of resources upcoming mill’s sub-concepts to all of our mills. in our operations as well as innovating new ways to utilize fibre and other components of wood. Our aim is TOGETHER WITH PARTNERS TOWARDS to produce goods that will replace fossil-based products, NEW BIOPRODUCTS and thus enhance the development of the bioeconomy. To fully exploit the opportunities arising from a changMetsä Group’s major investment and most concrete ing business environment, Metsä Group is actively example of product and process innovations in the field looking for partners with whom to co-create the innovaof resource efficiency and the bioeconomy is the biotions of tomorrow. Such partners are found in Finland, product mill that is under construction in Äänekoski, but also abroad and include companies, research organiFinland. When starting in Q3/2017, this first-of-its-kind zations and universities. industry unit will introduce totally new sub-concepts Operating in complex networks is partly handled by that will take leaps towards closed loops and, for use of various instruments. For example, Metsä Group instance, take the performance measures of the unit to an has had an important role in establishing the Finnish another level with regard to water consumption, energy Bioeconomy Cluster FIBIC Ltd. After a merger with efficiency as well as emissions to air and water. The unit CLEEN Ltd in 2015, a new network CLIC Innovation will also introduce new bioproducts over time. They are Ltd was established to enhance Finnish research, being developed in close cooperation with various know-how and business opportunities internationally in 38 WE offer sustainable choices the fields of the bioeconomy and clean technology. Metsä Group was also one EMPLOYEES’ IDEAS VALUED AS PART OF INTERNAL R&D of the founders of the Biobased Industries Consortium which, together with In 2015, Metsä increased its investments in research and development, the European Commission, established the Biobased Industries Private-Public totaling EUR 18.1 million (2014: 17.7), which accounts for 0.4% (0.4) of Partnership in 2014. total operating expenses. Nurturing a culture for creating innovations is In networks we create new knowledge with partners focusing the research demonstrated, for example, in the annual CEO’s Productivity and Innovae.g. on cellulose or lignin-based biomaterials and on utilizing waste water tion Competition for personnel. In 2015, a total of 43 entries were received sludge as bioenergy. from the employees. The first prize and the Golden Cone Trophy 2015 were awarded to Metsä Board’s team for improving folding boxboard strength qualities. NEW, INNOVATIVE SUB-CONCEPTS MAKE THE BIOPRODUCT MILL THE MOST MODERN IN THE WORLD Advanced use of resources and smaller emissions. With pulp production as a core of the bioproduct mill, the new unit will raise the utilization of our valuable resources – wood, other raw materials, energy and water – to a significantly higher level compared to sites of previous generations. The need of fresh water per produced tonne of pulp will be in approximately halved. The amount of wastewater generated, relative to the production of pulp, will also decrease significantly. The emissions to water will also decrease due to a new three-stage (mechanical, biological and chemical) purification process. For example, the bioproduct mill’s chemical oxygen demand (COD) emissions per ton will be 70% lower than at the current site. The new mill, with an annual capacity of 1.3 million tonnes of pulp, will operate within the environmental limits of the current mill, which has an annual capacity of 0.5 million tonnes. New sub-concepts for energy management. Energy efficiency and maximizing production of renewable electricity were key design drivers when developing the bioproduct mill concept. In practice, this meant going through each department of the mill and identifying targets for energy saving. As a consequence of this thorough design work and with the help of a EUR 32.1 million investment grant from the Finnish Ministry of Employment and the Economy to share the risk of the new technologies, the mill’s self-sufficiency in terms of electricity will be 240%. This means that the mill will produce 2.4 times the amount of electricity it consumes. The first mill ever planned to be fully free of fossil energy. All of the energy needed to operate the mill will be extracted from the wood raw material. Whereas typical pulp mills still require fossil energy, either in the form of fuel oil or natural gas especially for running the lime kiln, the bioproduct mill has been planned to run the lime kiln with gaseous fuel derived from bark using thermal gasification. As secondary fuels, important especially in ramp-ups and shut-downs, biobased tall oil pitch and methanol, both generated as side streams of the mill’s processes, will also be used. Using the new concept makes Metsä Group’s bioproduct mill the first to operate fully without fossil fuels and one that will advance the circular economy with state-of-art technology. Returning converted malodorous gases back to the process. One of the bioproduct mill’s new process concepts is to capture and convert the malodorous gases (rich in sulfur compounds) generated in production into sulfuric acid and then re-use the sulfuric acid as a process chemical in the main process. This sub-concept improves the chemical circulation of the mill, cuts back the sulfate emissions into the nearby waterway, and impacts the need of other external chemicals at the mill. Increasing the use of renewable energy on national level. The excess 140% of electricity produced a little more than 1 TWh annually will be distributed to the national grid as renewable electricity. As a whole, the impact of the bioproduct mill on a national level is significant. When fully operational, the BIOPRODUCT mill will increase the use of renewable energy in Finland by over two MILL percentage units, taking Finland closer to its national target of 38% renewable energy that has to be achieved by 2020. WE offer sustainable choices 39 WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Wood, Metsä Group’s main raw material, comes from northern forest where forest growth exceeds their use. We always know the origin of the wood we procure, and ensure sustainable use of forests through third-party certification. Enhancing sustainability in the value chain applies to all materials and services used. We work in close partnership with our raw material and service suppliers and logistics providers to keep careful track of all steps along the entire value chain. 100% WE PLANT FOUR SEEDLINGS FOR EACH TREE HARVESTED TRACEABLE WOOD 84% OF USED WOOD CERTIFIED 40 We bring the forest to you NORTHERN FORESTS KEEP ON GROWING page 42 FROM FOREST TO MARKETS WITH CERTIFICATES page 44 TOGETHER IN A SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN page 46 RELIABLE LOGISTICS WITH A WIDE PARTNER NETWORK page 48 We bring the forest to you 41 WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU NORTHERN FORESTS KEEP ON GROWING What is a sustainably managed forest? It is a forest that grows where it used to grow. A forest that provides material benefits like wood and berries together with non-material benefits like the air we breathe and the carbon that the trees store. A forest containing numerous valued habitats. A forest that is regenerated as the wood raw material is utilized. A forest that provides income and well-being to the region where it grows. Just like our northern forests. Metsä Group purchases wood from sustainably managed forests in Finland and its neighbouring countries. See map and shares on pages 44–45. A cooperative made up of 116,000 Finnish forest owners, Metsä Group supplies the majority of wood it uses from Finland. In addition to Finland, wood is procured from Sweden, the Baltic countries and Russia and the same requirements apply to the purchased wood in the whole wood supply area: it must be 100% traceable and originate from sustainable sources. Following these principles guarantees both continuity and diversity. We use forest certification both as a tool to ensure the best possible implementation of this and as a credible way to convey this message forward. 42 We bring the forest to you COMMON AIMS IN ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES CASE Metsä Group focuses on five environmental goals in wood supply: maintaining biodiversity, decreasing impacts to water and soil, reducing operations’ emissions and the use of energy, ensuring BIODIVERSITY legality, and increasing the knowledge of its personnel and contracENHANCED IN tors. To achieve these goals, numerous targets and actions are defined COOPERATION WITH on an annual basis and the results followed by the management. WWF FINLAND This Environmental Programme is a part of the Environmental Two thirds of the threatened forest Management System, audited by a third, independent party. A new, species in Finland use herb-rich forests common Environmental Programme for wood supply was approved in or sunlit slopes as their primary habitat. December 2015. It covers all the countries in the wood supply area, Some of the species benefit from replacing the country-specific programmes and thus systemizing loggings aimed at nature management of the habitat, imitating the natural environmental management from the beginning of 2016. dynamics of the site, according to the The targets, in many cases measurable values, are set in a way that habitat type. encourages striving for the best possible results in everyday work. Metsä Group and WWF Finland joined their forces in a project that Common targets have been set, for instance, for the maintenance of resulted in guidelines and training on the management of herb-rich forests key biotopes, retention trees and buffer zones on logging sites. and sunlit habitats in ordinary commercial forests. As a part of the project and for training events, Metsä Group conducted loggings aimed at nature management in accordance with the guidelines. PLAN, DO, CHECK, ANALYSE AND CORRECT “By cooperating with Metsä Group, we get to influence the forestry Metsä Group makes regular and extensive field audits to ensure that practices, which play a key role in safeguarding the biodiversity values of sunlit nature management in forest operations complies with the legislation habitats and herb-rich forests,” says Liisa Rohweder, Secretary General WWF and forest certification criteria. Performance is under constant evaluaFinland. tion by both internal and external auditors. The results of these evaluations are compared with the targets and when assessing possible development needs and actions. An inability to meet our principles can lead to the termination of the partnership. In 2015, one wood purchase expected to help in controlling the vigorous spread of aspen, known to be a contract was terminated due to this reason. problematic issue in Russian forestry. There are development needs in saving decayed wood and leaving retention trees in Finland because of the new PEFC Forest CertificaBIOPRODUCTS AND BIODIVERSITY tion criteria, which require leaving more deadwood and/or retention When operational in 2017, Metsä Group’s bioproduct mill will significantly trees on the logging sites from the beginning of 2016. In Russia, safety increase the use of wood in Finland. The annual consumption softwood at work issues of Metsä Group’s wood suppliers were under developpulpwood by Metsä Group will rise by some four million cubic meters. ment actions in 2015 and special attention was paid to safety issues According to the experts, the total annual felling of softwood pulpwood during the wood supplier audits. can be increased sustainably by 7 million cubic meters. After Metsä Group’s As one of the targets is related to knowledge and know-how, investment decision, also other investment plans have been published. When environmental training has been organized in the whole wood supply the bioproduct mill and other ongoing projects are realised, pulpwood in area. While Metsä Group’s online training platform was further Finland will be in full commercial use. Use of other fractions such as logs, small developed with new content, on-site training is still carried out. In diameter trees and branches can still be increased. Finland, training was held on nature management and the renewed Growing use of forests has also raised concerns by the stakeholders regardPEFC forest certification requirements. ing the sustainable level of logging amounts. In our operations, harvesting will always be done according to high sustainability criteria and certification. DEVELOPING SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY ACROSS Read more on the use of different parts of the wood on page 52. BORDERS An inverting method developed and widely used by Metsä Group for soil preparation has been a success story in Finland. In 2014, the EVALUATION OF NATURE LOGGING SITE MANAGEMENT IN HARVESTED CLASSIFICATION IN RUSSIA method was introduced in the company’s leased forests in PodSTANDS (DONE BY METSÄ AND THE BALTICS IN 2015 porozhye, Russia. The first results of this new soil preparation GROUP IN FINLAND) % % method were seen in Podporozhye in 2015 and were found to be very 100 encouraging, especially due to the rapid growth of seedlings. 80 60 The advantages of using inverting are obvious: not only is planting 40 easier, but the saplings grow rapidly and with less brushwood than 20 Good 83 Fair 17 usual, and the costs of tending young stands are reduced. In addition, 0 Poor 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 nutrient runoff into waterways is reduced, the roots of forest plants remain better intact and moving about the stand is easy. Inverting is Excellent Good Fair Poor We bring the forest to you 43 WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU FROM FOREST TO certification has grown gradually in Finland since 2011 when the national FSC standard was approved and now covers some 5% of Finnish forests. MARKETS WITH Although the forest areas in Metsä Group’s possession are relatively small, they have been certified, mostly by both PEFC and FSC. To pass on the certification, all the wood CERTIFICATES supply and production units hold Chain of Custody certificates. 15 YEARS PEFC IN FINLAND Metsä Group’s commitment to advance third-party A study in 2015 from Gaia Consulting highlighted the forest certification is evident in its daily operations impacts of PEFC certification, which in 2015 had had a and active participation in the development of wide coverage in Finnish forests for 15 years. The study forest certification. Knowing the origin and ensuring concluded that PEFC has systematized and improved sustainability are key elements in Metsä Group’s wood practices and procedures both in forestry and the whole supply and subject to comprehensive external and value chain. Regarding biodiversity, the study emphasized the effect of leaving retention trees, which is seen as the internal evaluations. No tool communicates sustainable origin of a raw material and ensures its traceability like forest certification. The comprehensiveness of forest certification makes it an FOREST CERTIFICATION excellent sustainability target. Metsä Group targets to sustain the share of certified IN METSÄ GROUP’S WOOD wood in operations above 80%. In 2015, 84% (2014: 84%) of the wood supplied by SUPPLY AREA Metsä Group was PEFC™ (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) and/or FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®; Licence Code FSC-C014476) certified. This is the highest figure among its peers in semi-natural forests 1). In 2015, Metsä Group continued the FSC Forest Management group certification in Finland, Russia and Latvia. The project is still underway in Russia and Latvia, while FINLAND in Finland the area covered by the group certificate grew from 35,000 to 150,000 SWEDEN 80% 55% hectares. The increment was largest in Northern Finland and thus slightly increases the availability of FSC certified raw material, mainly at Metsä Fibre’s Kemi mill. FSC RUSSIA ESTONIA 55% 5% 1) Managed forests of native tree species modified by man through silviculture and assisted regeneration. LATVIA 60% LITHUANIA 50% FOREST CERTIFICATION SHARE VARIES GLOBALLY NORTH WESTERN CIS EUROPE 8% AMERICA 35% 65% ASIA ONLY 10% SOUTH AFRICA 2% OCEANIA AMERICA 1% 7% OF THE WORLD’S FORESTS ARE CERTIFIED 2% 44 We bring the forest to you biggest single reason behind the current improvesystems, including standards, can be endorsed only DISCUSSING AND DEVELOPING ments in the status of endangered species. after a comprehensive, third-party assessment of TOGETHER As a consequence to changes in the Forest compliance with PEFC’s Sustainability BenchIn late 2014, the PEFC General Assembly elected Management Association Act, there was a remarkmarks. Being one of the first countries to attain Riikka Joukio, SVP, Sustainability and Corporate able structural renewal in Finland’s PEFC Forest endorsement in 2000, PEFC Finland achieved the Affairs at Metsä Group, to the PEFC Board of Management certification in 2015. Participation record fourth endorsement for the certification Directors for a three-year term. of forest owners in PEFC certification is mainly system in 2015. Traditionally meeting in interesting and dealt with via memberships in Forest Management PEFC Russia was not able to finalize their topical countries three times a year, the FSC Associations. At the beginning of 2015, memberre-endorsement within the required five-year limit, International Board of Directors held its meeting ship became voluntary; consequently, the numbers which led to the expiration of the scheme in in Finland in November 2015. As one of the of forest owners in PEFC fell, taking with them August 2015. For Metsä Group and other holders organizers of the field trips, Metsä Group presome three million hectares by December 2015. of PEFC Forest Management certificates, this sented the specifics of smallholder forestry, However, 17.6 million hectares, the vast majority meant that the certificates issued in Russia were no emphasizing its challenges within a uniform, of Finnish forests, remained PEFC certified. longer valid. Before submitting for re-endorseglobally set framework. The number is forecast to increase when forest ment, PEFC Russia needs to demonstrate its In 2015, FSC Finland started the revision of owners re-join the certification group, now compliance with PEFC’s Sustainability Benchits Forest Management standard to meet FSC’s managed by the Association of Sustainable marks. updated International Generic Indicators (IGI), Forestry. Metsä Group offers its owner-members In November 2015, PEFC Latvia’s re-endorsethe implementation of which may become difficult the possibility to join the PEFC certification for ment continued with the opening of the public in smallholder forestry. Metsä Group is a member free. consultation period. In PEFC, all stakeholders are of FSC Finland and we participate in the IGI invited to the global public consultation, the working group as well as working groups creating ENDORSEMENT ENSURES A HIGH results of which provide valuable information for the National Risk Assessment for Finland. SimulLEVEL OF CERTIFICATION the third-party assessors in determining whether taneously, a Centralized National Risk Assessment PEFC requires a revision of national forest the respective national system is in compliance has been ordered by FSC International. management systems every five years. The revised with international requirements. METSÄ GROUP WOOD SUPPLY 84% CREDIT * CERTIFIELD METSÄ GROUP + MILLS 16% CERTIFICATION SHARE PERCENTAGE * TRACEABLE, SUSTAINABLE CONTROLLED DEFINITION PRODUCTS TO = METHODS CUSTOMERS 100% CHAIN OF CUSTODY * TRACEABLE CONTROLLED * * Read more about certification terminology at www.metsagroup.com/sustainability WOOD CERTIFIED BY WOOD CONTROLLED BY THE GROUP’S WOOD SUPPLIES FOREST CERTIFICATION FOREST CERTIFICATION BY COUNTRY IN 2015 SYSTEMS SYSTEMS %, • Forest owner is committed • Wood supply company to the requirements ensures that forest area of forest certification, meets the criteria of including legality, controlled origin, including biodiversity and social legality, biodiversity and issues social issues Finland 76 • Forest area has passed a • Wood supply practices and Baltic countries 9 forest managament audit areas are controlled by the Russia 8 Sweden 7 conducted by external wood supply company’s auditor external chain of custody auditor We bring the forest to you 45 Purchasing materials and services to Metsä Group WE BRING is the responsibility of two main actors: Metsä THE FOREST Forest, responsible for wood procurement, and TO YOU Metsä Group Purchasing for procuring everything else. Metsä Forest has been a forerunner in developing sustainability criteria and evaluating the TOGETHER performance of suppliers and partners in harvesting operations through systematic auditing and IN A SUSTAINABLE training practices. See the previous pages for more information on Metsä Forest’s wood procurement and the origin of wood. VALUE CHAIN Excluding wood, all other raw materials and services are purchased centrally by Metsä Group Purchasing, organized into 17 main categories: seven are direct material categories (raw materials In addition to our own obligation to and packaging) and ten are indirect materials and be a responsible company, we are services such as energy, logistics, ICT and millexpected to assure the sustainability of our supply chain. Transparency and responsibility of the entire value chain is of rising interest to our customers and other stakeholders. 46 We bring the forest to you related support services. See the table below on more Our key vendors make up 44% of our total spend in COMPOSITION OF THE details. external purchases. As we purchase most of our raw GROUP’S PURCHASES IN 2015 % OF MATERIAL AND SERVICE Metsä Group spends over EUR 2 billion annually materials and services from Europe, we do not operate in PURCHASES on external purchases, of which raw material purchases areas clarified as high risk for labour or human rights make up 25%. The majority of our purchases are from abuses. Europe 97% (2014: 97%) with 86% (87%) from countries where we have production sites. Our target is THE 2015 SUSTAINABILITY EVALUATION Wood 25 to use local suppliers whenever possible. SHOWS GOOD COMMITMENT FROM KEY Pulp and recovered fibre 18 Indirect materials and services 21 SUPPLIERS Logistics 15 Chemicals, pigments and fillers 8 SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT – JOINT During 2015, we finalized the tool that helped us Other (e.g. packaging materials) 8 Energy 5 COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY determine the sustainability performance of our key We expect all of our suppliers to commit to the Metsä suppliers. The aim was to ensure that the Supplier Code Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers, a common of Conduct is followed in practice. Sustainability was ethical guidance, which was launched in 2011 and to examined from different perspectives such as commitTHE GROUP’S PURCHASES meet the requirements of our Sustainability Principles. ment to general sustainability principles, environmental FROM RAW MATERIAL KEY These principles are founded on internationally recogresponsibility and ethical working conditions. We also VENDORS 1) BY COUNTRY IN 2015 nized guidelines such as the principles of the United evaluated the risks associated with the location of the % Nations Global Compact and the International Labor supplier’s production facilities and the countries of Organization (ILO) conventions. origin of their raw materials. Our aim is to ensure that we work with suppliers Based on the evaluation, our finding was that our that are committed to sustainability, follow safe working key suppliers are committed to the requirements set in Finland Sweden 69 16 practices and have a high standard of business ethics. our Code of Conduct for Suppliers; there were no Germany 4 Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers prohibits the use of high-risk uppliers that would have required a specific Other EU countries 10 Outside Europe 1 forced or child labour, emphasises the respect for human audit against sustainability criteria. Key vendors account for 44% of total rights as well as actions against corruption and bribery. In addition, we continued performing audits based spend in external purchases. The Supplier Code of Conduct was included in 519 on the plans made per category; sustainability criteria contracts during 2014, which accounts for 83% of all were also included in these 54 supplier audits (2014: new and renewed supplier contracts made during 2015. 59). Our new sustainability target for 2016–2017 THE GROUP’S EXTERNAL focuses on logistics flows. Read more about it on the PURCHASES 1) BY COUNTRY IN FOCUS ON THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR next page. 2015 % KEY SUPPLIERS The United Kingdom has enacted the Modern In 2013, we set a new target for our supply chain Slavery Act 2015, the first law in Europe aimed at management – to audit all of our risk-rated raw material eliminating modern slavery and human trafficking from key vendors against sustainability criteria by the end of supply chains. The Act takes effect in October 2015 and Finland 60 2015. We have over 20,000 active supplier relationships, applies to companies that have global sales of over GBP Sweden 15 Germany 8 of which some 200 are defined as key vendors – suppli36 million. We are revising our processes against the UK Other EU countries 14 ers who bring significant value to our business. Key Modern Slavery Act and preparing a statement disclosOther European countries 1 Outside Europe 3 vendors are selected based on strategic importance, a ing our efforts to ensure that our supply chains are free 1) Wood procurement excluded. (See wide variety or unique products or services, strategic from slavery and human trafficking. page 45 for origin of wood information) criticality, significant spend or a long-term partnership. METSÄ GROUP PURCHASING CATEGORIES Direct materials (Raw materials and packaging) Pulp Hardwood, softwood, BCTMP (bleached chemi-thermomechanical pulp). Used in the production of tissue products, cooking papers and paperboards. Recovered paper Mixed office waste and other higher grades, recycled newsprint or corrugated containerboard. Used in some tissue products. Basic chemicals Chemicals used in pulp manufacturing. Process chemicals Chemicals used in board and paper manufacturing processes. Pigments Pigments are used as fillers and coating pigments in board and paper manufacturing. Binders and coatings Binders are used for the retention of pigments, mainly in coating recipes. Binders can be divided into starches and latexes. Packaging materials PE film and hoods, shrink and stretch film, corrugated boxes, roll packaging, cardboard boxes, core board, cores, pallets, labels and bale wire. Indirect material and services Energy, Logistics, ICT, Communications, Human Resources, Production Consumables, Maintenance, Repair and Operation (MRO), Administrative Services, Mill related support services, and Investments We bring the forest to you 47 WE BRING THE FOREST TO YOU MAIN LOGISTICS FLOWS LEAD TO EUROPE – GROWTH COMES FROM OVERSEAS RELIABLE Metsä Group’s logistics network guarantees the wood supply to our mills and ensures that our customers receive their goods in an efficient, LOGISTICS reliable and sustainable manner. Our logistics sourcing and service provider management was WITH A WIDE enhanced in autumn 2015 for improved focus – to ensure that the logistics network meets all PARTNER expectations. NETWORK 48 We bring the forest to you THE NEW TARGET ADDRESSES THE SUSTAINABILITY OF LOGISTICS FLOWS A new sustainability target was set for the years 2016–2017 to support the further development of the environmental and social aspects of logistics. Within the two-year timeframe, the target is to ensure that the main logistics flows of the Group are fully sustainable. This will be accomplished by service provider cooperation and audits. The acceptance of Metsä Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct is one example of the criteria that will determine the sustainability of companies in each logistics flow. REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS DUE TO EFFICIENCY AND SULPHUR REDUCTIONS As logistics is a major cost element, one of the key remedies to mitigate the cost effect is to increase logistics efficiencies. Efforts to accomplish this often go hand-in-hand with decreasing the environmental impact of transports. Maximizing payloads, as an example, decreases the amount of CO2 generated per unit delivered and at the same time decreases the unit cost. Likewise, optimizing ship sailing speeds can have a clear impact on the amount of fuel consumed – effectively impacting the amount of emissions as well as fuel costs. The Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the English Channel formed a sulphur emission control area (SECA) at the beginning of 2015. The maximum sulphur content in marine fuels was 1.0% until the end of 2014. Since the beginning of the year, this limit has been 0.1% sulphur unless the vessel is equipped with an exhaust gas purification system. This new legislation has decreased Metsä Group’s sulphur emissions to the air by approximately 90% in 2015. However, the use of more expensive fuel and the effect of scrubber investments to marine freights has increased the fuel cost of sea transport compared to the cost levels of pre-SECA times. This has put Metsä Group in a less favorable logistics cost position compared to companies who operate outside the SECA area. CASE Logistics in Metsä Group needs to meet a wide set of requirements. SCRUBBERS, PROPELLERS AND RUDDERS FOR First, in Finland for example, the wood is sourced from virtually everywhere in the country. Then, our wood products, pulps and ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY paperboards find their way from our mills to customers and Metsä Group’s products are transported to about 120 countries by road, rail and consumers all over the world. Logistics of tissue products, on the sea. Efficient and reliable logistics would not be possible without an extensive logistics network. other hand, is different: they are distributed in the vicinity of the Finnish shipping operator Finnlines, which transports Metsä Group’s tissue mills. All these deliveries require an extensive fleet of trucks, products in the Baltic and the North Sea, is one example of our logistics trailers, trains, barges and ships operated by over 1,000 logistics providers with a strong focus on environmental efficiency. Despite years of service providers. Efficiency, reliability and sustainability are economic recession, the company is in the process of completing an extensive important factors in guaranteeing that this network of transport environmental technology investment program, which amounts to EUR 100 companies works to ensure the long-term success of our businesses. million. As a key part of the project, exhaust gas scrubbers have been installed on The logistics management model in Metsä Group was renewed many of its ships. The remainder of the fleet will be fitted with scrubbers in to increase focus on the management and development of the 2016. The installation of a new design of propellers and rudders has improved logistics service provider network. Sourcing and service provider energy efficiency. Other measures to reduce air emissions have consisted of management is now organized into three logistics categories: Land optimizing schedules and slow steaming. Logistics, Ports and Terminals, and Maritime Logistics. This logistics The results of the project have already been impressive. “In the first six months of the year, we managed not only to comply with the new emissions category management focuses on ensuring that service providers regulations but to save significant amounts of fuel,” says Staffan Herlin, Head meet the service, efficiency and sustainability requirements in their of Group Marketing, Sales and Customer Service at Finnlines. “Scrubbers are respective areas. Furthermore, logistics development gained more already up and running on 16 vessels and will soon be installed on the remainresources so that adequate attention can be placed on improving the der of the Finnlines fleet. This means that Finnlines will be the first and the only logistics network. fully owned, scrubber-equipped fleet in the Baltic and North Sea.” We bring the forest to you 49 WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AND EMISSIONS Metsä Group has production facilities in seven countries in Europe. We use raw materials, energy and water as efficiently as possible and make use of every part of the tree. Of the energy used in production, 86% is wood-based bioenergy and our pulp mills are major producers of energy. We seek to maximise our use of bioenergy and have significantly reduced our emissions into the water and air. -34% FOSSIL CO2 EMISSIONS PER PRODUCT TONNE SINCE 2009 86% 7% OF THE FUELS USED WOOD-BASED BIOFUELS INCREASED ENERGY EFFICIENCY SINCE 2009 50 We work for a better climate and environment RESOURCE EFFICIENCY AT THE CORE OF OUR OPERATIONS page 52 EFFICIENT ENERGY SOLUTIONS ADVANCING THE BIOECONOMY page 54 SIDE STREAMS USED IN VALUABLE WAYS page 56 CUTTING OUR EMISSIONS TO WATER AND AIR page 58 We work for a better climate and environment 51 There will be one billion more people on our planet by WE WORK FOR 2025. Together with urbanization and growing conA BETTER CLIMATE sumption, this puts enormous pressure on the use of AND ENVIRONMENT natural resources, placing resource efficiency at the core of sustainable and economical operations. Metsä Group has production units in seven counRESOURCE tries in Europe. We have set Group-level targets to increase our energy efficiency and reduce both fossil CO₂ emissions and process water use. Using all the part of a EFFICIENCY tree, our main raw material, where they create the most value constitutes the core of material efficiency. AT THE CORE OF MINIMIZING WATER USE Fresh water is a scarce resource that is unevenly distribOUR OPERATIONS uted throughout the world. As water is needed in practically all forest industry processes, Metsä Group’s mills operate in areas rich in water. Some 99% (2014: 99%) of the water that we use is surface water from lakes and rivers. Efficient water Metsä Group’s main means in using global treatment systems enable the water to be recycled several resources responsibly include Group-wide targets times in our processes, after which it is carefully treated for energy efficiency improvement, fossil CO2 before being returned natural water bodies. The amount emissions and process water reductions as well as of process water we use per tonne produced has finding even more value-added uses for production decreased by 15% (13%) since 2010. Our target is to side streams. Our bioproducts, from renewable reduce process water use by 17% by 2020 from the 2010 wood raw material, are resource-smart solutions level. for increasing consumption. FOREST ENERGY AND BY-PRODUCTS Branches, crowns and stumps that cannot be used for pulp production are used as bioenergy BIO-BASED ELECTRICITY to meet the heating and electrical energy AND HEAT needs of both the forest industry and communities. Bioenergy production TISSUE AND Tissue production COOKING PAPERS PULPWOOD Metsä Fibre’s and Metsä Board’s pulp and BCTMP mills use pulpwood to produce high-quality raw materials for the manufacture of paperboard, paper, tissue and cooking Pulp production PULP papers. Paperboard PAPERBOARDS production SAWLOGS WOOD PRODUCTS Metsä Wood’s sawmills use sawlogs to produce AND SOLUTIONS FOR sawn timber for the construction and furniture THE CONSTRUCTION industries, and plywood and Kerto® LVL for the INDUSTRY construction and transport industries. Sawmill 52 We work for a better climate and environment In 2015, our total water intake of fresh water was 294 million m³ (287 drives the circular economy and life-cycle thinking as it shapes the behaviour million m³), of which 98% is from abundant water sources. Finland and of both businesses and consumers. By refining and upgrading raw materials Sweden, where most of our mills are located, are one of the most water rich from the forest to their highest added value, we generate the greatest possible areas in the world and water is available throughout the year. net gain to the environment and society at large. The regulatory framework, to be presented under the European Commission’s Circular Economy Action CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND RESOURCE EFFICIENCY HIGH Plan and the forthcoming Renewable Energy Package post 2020, is of upmost ON THE EU AGENDA importance to bio-based companies in the forest industry value chain. Resource efficiency, together with the circular economy and the bioeconomy play a pivotal role in EU policies. Greater significance of resource efficiency CASE IMPROVED SCORING IN ALL CATEGORIES IN THE WWF’S ENVIRONMENTAL PAPER COMPANY INDEX Metsä Group was in 2015 once again recognized for its transparency and high-level performance in the international Environmental Paper Company Index, arranged by the WWF (The World Wide Fund for Nature). This year, Metsä Group improved its scoring in all three categories attended: pulp, paperboard and tissue papers. We have participated in the index since it was first arranged in 2010. Metsä Group’s investment in clean manufacturing resulted in improved scores in the paperboard (Metsä Board) and pulp (Metsä Fibre) categories. The criteria for clean manufacturing include energy use, energy sourcing, fossil CO2 and other emissions to air and water. In the tissue papers’ category (Metsä Tissue), we improved our performance in the fields of reporting and Environmental Management Systems (EMS) as well as responsible sourcing, in which our scoring improved due to the increasing share of certified fibre. Globally, 31 forest industry companies participated in the index. METSÄ GROUP'S MATERIAL BALANCE EMISSIONS TO AIR (t) 2015 2014 PRODUCTION 2015 2014 Biogenic carbon dioxide (CO2 bio) 7,039,847 7,035,433 Chemical and CTMP pulp (1,000 t) 3,559 3,551 Fossil carbon dioxide (CO2) 802,529 803,210 Board (1,000 t) 1,498 1,416 Nitrogen oxides (as NO2) 6,138 6,424 Paper (1,000 t) 413 583 Sulphur (as SO2) 2,060 2,047 Tissue and cooking papers (1,000 t) 635 633 Particles 1,356 1,293 Sawn timber (1,000 m3) 1,637 1,779 Plywood (1,000 m3) 263 268 Kerto® (1,000 m3) 185 207 2015 2014 Other upgrading products (1,000 m3) 412 481 WOOD-BASED RAW MATERIALS By-products sold for energy Wood (1,000 m3) 21,618 21,458 production (GWh) 2,345 2,250 Pulp (1,000 t) 282 486 Recovered paper (1,000 t) 409 418 2015 2014 OTHER RAW MATERIALS (1,000 t) DISCHARGES TO WATER (t) Pigments 343 414 Waste water flow (1,000 m3) 140,357 147,476 Adhesives 75 71 Chemical oxygen demand (COD) 38,914 39,700 PURCHASED ENERGY (GWh) Total suspended solids 3,646 4,089 Fuels 4,124 3,980 Biological oxygen demand (BOD) 1,287 1,205 Fossil fuels 3,214 3,118 Nitrogen (N) 532 609 Biofuels 911 862 AOX 324 323 Electricity 2,315 2,483 Phosphorus (P) 41 51 Heat 376 463 WASTE (t) *) WATER INTAKE (1,000 m3) 294,376 286,837 Recycled 596,921 662,627 Surface water 292,025 282,240 Landfill 44,971 70,994 Ground water 2,351 4,597 Hazardous 1,986 2,181 *) Revised waste data of 2014 We work for a better climate and environment 53 WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT EFFICIENT ENERGY SOLUTIONS ADVANCING THE BIOECONOMY Energy development at Metsä Group is taking a step forward from the systematic decrease of fossil CO2 emissions to further increasing bioenergy production, both for our own operations and society at large. The new bioproduct mill in Äänekoski, Finland, the biggest investment ever in the European forest industry, will increase bioenergy production in Finland significantly. Investing increasingly in bioenergy, reducing fossil CO2 emissions and improving energy efficiency have been in focus during recent years at Metsä Group. As we work in an energy intensive field of business, we must carry our responsibility in developing new, more efficient and sustainable solutions in energy and in all operational questions. TOWARDS A BIOECONOMY Metsä Group’s new bioproduct mill in Äänekoski, Finland, planned to start up in the third quarter of 2017, will be the most modern and energy efficient site of its kind in the world. It will only use renewable energy, which means that fossil fuels are not used even in exceptional circumstances such as maintenance breaks, shutdowns or during winter peaks. The mill will produce renewable electricity 2.4 times the amount it consumes. The annual electricity generation will be approximately 1,800 GWh, of which 750 GWh will be used by its own operations and 1,050 GWh sold to the market. The mill will also produce vast amounts of wood-based heat for its own uses well as to adjacent industry. Further, the mill will initially supply its surplus bark to external customers for energy production. In total, the mill will WITH ZERO FOSSIL CO2 increase the bioenergy production in Finland by approxiEMISSIONS, THE NEW mately two percentage-units and hold a 2.5% share of all BIOPRODUCT MILL’S the electricity production in Finland. To date, all of our SELF-SUFFICIENCY current pulp mills produce bio-based electricity and heat to IN RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY the community in addition to their own needs. PRODUCTION WILL BE 240% 54 We work for a better climate and environment INCREASING USE OF BIOENERGY In addition to increasing the share of THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND DECREASING FOSSIL CO2 bioenergy in our own operations, Metsä Group GWh EMISSIONS is one of the biggest suppliers of wood-based 35,000 30,000 Metsä Group also continuously invests in increasbiomass for energy production in Finland. In 25,000 ing the share of bioenergy at its existing mills. The 2015, our supply of biomass fuels, which consist 20,000 15,000 new bioenergy boiler at Metsä Tissue mill in of branches and top refuse of harvested trees as 10,000 5,000 Mariestad, Sweden, started operating in the well as by-products such as bark and dust from 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 second quarter of 2015. The new boiler only uses our production, totalled 4.5 TWh (4.4). In using biofuels such as recycled and sorted wood from the biomass, our customers can replace the use of Wood-based fuels Fossil fuels the local construction industry and fibre clay, the fossil fuels in producing heat and electricity, and Purchased electricity Purchased heat residue from recycled paper’s de-inking in tissuethereby reduce their fossil CO2 emission by over making. Now that the Mariestad mill has two 1,300,000 tonnes (1,200,000). This is over 60% bioboilers, the need for fossil fuels is restricted more than the Group’s annual fossil CO2 only to maintenance and other temporary emissions. breaks, and during the coldest winter days. THE GROUP’S FUEL CONSUMPTION IN 2015 The investment reduces the use of fossil oil ENERGY EFFICIENCY DECREASES % by 90% at the mill. The annual reduction of fossil EMISSIONS AND LOWERS COSTS CO2 emissions is some 6,000 tonnes. The new Metsä Group’s energy efficiency development is boiler, jointly owned by Metsä Tissue and a local strongly driven by the targets set by the Euromunicipal energy company VänerEnergi AB, will pean Commission, such as improving energy Wood-based fuels Gas 86 8 produce bioenergy in forms of heat and electricefficiency by 20% by 2020 from the 2009 level. It Oil 4 ity for both the needs of the mill and the town of is also highly important for reducing fossil CO2 Coal 1 Peat 1 Mariestad. emissions, lowering costs and improving the Utilizing all side streams as part of the sustainability performance of our operations. An circular economy is extremely important and improvement of 10% by 2020 from the 2009 therefore fibre clay is used as a biofuel also at level is one of Metsä Group’s eight official THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ENERGY several other Metsä Group mills and new re-uses sustainability targets. During recent years, CONSUMPTION OF PURCHASED are also being sought for the ashes. For example, improvements have been mainly focused on ELECTRICITY AND HEAT IN 2015 % Metsä Tissue mills in Raubach and Kreuzau, investments in existing production facilities and Germany, deliver fibre clay to the external in developing new working methods. The energy bioenergy partners and partly use it as a mixedefficiency work is supported by the Energy fuel at the site. In 2015, Metsä Tissue mill in Efficiency System and the ISO 50001 Energy Nuclear power 47 Mänttä, Finland, submitted a permit application Management System at our mills. Coal Hydro power 15 14 to begin using fibre clay as a fuel in energy By 2015, we have improved our energy Gas 8 production. efficiency by 7% (by 2014: 6) per produced Wood-based biofuels 8 Peat 5 In addition to de-inking for tissue manufactonne compared to the 2009 level. In an energy Wind & Solar 2 Waste 1 turing, fibre clay is generated in paperboard intensive field of business, efficiency is strongly Oil 1 production. In Metsä Board mill in Äänekoski, related to the fluency and continuity of producFinland, the current bioboiler is being supported tion; performance is also linked to breaks and with a minor investment to start utilizing fibre shutdowns. Despite exceptionally many breaks clay for energy production in 2016. for implementing technical improvements at our ENERGY EFFICIENCY sites as well a few planned shutdowns during IMPROVEMENT BY BUSINESS AREA LESS CO2 EMISSIONS BY production, progress in improving energy % INCREASING BIOENERGY efficiency proceeded as expected in 2015. 10 Due to our investments in bioenergy, we have 8 since 2009 reduced our fossil CO2 emissions by 6 34% (2014: 36) per produced tonne and have already exceeded the reduction target of 30% set 4 for the year 2020. At the end of 2015, 86% (86) 2 of Metsä Group’s production was made with 0 bioenergy. In total 21 production sites out of 29 2009 2011 2013 2015 have bioboilers and bioenergy production at the Metsä Tissue Metsä Board site. Metsä Fibre Metsä Wood Metsä Group total We work for a better climate and environment 55 WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT SIDE STREAMS USED IN VALUABLE WAYS Metsä Group is continuously seeking new ways to utilize its production side streams instead of sending them to landfill sites or storing them in mill areas for long periods of time. Side streams are used to replace primary raw materials in a broad range of applications. In the process, materials that were previously regarded as waste are converted into added-value by-products thus contributing to the circular economy. Metsä Group utilizes nearly 100% of its forest soils where growth is hindered because wood-based production side streams, of of deficiencies in phosphorus and potassium. which some 50% are used to produce In this way, nutrients are returned to the electricity or steam for energy on-site. natural cycle where they have a great effect on Around 40% are used as forest or field wood growth. fertilisers, in landscaping, as industrial raw According to the Natural Resources materials, in geotechnical construction and Institute Finland, using ash as a fertiliser in landfill construction. forests can generate additional annual growth Utilizing side streams can significantly of 3–6 cubic metres per hectare. This growthreduce the environmental effects of the final generating effect may last for more than 30 disposal of waste and save natural resources. years. Ash is usually spread using a forest The prices of recycled materials made from tractor, although a helicopter to spread side streams are competitive in comparison granulated ash can also be used. to natural materials. ASH AND LIME AS FERTILISERS As a result of systematic work over the long term, ash from the combustion of woodbased side streams and lime from pulp production are today used as forest fertilisers and agricultural lime. Metsä Group’s power plants produce around 40,000 tonnes of fly ash annually. The amount of ash suitable for use as forest fertiliser will increase after the bioproduct mill in Äänekoski begins operation in 2017. Fly ash from energy production is particularly suitable for fertilising peat soils and 56 We work for a better climate and environment CASES SURPLUS LIME FROM PULP PRODUCTION IMPROVES THE STRUCTURE AND FERTILITY OF FIELDS The pulp production processes at Metsä Fibre’s mills generate around 20,000 tonnes of surplus lime annually. Until now, this lime has been stored temporarily at the mills or sent to landfill sites. However, lime has been proven to be a good liming material and our local partners sell and deliver the lime surplus generated by our mills to farmers. The use of lime as a field fertiliser has already produced good results. SANDY BARK FOR VARIOUS USES The storage and debarking of wood generate around 14,000 tonnes of sandy bark, which be used for various purposes. It is used as mulch or as a fuel when screened and has been used as a cover layer for extensive areas, such as ski slopes and motor-racing tracks, as well as for landscaping in landfill sites. FIBRE CLAY USED ON SKI LOPES Snowmaking imposes a significant cost and environmental impact on ski resorts. The Äänemäki ski slope in Äänekoski, Finland, was reshaped using fibre clay to reduce the need for artificial snow. This REDUCING WASTE benefits both the resort owner through decreased snowmaking IS A KEY GOAL expenses and the environment through reduced water and electricity consumption. Metsä Group has succeeded in reducing waste and improving its waste utilization rate over the long term. The EU Waste Framework Directive and the reformed Finnish Waste Act have supported the development of waste management within the Group. The total waste volume has BRICKS AND TILES FROM DE-INKING decreased from 736,000 tonnes to 644,000 tonnes. The reduction is SLUDGE IN SLOVAKIA AND POLAND mainly explained by productization of nearly 100,000 tonnes of side De-inking sludge from the Metsä Tissue Zilina mill in Slovakia and stream materials earlier defined as waste. Krapkowice mill in Poland have been used as a raw material in the production of bricks and tiles for several years. Around 90,000 wet tonnes of de-inking sludge is used annually in leading European tile THE GROUP’S RESIDUES BY THE GROUP’S RESIDUES BY and brick factories. This has enabled them to minimize its consumpSOURCE IN 2015 DESTINATION 2015 % % tion of other, diminishing natural resources such as natural clay and sawdust. Process waste 59 Energy recovery 62 ROADS FROM ASH Packing, absorbent and filter waste 27 Energy production waste 7 Material recovery Landfill waste 31 6 Waste water treatment 2 Hazardous waste treatment 0.3 For a long time, ash has been used to build durable, load-bearing Municipal waste 2 roads, mainly in industrial and storage areas. Although this has been Other 2 Hazardous waste 0.3 a lasting and sustainable choice, improvements to make it more cost efficient are still needed. To this end, Metsä Group is participating in developing a new solution where the surfaces of forest roads are layered with a mixture of ash and crushed rock employing a traditional method. Once hardened, the ash serves as a binding component in the surface layer. COSTLY SOIL MATERIALS CAN BE REPLACED WITH ASH AND MIXTURES CONTAINING ASH. We work for a better climate and environment 57 WE WORK FOR A BETTER CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENT CUTTING EMISSIONS TO WATER AND AIR During 2009–2015, Metsä Group’s fossil CO₂ emissions have been reduced by The environmental impacts related to 34% per product tonne. With this achievement we again exceeded our target to our operations are carefully controlled reduce fossil CO₂ emissions by 30% by 2020. Our greenhouse gas emissions and mitigated. We have set targets for (Scope 1) remained at the same level as the year before, at 803,000 tonnes CO2 key emissions reductions and show clear (2014: 803,000 tonnes). At the same time that production decreased by 2.6%. improvements in cutting our main emissions CO2 emissions from Scope 2 were 550,000 tonnes. Some 54% of the Scope 1 and 2 to water and air. Environmental risks emissions came from Finland. are managed by maintaining up-to-date Acidification emissions decreased to 6,357 tonnes SO2 eqv. (6,543 tonnes) due to lower sulphur emissions and production at the Gohrsmühle mill in environmental risk analyses at production Germany. Eutrophication emissions were 152 tonnes P eqv. (173 tonnes). Main units as well as by complying with the reduction came from the Husum mill in Sweden. requirements set in the mills’ environmental permits. ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS AND LIABILITIES There were only a few non-compliances at Metsä Group’s production units reported in 2015. All environmental incidents that resulted in major permit violations, claims, compensations or significant media coverage are detailed in the table. Additionally, minor and short-term non-compliances with environmental permit requirements were reported at Rauma pulp mill. The authorities were informed immediately and corrective actions were taken in all cases. The Svir sawmill in Russia paid EUR 1,200 as fiscal levy related to water discharges and waste handling. Metsä Group’s environmental obligations at the end of 2015 totalled EUR 15 million (2014: 19). The liabilities have decreased significantly during the past years due to divesting some of its operations and the finalisation of remediation work for a number of contaminated sites and old landfills. The environmental investments totalled EUR 108 million (2014: 96). The Group received EUR 32.1 million financial support for the bioproduct mill investment from the Finnish Ministry of Employment and the Economy for the mill’s new energy-saving technology concepts. Read more about the bioproduct mill on pages 38–39. ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS IN 2015 Business Area Unit Incidents Corrective actions Metsä Fibre Kemi mill, Finland Particle emissions to air from the recovery boiler The emission treatment systems were cleaned and exceeded the permit limit in May and June. maintained and emissions have returned to normal level. Metsä Board Kaskinen mill, The permit limit for biological oxygen demand (BOD) The evaporation plant was cleaned and maintained. Finland emissions to water was exceeded in March and for Operation instructions were updated concerning nitrogen emissions in October. The incidents were unloading of effluents to waste water treatment after nitric caused by temporary overloading of waste water acid washing. All emissions have returned to normal level. treatment plant due to operational issues at the process water evaporation plant. Metsä Tissue Mänttä mill, The permit limits for chemical oxygen demand (COD), The operation of the plant has been stabilized with several Finland BOD and nitrogen emissions to water were exceeded actions and emissions have returned to normal. during three months due to operational problems in the wastewater treatment plant. Katrinefors mill, The permit limit for nitrogen emissions to water was Operation of the plant was stabilized and excess sludge Sweden exceeded in July and August due to operational problems removed. An investment will be made to replace the old at the wastewater treatment plant. aeration tank in 2016. 58 We work for a better climate and environment ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS’ REVISION ONGOING CASE ACCORDING TO BEST AVAILABLE TECHNIQUES The operations of Metsä Group’s production units require environmental permits in accordance with the European Union Industrial IMPROVED AIR QUALITY IN RAUMA Emissions Directive. The environmental permits of several Metsä A new back-up boiler for the treatment of malodorous gases from the pulping Group units are currently being reviewed. The Reference Document process was installed at Metsä Fibre’s Rauma pulp mill. Due to the increased pulp for Best Available Techniques (BREF) and the BAT conclusions, production in recent years and the more effective collection of malodorous gases, the existing boiler lacked the capacity to treat all the gases in emergency situawhich are binding on the EU member states, play a significant role in tions. The increased capacity of the new boiler now ensures the efficient treatenvironmental permit decisions for the pulp and paper industry. ment of malodorous gases in changing process situations. This also has a positive Currently, most Group mills comply with the new BAT requireeffect on local air quality. ments; however, investments are expected at some mills to improve air emissions control or to upgrade the effluent treatment facilities. CASE IMPROVED RISK MANAGEMENT Metsä Group has renewed and improved the environmental risk IMPROVED EMISSION TREATMENT analyses process at its production units. With the revised methodolIN KASKINEN AND TAMPERE ogy, we want to ensure that the risk analyses are constantly up-to Metsä Wood has updated the flue-gas emission treatment system for the power date, instead of the earlier practice of updating them periodically plant at its Thermowood production unit in Kaskinen. The new electrostatic every 3–5 years. Also, the follow-up of preventive actions has been precipitator removes particles from the flue gases very effectively, reducing the enhanced. The changes will improve the management of environemissions by over 90%. Also, Metsä Board’s Tako mill in Tampere has achieved major improvements in controlling emissions with a new Super Low-NOx combusmental risk at the mill level and integrate risk-based thinking into tion system in the gas-fired power plant. The new system enables the plant to run everyday work at the mills. The new methodology will be implewith over 20% lower NOx emissions. mented at most pulp, board and paper mills during 2016. GREENHOUSE GAS EFFECT CO2 BY EMISSIONS BUSINESS AREA TO WATER 1,000 TONNES AND AIR 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 NO2 400 SO2 200 PARTICLES 0 CO2 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Efficient control and the reduction of emissions to air and water is the cornerstone for Metsä Group’s sustainability work. The main ACIDIFICATION AS SO2 emissions to air are carbon dioxide (CO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2), EQUIVALENT BY BUSINESS AREA TONNES nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particles from pulp production and power plants. 8,000 The emissions to water from the production of pulp, board, 6,000 paper and tissue constitute organic matter such as chemical and 4,000 biological oxygen demand (COD, BOD), nutrients (P, N) and low 2,000 amounts of solid matter. Organic matter and nutrients mainly 0 originate from the wood that is used in the production of pulp. The 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 bleaching of chemical pulp also generates some emissions of adsorbable organic halogens (AOX). EUTROPHICATION AS P EQUIVALENT BY BUSINESS AREA TONNES 250 200 150 100 50 0 AOX BOD 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 SOLIDS PHOSPHORUS COD NITROGEN Metsä Tissue Metsä Board Metsä FIbre Metsä Wood We work for a better climate and environment 59 SUSTAINABILITY DATA BY UNIT METSÄ TISSUE Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Organisational Tissue and ISO Number of Accident absenteeism functionality cooking ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 22000/ CO2 employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 4) papers 9001 14001 50001 18001 BRC PEFC™ FSC® bio Mänttä 6) Finland 419 20.8 3.9 7.9 108 x x x x x x 0 Düren Germany 109 0.0 4.8 8.0 24 x x x x x x x 0 Kreuzau Germany 401 6.3 7.3 8.4 144 x x x x x x x 8,935 Raubach Germany 276 4.3 4.5 9.1 50 x x x x x x x 0 Stotzheim Germany 291 6.6 6.5 7.8 23 x x x x x x x 0 Krapkowice Poland 340 12.0 3.8 7.9 75 x x 5) x x x 0 Žilina Slovakia 312 5.7 3.0 8.3 80 x x 5) x x x x 0 Katrinefors Sweden 350 17.4 5.0 7.4 76 x x x x x 0 Nyboholm Sweden 179 20.4 4.0 8.2 27 x x x x x 7,155 Pauliström 7) Sweden 26 x x x x x 10,652 Others 8) 77 Total 2,754 10.7 4.7 8.3 635 26,742 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2015 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of theoretical working time 4) Organisational functionality indexes of Metsä Tissue mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. 5) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 6) Includes Tissue and Baking and Cooking businesses. 7) Pauliström mill’s personnel figures are included in Nyboholm mill’s figures. 8) Includes personnel of Vorsino and others than mill locations. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Tissue’s total figures. METSÄ BOARD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 t) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Organisational Chemical Board Number of Accident absenteeism functionality pulp and and ISO ISO ISO OHSAS ISO CO2 employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 4) CTMP paper 9001 14001 50001 18001 22000 PEFC™ FSC® bio Joutseno Finland 51 0.0 4.5 8.7 318 x x x x x x x 0 Kaskinen Finland 79 7.3 3.1 8.0 282 x x x x x x 113,703 Kemi Finland 91 12.1 5.4 8.3 402 x x x x x x x 0 Kyro Finland 251 16.8 6.0 7.9 239 x x x x x x x 0 Simpele Finland 307 13.8 4.0 8.0 261 x x x x x x x 109,390 Tako Finland 209 17.3 6.0 8.5 207 x x x x x x x 0 Äänekoski Board Finland 188 3.1 4.0 8.3 229 x x x x x x x 93,445 Husum Sweden 780 8.9 3.7 606 557 x x x x x x 1,514,758 Others 5) 645 17 26,501 Total 2,601 11.1 4.2 8.2 1,206 1,911 1,857,797 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2015 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of theoretical working time 4) Organisational functionality indexes of Metsä Board mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. Husum mill not measured in 2015. 5) Includes personnel from sales and logistics operations, management and subsidiaries. Production, emissions and waste originate from divested Gohrsmühle mill and Äänevoima’s production of energy sold for ex Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Board’s total figures. 6) Husum mill’s BOD not measured. METSÄ FIBRE Mill Country Personnel Production Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Organisational Chemical Sawn Number of Accident absenteeism functionality pulp timber ISO ISO ISO OHSAS ISO CO2 employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 4) (1,000 t) (1,000 m3) 9001 14001 50001 18001 22000 PEFC™ FSC® bio Joutseno Finland 135 13.5 4.7 7.5 658 x x x x x x x 1,354,496 Kemi Finland 164 10.7 6.2 8.1 585 x x x x x x x 1,393,053 Rauma Finland 121 4.9 4.4 7.9 602 x x x x x x x 1,196,336 Äänekoski Finland 172 14.3 4.9 8.4 507 x x x x x x x 919,171 Svir Russia 119 0.0 2.1 8.6 252 x x 5) x x x 20,271 Others 6) 146 Total 857 7.9 4.1 8.2 2,353 252 4,883,326 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2015 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of theoretical working time 4) Organisational functionality indexes of Metsä Fibre mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. 5) Svir Timber’s ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 6) Includes personnel from sales operations, a subsidiary and management. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Fibre’s total figures. FSC Licence Code FSC-C014476 60 Sustainability data by unit Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides Total Total suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD phosphorus nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 12,598 0 0 0 392 64 1.4 21 68 3,207 4,906 23,657 89 31 Mänttä 6) 28,646 0 16 0 57 3.8 0.19 0 3.8 677 383 381 0 123 Düren 88,098 0.33 89 0.29 446 20 1.0 0 20 2,865 2,001 111,904 7,059 22 Kreuzau 22,669 0.0086 13 0 178 5.2 0.26 0 5.2 492 525 36,968 0 160 Raubach 10,028 0.017 6.3 0 12 2.9 0.15 0 2.9 277 293 2,858 78 184 Stotzheim 29,582 0.84 4.4 33 53 4.0 0.57 5.6 4.4 852 644 41,109 3,229 0 Krapkowice 12,220 0.057 10.5 0.48 145 9.4 0.47 0 9.4 554 936 917 2,182 67 Žilina 11,495 0 4.9 0 191 24 0.40 15 11 1,878 1,893 35,272 0 13 Katrinefors 11,497 2.2 19 6.2 9.3 1.4 0.029 0.35 1.8 439 439 1,518 0 5.2 Nyboholm 6,820 0.39 23 7.3 36 15 0.043 0.53 4.7 354 354 1,554 0 17 Pauliström 7) Others 8) 233,654 3.9 185 47 1,519 150 4.5 43 131 11,595 12,373 256,138 12,638 623 Total Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides Total Total suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles AOX COD BOD phosphorus nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 27,426 0 11 12 0 538 4.0 0.12 2.8 12 6,602 565 8,721 10 26 Joutseno 5,751 78 222 3.1 0 1,582 115 2.0 20 165 12,384 4,529 25,466 1,538 14 Kaskinen 6,434 0 2.8 0 0 291 37 1.0 19 91 10,021 7,919 8,042 545 11 Kemi 6,588 0 3.4 0 0 302 34 0.68 15 101 5,819 4,121 23,610 36 15 Kyro 83,542 110 163 1.5 0 375 24 1.6 12 48 24,759 5,296 24,930 118 37 Simpele 75,062 0.038 75 0 0 175 64 1.1 0.97 31 3,374 2,579 6,409 50 36 Tako 375 0.90 63 0.70 0 914 284 1.17 13 202 3,433 4,375 1,479 40 10 Äänekoski Board 54,297 373 1,015 91 43 6,464 -6) 9.1 90 1,432 37,753 38,338 59,456 356 587 Husum 57,966 109 93 1.5 0 34 6.8 0.4 1.3 0 980 980 1,840 25 0 Others 5) 317,441 671 1,649 110 43 10,673 568 17 173 2,082 105,124 68,702 159,953 2,718 736 Total ternal use. Emissions to air (t) Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste CO2 Sulphur oxides Total Total suspended Water water fossil as SO2 as NO2 Particles AOX COD BOD phosphorus nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 39,166 342 870 177 104 6,132 135 3.7 100 362 81,134 16,783 41,595 7,009 39 Joutseno 60,373 224 1,327 194 63 7,229 124 5.7 92 353 37,868 15,009 77,308 3,700 69 Kemi 77,905 115 868 134 64 8,429 100 4.5 57 269 18,922 14,724 9,365 7,303 50 Rauma 66,776 686 940 370 51 4,812 115 4.9 66 410 37,898 12,136 35,029 10,864 39 Äänekoski 156 0.085 21 20 0 33 5.1 0.026 0.33 16 258 360 8,215 130 0.43 Svir Others 6) 244,376 1,368 4,026 895 281 26,635 480 19 315 1,410 176,079 59,012 171,510 29,006 198 Total Sustainability data by unit 61 METSÄ WOOD Mill Country Personnel Production (1,000 m3) Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Organisational Number of Accident absenteeism functionality ISO ISO OHSAS CO2 CO2 employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 4) Wood products 9001 14001 5) 18001 PEFC™ FSC® bio fossil Eskola Finland 12 0.0 5.4 8.6 sawn timber 53 x x x x x 0 0 Hartola Finland 37 15.1 1.9 7.5 further processing 21 x x x 93 0 Kaskinen Finland 15 0.0 1.5 8.9 further processing 22 x x x x x 11,883 0 Kyrö Finland 67 8.4 2.6 8.1 sawn timber 200 x x x x x 20,541 391 Lappeenranta Finland 72 23.6 3.6 8.3 sawn timber 216 x x x x x 23,432 0 Lohja Finland 115 4.8 4.0 8.0 Kerto® LVL 80 x x x x 0 0 Merikarvia Finland 79 7.9 5.6 8.2 sawn timber 205 x x x x x 24,176 585 Kerto® LVL and Punkaharju Finland 449 13.9 5.3 7.8 plywood 162 x x x6) x x 0 0 Renko Finland 72 0.0 2.0 8.2 sawn timber 259 x x x x x 24,340 282 Suolahti 7) Finland 446 3.9 4.5 7.8 plywood 206 x x x x x 93,691 265 Vilppula Finland 101 15.7 3.0 8.2 sawn timber 452 x x x x x 73,825 5,252 Boston Great Britain 257 11.6 1.8 7.6 further processing 207 x x x x x 0 56 King's Lynn Great Britain 38 25.3 1.4 7.7 further processing 121 x x x x x 0 0 Widnes Great Britain 83 11.9 1.9 7.3 further processing 41 x x x x x 0 229 Others 8) 175 Total 2,018 9.7 3.5 8.0 2,245 271,981 7,059 1)Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2015 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of theoretical working time 4) Organisational functionality indexes of Metsä Wood mills are calculated based on responses of production personnel. 5) ISO 14001 standard includes the Energy Efficiency System (EES). 6) OHSAS concerns only plywood production. 7) Emissions and water use from Kumpuniemen Voima’s production are included in Suolahti mill’s figures. 8) Includes personnel from sales operations and management. Personnel figures of Others are included in Metsä Wood’s total figures. Metsä Wood’s discharges to the water occur only in plywood production processes. METSÄ FOREST Country Personnel Wood procurement Management systems Chain of Custody Sickness Organisational Number of Accident absenteeism functionality ISO ISO employees 1) rate 2) % 3) index 1,000 m3 9001 14001 PEFC FSC® Estonia 29 0.0 0.3 8.8 1,424 x x x x Finland 569 5.1 1.5 8.2 22,837 x x x x Latvia 46 0.0 1.3 8.4 1,195 x x x x Russia, St. Petersburg 18 0.0 0.1 8.8 x 4) x 5) x x Russia, Podporozhye 208 7.9 2.7 8.3 2,400 6) x 4) x x x Sweden 2 2,060 x x x x Others 5 65 7) Total 877 5.2 1.7 8.3 29,981 Not reported 1) Full-time equivalent on 31 December 2015 2) Lost-time accident 1 frequency rate. Accidents at work per million worked hours. 3) % of theoretical working time 4) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative’s quality systems (ISO 9001). 5) Included in Metsäliitto Cooperative’s environmental systems (ISO 14001). 6) Includes all wood procurement from Russia. 7) Includes wood from Lithuania. FSC Licence Code FSC-C014476 62 Sustainability data by unit Discharges to water (t) Water use (1,000 m3) Waste (t) Mill Nitrogen Total Waste Sulphur oxides Total Total suspended Water water as SO2 as NO2 Particles COD BOD phosphorus nitrogen solids sourcing flow Recycling Landfill Hazardous 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.31 0.043 2.8 0.50 0.050 Eskola 0 0.055 0.10 0 0 0 0 0 1.3 0.22 24 4.2 11.2 Hartola 0 12 12 0 0 0 0 0 17 1.7 25 192 0 Kaskinen 0.029 21 20 0 0 0 0 0 7.8 7.3 1,732 0 44 Kyrö 0 23 23 0 0 0 0 0 155 0.082 813 23 4.3 Lappeenranta 0 0 2.3 1.4 0.21 0.004 0.034 0.26 91 155 107 9.0 88 Lohja 0.043 25 24 0 0 0 0 0 12 7.6 2,406 39 3.8 Merikarvia 0 0 0 51 31 0.020 0.090 1.39 45 45 514 0 121 Punkaharju 0.021 24 24 0 0 0 0 0 11 5.1 175 11 6.1 Renko 0.019 93 121 35 59 0.77 0.87 22 1,218 50 291 96 69 Suolahti 7) 17 80 76 0 0 0 0 0 18 0 2,056 32 18 Vilppula 0 0.10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 863 159 58 Boston 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4.2 0 75 0 4.8 King's Lynn 0 0.41 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 237 44 0 Widnes Others 8) 17 279 303 88 90 0.79 0.99 23 1,578 271 9,320 609 429 Total Sustainability data by unit 63 GRI The Sustainability Report 2015 has been prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. Material indicators have been selected based on a materiality analysis. This table specifies where you will find more information on the GRI disclosures. Mitopro Oy has externally INDEX assured all indicators presented in the report. They have confirmed the report to comply with the GRI G4 “in accordance Comprehensive” criteria. AB Metsä Group Annual Brochure 2015 FS Metsä Group Financial Statements 2015 SR Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2015 UN Global Indicator More information Compact GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO FS p. 2–3, SR p. 4–5 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SR p. 10–13 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation SR and AB coverpages G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services SR p. 4–5, 22‒27, 32‒39 G4-5 Location of the headquarters Metsä Group’s headquarters is located in Espoo, Finland G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates AB p. 21 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form SR p. 4–5 G4-8 Markets served SR p. 4–5 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation SR p. 4–5 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce SR p. 28–29 UNGC P6 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements SR p. 29 UNGC P3 G4-12 Description of supply chain SR p. 40–49 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period FS p. 4–10, Report of the Board of directors, business development; SR p. 68 G4-14 Addressing a precautionary approach SR p. 12–13 G4-15 Externally developed sustainability charters, principles, or other initiatives SR p. 16–18 G4-16 Memberships in associations SR p. 16–18, www.metsagroup.com/sustainability IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent FS p. 40–43, Note 14 Group structure documents G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries SR p. 14, 68 G4-19 Material aspects identified SR p. 14, 68. In total 38 GRI aspects were identified as material in our materiality analysis. All indicators for identified material aspects are reported. G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization SR p. 68 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization SR p. 68 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Possible restatements in previous years figures are explained as notes in the data tables G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No significant changes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization SR p. 14–20 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders SR p. 14–18 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR p. 14–18 G4-27 Responding to key topics and concerns resulting from stakeholder engagements SR p. 14–18 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 G4-29 Date of the previous report Fabruary 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions sustainability@metsagroup.com, Twitter: @MetsaGroup G4-33 External assurance for the report SR p. 69 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-35 The process for delegating authority for sustainability topics SR p. 19 G4-36 Executive-level position or positions with responsibility for sustainability topics SR p. 19 G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body Stakeholder consultation is incorporated in the governance structure. There are also four personnel representatives in the Metsäliitto Cooperative's Supervisory Board G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-39 Position of the Chair of the highest governance body FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-41 Avoiding conflicts of interest FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-42 Role of the the highest governance body and senior executives in setting the purpose, values SR p. 19 and strategy 64 GRI index UN Global Indicator More information Compact G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s knowledge of SR p.19. Sustainability is at the Board agenda annually sustainability topics G4-44 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance with respects to sustainability topics The Board of Directors prepare a self-assessment annually G4-45 Role of the highest governance body in the identification and management of economic, FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 The highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement management processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of sustainability topics FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-48 Highest committee or position to formally approve this report report and coverage of all SR p. 19 material aspects G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest SR p. 12–13, 19 governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-52 The process for determining remuneration FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement G4-53 Inclusiveness of stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration FS p. 86–92 Corporate Governance Statement.Stakeholder views are taken into account as part of the governance structure G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the SR p. 28 median annual total compensation for all employees G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highestSR p. 28 paid individual to the median percentage increase in total compensation for all employees ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of SR p. 16–17, 19 ethics G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and SR p. 19–20 matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful SR p. 19–20 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-DMA General disclosures of management approach SR p. 6–7, 10–21 ECONOMIC G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SR p. 10–11. Figures not presented in GRI table format G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due FS p. 69 Note 33 Environmental affairs to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations FS p. 49–52 Note 22 Retirement benefit obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government SR p. 58 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Due to developed infrastructure in our operating countries, no major in-kind or pro bono investments have been made in 2015 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts SR p. 10–11 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation SR p. 47 ENVIRONMENTAL UNGC P7-9 MATERIALS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SR p. 53 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SR p. 53 ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization SR p. 54–55 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization No figures available. Most important sources: raw material and product transport, purchased pigment and chemical production G4-EN5 Energy intensity SR p. 54–55 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SR p. 54–55 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SR p. 54–55 WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SR p. 52–53 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water SR p. 13, 52–53 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused No figures available. Water is continuously recycled in the process and used several times. At some mills cooling water is used as process water and water from board/paper mill process is used in pulp production BIODIVERSITY G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of www.metsagroup.com/sustainability high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in SR p. 42–45, www.metsagroup.com/sustainability protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored SR p. 42–25, www.metsagroup.com/sustainability G4-EN14 Iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by Not material to Metsä Group operations GRI index 65 UN Global Indicator More information Compact EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SR p. 54–55, 58 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SR p. 54–55, 58 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) No figures available. Most important sources: raw material and product transport, purchased pigment and chemical production G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity SR p. 54–55 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SR p. 2, 54–55 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not material to Metsä Group G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions SR p. 53–55, 58–59 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SR p. 53 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SR p. 57 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills SR p. 58–59 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Not material to Metsä Group terms of the Basel convention2 Annex I, II, III, VIII, G4-EN26 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s discharges of SR p. 58–59 water and runoff PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services SR p. 34–37 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category SR p. 32–37 COMPLIANCE G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSR p. 59 compliance with environmental laws and regulations TRANSPORT G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials SR p. 48–49 for the organization’s operations OVERALL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type SR p. 54–55, FS p. 69, Note 33 Environmental affairs SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria All new suppliers must approve our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and SR p. 47. No significant negative impacts have been identified actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through SR p. 19–20, 58–59 formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK UNGC P6 EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender SR p. 28–29. Regional breakdown by gender is not considered and region material G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part time Not material as 93.5% of all employees are on permanent contracts employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender Not material as the work contracts continue unchanged after the parental leave LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes We comply with local agreements and legislation in redundancy situations OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA5 Workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Local occupational health and safety committees cover 100% of our that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs employees in all main operating countries G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism and total number SR p. 30–31. Business area breakdown provided. Geographical of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender breakdown not considered material G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Not material in Metsä Group's operations G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions SR p. 28–31 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category SR p. 29. The training is reported in days per year G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employSR p. 29, 31 ability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by SR p. 29. Breakdown and gender not considered material as all gender and by employee category employees are entitled to a Personal Development Appraisal (PDA) DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category SR p. 28 according to gender, age group, minority group membership EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, and signifiSR p. 28 cant locations of operation SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria All new suppliers must approve our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes criteria on labour practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and SR p. 42–47. No significant negative impacts have been identified actions taken LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal SR p. 20, 29–31. No numeral value reported grievance mechanisms 66 GRI index UN Global Indicator More information Compact SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS UNGC P1, P2 INVESTMENT G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that SR p. 46–47. There were no such investments in 2015 which include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening required a specific human rights impacts assessment G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human SR p. 19–20. Coverage of the Code of Conduct training reported rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained NON-DISCRIMINATION UNGC P6 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR p. 20. There were no official charges on discrimination in 2015 SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria All new suppliers must approve our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes criteria on human rights G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and SR p. 44–47. No negative impacts have been identified actions taken HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through No reported grievances formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES UNGC P1 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessSR p. 10–11 ments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR p. 10–13 ANTI-CORRUPTION UNGC P10 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the SR p. 20, FS p. 86–92. Corporate Governance Statement. Antisignificant risks identified corruption included in the Internal Audit’s risk assessment procedures G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SR p. 19–20 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR p. 20 PUBLIC POLICY UNGC P10 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary SR p. 18 ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SR p. 20 outcomes COMPLIANCE G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSR p. 20 compliance with laws and regulations SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society All new suppliers must approve our Supplier Code of Conduct, which includes criteria on impacts on society. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions SR p. 44–47. No significant negative impacts have been identified taken GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through No reported grievances formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts SR p. 36–37 are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and No incidents reported in 2015 safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR3 Product information SR p. 22–27, 32–39 G4-PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No incidents reported in 2015 information and labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Not reported on Group level MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Metsä Group does not sell banned or disputed products G4-PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communicaNo incidents reported in 2015 tions, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes COMPLIANCE G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning No incidents reported in 2015 the provision and use of products and services GRI index 67 SCOPE OF THE REPORT Metsä Group comprises Metsä Tissue, Metsä Board, Metsä Wood, Metsä In mill-specific data, discharges from waste water plants serving several Fibre and Metsä Forest. This report covers the whole Group, including the mills are allocated to mills using the methodology explained above. Emisproduction, warehousing and sales units of the business areas. Sustainability sions from power plants separate to mill units are also allocated to mills reporting follows the same principles of consolidation as our Financial using the energy. In this allocation, the use of 1 MWh of electricity is Statements. double the value compared to the use of 1 MWh of heat. Scope 2 CO2The Sustainability Report 2015 has been prepared according to the emissions include emissions from purchased heat and electricity. Purchased Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. We have selected the heat emissions are calculated using actual fuel consumption and CO2 indicators that are the most relevant to our operations, products and emission data of the energy plants at the site. Allocation method used is the stakeholders based on an assessment of the most significant sustainability same as explained above. Emissions from purchased electricity are calcuissues for the company and its stakeholders. The report also covers major lated using coefficients for national average electricity. In Finland the permit violations, claims, compensations and topics related to the Group emission coefficient is calculated according to Metsä Group’s specific that have gained public attention or may have caused a reputation risk in electricity procurement consisting of several different electricity sources. environmental, HR management, or ethical business practices. The figures for BOD emissions do not include those from Husum mill. The Sustainability Report 2015 presents Metsä Group’s approach to The measurement is not required by the authorities and is thus not taken sustainability management and detailed performance indicators. The anymore. Waste volumes are reported including the moisture. The use of separate Annual Brochure 2015 includes a summary of the Group’s sustaintemporary waste storage before final disposal at some mills gives some ability work. Furthermore, the subsidiaries Metsä Board and Metsä Fibre variations to the waste figures depending on how much waste is channelled publish individual annual reports in which their sustainability work is to temporary storage and how much is taken from there on each year. Waste presented. figures include volumes to final disposal (including material/ energy The sustainability performance data in this report and claims based on recovery, landfill, and hazardous waste disposal). Part of this volume comes the data have been externally assured by an independent third party, straight from the mill process and a part is from the temporary storage. Mitopro Oy. Read more about the assurance process on page 69. Waste volumes from mill process to temporary storage are not included. TECHNIQUES IN MEASURING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TECHNIQUES IN MEASURING HR DATA The calculation coverage of the environmental parameters follows that of The data gathering and calculation coverage follows that of the financial the financial accounting with the following amendments: accounting with the following amendments: • Only material flows to and from industrial sites are included. • The coverage of the employee data was 99% of employees. Employee • Discharges to water through external wastewater treatment plants data excludes statistics from Hangö Stevedoring. (typically municipal) are taken into account assuming an 85% reduc• However the number of employees, sickness absenteeism, work accition for COD. Emissions of BOD, phosphorus and suspended solids dent absenteeism and lost time accident frequency rate (LTA1 fr) cover are calculated according to the flow with the following residual concen100% of the employees. The number of employees is reported as trations: BOD 10 mg/l; total phosphorus 0.5 mg/l; and total susfull-time equivalent (FTE). The sickness absenteeism % and work pended solids 10 mg/l. The total nitrogen emission is regarded as zero accident absenteeism % are calculated per theoretical working hours. because there is surplus nitrogen in municipal wastewaters and the The lost time accident frequency rate (LTA1 fr) includes all accidents at reduction of our BOD binds nitrogen to biomass thus reducing the work that have resulted in at least one disability day. The LTA1 fr is plant’s total nitrogen emission. calculated as: accidents at work per million worked hours. Only • The emissions of external wastewaters treated at our wastewater accidents involving Metsä Group’s personnel are included in the LTA1 treatment plants are not included. The allocation of emissions between fr indicator. internal and external inflows is carried out assuming theoretical COD • The organisation functionality index is based on the results of the reductions for each inflow, which are then corrected according to the organisation functionality studies. The studies reflect the 26 defined real COD reduction for the whole plant. Other emissions are allocated Group-level topics that affect the functionality of the organisation, according to the flow. from which the overall level of organisation functionality is calculated Total energy consumption is expressed as primary fuel consumption and for each company on a scale of four to ten. The organisational funccalculated assuming 40% energy efficiency for purchased electricity productionality research is conducted for 92% (2014: 100%) of the employees. tion and 85% energy efficiency for purchased heat production. • The registered occupational disease data covers 100% of employees. The Environmental impacts, acidification and eutrophication are calculated calculation has been changed in 2015 according to the decision date. by multiplying impact-causing emissions by coefficients. Acidification is • The share of women in management includes women in the Board of expressed as sulphur dioxide equivalents. The coefficient for sulphur is 1 Directors, the Executive Management Team and the business area’s and for NOX 0.7. Eutrophication is expressed as phosphorus equivalents. management teams at the end of the year. The coefficient for total phosphorus is 1; for BOD 0.0088; for total • New entries only include new permanent employees. Leavers only nitrogen 0.14; and for NOX 0.0041. The greenhouse effect only consists of include permanent employees who left Metsä Group. Employee carbon dioxide emissions and has a coefficient of 1. The biogenic CO2 turnover includes all permanent leavers and redundancies as a result of emission coefficient for wood based fuels of 101 kg CO2/MWh has been the restructuring of the businesses, and is calculated against the average used. permanent head count. 68 Scope of the report INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE MANAGEMENT AND STAKEHOLDERS OF METSÄ CONCLUSIONS GROUP ADHERENCE TO AA1000 ACCOUNTABILITY PRINCIPLES SCOPE AND OBJECTIVES Metsä Group has made a commitment to active stakeholder dialogue. Metsä The Management of Metsä Group commissioned us to perform a limited Group has stakeholder engagement processes in place in order to understand assurance engagement on the Metsä Group Sustainability Report 2015 (“the stakeholder expectations and to response stakeholder concerns. The material Report”). The assurance engagement was conducted in accordance with the topics presented in the Report correspond to stakeholder interests and major AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) and as a type 2 engagement. economic, environmental and social impacts in Metsä Group’s value chain. It We have duly performed an independent external assurance, the objective is our opinion that the Report gives a fair and balanced view on the material of which was to evaluate: topics and stakeholder interests; and that Metsä Group adheres in its sustain• Metsä Group’s adherence to the AA1000 Accountability Principles of ability practices to the AA1000 Accountability Principles of inclusivity, inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness; materiality and responsiveness. • the reliability of performance information presented in the Report according to the Quality of Information Principles defined the Global Reporting SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE DATA Initiative Guidelines (G4); and We have reviewed the basis of the sustainability information provided in the • the compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 in accordance Report. It is our opinion that the Report provides adequate information of criteria at the Comprehensive level Metsä Group’s sustainability performance and the information is presented in accordance with the reporting criteria. RESPONSIBILITIES Metsä Group’s Management is responsible for the preparation of the Report GRI IN ACCORDANCE CRITERIA and the performance data and statements presented therein, which the Board The Report complies with the GRI G4 “in accordance – Comprehensive” of Directors of Metsäliitto Co-operative has approved. Our responsibility as criteria. assurance providers is to express a conclusion based on our work performed. The criteria used for our assessment include the Global Reporting Initiative OBSERVATIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Guidelines 4.0 and Metsä Group’s own internal reporting guidelines. Based on our review, we present the following observations and recommendations, which do not affect the conclusions presented above. ASSURANCE PROVIDER’S INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE • In Metsä Group, there is a solid foundation for sustainability with compeWe have conducted our assessment as independent and impartial from the tent people and integration to day-to-day management. Operational reporting organisation. We were not committed to any assignments for Metsä sustainability through tangible actions and targets is a strength of Metsä Group that would conflict with our independence, nor were we involved in Group. Metsä Group is well positioned to enhance sustainability in the the preparation of the Report. Our team consists of competent and experiwhole value chain. We encourage Metsä Group to continue utilizing this enced sustainability reporting experts, who have the necessary skills to opportunity in the business development and investments on sustainable perform an assurance process. technologies, new concepts and solutions for the bioeconomy. • Metsä Group has developed its processes on stakeholder engagement and BASIS OF OUR OPINION opened new dialogues during the year. This is supporting the future Assurance providers are obliged to plan and perform the assurance process so sustainability agenda and preparedness to changes in external environment. as to ensure that they collect adequate evidence for the necessary conclusions We recommend Metsä Group to further intensify the dialogue and to be drawn. The procedures selected depend on the assurance provider’s cooperation with stakeholder especially in local value creation. judgement, including their assessment of the risk of material misstatement • Metsä Group has made good progress towards the Group-level sustainadhering to the reporting criteria. ability targets. Positive development continued in several areas. During Our opinion is based on the following procedures performed: 2015 Metsä Group has set a new target to sustainability of the main • Interviews with twelve senior management representatives from Metsä logistics flows and a revised target for process water use. We encourage Group and Business Areas to gain an understanding of the major impacts, Metsä Group to continue this kind of target-setting. risks and opportunities related to Metsä Group’s sustainability agenda. • Assessment of the procedures Metsä Group has in place to ensure the Helsinki, Finland, 19th February 2016 inclusivity of stakeholder engagement processes, the identification of material stakeholder expectations and the responsiveness to stakeholder Mitopro Oy concerns. • Interviews with Metsä Group specialists responsible for sustainability performance data collection at Group-level and in selected sites. Mikael Niskala Tomi Pajunen • Review of Group-level systems and procedures to generate, collect and Independent Sustainability Expert Independent Sustainability Expert report sustainability performance data for the Report. • Review of data sources, data generation and reporting procedures at Metsä Board Kaskinen mill in Finland, Metsä Tissue Düren in Germany and Metsä Wood Boston in the United Kingdom. 000-182 Independent assurance statement 69 Cover: Carta Integra 235 g/m2. © Metsä Group 2016 METSÄ GROUP P.O. Box 10 FI-02020 METSÄ, FINLAND Tel. +358 10 4601 www.metsagroup.com/sustainability
