2015 Pulmuone Integrated Report About this Report 2015 Report Overview Contents Pulmuone hereby presents ‘2015 Pulmuone Integrated Report’, the 10th of its kind since the release of its 1st sustainability report in 2006. The 2015 Integrated Report represents a comprehensive group-wide perspective capturing performances of all of its subsidiaries and afﬁliates. Since 2008, Pulmuone has taken a holistic approach to show its efforts for sustainable management and the resulting Group-level performances as a LOHAS Intro 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome 2015 (Lifestyles of Health and Sustainability) company that deeply cares for both humans and 04 CEO Message nature. 52 Authentic Wholesome Foods Pulmuone Reporting Principles GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines, BEST Sustainability Business Performance 58 Product Quality & Safety Control Integrated Reporting Scope Reporting Guideline Pulmuone subsidiaries (Pulmuone Foods, Foodmerce1), ECMD, 08 Company Overview 12 Major Businesses & Brands 62 Inclusive Growth & Win-Win Report Collaboration Pulmuone Health & Living, Pulmuone Waters, Exofresh Logistics, 14 2015 Consolidated Financial 72 Response to Climate Change Pulmuone Duskin), and afﬁliates (ORGA Whole Foods) Performance 84 Social Responsibility Reporting Period January 1 – December 31, 2015 For the time series analysis, the 16 2015 Financial Performance past 3-year data(2013 to 2015) has been included in this report. * UN SDGs by Subsidiary (5 years for some of the environmental performances) Reporting Cycle Annual 2015 Sustainability Management Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Report Validation Reviewed by the Pulmuone management and validated by an Performance independent 3rd party, IPS(Institute for industrial Policy Studies). 36 Stakeholder Interviews 96 TISO Management 42 Major Issue Developments 103 Human Rights & Labour in 2008-2016 46 Highlights in Sustainability Improvements from 2014 Report Management 1. More detailed ﬁnancial performance data: The report includes data on ﬁnancial 48 LOHAS Diet – Preparing performance and environmental impact analysis of each subsidiary in the consolidated for the Next 10 Years ﬁnancial statement to explain Pulmuone’s ﬁnancial activities in detail. 2. Aligned with the UN SDGs: Recognizing the growing importance of the UN SDGs(Sustainable development Goals), Pulmuone has generated indexes on its efforts and outcomes to achieve the UN SDGs. 3. 10-year history: To mark the 10th anniversary of Sustainability Report, a special section 1) Foodmerce Co., has been added to shed light on Pulmuone’s 10-year journey toward sustainability. Ltd, which had 4. LOHAS diet: LOHAS diet has been fully explained in a special section for better been a subsidiary of Pulmuone Holdings sustainability in health and environment. Co., Ltd, has now placed under Illustration Design By CD’S ASSOCIATES Integrated Report produced by | Business Administration Team ©2015 Pulmuone All Rights Reserved (photos copyrighted by Pulmuone, illustrations by CD’S ASSOCIATES Pulmuone Foods Co., Ltd as its subsidiary in 280, Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, Korea No photos and illustrations in the report may be reproduced, copied, modiﬁed or distributed without a prior written consent of the October 16, 2015. Tel 02-2040-4400 | Fax 02-6499-0137 manager of Pulmuone Sustainability Report. Integrated Report Website www.pulmuone.com CEO Message Business Performance Dear valued stakeholders, It gives me a great pleasure to publish 2015 the SDGs adopted in the UN General Assembly to distribution and consumption by designing its ‘LOHAS Diet’ campaign for parents and ‘LOHAS Integrated Report, the 10th sustainability report in September 2015 to charter a better future for production facilities, products and services in an Lifestyle’ campaign for children promoting clean of Pulmuone, which includes more detailed and the humanity and the earth. I hope the newly eco-friendly manner, cutting carbon emissions classrooms for students. Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey enhanced sales and ﬁnancial performance data changed format of the report can serve as more and communicating with consumers more Thanks to such endeavor, Pulmuone has as a follow-up to the previous year’s change effective guide for stakeholders to understand efﬁciently. Such strategy of Pulmuone is closely been designated as one of the most respected to include ﬁnancial performance data in the both ﬁnancial (including the sales data) and aligned with three of the 17 UN SDGs such as companies in Korea for 10 years in a row, ranked sustainability report. non-ﬁnancial performances of sustainability sustainable consumption and production, climate as the 1st food company in KSI(Korea Sustainability management. change response and ecosystem preservation. Index) and named as one of the ‘100 GWPs(Great Pulmuone has championed sustainability Different business units recorded hugely different Pulmuone will continue its utmost effort to achieve Work Place) of Korea for six consecutive years. management from early on. It is the very performances last year due to the impact of the the aims and reduce the carbon emissions by The recognition doesn’t stop here: Pulmuone is the 1st food company in Korea to report its MERS outbreak and the global recession. Amidst incorporating this drive into its business plan. only food company in Korea to be chosen for three commitment toward sustainability, publishing such difﬁculties, however, Pulmuone achieved Pulmuone has a mission to be ‘a LOHAS company consecutive years by ‘East Asia 30’ which evaluates its 1st sustainability report in 2006 following the a meaningful result. Its total revenue(KRW 1.85 that cares for both humans and nature’. The companies renowned for outreach initiatives in 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome international standards to better communicate its trillion) increased 10.0% from the previous year LOHAS value is constantly evolving, expanding its Korea, China and Japan, and enjoyed the honor of efforts for sustainability to stakeholders. In its 1st with its business units in the domestic market concept from offering good foods at ﬁrst to include being awarded by the ‘Korean Good company’ for sustainability report, Pulmuone stated ‘we have posting a sustained growth. But for overseas the LOHAS diet and more recently, LOHAS lifestyle two consecutive years. worked for the environment and communities by businesses, it was the stage to lay the foundation company. fulﬁlling our roles to love neighbors and respect for a future growth. I believe 2016 will be the year life. We publish this report to show our ongoing Pulmuone has a great leap forward to grow into This year, Pulmuone’s LOHAS concept crossed Respected shareholders, commitment to a healthy environment and social a global company, building on its sustainable a crucial turning point. It used to focus on low Consumers and stakeholders! responsibility in the process of pursuing economic management practices with its sales reaching GL diet and nutritional balance when developing LOHAS products and services in the past, but Pulmuone has grown to the best sustainable food proﬁt.’ From then on, Pulmuone has published the KRW 2 trillion. starting from this year, Pulmuone plans to take company in Korea thanks to your unwavering sustainability report every year, and this year, the Pulmuone is ﬁrmly committed to TISO 2015 Sustainability Management Performance into account potential carbon emissions when it support and love for more than 30 years. We, all report celebrates the 10th anniversary of its birth. Management. TISO, which stands for Trust, develops products since the LOHAS lifestyle can employees of Pulmuone, will make our utmost Pulmuone’s sustainability report has continued Integrity, Solidarity, Openness, is Pulmuone’s core be enabled better in a clean environment. This is efforts to have Pulmuone go beyond Korea to its growth and evolution for the past decade value to ensure healthy life of consumers and ‘LOHAS Diet Model’ which benchmarks ‘the double become a world-class sustainable company together with the company itself, communicating sustainability of the Earth. Pulmuone is practicing food and environmental pyramid’ of overseas recognized across the globe. to the stakeholders its business status, TISO fair and transparent management in compliance management principles, social responsibility and with TISO principles in every aspect of its business. companies in the product and service development Thank you. environment protection. Last year, Pulmuone In parallel with this, the company has been also stage in order to enhance sustainability of health changed the report format to include detailed advocating the 10 principles of the UN Global and environment. ﬁnancial performances of its subsidiaries and Compact for human rights, labour, environment Moreover, Pulmuone’s social responsibility is afﬁliates and renamed it as ‘Annual Report’. This and anti-corruption since 2007. evolving continuously to include CSV activities March, 2016 Chairman & CEO of Pulmuone year, the report goes through another evolution by which create economic and social values at the adding its sales and ﬁnancial performance data to Pulmuone is championing green management same time. Nam Seung-Woo its contents to be renamed as ‘Integrated Report’. to promote sustainability in its business Pulmuone’s CSV activities which have the management. Green management is about authentic wholesome foods campaign at the APPENDIX This year’s report also captured Pulmuone’s fashioning strategy to protect the environment center are now expanding its scope to include activities and business strategy designed to attain throughout its business process from production 4 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 5 1A LOHAS company provides BUSINESS products and services designed PERFORMANCE to create a lifestyle that promotes health of humans and sustainability of the Earth. Company Overview Business Performance Pulmuone Mission / Vision / Core Value Introducing Pulmuone Number of employees LOHAS company which loves both humans and nature General CEO 5,722 people 1) LOHAS LOHAS1) company offers products and services designed to enable a lifestyle that promotes Nam, Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Lifestyle Of health of people and sustainability of the Earth. It refers to a comprehensive business Seung Woo HQ address Health And perspective that encompasses internal stakeholders, communities and even the nature as 730-27 Samyang-ro, Sustainability well as consumers. Daeso-myun, EumseongDate of 2) DP gun, Choongbuk establishment Defining Pulmuone May 12, 1984 Mission (Business Worksite address Pulmuone Net Sales Philosophy) 280 Gwangpyeong-ro, Co., Ltd. KRW 1.85 trillion Gangnam-gu, Seoul 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Business Vision Principle Global DP2) 5 Product/Service Integrated Report Team LOHAS business redeﬁned innovation, quality/ Process innovation General CEO to attain KRW 5 trillion in consolidated revenue Core Value Head Holdings Strategy Ofﬁcer Manager Head of Financial Management 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Staff Business Administration Team TISO (Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness) Compliance Financial Environmental Introduction Social Performance Management Performance Performance · Financial Management Consumers Employees Partners Communities · ES/QTM · Compliance · CS Center · Human · Strategic · Public Department Pulmuone/ Pulmuone · Corporate Technology Ofﬁce · Corporate Resources Purchasing Relations Foods/ · Risk Management Committee Technology Division Division Foodmerce · Brand Management Committee Ofﬁce · Foods/Biz Marketing Innovation Team Trust Integrity Solidarity Openness Fulﬁllment of Professional Alignment of one’s Cooperation with an ECMD Business Support promises and rules honesty for proper goal with the open mind Pulmuone Health & Living Business Support performance of one’s corporate goal duty ORGA Business Support Whole Foods APPENDIX Pulmuone Marketing Team, HR&GA, ED Factory SHE&Admin Team, F&C Purchase Team Waters 8 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 9 Business Performance Pulmuone History Corporate Governance Pulmuone set off its journey in the 1980s by entering green juice, tofu, drinking water businesses. Its Pulmuone has a governance structure as follows : success in expanding and diversifying the business scope started in the early 2000s by acquiring CM Development(’00) and launching a joint investment with Nestle Waters(’04). The company is currently Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey expanding its overseas business in Americas and other regions, undertaking overseas M&As and pursuing joint venture opportunities with multi-national companies as part of the effort to develop a new growth engine. Pulmuone Growth Growth driven by Health functional through Establishment of foothold to be advancement food-centered growth business a global player of distribution diversification channel 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome ’86 ~ ’92 ’92 ~ ’95 ’95 ~ ’03 ’03 ~ ’15 Pulmuone CAGR CAGR CAGR CAGR Pulmuone ECMD Health & Foods Living 52% 24% 14% 12% 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Pulmuone Beijing Shanghai Pulmuone Asahico food production Exofresh Pulmuone Foodmerce 1) Pulmuone Pulmuone U.S.A 2) Corporation3) subsidiary Logistics (China) Green Foods Foods KRW 1.85 trillion(‘15) group4) KRW 0.1 trillion(‘92) KRW 0.55 trillion(‘03) KRW 0.7 trillion(‘06) KRW 0.9 trillion(‘08) KRW 1.12 trillion(‘09) KRW 1.4 trillion(‘11) KRW 1.5 trillion(‘12) KRW 1.572 trillion(‘13) KRW 1.67 trillion(‘14) ’81 ’82 ’84 ’86 ’91 ’95 ’00 ’03 ’04 ’08 ’09 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’15 1) Foodmerce has Foodmerce H&S Research Institute 4) The production subsidiary group of Pulmuone Foods Pulmuone listed on Pulmuone the stock market as its subsidiary. includes PPEC Chuncheon, PPEC Eumsung Sprouts, organic food Restructured Shifted to Direct Streamlined 2) Pulmuone U.S.A., Inc. has Pulmuone Foods USA, Inc. PPEC Uiryeong, PPEC Eumsung Fresh Noodles, Myungga Launched Established into an Acquired the pure Acquired Established Established Acquired sales of Pulmuone Pulmuone ECMD Entered overseas the tofu Pulmuone operating the US holding the US JV with JV with Asahico as its subsidiary. Food, Shinsunatto, PTA Agricultural Union Corporation and organic Waters Green Juice Foodmerce China business business USA holding Wildwood company MGF Danone Kibun Japan APPENDIX grocery Pulmuone PI 3) Asahico Corporation has ASAHI BUTSURYU and KYOMIYABI Pulmuone-Kibun Co., Ltd. company structure enzyme food Exofresh as its subsidiaries. 10 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 11 Major Businesses & Brands Business Performance Growing itself to provide organic, functional and fresh foods to consumers, Pulmuone wants to expand its business presence in the US, China and Japan to make great strides as global player. Natural Food and Beverage Region Business Food & Life Service Concession Business Pulmuone Foods Produce and distribute fresh food & beverage brands, and supply to distributors ECMD Prepare and cook foods in concession business sites to offer food products/services to visitors Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Foodmerce Produce PB products in fresh food & beverage categories to supply them for largescale consumers(HORECA1) and cafeterias) and provide food ingredients and facilities Direct To Consumer Business Pulmuone Produce health supplements/drinks/skin care/LOHAS lifestyle care products and design 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Health & Living or produce foods for companion animals, and sell all these products to consumers Pulmuone U.S.A Produce brand products(e.g. fresh dough, sauce, tofu) of Pulmuone Korea to supply and sell them to distributors Pulmuone Duskin Offer mat/mop rental services to reduce ultraﬁne dust in the air Asahico Produce brand products in tofu and fried tofu categories to supply and sell to distributors Pulmuone Produce health supplements, LOHAS lifestyle/skin care products and sell them 2015 Sustainability Management Performance (China) 3) through the membership system Pumeiduo Foods 2) Produce brands products in fresh food & beverage categories and supply or sell to distributors Pulmuone Produce fermented milk to supply or sell to distributors or in other channels LOHAS Grocery Business Danone ORGA Produce and sell fresh/takeout foods, health products/supplements, sell agriculture/ Whole Foods ﬁshery/livestock products, and distribute LOHAS lifestyle products to sell them to managed/franchise stores Pulmuone Produce drinking water and supply or sell it directly to distributors or put it in large Waters bottles to deliver along with water dispensers to households APPENDIX 1) HORECA : Hotel, Restaurant, Cafe 2) Pumeiduo Foods : Beijing Pulmuone Green Foods, Shanghai Pulmuone Foods 3) Pulmuone China : Pumeiduo Health & Living 12 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 13 2015 Consolidated Financial Performance Business Performance Global DP5 3-year major ﬁnancial performances (Unit : %) Category 2013 2014 2015 Pulmuone’s vision is Global DP5(DP: Deﬁning Pulmuone). It aims to attain a sales revenue of KRW 5 trillion Quick ratio 86.6% 85.7% 73.9% from its domestic and overseas businesses with a focus on the US, China and Japan by redeﬁning its LOHAS Debt ratio 260.4% 214.8% 195.4% business. Pulmuone plans to ﬁrmly entrench itself as a global LOHAS company and No. 1 food company in Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Current ratio 105.8% 104.6% 91.0% Korea with all of its products deeply trusted by consumers and its brand recognized across the globe as a Operation proﬁt rate 3.1% 3.2% 2.1% leading LOHAS brand. Consolidated Financial Performance R&D Expense Pulmuone saw its sales increase 10% in 2015 from the previous year to record KRW 1,846.5 billion with Pulmuone carries out R&D to study consumer needs and trends, and provides true authentic wholesome KRW 39.5 billion in operating proﬁt. Posting a growth itself was remarkable since the year 2015 presented foods of higher quality by thinking outside the box to develop creative and innovative products. Pulmuone’ a quite challenging business environment due to the MERS outbreak and slowing global economy. It was s R&D expenditure in 2015 reached KRW 18.3 billion, a 9.9% increase year on year but the share of R&D the year when the domestic business proved its potential for sustained growth while the overseas business expense in sales revenue remained the same against the previous year. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome focused on laying a strong foundation for the future growth. R&D expense (Unit: KRW Million) Financial statement (Unit: KRW Million) Category 2013 2014 2015 R&D expense 14,736 16,665 18,314 Category 2013 2014 2015 Share in sales revenue 0.97% 0.99% 0.99% I. Current assets 447,658 496,920 400,059 II. Non-current assets 533,713 556,647 575,892 Total assets 981,372 1,053,568 975,951 Government Research Grant I. Current liabilities 423,143 474,960 439,610 In 2015, Pulmuone Institute of Food & Culture and Foodmerce H&S Research Institute received grants of II. Non-current liabilities 285,910 243,914 205,988 KRW 68 million and KRW 75 million respectively to undertake the government project titled ‘Technology Total liabilities 709,053 718,874 645,598 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Development for a Harmful Factor Elimination System for Safe Distribution of Agricultural and Food I. Equity attributable to owners of parent 213,207 261,312 289,596 Products’. The project, a 3rd of its kind following the 1st(in 2013) and the 2nd(in 2014) ones to commence on II. Non-controlling interests 59,112 73,381 40,756 May 1, 2015, is planned to proceed until February 29, 2016. Total equity 272,319 334,693 330,353 The government-funded project ‘Technology Development for a Harmful Factor Elimination System for Safe Distribution of Agricultural and Food Products’ has been designed to swiftly detect microbiological or toxic hazards present in foods. Pulmuone is ﬁeld-testing various technologies to enhance food product safety Comprehensive Income statement (Unit: KRW Million) in production and distribution stages and to better respond to potential risks of food products. As a result Category 2013 2014 2015 of such efforts, the output of this project is currently being translated into technology advancements that Net Sales 1,521,708 1,678,094 1,846,488 enhance safety of its own food products. Operating proﬁt 46,435 53,264 39,533 Coupled with this, Pulmuone Foods has installed a wood pellet boiler in its Eumsung tofu plant, which EBITDA 98,102 108,792 97,923 was partly financed by the government. It was ultimately to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from its Net proﬁt(loss) for the year -12,028 50,538 12,200 plants(2013~2018). The company is planning to convert the reduced amount into credits to be sold to the Total comprehensive proﬁt(loss) -14,980 41,385 9,177 government. This is part of the initiative to more proactively respond to the economic impact brought by climate change. APPENDIX 14 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 15 2015 Financial Performance by Subsidiary Business Performance Natural Food & Beverage Region Business 01 Pulmuone Foods ◦ Milestones in 2015 Pulmuone Foods 3-year Sales 2013 KRW 659.1 billion Pulmuone Foods produces brand products in fresh food and beverage for consumers and supplies the YoY Growth 7.8% 2014 KRW 721.1 billion 2015 Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey products to retailers. KRW 777.5 billion Market share by category Tofu Noodle · Bean-based ready-meal products with · Growth through continuous product launch nutritional balance, eaten as side dishes » Products that create new markets (e.g. Spicy Bibim Tofu 49.2% 48.8% 48.5% Vegetable 46.1% 44.0% 41.9% Egg 11.0% 12.1% 12.4% · No. 1 in the tofu market Noodle, Fettuccine, Thai Spicy Rice Noodle, Shichimi 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 · Expanding the tofu market by introducing new Udon, etc) products · New products faithful to the Pulmuone Foods has posted a stable growth in 2015 by solidifying its leading position in tofu, vegetable, » New menus suggested to make tofu go beyond a authentic wholesome foods concept egg and noodle with its average 3-year sales growing 8.6%. It is maintaining No. 1 market share in major 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome simple food ingredient » Gluten free (no ﬂour) fresh » Simple and convenient products (e.g. Cup Tofu) noodle products launched categories such as tofu, vegetable and noodle, and consistently creating new markets in priority business developed for consumer convenience units by introducing processed tofu products as ready meal, and mung-bean sprouts mix products with added convenience for cooking in the packaged vegetable category, and creating the rice noodle category Vegetable Nature Is Delicious to respond to the rising popularity of the Southeast Asian recipes. Moreover, a range of ready meals · Pulmuone Green Life(nature+health) proposed · ‘Nature Is Delicious’: the most representative brand including frozen rice have been added to the portfolio to keep up with the latest food trend for simplicity through high-quality, premium products in fresh ramen category and convenience while the markets for dough snack(e.g. Tortilla), stir-fried spicy rice cake and premium · No. 1 in the vegetable market » New products launched with better ﬂavors and fish cake are further explored and expanded. In parallel with this, Pulmuone is making efforts to help · New recipes suggested to enable consumers differentiated qualities to go beyond traditional cooking of fresh ramen consumers adopt healthier diets by providing low-sodium, gluten-free, and high-protein products with methods(e.g. boiling in soup, seasoning) nutritional balance. and enjoy diverse vegetable dishes 2015 Sustainability Management Performance ◦ Future Direction Egg I’m Real Pulmuone Foods plans to launch more products with distinguished benefits and features aligned with · Fresh, healthy and safe eggs for consumers · No. 1 in freshly squeezed juice, planned to reinforce · Differentiated quality and process control the latest market trends and create synergy across the globe to drive further growth. Its major categories the brand image by leading in the category » Maximum freshness guaranteed with the expiry date » New category development/expansion by launching such as tofu and vegetable will continue to fulﬁll evolving consumer needs by introducing new products set based on egg-laying dates new smoothie/blending juice products with better taste that are convenient to cook or eat in more diverse settings. It also wants to expand the » Tracking from chicks to product packaging for » Plans to revitalize the yogurt market scope of its organic products and launch more products with nutritional balance in order to offer more accurate product identiﬁcation : Curd/drinkable yogurts introduced authentic wholesome foods to consumers. Its fresh ramen brand ‘Nature Is Delicious’ is currently rolling · Increase producers in compliance with out its communication campaign with the catch phrase ‘Fresh Ramen instead of Ramen’ so that more animal welfare and communicate the message to consumers Dumpling, Fish cake, Sauce, etc consumers can enjoy fresh(non-fried) ramen more often. In the beverage category, ‘I’m Real’ is expanding to promote the animal its business by entering new segments including carbonated water and launching new products(e.g. · Dumpling: New category creation(Jijim Dumpling) welfare practices with the launch of Green Chili Dumpling smoothie, blending juice) to develop new categories. Pulmuone Foods aspires to grow its sales revenue · Fish Cake: Premium market explored to more than KRW 100 billion within 3 years by driving strong initiatives in ramen and beverage markets with the launch of Alaska Fish Cake worth higher than KRW 1 trillion. Combined with these efforts, product and technology partnership with APPENDIX · Sauce: Brand value enhanced with overseas businesses in the US, Japan and China will be reinforced for global synergy, revitalizing the the package renewal domestic market and further expanding its presence in overseas markets. 16 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 17 Natural Food & Beverage Region Business Business Performance 02 Foodmerce ◦ Milestones in 2015 Foodmerce 3-year Sales Foodmerce produces fresh food and beverage, and supplies them for private brands of large-volume YoY Growth 7.0% Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey consumers(HORECA, cafeteria). It also provides a range of materials necessary for cooking and serving. 2013 KRW 386.5 billion Kids 2014 KRW 388.3 billion · Brands and services tailored to infants and toddlers are distributed to kindergartens and childcare centers 2015 KRW 415.6 billion » No. 1 market share in the kids sector » Sales growth by boosting market share in public/private childcare centers » Communicate the value of authentic wholesome foods through SNS and spread the Foodmerce is a total food service business that has posted an average growth of 3.7% for the past 3 years LOHAS values by offering opportunities to experience Pul’s Kitchen by providing authentic wholesome foods brands, food materials and services based on the concept of ‘Safety, Health, Nutrition, Convenience, Taste’ throughout the consumer lifecycle from kids to silver. It is SL (School) · A secure footing in school meal service market by offering ‘Barunsun’ products posting a steady growth especially in the Kids channel getting certiﬁcation for more of ‘Woori-I(My Kids)’ 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome based on authentic wholesome foods to primary/secondary schools » Sales growth driven by new product launches in ‘Barunsun’ category based on 5 products for safety, developing more products that make cooking and eating easier, and solidifying its values(healthy, safe, convenient, delicious, new) market status by extending its services and network with childcare centers. The SL channel is growing » A stronger market position by improving its distribution structure and product despite the unfavorable environment where geographies are limited and the competition is intensifying provision based on ‘New SL Declaration’ by facilitating product development for ‘Barunsun’ and reinforcing its competitiveness. The B&I channel is winning more orders from large-sized clients by enhancing its competitiveness in bidding and suggesting B&I (Business & Industry) · Comprehensive food materials distribution, providing healthy and safe food new menus based on the brand products. In the H&C channel, ‘Softmade’ for seniors has been launched materials, products and services tailored to individual consumers in the adult meal to entrench itself further in the market by selling products speciﬁcally designed for the senior population, service market and the restaurant brand ‘ChamChaeUm’ has been developed to create more opportunities to enter the » Further market penetration by strengthening its sales expertise and enhancing its restaurant market. bidding competitiveness » Excellent and effective product supply to satisfy consumer needs by boosting its price 2015 Sustainability Management Performance competitiveness and developing products optimal by channel ◦ Future Direction » New order winning by offering differentiated premium menus for universities and Going forward, Foodmerce is determined to bolster its business structure by offering a value proposition military/police organizations based on the authentic wholesome foods of its brands. It wants to focus on brand products to drive the further growths of the Kids/SL/H&C channels while supporting non-brand products for the B&I channel. H&C (Health & Care) · Business to secure a leading position in healthcare/welfare market for seniors be Its brand value will be enhanced further by reinforcing its message, ‘Health, Safety, Convenience’, to leveraging its ‘Softmade’, food materials brand optimized to seniors deepen and widen the good food proposition, introducing global food processing technologies and » ‘Softmade’ products and diets easy to chew and digest to meet the needs of the aging society » Development of LOHAS menu/healthy diet in partnership with universities and entities innovative packages, and showing more information on the packages. As for non-brand products which serving seniors have secured sourcing capability, product competitiveness and food materials safety, Foodmerce wants to further enhance its purchasing competitiveness. Aware of the rapidly changing market, it plans to HORECA · Comprehensive food materials distribution service to offer food materials improve its response to any changes by channel and consumer. The Kids channel will see more products (Hotel, Restaurant, Cafe) consumers need and supply ‘ChamChaeUm(truth fulﬁllment)’ designed for the speciﬁcally designed for kindergartens to carve a position out of the market, and further develop mobile convenience of franchise restaurants and other types of restaurants service support and communication. Meanwhile, for the B&I channel, the order-winning capability in » Develop products easy and convenient to cook in consideration of the kitchen/site bidding and product competitiveness will be further enhanced, and for the H&C channel, more health environment of restaurants supplements and diet meal menus will be developed. APPENDIX » Boost competitiveness by increasing the market share in large-sized franchise channel and providing meal solutions 18 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 19 Natural Food & Beverage Region Business Business Performance 03 Pulmuone U.S.A. Production Plants in US 1.Tappan, NY Water pack tofu Pulmuone U.S.A. produces and supplies fresh dough, sauce, tofu, and Pulmuone Korea products for 2. Fullerton, CA 1 Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey retailers in the market. Flavored, vacuum, water pack tofu New york Distribution Center/Head Office 3. Gilroy, CA 3 Ravioli, Cheese, Dumpling, 2 Healthy Tofu/Meat Alternatives Vaccum Pack, Water Ready Meal, Bean Dips, Hummus Pack, Flavored, Veggie California Alternatives Burger Dips / Spreads Aioli 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Milestones in 2015 Due to the intensified competition, production discontinuation of old products, and delayed product launches, the sales has declined slightly since 2012, but after the organizational reshufﬂe was successfully completed and the business process was improved to effect a turnaround, new pasta and ready meal Dairy Alternatives Milk, Creamer products were successfully introduced to its primary distribution channel, Club, in the 2nd half of 2015 as a measure to generate actual performance in 2016. In the past, there were less than 10 new products in the distribution channel for Korean Americans, but in 2015, as many as 20 new products were launched to make a leap forward in 2016. The company has also placed the Korean products in the major distribution channels of the US, which is expected to boost sales revenue from the crossover sales in 2016. Entrees Pasta / Ready Meal Ravioli, Dumplings, 2015 Sustainability Management Performance /Friends of Ready Meal ◦ Future Direction Snack Pulmuone U.S.A. is committed to creating a new growth engine for the mid-to long-term growth. To achieve this aim, it will work to improve its cost structure by raising its capacity utilization. In addition, the tofu business, which used to remain in the core channel, Natural, will be expanded to cover the Retail channel. More ready-meal and meat alternative products will be developed to keep abreast with the latest Sauces / Spread / Dips Cream Sauce, Pesto, Bean dip, Tapenade, trends in the US, and the company will also focus on laying the sound foundation for a future growth by Salsa, Hummus supporting products with growth potential, integrating brands, promoting the brand name, and innovating the internal operation process. In the mid-to long-term, it aims to import more products of Pulmuone Korea and place them in major distribution channels for the main stream market, and in partnership with Pulmuone Foods and Asahico Imported Products Corporation, it wants to launch a range of products in dessert tofu, Korean dried laver and fresh noodle into the mainstream market of the US to achieve crossover sales. Coupled with this, it plans to show the brand logo of the parent company(Pulmuone Korea) next to the logos of brands separated by channel/ product(i.e. Pulmuone U.S.A., Wildwood, Monterey Gourmet Foods) so that integrating brands can create APPENDIX synergy effects in the US mainstream market or the Korean American market within the US. 20 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 21 Natural Food & Beverage Region Business Business Performance 04 Asahico Corporation ◦ Milestones in 2015 For Asahico, the year 2015 was an opportunity to grow from within. In the 1st half of the year, the aged Kansai plants were integrated and new fried tofu line was installed in the Omachi plant to have the biggest Asahico Corporation produces tofu and fried tofu products for retail consumers and supplies them to fried tofu production capacity in Japan. This has enabled the company to provide fried tofu to Kansai and Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey distributors in the retail market. Kanto regions, which resulted in production growth and higher price competitiveness. Coupled with this, the advanced ERP and POV systems of Pulmuone that encompass production, sales, logistics and ﬁnance were introduced with great success, driving innovation throughout its business management. Tofu Fried Tofu In the 2nd half of 2015, the 1st anniversary of the new Asahico was celebrated by holding a ‘New Asahi · Draw competitive edge from the distinct · No. 1 in the fried tofu market of Japan Announcement’ ceremony that introduces the new vision and products of the company. The ceremony is tofu production technology of Asahico believed to greatly enhance the image of Asahico both internally and externally. · Present distinct texture and concept through Corporation In addition, a new tofu production line was added to the Gyoda plant to better price competitiveness advanced technology exclusive to Asahico to » Creamy AQUA technology that makes tofu leveraging higher productivity, and new products based on its unique tofu production technology were enter the new market, and secure an with deep ﬂavor launched to ensure a steady growth in the tofu market. unbeatable position based on its hit product, 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome » Natural AQUA technology that removes the Mukashiage smell from raw soybean » ALPS technology that extends the expiry · Secured the best production capability and date and adds soft texture bettered competitiveness in 2015 by investing ◦ Future Direction in its Omachi plant The company is renamed as ‘Asahico Corporation’ in 2016 to shed its conservative image of the past and · Diversify the product portfolio, develop march toward a new future as a soy protein company. products to swiftly respond to everchanging needs in distribution and Asahico has more advanced tofu and fried tofu production technologies compared to other tofu makers in consumer market Japan. Its unique and more advanced technologies will be applied to Pulmuone U.S.A., Pumeiduo Foods » Cut Tofu with enriching ﬂavor and real as well as Pulmuone Foods to generate global synergy effects. Combined with the leading marketing and soybean taste logistics expertise of Pulmuone Foods, the company is expected to successfully establish itself ﬁrmly in 2015 Sustainability Management Performance » Raw Tofu with uniquely mild texture the Japanese market. » Dessert Tofu catering to the trend and consumer lifestyle It will also go beyond its existing business model mainly driven by tofu and fried tofu to become a soy protein company which covers a wider market including meat alternatives, soy dessert, soy yogurt, soy cream, and etc. Its ultimate aspiration is to grow into a total food company in Japan whose business is not limited to soybean processing but also includes beverages, noodles and sauces. APPENDIX 22 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 23 Natural Food & Beverage Region Business Business Performance 05 Pumeiduo Foods ◦ Milestones in 2015 Pumeiduo Foods is consistently growing its sales. It is maintaining the growth momentum in the existing product groups such as noodle, rice cake, Kimchi, frozen dumpling and etc, while entering new categories Pumeiduo Foods produces fresh food and beverage products for retail consumers. It supplies its brand which would serve as new growth engines such as tofu, sauce, juice and fresh milk, and gauging the Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey products to distributors and is currently expanding its business scope and product groups available in market potential for 2016. Its Beijing plant completed investment in sauce production facilities with China. success, which gave the plant a sound platform for production increase along with a supply chain to establish itself as production base for tofu partners in China. It has created consistent sales revenue and higher proﬁtability in the existing business categories amidst many difﬁculties in China such as the sluggish consumer demand and the slowdown in distribution sector. Chilled Noodle Kimchi Rice Cake ◦ Future Direction Pumeiduo Foods sets an ambitious target to boost its sales twice in 2016 against the sales in 2015. To 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome achieve this aim, it plans to lead the market by enhancing competitiveness of its noodle, rice cake and kimchi while putting a priority on successful market entry, launching tofu products whose production will be soon commenced in China, and increasing the market for frozen fried dumpling and sauce. In the midto long-term, the company will continue to have the tofu business as a key driver in addition to designing Frozen Juice Sauce mid-to long-term roadmap by product category in order to make a prompt response to market and environmental changes. It will also establish itself as the leading LOHAS fresh food company in China by re-creating a new growth engine, increasing productivity in the existing distribution channels/stores, and facilitating the online mall sales. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Seaweed Milk APPENDIX 24 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 25 Food & Life Service Concession Business Business Performance 01 ECMD ◦ Milestones in 2015 ECMD 3-year Sales ECMD cooks foods in the concession business sites and provide services to offer consumers more YoY Growth 9.3% Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey opportunities to eat and enjoy better foods and purchase necessary products and services. It runs the LOHAS lifestyle business as its core brand. 2013 KRW 365.8 billion 2014 KRW 397.2 billion 2015 KRW 434.2 billion Food service Despite the unfavorable business environment brought by the MERS outbreak in 2015, ECMD recorded · Business to spread the distinct LOHAS culinary culture and a 3-year average growth rate of 8.9% by securing new clients and extending the existing contracts. The values by offering eco-friendly, nutritional and healthy diets food service business has improved its menu operation in the business sites outside Seoul, developed new to businesses, public ofﬁces, secondary schools, universities LOHAS menus for differentiated services, and went through renovation. Meanwhile, ECMD concession 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome and hospitals business bolstered its service capability by devising the SPG(Service Process Guide) by channel and site, »The Smart Kitchen and stabilized the operation of new business sites as early as possible by paying special attention to their management. It also built infrastructure for future business, going through brand development and renewal (Osaka Kitchen, Flavour6), restructured its organization and made food materials preparation more effective to enhance its operational process. In addition, business operation at resting stops has Concession grown by placing different products and services by site (i.e. selling menus and products made of the · Business to provide a range of products and services more region’s specialty products), and has secured another great growth opportunity by winning a project for the than foods by having almost monopolistic lease on speciﬁc 2nd Yeongdong Highway. businesses in high foot trafﬁc places such as airports, shopping malls, resorts, hotels and hospitals 2015 Sustainability Management Performance »Restaurant brands such as Nature Is Delicious, ◦ Future Direction NSK(Natural Soul Kitchen), and etc ECMD will consistently improve its premium food service brand ‘Smart Kitchen’, source healthy food materials by securing cost competitivenss and develop new LOHAS menus in order to further grow its LOHAS business. Resting stop The concession business will continue to be developed through R&D activities on the menu and marketing campaigns to enhance brand image and incorporate the consumer trend. Its business at resting stops · Total service business that offers comprehensive services along highways will feature more complex services based on consumer needs while engaging in ecoincluding shopping opportunities, safe and Authentic wholesome friendly practices and developing specialty services for each resting stop in order to sustainably secure foods, comfortable rest, and other specialty services to visitors at a differentiating capability. It will also actively generate a new growth engine by leveraging its on/ofﬂine resting stops along highways or near important facilities partnership, developing new partnership service model and commercializing them in the market. APPENDIX 26 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 27 Direct To Consumer Business Business Performance 01 Pulmuone Health & Living ◦ Milestones in 2015 Pulmuone Health & Living 2013 KRW 124.6 billion 3-year Sales Pulmuone Health & Living produces health supplements, health drinks, skin care products and 2014 KRW 128.1 billion YoY Growth 11.8% Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey LOHAS lifestyle products, and directly sell them to retail consumers(Direct Sales). It also designs and 2015 KRW 143.3 billion produces healthy diet meals, targeting speciﬁc consumer groups and delivers the meals directly to the consumers(Baby/Kids/Diet Meals). The company also produces and sells companion animal foods to retail Pulmuone Health & Living has grown, building on its key businesses such as DS and FD. The year consumers or supplying them to distributors. It also visits homes and ofﬁces to rent devices such as mats 2015 offered an opportunity to the company to set the future direction by announcing itself as a LOHAS or mops to help households control the ultraﬁne dust in the indoor air. lifestyle company operated under the new mission and the slogan ‘Present Nature to Humans’. First, its DS business is growing on a sustained basis by boosing competitiveness of its core products in health supplements and skin care categories while developing new core products. In May 2015, LOHAS Kitchen DS(Direct Sales) was launched with successful market entry of induction cooktop, highlight electric stove and cookware. Health supplement(Greenche) Skin care(Issilin) LOHAS Kitchen Next, the FD business is continuing its growth thanks to the steady growth of fresh health juice, successful launches of the brand ‘Refresh Cleanse’ and leadership over franchise stores. When it comes to the new 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome businesses such as DM, CAF and PDC, however, 2015 was the year to get ready for a new leap through innovative business model/product, and more efﬁcient proﬁt structure. DM has introduced a program for Baby Meal designed to a speciﬁc age(years and months) of a baby, and re-established its own online mall · Business to develop health functional foods · Business to produce cosmetics · Premium home structure to bolster its sales function. Eat Slim improved its proﬁts by leveraging the wider external sales made of natural and organic ingredients based made only of the safe appliance business channel and product renewal. For CAF, it has expanded ofﬂine store distribution while proceeding with on nutrition needs of Koreans and of different ingredients with the traceable that helps turn the Amio mall renewal and mobile application opening, and for PDC, business building and New Hearty age groups and sell them directly to consumers history and sell them by kitchen or living space program implementation have been carried out. enlisting the help of HA(Health Advisor) sales team dispatching HA across the into LOHAS life space country for door-to-door sales FD(Fresh Delivery) · Business to make fresh and healthy juice squeezed every day from ◦ Future Direction 2015 Sustainability Management Performance strictly-managed fresh materials and have MS(Morning Staff) Pulmuone Health & Living wants to continuously improve its image as a LOHAS lifestyle company going promptly deliver the juice to consumers forward. It wants to focus on consumer communication for further growth mainly via its membership mall and mobile channel. Its DS business will work to expand the product range and consumer services while, DM(Designed Meal) Eat Slim at the same time, bolstering LOHAS promotion and growing large-scale franchise stores. The FD business · Chilled low-calorie healthy diets designed wants to strengthen its competitiveness in distribution by increasing the number of franchisees and Baby Meal by Pulmuone based on the best food MS(Morning Staff), and growing categories such as fermented green juice, plant-origin lactic acid bacteria · Customized chilled meals for materials, strict hygine management and and fermented milk optimal for the FD channel. The DM business plans to enhance its product/service babies weaned from breast feeding to the Low GL Diet theory which reinterprets competitiveness by introducing more diet and baby/kids menus designed by nutrition experts, increasing help them develop good eating habits how to calculate calorie sales to secure cost competitiveness and improving its cost structure in a sustained manner. The CAF business, meanwhile, will leverage its door-to-door sales/distribution infrastructure and Amio mall to CAF(Companion Animal Foods) PDC(Pulmuone Duskin) leverate its online external mall and ofﬂine channel as promotional tools for new brands. It will also drive · Premium foods tailored to the · Rental business that provides total future growth by forming partnership with companion animal businesses. Last but not least, the PDC lifestyle of companion animals solutions by leveraging its information, business will design highly efﬁcient promotional methods by segmenting consumers based on speciﬁc under the brand name AMIO products, and services for a healthy criteria, and implement the reward system based on consumer acquisition, service skill improvement, which embodies the Pulmuone APPENDIX living environment of consumers who spirit ‘Respect for Life’ performance improvement and Hearty training outcome to develop the Hearty Organization. want LOHAS life 28 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 29 Direct To Consumer Business Business Performance 02 Pumeiduo Health & Living ◦ Future Direction Starting from 2016, Pumeiduo Health & Living will restructure its education and training to fully establish the membership-based direct sales system as part of the effort to promote repeat Based in Chongqing, Pumeiduo Health & Living is a membership-based business that produces and sells purchases of LOHAS lifestyle products. It will also invest more in the system to support the Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey health supplements, LOHAS lifestyle products and skin care products designed for healthy and happy life. intermediaries who source products directly from manufacturers and sell to consumers, and increase the market share in local areas by expanding its regional bases for further growth. Its mid-to long-term objectives include raising awareness of LOHAS in China, expanding its base ◦ Milestones in 2015 in the addressed local areas, and enhancing its proﬁt structure by realizing the economy of scale swiftly so that the company can be managed independently. Going forward, a new platform will be established by expanding its regional bases for another great leap forward. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Pumeiduo Health & Living acquired the direct sales(e.g. door-to-door sales, multi-level marketing) license from the Chinese government in the 1st half of 2015, becoming the 2nd Korean company to do so. From then on, it has been establishing its organization structure and developing products for a stable operation of its business. It has also implemented the 3-step product operation strategy to reinforce LOHAS principles and maintain LOHAS lifestyle on a sustainable manner. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance 1. It handles 58 types of organic grains and fresh foods to communicate LOHAS belifs and importance of authentic wholesome foods. Its product range will be expanded further in 2016, distributing 72 types of foods including bulbs and tubers. 2. It offers 22 types of skin/personal/home care products to help consumers maintain the LOHAS lifestyle. In 2016, 9 types of new products will be introduced to the market for repeat purchases. 3. To support the LOHAS lifestyle, it handles 17 types of healthcare products and plans to introduce 8 types of new products in 2016 to promote the LOHAS health. APPENDIX 30 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 31 LOHAS Grocery Business Business Performance 01 ORGA Whole Foods ◦ Milestones in 2015 ORGA Whole Foods 2013 KRW 84.6 billion 3-year Sales 2014 KRW 98.7 billion ORGA Whole Foods produces fresh foods and takeout menus, and sells them as private brands. YoY Growth 3.9% 2015 KRW 102.5 billion Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey It also sells agriculture, fishery and livestock products, and health products including health supplements also as private brands. Sourcing LOHAS lifestyle products for consumers and selling them in licensed and franchised stores is also the business of ORGA Whole Foods. In 2015, ORGA Whole Foods added more distinct features to its products by further developing its PB products, increasing GAP(Good Agricultural Practices)/low-carbon certified agricultural products, promoting animal health, and innovating the purchase process. In parallel with this, the company designed an integrated process for on/offline members to ready itself for on/offline integrated Directly Manged SIS(Shop-In-Shop) marketing, and established the tablet PC-based membership acquisition process to enhance · Core business of ORGA Whole Foods that · Operation of small-sized multi-functional convenience and efficiency. New tailored services were also introduced for those who are raising operates various PB/NB(National Brand) and stores through strategic partnerships with children aged 0~7 through ‘ORGA Mom Membership’ as part of the efforts to offer better services to ORGA bakery (Yongsan and Jeongja stores big retailers including department stores the core consumer group. It upgraded its logistics capability and reduced transportation hours for 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome opened in 2015) stores outside Seoul to secure a stable product supply and cut the logistics cost. FC(Franchise) E-biz ◦ Future Direction · Store size or format can be adjusted · An online shopping mall that sells ORGA Whole Foods wants to grow the business along with its product competitiveness and MD depending on the location, consumer products from ORGA store and various development capability. To make this possible, the company will further reinforce its consumercharacteristics in that speciﬁc area, and etc eco-friendly life care brand shops oriented marketing, cost-effective products and unique PB products. The directly managed stores (10 stores opened in 2015) (www.orga.co.kr) will analyze consumers, growth potential and proﬁts to design and implement alternative plans by type and to develop ﬁeld-oriented innovation tasks. It will fashion new standard models and open 2015 Sustainability Management Performance new stores based on the slimmer model(CE type). For SIS, it is determined to develop a better value proposition closely aligned with the changing consumer trend and design a store operation format that better beﬁts the characteristics of different commercial districts. FC will open more stores after reinforcing its competitiveness and sustain the growth rate by training store owners for better managerial capability. E-Biz growth will be accelerated through market diversification for special sales channel with the support from more effective mobile/external channels. Overall, ORGA Whole Foods will drive its proﬁt growth by leveraging a sophisticated cost control scheme and a more advanced POV system which enables detailed analysis, assessment and management of proﬁts by item and store. APPENDIX 32 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 33 Pulmuone’s 10-Year 2Pulmuone wants Journey to reﬂect upon its path of sustainability management in the 10th Sustainability Report. SPECIAL ISSUE 01 Stakeholder Interviews Business Performance Publishing its 10th sustainability report, Pulmuone wants to reﬂect on its journey for the past decade and looks ahead to the future. To build concensus once again over the vision and the role of socially responsible Believing energy/climate change issues can create an opportunity to enhance its brand value, management, Pulmuone has asked its key stakeholders for their views on sustainability. Pulmuone has worked to tackle the issues before others and been investing in advanced systems. It established the ES(Environment & Safety) team in 2008 and engaged in various efforts to save Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Q. energy, water and cut greenhouse gases every year, setting the target of cutting the energy intensity Sustainability management is becoming more important to 25% and the water consumption intensity 40% by 2017. businesses as the competition in the food market intensiﬁes In 2015, Pulmuone achieved the target for greenhouse gas emission by leveraging its carbon with overseas market opportunity more actively explored and emission certification scheme and solar panels, and developed eco-friendly packaging materials food safety/health issue together with global issues such as using water-based ink. It plans to further reduce its water consumption by using recycled water for the Paris Climate Change Agreement and the UN SDGs taking one third of the 3,000 tons needed per day to grow bean sprouts by the end of 2016. Other short-to on more urgency. What implication does all of this have for mid-term efforts to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions include acquisition Pulmuone? of green store certificates and ongoing monitoring of its energy consumption. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Baik, Seok-In (Head of ES/QTM Department) Pulmuone puts humans at the center. Since Pulmuone CEO firmly believes in corporate social responsibility, which is deeply embedded in every aspect of the corporate culture, it is possible for the company to take an open and genuine Pulmuone started off with the credo ‘Love for Neighbor, Respect for Life’ following the belief of its approach to various issues. Since its inception, Pulmuone has generated successful founder Won, Gyung Sun. The credo clearly shows the path Pulmuone should be headed to for its business performance by clearly communicating to the market that it offers ‘organic sustainable development. So far, Pulmuone has expanded the scope of authentic wholesome foods healthy foods’. I believe, therefore, the UN SDGs announced last September would from safe foods to healthy, nutritious meals that carry ‘Love for Neighbor’, spreading the LOHAS 2015 Sustainability Management Performance create another big opportunity for Pulmuone to set itself apart from competitors. diet through sustained campaigns on authentic wholesome foods. Though its business was confined The food industry where Pulmuone is operating its business is deeply affected by to food at first, Pulmuone has evolved into a LOHAS company with time. food safety, health and climate change as well as other global issues. Among them, I This is to live harmoniously with nature based on ‘Respect for Life’. Under such overarching believe water, sustainable farming and climate change are the most pivotal issues to principle, Pulmuone has successfully extended its business scope to launch the induction cooktop Pulmuone. Since water security is as important as climate change response, I think business that replaces gas stoves, one of the major culprits of air pollution, along with the cleaning Pulmuone needs to come up with longer-term targets regarding those two issues. business to eliminate fine dust in the indoor air. In the food sector, Pulmuone is rolling out a In the food sector, sustainable farming has to be advocated and implemented since campaign named ‘LOHAS diet that makes both my body and nature healthy’. The diet consists ensuring an eco-friendly supply chain has huge impact in the sector. If Pulmuone of vegetables, whole grains and vegetable protein to make not only consumers but also the earth makes a preemptive response to such agendas in accordance with the UNGC 10 healthier by reducing carbon emissions. I believe the LOHAS diet will be the main driver of principles, that would create great business opportunities in the future. Pulmuone initiatives for its product/diet development, which will be another step forward in the evolutionary path of authentic wholesome foods. Im, Hong-Jae (Secretary General of UNGC Korea) APPENDIX Kim, Hyun-Joong (Head of Food Marketing Division) 36 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 37 SPECIAL ISSUE 01 Business Performance Q. What kinds of values is Pulmuone proposing to stakeholders to ensure a sustainable future? We are offering Good Cleaning Class with the support from the Pulmuone Foundation. Its Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey curriculum has been designed for households to implement LOHAS life, 5S(Sort, Set, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) and the founding principle of Pulmuone, ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’. Good Cleaning Class for kindergarten/lower-year students at primary schools in Greater Seoul offers a curriculuam where children find cleaning activities not as labour Product development and campaigns for healthy dietary lifestyle are two key but as fun by using pop-up fairytale books, games and offering hands-on experiences. The pillars that prop up Pulmuone’s commitment to authentic wholesome foods. program encourages our children to care for neighbors and the environment. Pulmuone products such as tofu free from chemical coagulant, bean sprouts free Pulmuone wants to spread its socially responsible campaigns to consumers’ daily life, homes from growth hormones, 100% fresh fruit juice and non-fried fresh noodle all and workplaces to help them understand the LOHAS values. This is a must to be recognized as 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome embody Pulmuone’s conviction and determination to offer only the authentic a ‘LOHAS lifestyle company’ that goes beyond just selling LOHAS products. wholesome foods. More recently, Pulmuone has launched ready-meal products with nutritional balance to keep up with the modern trend, tofu products that make eating tofu easy and simple to help people enjoy more vegetable protein, Jeong, Seung-Ae (Shine Impact CEO) and eggs produced protecting the animal welfare to uphold its principle ‘Respect for Life’. Meanwhile, Pulmuone is rolling out the authentic wholesome food campaign for children, the leaders of our future. The campaign primarily targets children Pulmuone is truly exemplary when it comes to selecting and evaluating partners through because Pulmuone believes ‘taste preference developed in childhood lasts rigorous and impartial assessment and verification on their social and environmental 2015 Sustainability Management Performance lifetime.’ Knowing dietary education for children should be fun as much as performance. Pulmuone is differentiated from others since it places a bigger priority on the educational, Pulmuone created authentic wholesome foods Song and Yum Yum environment and makes more effort to save it. Such strict ethical, environmental and food Dance. In 2015, Yum Yum Dance was recorded not just in Korean but also in safety standards will make the company continue to produce high-quality products and Japanese, Chinese and English to be promoted in other countries as well. services in a sustained manner. Such an interesting approach is received very well by young mothers as well as Pulmuone also offers its partners more opportunities to jointly enter overseas markets children. The next challenge for the campaign would be how to help children for win-win growth. This is creating a virtuous cycle of inclusive growth which leads to a eat more of authentic wholesome foods by making them familiar through the trusted partnership. But there is one suggestion I want to make: Pulmuone needs to create a song and the dance taught in homes and schools. department dedicated to supply chain management. Securing a sustainable supply chain is really important for food companies these days. Kim, Soo-Hee (Pulmuone Foods Marketing Support Department Manager) Park, Ho-Seo (Deoksan Foods CEO) APPENDIX 38 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 39 SPECIAL ISSUE 01 Business Performance Q. Where should Pulmuone work on to achieve sustained development and how should Pulmuone ’ s sustainability As the business focus has shifted from materials to processed foods, and more food companies management evolve in the future? adopt ‘health’ as their keyword by launching ‘no additive’ foods, it seems very challenging Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey for Pulmuone to set itself apart from others by creating its own unique values. However, such change rather increases the urgency for Pulmuone to find ‘solutions only Pulmuone can offer’. Pulmuone can make various contributions in terms of the efforts to reach the SDGs. This means Pulmuone should find new value proposition in authentic wholesome foods and First of all, to set priorities, it needs to identify the ones out of the 17 goals with the express the values through its products. potential to leave strong positive or negative impacts in the industries where Pulmuone I actually witnessed many efforts of Pulmuone in that direction. One example would be the runs its business, and internalize necessary considerations to achieve the goals in all creation of the fresh noodle category with the gluten-free concept, reflecting strong interest in areas including corporate strategy, policy and implementation. Participating in the the Southeast Asian recipes. Putting 4 small cups of soft soybean curd in one package is also a global platform can be one way to do this. If Pulmuone joins platforms that include decision to cater to the needs of increasing single-person households and growing interest in global companies such as ‘CEO Water Mandate’, ‘Sustainable Agriculture Business 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome vegetable protein. Principles’ or ‘Supply Chain Sustainability’ of the UNGC, it would be highly conducive Eventually, what is important is to go beyond just following fast-changing consumer needs not just to Pulmuone’s business but also to building sustainable communities. and culinary trends, and reinterpret them through our own prism and develop products that capture the essence of Pulmuone. This is essentially what Pulmuone should do to grow into a Im, Hong-Jae (Secretary General of UNGC Korea) sustainable business Kim, Min-Soon (Non Fried Noodle BM, Pulmuone Foods Marketing Division) Every year, Pulmone organizes a large gathering for partner companies called ‘Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day’. I attended the meeting myself and made several 2015 Sustainability Management Performance suggestions to Pulmuone for inclusive growth. Afterwards, I found the necessary improvements I suggested were actually implemented and realized my feedbacks were communicated to the management, and they worked to incorporate suggestions from I think the most urgent task for us is to secure necessary technologies and experts to develop partners into their management process. It is not uncommon to hear big businesses sustainable packaging materials while at the same time saving energy and water, and cutting talk about inclusive growth but in reality, only few deliver the promises. But Pulmuone greenhouse gas emissions. is different. I really want Pulmuone to keep its strengths such as the excellent Above all, we have to communicate to consumers our commitment to reducing the collaboration system, agile innovation and decision making, and opportunities environmental footprint and implement both internal and external initiatives. for overseas market entry for partners. In addition, I also hope there will be a winwin growth fund for small-and medium-sized enterprises to support more efficient Hong, Eun-Ki (Pulmuone ES/QTM Department Team Leader) business management, and better quality/productivity in order to ensure true win-win collaboration. APPENDIX Park, Ho-Seo (Deoksan Foods CEO) 40 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 41 SPECIAL ISSUE 02 Major Issue Developments in 2008-2016 Business Performance Pulmuone started to undertake a materiality test on issues deemed important by internal and TISO Management Product Quality Socially Efforts to Reduce Sustainability Management external stakeholders as well as their impact on · High materiality for & Safety Control Responsible Actions Environmental Footprint Strategy & Performance Pulmuone businesses for its 2nd sustainability 9 consecutive years · High materiality for · High materiality for · High materiality for Management Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey report published in 2008. Since then, the company has continued the materiality test. Some issues · Issue name changed 9 consecutive years 9 consecutive years 9 consecutive years · High materiality for 8 times in total remained material thoughout the years but others from‘Ethics & · Issue name chaged · Its name has been · Issue name changed from Issue name changed from took on more importance as time went by and Compliance’ ‘Sustainability Management from ‘Product changed from ‘Socially ‘Environmental Footprint there were also newly emerging issues different Responsibility’ Responsible Business’ Reduction’ Scheme Reinforcement’ to year by year. To identify such trend in materiality, ‘Sustainability Management Pulmuone looked at which issues were deemed Strategy’ to ‘Sustainability material from 2008 to 2016. Management Performance’ and to‘Sustainability Management Strategy &Performance 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Management’ The Top 10 Issues T op 10 issues were those evaluated to have ‘High’ importance repeatedly for the past 9 years. The 1st group consists of those who received New Product ·Tech Inclusive Growth New Market Consumer Talent Development the ‘High’ mark for 9 times, meaning they are Development & Win-Win Collaboration Entry Communication & Growth the most material issues for Pulmuone. They include TISO management, product quality & · High materiality for 8 times · High materiality for 8 times · High materiality for · High materiality for 7 times · High materiality for 6 times safety control, social contribution, and efforts to in total in total 7 times in total in total in total reduce environmental footprint. The 2nd group · Issue name changed ‘R&D’ · Issue name changed · Issue name changed · Issue name changed from has those ranked as material for 8 times. They ▷New Product Development ‘Business Partner Support’ ‘New Market Development’ ‘Talent Development’ 2015 Sustainability Management Performance include sustainability management strategy &Innovation ▷Win-Win Collaboration with ▷New Market Entry & performance management, new product/ ▷New Product·Tech Business Partners technology development, win-win growth/ Development ▷Inclusive Growth collaboration. Among the top 10 issues for the & Win-Win Collaboration past 9 years, issues related to consumers(product quality & safety management, consumer communication) took up the most part, proving Pulmuone ’ s unwavering commitment to consumers. APPENDIX 42 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 43 SPECIAL ISSUE 02 Business Performance The Emerging Issues A close look at the materiality list for the past 9 years revealed that some issues remained material 2014. In contrast, ‘New Market Entry’, ‘Innovative Management’ and ‘Process Innovation’ became less throughtout the years but others see their materiality differed year by year. For instance, ‘consumer Health signiﬁcant compared to the previous years. In 2016, the issue pool that required extra attention and care is & Nutrition’ was already deemed material from 2008 but its importance even grew higher after it was joined by new issues such as animal welfare, LOHAS diet & life, and sustainability support(human rights, Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey combined with other issues to be renamed as ‘CSR through Products’ in 2012 and afterwards ‘Authentic labour, environmental assessment). Pulmuone wishes to communicate its activities and performance Wholesome Foods’ in 2014. ‘Respect for Human Rights & Diversity’ also took on more importance after to all stakeholders, keenly aware of both positive and negative impact of various issues surrounding the company. *Issues of mid-level materiality are written in blue. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Issues 2007 (1 times) 2008 (2 times) 2009 (3 times) 2010 (4 times) 2011 (5 times) 2012 (6 times) 2013 (7 times) 2014 (8 times) 2015 (9 times) Ethical management Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Business Ethical Ethical & TISO Stakeholder TISO /compliance management management management engagement sustainability management management engagement management /anti-corruption performance performance Creating Consumer health Consumer health Socially responsible CSR CSR Authentic Authentic Authentic shared value & nutrition & nutrition products through products through products wholesome foods wholesome foods wholesome foods New product New product Innovative New market New product Process New product New market Innovation /creation R&D / technology / technology management exploration development innovation development entry development development 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Market Financial Financial Financial Financial Brand Financial Economy competition performance performance performance performance management performance Respect for Respect for Respect for No Fair personnel Distinct Workplace Talent development Beneﬁt Employees human rights human rights human rights discrimination & compensation corporate culture safety & growth package & diversity & diversity & diversity Product responsibility Product safety Consumer Product safety Consumer Product safety Consumer Product quality Product quality Consumer (food safety) & quality communication & quality communication & quality satisfaction & safety control & safety control Inclusive growth Inclusive growth Partner Win-win collaboration Win-win collaboration Win-win collaboration Win-win collaboration Win-win collaboration Fair trade Partner company & win-win & win-win support with partners with partners with partners w ith partners with partners & inclusive growth collaboration collaboration Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Socially responsible Community business business business activities activities activities activities activi ties activities APPENDIX Efforts to reduce Efforts to reduce Efforts to reduce Efforts to reduce Efforts to reduce Efforts to reduce Eco-friendly product Environment Climate change Environment environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental & process protection response footprint footprint footprint footprint footprint footprint 44 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 45 SPECIAL ISSUE 03 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE 10-Year Highlights of Pulmuone Sustainability Management Before 2006 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Business Performance 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Pulmuone has disclosed its annual performance Product • Explored domestic fresh food business • Introduced the authentic • Launched home made • Starch-free, flour-free ‘SunSal • Launched ‘Natural Tofu’which • Launched vegetable lactic acid • Launched ‘Gosoake’, Japanese • Launched ‘Crab JJamppong • Launched organic foods for • Launched ‘Bell Dumpling’ with • ‘Cup Tofu’ for health and in various areas for the past decade in its · 1980s: The 1st company to sell packaged wholesome foods premium beverage ‘I’m Fish Cake’ uses natural bittern(coagulant) bacteria ‘Angelica Utilis Makino’ fried tofu (spicy seafood noodle soup)’ companion animals no flour convenience Development tofu/vegetable in Korea, explored the bottled concept and 3 No Real’ • ’Vegetable Lactic Acid Bacteria’ • Fresh ramen ‘Nature Is Delicious’ • ‘Muesli’ made of 100% Korean with non-fried noodle and • ‘Salad Garden’, fresh vegetables • Ready-made rice with • Launched Low GL(Glycemic sustainability report. Here are some highlights of water market principle(no MSG, no • 3 No principle(no drinks made of vegetable lactic • Launched the product line grain seafood broth with crunchy texture variousvegetables Load) and low-sodium Pulmuone Sustainability Management for the past · 1990s: The 1st company in Korea to launch preservatives, no color antibiotics, no egg-laying acid bacteria and organic beans of young vegetable leaves • ‘Olbarun Cheese Hotdog’ • Pulmuone’s ‘PoongKyung Maroo • Condiment for Korean stew with products(Eat Slim, low-sodium fresh noodle and organic green juice additives) hormone, no colorant) • Launched ‘Woori-I’ for kids that conveys ‘Safety, Health, certified as good snack for kids (wind chime at the living no chemical additive pickeled radish) 10 years in areas such as Product, Environment, • ‘SaenGaDeuk Fresh for livestock products, Convenience’ • ‘Half&Half’, the fusion tofu room)’ restaurant in the Gimhae • ’NSK(Natural Soul Kitchen)’ Ramen’ introduced creating the premium egg • Natural tofu which uses natural product International Airport ranked opened as grocerant brand of Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Food Safety, TISO Management and Corporate market bay salt as coagulant no. 1 for its excellent taste in ’Nature Is Delicious’ Communication. the Gimhae Airport restaurant 풀무원 지속경영 10년 assessment undertaken by the Korea Airports Corporation Product & brand campaigns to emphasize the importance of Environment • Established Pulmuone Green Principles • Printed Certified Eco• Built Pulmuone environment safety infra • Implemented Pulmuone • Environment safety system deployed across Pulmuone • Pulmuone reinforced its leadership in environment safety • Green Partnership with partner companies Profile on its organic tofu · A new department dedicated to environment safety management environment safety · The risk response system(e.g. disaster prevention) established · More rigorous environment safety audit conducted in wider areas authentic wholesome foods in 2006 (2005-2008) for the 1st time in the food industry · Developed the environment safety committee, system, education and management standards management · Environment safety committee and · Eco-friendly packaging materials and products officially certified as green products · More plants for eco-friendly products · LOHAS Academy Passive House received 2014 Energy Winner Prime Minister · Defined Environment Objective 2.0 [water consumption: 40% down,CO2 management standards · New renewable energy deployed (wood pellet boilers in the Eumsung tofu Award and the Korean Architecture Award As more consumers came to recognize the growing emissions: 50% down, energy consumption: 25% down by 2020 against the · Exofresh Eumsung logistics center plant and LOHAS Academy Passive House) importance of food materials safety, Pulmuone baselines in 2008, reset the Waste Zero targets] certified as eco-friendly building · Designated as ‘Green Product of the Year’ by consumers (2012-2015) launched the campaign to show all the nutritional 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome elements in the food products. It also launched 풀무원 2015 5대 이슈의 DMA 및 성과 40% less water consumption 50% less CO2 emissions ‘SaengGaDeuk Fresh Ramen’, the non-fried ramen (against 2008, based on water usage (against 2008, based on emissions Waste Zero intensity) intensity) noodle to keep up with the heightened consumer interest in health and wellness. TISO • Declaration of TISO Management and the • Started to offer • Pulmuone Holding • Pulmuone Foods introduced the • Foodmerce and Pulmuone • 3 Pulmuone subsidiaries • Published the CP program • 3 Pulmuone subsidiaries received A grade in the CP and a • Updated the TISO Management • Marked the 10th anniversary Charter in 2005 education on the TISO company introduced the fair trade CP program Health &Living introduced the received A grade in the CP and compliance status and its commendation from the Fair Trade Commissioner rules of announcing the TISO Management Management, developed fair trade CP pogram and • Pulmuone Holding company CP program a commendation from the Fair operation plan at the online (Foodmerce/Pulmuone Health & Living : AA grade, • 2 Pulmuone subsidiaries Management Charter Response to the global environment and implemented the report & award policy published a guidebook to received A grade in the CP ensure compliance and a commendation from • Received a commendation for Trade Commissioner having an excellent CP program • Produced an e-book on nondisclosure system run by the Financial Supervisory Service Pulmuone Foods: A grade) received A grade in the CP (Pulmuone Foods: AA grade, • 3 Pulmuone subsidiaries received A grade in the CP issues in 2008 the Fair Trade Commissioner, and won the Grand Prize at compliance cases in fair trade • Redesigned and distributed the • Pulmuone Foods and Foodmerce received a commendation from Foodmerce: A grade) (Foodmerce/Pulmuone Health & Living : AA grade, the Transparent Management TISO Management Charter the Fair Trade Commissioner ORGA: A grade) Pulmuone created a department dedicated to Awards • Named as the most ethical • Pulmuone Foods received the environment managemet as part of the effort to company in Korea in a ceremony presidential commendation hosted by Fortune Korea in 2011 on the 14th Day of Fair Trade respond to global environment issues such as 2015 Sustainability Management Performance ceremony climate change and water shortage, and set targets Food Safety • Recognized as the official international test • Laid the foundation • Assessed to extend the • Improved the accuracy of the • Introduced Pulmuone Voluntary • Opened a branch office of • Bolstered preemptive • Revised Pulmuone Food • Introduced a process to screen • EPM(Environmental Pathogen for water saving and CO₂emissions reduction, laboratory by the KOLAS(Korea Laboratory for food safety by accreditation for the microbial test analysis Recall Program Eumsung Food Safety Center initiatives for food safety Additives Management bad foods Monitoring) management Accreditation Scheme) establishing Food Safety official international • Strengthened the inspection for • LIMS(Laboratory Information · Monitoring and inspection on the Standards • Established the GAP accredited • Strengthened the integrity championing efforts to preserve the environment. 2015 지속경영 성과 · Continuous maintenance of the preemptive food Innovation Committee, test laboratory and irradiated foods Management System) internal management process • Structured the food safety supply chain verification of organic food safety crisis response process and Crisis Management successfully passed the • Designated as entity to information management • Pulmuone Allergen Management materials · Produced and implemented the Pulmuone Food Committee assessment give GAP(Good Agricultural system System • More rigorous safety New renewable energy and Authentic Addtives Code • Consumers’ right to be informed better Practices) accreditation and GAP product test report management over veterinary drug and mold toxicity wholesome foods education in 2012 guaranteed • Preemptive response to ensure · Complete labeling of food safety against new food Pulmuone kicked off its green initiative to deploy ingredients and nutrients poisoning threats new renewable energies, building passive Corporate • The 1st company to publish • Introduced the complete • Goodbye Atopy campaign • No additive policy • Launched ‘Woori-I’, the food • Authentic wholesome foods • Authentic wholesome foods • Extended authentic wholesome • Extended the Authentic • Campaigns to familiarize • Useful tips based on Real Story houses(LOHAS Academy) that minimize carbon the corporate PR poster on labeling of food nutrients · ‘Authentic wholesome · ‘What Does It Mean to Be Perfect’ brand specifically for kids education education foods education wholesome foods curriculum the public with Authentic of Authentic wholesome foods Communication the newspaper in 1986 (additives) system foods Classroom’ campaign campaign · ‘The Future for Our Children Lies · ‘How to Tell Authentic wholesome · ‘How to Tell Authentic wholesome · Authentic wholesome foods Song (taste education) wholesome foods · ‘Authentic wholesome foods Dance’ emissions and installing wood pellet boilers in · ‘You Are Already Pulmuone’ (Authentic wholesome foods in Authentic wholesome foods ’ foods’ campaign (US) foods’ campaign (UK) campaign · ‘Authentic wholesome foods Tasted · ‘Get to Know the Taste of Nature’ campaign the Eumsung tofu plant. It is also communicating • Carried out the 1st corporate campaign education) campaign through campaign giving PR on TV to communicate 5 Senses’ tips on how to with its consumers through the ongoing authentic its principles on authentic campaign grow and cook wholesome foods education. wholesome foods in 1993 vegetables not in the APPENDIX APPENDIX • Changed its CI in 1994 regular diet *Details of the highlights can be found in 2015 Pulmuone Integrated Report. 46 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 47 48 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 SPECIAL ISSUE 04 LOHAS Diet Preparing for the Next 10 Years LOHAS diet for health and environment Business Performance Food selection for chronic disease prevention, better health and healthier nature Eat what makes both my body and nature healthy Foods Pulmuone recommends a meal of 600 kcal or less consisting of sufﬁcient amount of vegetables, whole Carrot, Vegetable, Fruit grains and protein with less saturated fat with Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Low the ratio of 2:1:1. If you follow the guideline, your Banana, Tofu(bean), Multi grain rice meal would produce less than 900gCO₂emissions, making our earth healthier. High Vegetable oil, Polished rice(noodle), Sugar, Nuts, Milk Vegetable rbon Ca s Pork, Chicken, Egg, ion Nearshore fish Carrot, Multi-grain rice, iss Fruits(apple, tangerine, Em grape, pear) d de Cheese, Butter, en Ocean fish, Squid mm Tofu(bean), Fish, Squid, Pork, Chicken, Egg co Re l, Beef 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Polished rice(noodle), Leve High 2 Banana, Vegetable oil Various vegetable in sufﬁcient quantity Vegetable Recommended calorie ● Low saturated fat and sugar ● High dietary fiber ● Less polished whole grains 1 Whole Protein 763 gCO 2e Beef, Milk(cheese) grains [600kcal] Steamed brown rice, Slow Shabu-Shabu, Sauce, Cabbage Kimchi Low Protein with less saturated fat 1 Butter, Sugars Recommended calorie ● High saturated fat and sugar ● Low dietary fiber ● Vegetable ent 1,585 gCO2e Environm Protein Polished with high [600kcal] Steamed polished rice, Beef radish soup, Roasted garlic chicken, Burdock grains saturated fat seasoned in soy sauce, Salad with fruits dressing and cheese topping Good for my body Good for nature LOHAS Diet has been designed to prevent chronic Carbon emissions have to be reduced to lessen Excess calorie ● High saturated fat and sugar ● Low dietary fiber ● 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Vegetable Protein diseases and enhance health for adults, and help the impact of climate change. Foods good for with high 5,832 gCO2e physical growth and enhance health for children. It your health also produce less carbon emissions. Polished saturated fat [1000kcal] Mushroom soup, Morning bread, Beef sirloin steak, Vegetable, grains is low in saturated fat and sugar but high in dietary Therefore, a meal good for your health also makes Roasted potato with butter, Pickled cucumber ﬁber. our Earth healthier. Carbon FootPrint from Farm to Table Carbon is emitted throughout the entire food chain from farm to table. Carbon emission can be limited by changing the fuel(fossil fuel vs. new renewable energy) at plants and applying new packaging methods(materials, weight). Cultivation Packaging Processing Logistics Carbon emissions Grain Farm Butchery Packaging materials Processing Logistics Carbon emissions 3 gCO2eq material 5.6 gCO2eq 8.7 gCO2eq 18 gCO 2eq 373 gCO2eq 1629 gCO2eq 153 gCO2eq 19 gCO2eq 67 gCO2eq 2.5 gCO2eq 2245 gCO 2eq 100g 1.2 gCO2eq 100g 100g Apple 100g 100g 100g 100g 100g 100g 100g Red Meat 100g 100g RED MEAT 17% 73% 1% 3% 16% 5% 32% 47% 7% 0.1% APPLE From farm to city APPENDIX Source: BCFN, KEITI, Pulmuone LOHAS Food Calories Table 48 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 49 3 Major issues for the past year 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome 1) 1)DMA(Disclosure on Management Approach) A summary of sustainability management direction, performance and plan to better the stakeholder understanding on major issues Business Performance DMA Authentic Wholesome Foods Authentic wholesome foods Campaign Authentic wholesome foods Campaign spread more widely Pulmuone has been developing ways to effectively promote and spread Signiﬁcance Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey its Authentic wholesome foods Campaign, encouraging consumer Pulmuone is committed to providing authentic wholesome foods to consumers in accordance with engagement with Authentic wholesome foods Song composed in its principle ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’ as a leading LOHAS company which cares about 2012 and Authentic wholesome foods Dance made in 2015. The key humans and nature. Pulmuone will always do its best to offer authentic wholesome foods free from message, ‘taste developed in childhoods can last lifetime’, is well harmful materials or additives to promote better health, nutrient and environment for health and expressed and delivered through a video clip Bomin’s parents have happiness of consumers and their families. ﬁlmed. It shows how Bomin gets accustomed and takes liking to the ﬂavor and taste of Issue Management the nature. Policy | Pulmuone is working hard to create a society that cares for both humans and the The video shows 2-week journeys of 25 families including Bomin’s family. Bomin’s video environment by spreading the LOHAS way of life to its consumers. Pulmuone’s brand philosophy, was aired on TV as representative episode and videos of the other 24 families have been 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’ is closely aligned with the spirit and principles of the UNGC. uploaded to Naver TVcast to spread real stories of our neighbors. Activity 1. Session D : Pulmuone offers sessions to identify topics crucial for business management excluding the day-to-day business routines, and to monitor and make improvements in the topics on an ongoing basis. The sessions, named Session D, discuss the agenda concerning authentic wholesome foods and sustainability management. 2. Authentic wholesome foods initiatives : Pulmuone created Authentic wholesome foods Dance to 2012 2013 2014 2015 Authentic wholesome Authentic wholesome foods Make Friends with Authentic wholesome make the Authentic wholesome foods education more effective, raising awareness about authentic foods Song Tasted through 5 Senses Authentic wholesome foods foods Dance – Ep.Bomin wholesome foods and promoting healthy dietary habits. Authentic wholesome foods Song & Dance 2015 Sustainability Management Performance http://tvcast.naver.com/goodfood is taught during Authentic wholesome foods Class organized in partnership with external entities. Authentic wholesome foods Campaign is aired every year on terrestrial/cable TV channels as public campaign. Pulmuone is increasing exposure to Authentic wholesome foods Song & Dance t hrough More collaboration online channels, ofﬂine stores, kindergartens and childcare centers. to roll out Authentic wholesome foods Campaign Performance & Assessment Pulmuone is driving Authentic wholesome foods Campaign as public interest campaign Performance Index Performance in 2015 Target for 2016 Mid-to Long-Term Target by implementing it in partnership with diverse external entities to raise awareness More visitors to Continuous increase of 80,000 people (Busan across the country. Authentic wholesome 40,000 people visitors who want to taste branch open on March 3) foods School in KidZania authentic wholesome foods Pulmuone section Pulmuone brand hall opening at Contents creation with More visitors to experience Authentic wholesome foods Dance with Disney opening on Junior Juniver on September 24 (TVcast Juniver, visitor attraction authentic wholesome foods Naver online video: 3.6 milion views) to the online brand hall and online viral marketing Pulmuone has partnered with Disney to choreograph Safe Food Campaign Signed an MOU with KCPI (Korea Wider collaboration with More campaigns designed a dance routine for children easy to follow and good Childcare Promotion Institute) to develop public entities for the agreement 3 pieces of contents on food safety campaign for public interest for digestion and defecation. It also produced contents APPENDIX based on the dance routine and aired them on the Disney channel. 52 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 53 Business Performance Campaign contents in foreign languages produced Contest). with Cartoon Network Authentic wholesome foods School in Pulmuone has produced cartoon contents in English, KidZania Chinese and Japanese, featuring Finn and Jake, In August 2014, Pulmuone opened Pulmuone Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey the globally well-known animation characters in Authentic wholesome foods School in KidZania collaboration with Cartoon Network, the subsidiary designed to give children an opportunity to experience of Time Warner. The contents are being utilized for authentic wholesome foods. At school, children get campaign education and roll-out across the world. to see what it is like to become a Fuducator(Pulmuone food educator for authentic wholesome foods) and learn how to select and eat Authentic wholesome foods in daily lives. The school attracts about 40,000 children per year and has so far taught 50,000 Food safety agreement with KCPI children since the opening. Pulmuone has signed a food safety agreement with 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome KCPI(Korea Childcare Promotion Institute) to roll out Authentic wholesome foods Campaign as publicAuthentic wholesome foods Products private endeavor helping our children build a good Cup Tofu, healthy and convenient meal dietary habit. It produced 3 pieces of animation video on food safety teaching children how to meet the alternative nutritional balance and check ingredients in food The rapid increase of double-income families and singleproducts, and distributed them to 43,000 childcare centers around the country along member households is boosting the demand for simple with Authentic wholesome foods Song and Dance. meal replacement products. With Pulmuone Cup Tofu, if you just add various toppings to the fresh tofu, one simple and healthy meal is 2015 Sustainability Management Performance prepared. Cup Tofu breaks the conventional thinking that tofu should always be a Brand hall opening in Junior Naver side dish and enables consumers to enjoy high-protein, low-calorie tofu in various TPOs(Time, Place, Occasion). When eaten as meal replacement, fresh soft tofu reduces Pulmuone opened a section named Pulmuone carbohydrate intake and offers sufficient intake of dietary fiber and protein, which Authentic wholesome foods Campaign Hall on Junior makes it a truly healthy and convenient meal replacement with nutritional balance. Naver(a web portal for kids) to deliver the campaign’ s message to a much wider audience. The brand hall is effectively encouraging consumer engagement Sesame Leaf Jijim Dumpling, enjoy the fresh ﬂavor with the campaign by throwing an ongoing event(Authentic wholesome foods Dance of sesame leaf Sesame Leaf Jijim Dumpling presents the color, texture and taste of sesame leaf. The dumpling skin has the shape and the color of sesame leaf by adding the natural color of gardenia seeds to make the skin look green. The dumpling stuff, made from various vegetables including Zucchini, chives, carrot and onion, has a crunchy texture and the APPENDIX 54 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 55 Business Performance refreshing ﬂavor of sesame leaf. To maintain its competitive edge created by the unique shape and ﬂavour, Pulmuone received a patent for the design. Pulmuone LOHAS Low GL products to offer safe Eco-friendly packaging material with the water-based ink and nutritionally balanced diet Pulmuone has developed eco-friendly packaging materials using only the water-based Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Pulmuone is spreading the authentic wholesome dietary culture by marketing ink that reduces the residual solvent and carbon emissions by using ethanol(EtOH) and Authentic wholesome foods producs with nutritious balance. This is to keep up with the water instead of organic solvent for its ink in the printing process. Eco-friendly waterlatest trend which demands safety and health from food products. Low GL(Glycemic based ink, which replaces the existing organic solvent-based ink, is more safe and Load) and low-sodium products necessary for the LOHAS diet can be great examples of environment friendly as it uses only ethanol and water as its solvent. The packaging such efforts. material using water-based ink is currently used for the crab ramen product of ‘Nature They include wholegrain noodle rich in fiber, 5-grain pizza which has nutrients of Is Delicious’, one of the best brands of Pulmuone. Its application will be gradually various grains, low-fat dressing, Eat Slim designed for sustainable weight loss based expanded to cover more products going forward. on low GL recipes, low-sodium Kimchi and low-sodium pickled radish. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Eco-friendly package for Cup Ice Solution DX to make the body clean and Pulmuone has developed an eco-friendly cup which has thinner light sheet but longer durability by applying the new multi-layer technology to a conventional ice cup. The multi-layer technology Body wastes, if not excreted, undermine active separated PET from PET-G in the conventional single-layer cup metabolism of the body, making us feel easily tired. where PET is mixed with PET-G in one layer and turned them Even though it doesn’t trigger a disease right away, into 2 separate layers(PET and PET-G) to make the cup much wastes remaining in the body create endotoxin, which increases the risk of several more durable while reducing its thickness from 1.2T to 1.1T. This, in turn, reduces cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, and etc. Therefore, those who feel heavy and tired 2015 Sustainability Management Performance CO₂emissions and resource consumption in the production process. most of the time have to remove endotoxin in the body. Solution DX is a premium detox The cup received a good invention award at 2015 Green Package Contest, recognized product developed by Pulmuone’s unique technology, made of fermented vegetable for its application of advanced technology to add values to the cup which lessens its liquid, super seeds(e.g. chiaseed) that hold the condensed vitality of the nature, and environmental footprint. other natural ingredients with special healthful effects such as 5 types of berries full of antioxidant. The product clearly deﬁnes the ambiguous meaning of detox as ‘reducing endotoxin’ and proves its effectiveness in reducing endotoxin. It is currently waiting for a patent approval to be registered as ‘latic acid bacteria fermented fruit and grain extract to prevent or improve endotoxin blood disease’. APPENDIX 56 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 57 Business Performance DMA Product Quality & Safety Control Policy & Management More rigorous safety control over veterinary drugs Since its announcement of the mid-to long-term roadmap on veterinary drugs and Signiﬁcance Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey medical supplies in 2007, Ministry of Food and Drug Safety has been adding new It is impossible to overstate the importance of food safety. It is a priority issue not just for Korean standards to tighten control. As a result, the number of items in the roadmap has rs but also for those around the world, and therefore, requires a close scrutiny and management increased to 184 in 2015 for a stricter management. Antibiotics products used in meat to ensure its quality. Pulmuone has the unwavering commitment to ‘offering only the authentic are especially under a close scrutiny. Non-compliance with the residual antibiotics wholesome foods my family can be reassured to enjoy’ to consumers. To achieve the aim, rule for livestock and fishery products is less than 1%, which is fairly low, but since Pulmuone strictly controls the entire production process from materials sourcing to production a majority of the non-compliance cases were found in meat and egg, Pulmuone has and distribution, researches and accepts the latest study results to make the process more tightened its safety control over those products. For a more rigorous control, Pulmuone sophisticated, and applies stricter standards than what’s required by the domestic food legislations. has deployed high-performance and high-precision LC-MS/MS equipment to detect Management even minor traces of antibiotics and undertake simultaneous analysis of residual 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome For product safety and quality control, Pulmuone works to bolster its preemptive response scheme antibiotics. that prevents any accidents or incidents before they take place. For this aim, Pulmuone monitors In the 1st half of 2016, Pulmuone is expected to complete the introduction of a new test food safety information on an ongoing basis to identify current safety issues for prevention, and method on veterinary drugs and medical supplies developed and veriﬁed in accordance inspects potential risks through monthly internal meeting. In parallel with this, Pulmuone deﬁnes with the international guideline to tighten its safety control over veterinary drug and internal standards after reviewing domestic and overseas standards, and monitors products and medical products through ongoing inspection on residual antibiotics. materials periodically for safety management. Any potential risks that may threaten food safety are removed through a new analysis method for harmful substances. It also continues its efforts to develop a fast detection test which combines food poisoning risk management with IT(Information Technology) and BT(Bio Technology) through predictive microbiology analysis method. More rigorous safety control over toxic mold 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Performance & Assessment Global warming is increasing the risk for toxic mold in agricultural produce. The risk 2015 performance & future objective has been growing worldwide to the extent that it is expected to have an impact on 25% In 2015, Pulmuone laid the foundation to effectively control food safety and quality at plants by of agricultural produce by the end of the 21st century. deploying EPM(Environment Pathogen Monitoring) to ensure food safety for consumers, and Korea’s climate is becoming more humid and hot due to global warming, an optimum established Global LIMS(Lab Information Management System) to compile and manage all the condition for toxic mold to spread, increasing the pollution cases of toxic mold. Under necessary information for food safety in one place. As part of the efforts to have more thorough such circumstance, Pulmuone is conducting a periodic monitoring to screen high-risk veriﬁcation in place, it developed a veriﬁcation scheme to comply with its non-GMO principle after toxic mold from the samples of grain, rice cake and noodle, which are categorized as visiting overseas production fields for inspection and conducting a total inspection by LOT. Its capability to manage hazardous substances has also been reinforced by introducing more rigorous high-risk products. So far, no samples failed to pass the screening test, but Pulmuone safety management standards against toxic mold in response to climate change and by applying a remains on alert for any possible risks of having part of foods developing toxic mold thorough inspection to more veterinary drugs along with strict control of new types of food poisoning. during the process of distribution. In 2016, Pulmuone will make more creative responses to the ever-diversiﬁed and complex food safety It is also proactively participating in the cross-verification project led by the Food issues by gathering food safety information both home and abroad in a structured manner. The most and Drug Administration of Korea designed to improve the test methods for toxic advanced equipment and test methods will be deployed to screen new types of hazardous materials mold. Pulmuone will continue its effort to lower the risk of toxic mold developing APPENDIX while leveraging the predictive microbiological test to prevent food poisoning. in agricultural produce sourced from home and abroad by bolstering the periodic monitoring and testing samples of products in its domestic supply chain. 58 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 59 Business Performance Preventive safety control of new food poisoning threats Non-Compliance & Consumer Complaints Controlling virus or parasite is increasingly crucial when it comes to the prevention of In 2015, a food poisoning incident took place in two of the large-scale meal service food poisoning in addition to the effort to control bacteria which has been deemed to sites trading with Foodmerce. The incident was reported to competent local authorities, be the major cause of food poisoning. This is because virus or parasite turns out to be and an inspection found no irregularity in its production and distribution stages. Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey causing more food poisoning cases these days in other countries. However, Pulmuone ’ s Environment Safety Team tightened its food materials management analysis to ensure safety of food materials, and is offering a periodic Therefore, Pulmuone is paying keen attention to these new threats especially for its online video training course together with sanitary POP on a sustained basis. non-heat treated products such as green juice and I’m Real which applies ultra highPulmuone Health & Living hasn’t committed any violations that undermine consumer pressure pasteurization instead of heat treatment. It conducts preemptive monitoring health safety. But on November 5, 2015, one consumer living in Jeungpyeong who for norovirus, hepatitis A virus and cryptosporidium, and makes sure only the materials purchased the mid-stage Baby Meal product filed a complaint, mistaking discolored and products that pass such rigorous monitoring can be sold to consumers. Since beet and purple carrot as foreign matters accidentally mixed with other ingredients. berries like strawberry and blueberry are being related to the mass food poisoning Pulmuone tried to clear up the misunderstanding, providing explanation to the caused by hepatitis A virus in overseas countries, Pulmuone conducts an inspection on 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome consumer for several times but the consumer refused to listen insisting there must be 100% of the berries imported and distributed by the company to ensure safety before a problem. placing them in the production process. Recognizing the consumer’ s concern, Pulmuone voluntarily took the case to the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety to convince the consumer with an objective Coupled with this, Pulmuone plans to add any new types of risks in its safety control perspective. list by applying advanced analysis methods such as DNA analysis on an ongoing basis. After the report, the environment and food hygiene team of the Jeungpyeong county public ofﬁce inspected the product to conﬁrm there was no suspicious alien matters in the product, assuring the consumer about product safety. This is one example of 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Pulmuone to do everything it can to proactively respond to a consumer complaint and appease any remaining anxiety of a consumer. APPENDIX 60 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 61 Business Performance DMA Inclusive Growth & Win-Win Collaboration Fair Trade & Win-Win Growth Fair trade Pulmuone introduced the CP(Compliance Program) for fair trade in December 2006 to Signiﬁcance Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey implement TISO practices more proactively and drive business activities in a fair and Pulmuone believes inclusive growth based on win-win collaboration serves as the sound platform to transparent manner as advised by the Fair Trading Act. By doing so, Pulmuone is creating a boost corporate competitiveness. With this belief in mind, Pulmuone always works hard to build fair and corporate culture and business practice where compliance with transaction regulations is reasonable trade practices and balanced partnership together with patner companies in its journey toward voluntarily made, and breaches against relevant laws can be preempted to measure up to sustainable growth. As part of the effort to lay the strong foundation for inclusive growth, it has complied the leading global companies in a market environment as envisioned in the Fair Trading Act. with all fair trade legislations and regulations and proactively engaged in necessary collaboration. It always disassociates itself especially from unjust collective actions or unfair trade practices to refrain from any types of anti-competitive activities. Continuing win-win growth with partner companies has always been one of the primary objectives for Pulmuone. It will continue to do its best to promote inclusive growth and Fair /Transparent win-win collaboration by taking its partnership with vendors to the next level. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Management Pulmuone holds Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day every year to reflect on the meaning of inclusive Socially Responsible Green growth and win-win collaboration with partner companies and award good partners to express its gratitude to them. Pulmuone Health & Living hosts a quarterly partnership meeting with partner companies to decide issues on partner selection/growth/investment. Pulmuone also works hard to minimize its risk by conducting sustained monitoring on the ﬁnancial status of partner companies to detect a potential ﬁnancial issue in its early stage. Pulmuone Waters conducts inspection on social/ environmental assessment of its partner companies to encourage compliance with the legal working Innovative Creative hours and social responsibility for various causes including the environment preservation. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Performance & Assessment Performance Index Performance in 2015 Target for 2016 Mid-to Long-Term Target Improve all Led all of the 10 Pulmuone Waters partners to help Social/environmental audit Assessed 10 out of 15 partners that supply materials(65%) partners to pass the assessment them pass the Fair trade & compliance program status disclosure audit Pulmuone Foods / Foodmerce Pulmuone Foods In the CP grade deliberation organized in 2015 by the Fair Trade Commission, Pulmuone’s CP Pulmuone Foods(2014), Pulmuone Health & Living(2015) and Maintain Higher grades in Fair Foodmerce(2015) acquired the AA grade maintained the AA grade was highly recognized for its excellence, receiving the AA grade for Pulmuone Foods, and the Trade Commission’s CP 1) the AA grade A grade for Foodmerce. CP, which stands for Compliance Program, is a compliance scheme Pulmuone Pulmuone Partners’ Day Held under the topic ‘Environment, Safety & Global Community’ Continue to hold Pulmuone Partners’ Day to encourage businesses to voluntarily abide by fair trade regulations. CP serves as a clear Foodmerce Planned to establish a cluster with the farming community of Maengri, Expand trade with local farmers on an ongoing basis, compliance guideline for businesses to prevent a breach in the early stage. Pulmuone disclosed MOU signing with which is close to Pulmuone’s food materials C&D center, and extend increase faming productivity, provide high-quality farmers in Maengri(孟里), win-win management by signing a sourcing contract with seeds, offer trainings for the GAP accreditation and its fair trade operation performances during the 1st half of 2015 and future plans at the electronic Gyeonggi Province the community’s agricultural cooperative unit register history of agricultural products for traceability disclosure system of the Financial Supervisory Service. It is to provide information on its fair trade Introduced differentiated services at every resting stops along highways by selling CP to stakeholders and bolster the capacity to implement the program. specialty menus based on raw and subsidiary materials that can be sourced only from ECMD the respective local communities Continue to introduce more Service differentiation at -Osu resting stop(southbound) : Developed a new menu ‘pan fried rice mixed with differentiated services at each resting APPENDIX every resting stop through Imsil cheese’ based on the specialty product of Imsil and opened a special center stop by selling special menus through win-win collaboration ‘ImsilNCheese’ to promote Imsil cheese win-win collaboration with local with local authorities -Gapyeong resting stop (north/southbound) : ‘walnut & pine nut snack’, ‘pine nut & wild authorities to stimulate local economies vegetable Bibimbop’, ‘pine nut & beef rice soup’ based on pine nut, the specialty product of Gapyeong 1) CP : Compliance Program 62 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 63 Business Performance Fair trade compliance pledge Self-assessment of fair trade compliance Every year, Pulmuone employees write a pledge to comply with fair trade when they The compliance council members and leaders of relevant departments assess the undertake their work and submit the document to the ERP HR system as a token of their compliance status based on the checklist to examine fair trade violation risk semi-annually, understanding of the fair trade compliance program to engage in fair and transparent and correct practices at risk of breaching fair trade. Combined with this, enactments Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey business activities as dictated by the Fair Trade Act, and of their commitment to establish and amendments of relevant laws are monitored every month to be reported to the crisis fair and transparent transaction practices. management committee and incorporated into the self-assessment checklist. Selfassessment items based on the latest fair trade laws are included in the checklist of the internal accounting management system, which was established for internal control and Compliance council reviewed by a 3rd party, to be disclosed in an audit report to stakeholders. Pulmuone holds a compliance council every quarter attended by compliance council members, leaders and CP managers across the Group to share fair trade issues and internalize the compliance culture. Partner company selection process Pulmuone provides only the fresh and safe agricultural produce to consumers by 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome building GAP clusters within the 30km radius of the Foodmerce logistics center located in Revision of fair trade compliance e-book Yongin, Gyeonggi Province in a bid to spearhead provision of authentic wholesome foods. Foodmerce provides consulting services to farmers on how to grow GAP products, which In a bid to offer an easy access to fair trade compliance has boosted productivity of farmers and as a result, offers quality agricultural products to manual to its stakeholders, Pulmuone has produced an consumers. Pulmuone also tests the farming soil and products before and after a harvest online compliance book and uploaded it at its website. The for product safety. book also features cartoons and relevant case examples to help readers more easily understand fair trade, franchise Pulmuone Health & Living selects its partners following a fair and transparent proess in business and the Fair Transactions in Subcontract Act, accordance with the decision criteria of the vendor partnership meeting. When selecting important topics in its business. The e-book has been updated to reﬂect the amendments partner companies, ES(Environment & Safety)/QTM(Quality & Technology Management) of the relevant laws in 2014 and the changes to the company’s management status. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Department and the QC part of Pulmuone Health & Living closely examines vendors that have passed the hygiene screening based on their ﬁnancial health, price competitiveness, quality competitiveness, deadline observance, and CEO evaluation (i.e. management Fair trade law e-book capability and mindset, etc). The partner selection process has been designed rigorously to Pulmuone has produced a guidebook on the Fair Trading Act, the Fair Transactions in minimize the risk they may pose to the Pulmuone supply chain. Regular hygiene monitoring Subcontract Act and the Franchise Act in addition to the e-book on compliance and case is also carried out in partnership with ES/QTM Department, and the QA(Quality Assurance) examples of fair trade violations. The guideline and the e-book have been published to team assesses quality of partner companies while conducting preventive activites. inform Pulmuone people of information and work principles necessary for compliance with relevant laws. They primarily cover major laws and regulations concerning fair trade closely In 2015, ECMD’ s hygiene management team and purchase planning team jointly related to Pulmuone business, the compliance checklist for fair trade, fair trade compliance introduced a partner inspection scheme to check the safety standards and status of Q&A, the fair trade self-check guideline, the self-check system and the response scheme in major partner companies. The scheme has been leveraged to enhance the sanitary and case of a violation. safety management standards of 28 partner companies, but starting from 2016, a more structured assessment process will be introduced to transfer expertise to th operation and management standards of partner companies by designing the E2E process jointly with the Food Safety Bureau. APPENDIX 64 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 65 Business Performance Pulmuone Waters inspects 10 out of its 15 packaging material vendors with a focus on their Partner support for better social quality and timely delivery of products for selection, evaluation and inspection. Since the 2nd half of 2012, the company has used Nestlé VAP(Vendor Approval Process)1) for an external and environmental performance inspection on vendors which produce resin, preform, cap and etc. Best Partners’ Day designed to promote win-win growth Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey with 52 partner companies Pulmuone has been holding Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day every year to promote win-win VAP Process growth with partner companies since 2007. 2015 Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day, held in LOHAS Academy located in Goesan, North Chungcheong, was attended by upwards of 100 1 Each partner company ﬁlls out the questionnaire in advance. people including CEOs of 52 partner companies and Pulmuone employees. Participants all watched together best practices of partner companies to implement values of authentic wholesome foods under the joint initiative with Pulmuone, and attended the award 2 Based on the information of the filled-out questionnaire, each partner company is ceremony where 10 excellent partner companies in each of the 4 aspects received the registered to Global Sedex2) Platform which calculates a pre-evaluation score by vendor. award plaques and prize money. In 2016, Pulmuone will continue its effort to grow into (Evaluation consists of various aspects such as Labour, Health and Safety, Environment, a global small giant that goes beyond Korea to be loved and trusted across the globe by 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome and Business Integrity.) reinforcing its partnership with vendors through Pulmuone Best Partners’ Day. 3 The audit agency certiﬁed by Nestlé assesses each of the production plants operated by vendors based on the information registered to Sedex. The assessment period differs depending on the size (i.e. the headcount) of a partner company. Global workshop for organic bean farmers and partnership with Prograin 4 The audit agency uploads an assessment report on Sedex, and then Nestlé registers On March 19, Pulmuone held a workshop in its Eumsung the vendor reports at VAP(Vendor Approval Process) for evaluation. tofu plant under the topic ‘Opportunity & Potential of Canadian Bean for Bean Sprouts Product’, which was attended by around 25 farmers and employees from 2015 Sustainability Management Performance 5 Vendors can pass the audit if there’s no issue in each aspect. In the event of ﬁnding major issues arising in any of the evaluation aspects, they have to be re-assessed Canada’s Prograin, the major organic bean supplier of 6 months later. Pulmuone. The workshop created an opportunity for the foreign partner to understand more about Pulmuone, and turned attention and interest to creating new 1) VAP : A system to select, evaluate and manage good vendors based on the global Nestlé standards, and to business opportunities under the Korea-Canada FTA, laying the foundation to develop new share the information with global Nestlé. It validates aspects like Safety(environment), Responsible Sourcing(social business opportunities for 2015. responsibility) and Labour(labour, human right) as well as quality and technical aspects. The validation, however, is not about social performance of vendors but about whether they are fulfilling their social responsibility without After the workshop, Pulmuone has successfully introduced the new bean for bean sprouts violating environmental or social regulations. into its business in partnership with Prograin. Pulmuone visited Prograin at the end of 2015 2) Supplier Ethical Data Exchange : An association to manage and share sourcing audit reports and data of to inspect the products, and importing the Canadian organic bean will commence within vendors across the world 2016. The import will be gradually expanded as Pulmuone develops and explores new seeds ﬁt for Pulmuone business. APPENDIX 66 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 67 Business Performance Bean-sprout soybean training for Korean farmers (inland/Jeju) Pulmuone Foods, Foodmerce and Pulmuone Health & Living source the raw packaging materials and products from a total of 952 partner companies. Upon selecting new partner In 2015, Pulmuone carried out bean-sprout soybean companies, Pulmuone managers in purchasing, marketing and research departments growth and quality control trainings for 3 times to boost check if the work practices of the candidate are in compliance with the authentic productivity and income of Korean bean farmers. A wholesome foods principles of Pulmuone by conducting field inspection and document Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey total of 142 farming households from Yeoncheon(Paju), review. After the inspection, the candidate goes through a fair and transparent process to be Moonkyung, and Jeju attended the trainings to learn how assessed by the partner company evaluation committee of Pulmuone. to grow bean-sprout soybean and control the quality. The effort to generate win-win growth with local producers will continue in the future to improve the quality of bean[Partner Status] (Unit : No. of corporations) sprout soybeans. Product Type Pulmuone Subsidiary Product Category 2015 Pulmuone Foods Manufactured foods 51 Periodic inspection on subcontract trade to prevent unfair trade Agricultural produce 27 Since the ultimate objective of the CP(Compliance Program) lies in prevention of law Brand Fishery products 9 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome breaches and audit, Pulmuone is preventing risks by conducting semi-annual inspections to Foodmerce Manufactured foods 105 detect unfair trade practices and violations against the Subcontract Act. As part of the effort, Livestock products 10 the company undertook a fact-finding survey on subcontracting of Pulmuone Foods and Subtotal 202 Foodmerce to ﬁnd out any unfair trade practices and seek ways for win-win collaboration. Agricultural produce 74 The survey asked questions about contract signing, price determination, payment and etc to conﬁrm Pulmuone’s compliance with necessary laws. Coupled with the survey, Pulmuone Fishery products 21 Non-brand Foodmerce also gathered various opinions concerning unfair trade practices by visiting the fields of Manufactured foods 183 partner companies to have in-depth interviews, and talking to Pulmuone employees who Livestock products 18 manage the partner companies to improve communication. Pulmuone believes all these Subtotal 296 multi-faceted efforts will be translated into a fair trade culture within the company. Pulmuone Health & Living 239 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Raw materials Pulmuone Foods 134 Packing Pulmuone Health & Living 48 Supply Chain materials Pulmuone Foods 33 Partner status Subtotal 454 When selecting partner companies, Pumuone, along with ES(Environment & Safety)/ Total 952 QTM(Quality & Technology Management) Department, closely examines vendors that have passed the hygiene screening based on their ﬁnancial health, price competitiveness, quality * Duplicate counting when partner companies overlap by Product Type, Pulmuone Subsidiary and Product Category. competitiveness, deadline observance, and CEO evaluation (i.e. management capability and mindset, etc). The partner selection process has been designed rigorously to minimize the risk they may pose to the Pulmuone supply chain. Regular hygiene monitoring is also carried out in partnership with ES/QTM Department, and the QA(Quality Assurance) team assesses quality of partner companies while conducting preventive activites. APPENDIX 68 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 69 Business Performance Pulmuone Waters ORGA Whole Foods Pulmuone Waters sources materials from a total of 15 partner companies. The company ORGA Whole Foods purchased products and raw materials from a total of 540 partner selects, evaluates and inspects materials vendors every year, measuring their performances companies. It selects its partners based on the impartial sourcing procedure and policies, in product quality and deadline observance. Starting from 2012, performances in and applies rigorous standards to eco-friendly products and additives in order to provide Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Safety(environment), Responsible Sourcing(social responsibility) and Labour(labour, human consumers with safe and clean products produced and processed in compliance with right) were added into the partner assessment criteria with those recording outstanding high hygiene standards. It also continues to have win-win relationship with its partners, evaluation result selected as ‘good partners’. More information on its partners is as follows. upholding the principles stipulated in TISO Charter. Partner status (Unit : No. of corporations) Partner status (Unit : No. of corporations) Product Type 2015 Category 2015 Preform (PET materials) 2 Vegetable 30 PET resin (PET materials) 1 Fruit 45 PC bottles (18.9 liter empty bottle) 2 Meat 18 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Film/label (label on products, plastic wraps) 5 Grain 19 Cap(PET bottle cap) 3 Fishery 18 Others(box, pallet) 5 Stockﬁsh 12 Processed foods 125 Chilled foods 46 Frozen foods 40 ECMD Health supplements 42 ECMD has Foodmerce and other 600 partner companies as its main vendors. It sources Lifestyle goods 93 necessary materials such as foods(food ingredients, food products), ﬁnished products(for Home meal 18 2015 Sustainability Management Performance convenience stores, retailers), non-foods(cigarettes, uniform, object, consumable, refueling, Bakery 34 etc) from specialized producers or distributors in that particular product category. Most of the vendors are small-and medium-sized players to supply speciﬁc products that are not Total 540 sourced from Foodmerce or local products designated by client companies for win-win growth upon the needs of ECMD. Pulmuone is aware that however important a partnership is for business expansion and sustainability management, critical elements like realiable quality control, food hygiene management, supply chain process and infra building should come ﬁrst. And for sustainable development of business, a more secure and competitive infrastructure(e.g. product items, unit price, logistics) has to be built, standardizing and structuring a proper partner management process. APPENDIX 70 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 71 Business Performance DMA Response to Climate Change Pulmuone Policy to Lessen the Environmental Footprint Pulmuone is a leading LOHAS company which aspires to achieve sustainability of healthy life, society and environment. Pulmuone works to realize its mission in environment safety, Signiﬁcance which is becoming ‘a LOHAS company which promotes environment safety as the important Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey value in all aspects of its business activities’. To minimize the environmental footprint of its A global response is called for climate change which is causing the average temperature rising, erratic weather business activities, Pulmuone aims to reduce its energy intensity by 25% and water intensity patterns, mass flooding and widespread drought. Joining the global drive to find the solution, Pulmuone sets 40%, and generate zero waste from its products and services. Necessary decisions on targets to reduce energy/water consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for environment safety. In the UN FCCC COP21(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference) held in Paris in November the policies, strategies and issues to help attain these goals are made at various councils 2015, countries across the world agreed to control the temperature rise to less than 2℃ by the year of 2100. Korea including Session E, Environment Safety Committee, ES Workshop and ES Working-Level introduced the greenhouse gas energy target management system under the Framework Act on Low Carbon Council. Green Growth in 2011 and introduced the emissions trading scheme in 2015 to reach the national greenhouse gas reduction target by directly intervening in the greenhouse gas emissions of businesses. Under the scheme, corporations that fail to reach the reduction target assigned to them will be subject to punitive measures dictated Initiatives to Reduce Products’ Environmental Footprint by the government. Pulmuone, recognizing climate change is not conﬁned to one nation but goes beyond borders, 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome is committed to cutting emissions of CO₂and other pollutants seen as the major culprit of climate change for Pulmuone’s eco-friendly design philosophy for green management can be found starting sustainability of the earth even though it has not been obligated to reduce emissions by the government or placed from its production stage. under the government scheme. KEPI GP awards in 2015 Management Pulmuone Cup ICE, made of multi Pulmuone has deployed new renewable technologies, high-efﬁciency facilities and energy-saving initiatives to layers of PET/PET_G/PET, won an reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in its production stage. It makes sure to install energy efﬁcient production award at the GP(Green Packaging) facilities when it builds a new plant. This is to take into account the environmental footprint of production even award ceremony organized by from the design stage. Pulmuone is also placing a great emphasis on Session E and the environment safety committee to check progress on emissions reduction and energy/water savings per business unit or site, and KEPI(Korea Environment Packaging Promotion Institute) for its great performance in 2015 Sustainability Management Performance incorporate improvement measures into the design stage. preventing damage to a product, improving the production process, and reducing the cup weight for reduction of waste and greenhouse gas emissions. Activities · New renewable energy · Corporate events certiﬁed to be carbon neutral » A wood pellet boiler deployed in 2013, which made Pulmuone the 1st Korean company that uses wood pellet boilers to reduce » Carbon emissions from the open shareholders’ meeting and the LOHAS picnic event were offset by the tree-planting initiative of Temperature mimicking sensors in the logistics center greenhouse gas emissions (Korea Energy Agency) Pulmuone which has been certified under the the Korea Energy » Uiryeong tofu/Kibun plants joined the drive to install a wood Agency ’s carbon-neutral program. Exofresh Logistics has installed food temperature mimicking sensors, which help the pellet boiler with Pulmuone Health & Living Doan plant, · Climate change response meetings company successfully reduce its power consumption by 287,465kwh and greenhouse gas deploying the solar power system in 2015 » Session E (1 time, attended by business unit representatives emissions by 133.75tCO₂e per year. The temperature sensors installed in the chilled and · Product accreditation in response to climate change and site managers), Environment Safety Committee (6 times, » Certification of carbon emissions label: Placed on five organic attended by business unit representatives), Plant Manager frozen storage facilities kickstart the refrigerator when temperature goes higher than the bean tofu products with local ingredients as of 2014 Council (5 times, attended by plant managers), Working-Level » Low carbon certification: Four organic bean tofu products with Council (12 times, attended by working-level employees) set temperature. Usually, temperature sensors measure the atmospheric temperature, ingredients sourced from local areas as of 2015 but the food temperature sensors closely follow the temperature within 10mm of the food » Carbon neutral certification: Two organic tofu products as of 2014 surfaces, and stop unnecessary operation of a refrigerator triggered by every opening and closing of the storage center doors. Pulmuone has reduced both energy consumption and Performance & Assessment greenhouse gas emissions at the same time and is maintaining the quality of new sensors Performance Index Performance in 2015 Mid-to Long-Term Target through an inspection procedure as rigorous as the one for previous sensors. APPENDIX Greenhouse gas intensity 338.8tCO₂/product tone (29% reduction against 2008) 50% reduction against 2008 New renewable energy usage 15.1% (out of total energy consumption) 19% Water intensity 27.0 tons/product ton (25% reduction against 2008) 40% reduction against 2008 72 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 73 Business Performance Eco-friendly packing materials LED lightings In partnership with the Ministry of Environment, Pulmuone has undertaken a research Pulmuone has replaced lightings in the business sites with LED lights for energy saving and on a packaging material that reduces harmful substances and wastes by using a watergreenhouse gas emissions reduction. based adhesive, which is sterilized by boiling, and leveraged the research result to use the Power savings based on the number of new LED lights Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey material in all of the food products that use the ﬁlm wrapping. The material was adopted Business Eumsung tofu Chuncheon Exofresh logistics Pulmuone ECMD for arrowroot juice and Oriental raisin tree products in 2015 and is now used for products sites plant ice plant center in Eumsung Health & Living resting stops of Pulmuone Health & Living. Pulmuone is the 1st company that replaced organic solventNo. of sites with All of the 133 311 134 4,490 type ink with water-based ink. Packaging materials of Nature Is Delicious and Crab LED lightings resting stops JJamppong use water-based ink and adhesive to reduce harmful chemical substances and Power savings 149,971kwh/yr 60,540kwh/yr 187,814kwh/yr 295,560kwh/yr improve food safety. In addition, Eat Slim has successfully reduced the volume of its product Gapyeong, packages by 32% from 3118.5㎤ to 2116.8㎤ and replaced polypropylene boxes with paper Uiwang/ Canopy replaced Cheonggye, ones to reduce emissions from wastes, lowering greenhouse gase emissions and paper High with LED that has Yangpeong, wastes during transportation. Heat resistant durability brigher Illumination Majang, Pulmuone Waters reduced the weight of its pre-form for PET bottles as much as it can to Details (80℃) and in low illumination enhanced by Gwangju/ Iseo, 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome minimize its environment impact and maximize cost-saving, which is an ongoing endeavor high diffusivity temperature (150→270lx) 96lx Youngsan (30℃) to prevent (southbound), of the company. It has continued the effort to reduce the pre-form weight further since 2009 a car accident Hampyeong( and as a result, reduced the cap weight from 2g to 1.35g upon the completion and operation northbound), of the Idong plant in 2013. Osu Such consistent effort was recognized to have ‘Low Carbon Product’ and ‘Green Packaging’ accreditations in 2013 with the ‘Low Carbon Product’ accreditation renewed in 2016. (‘Green Packaging’ remains effective until December 2016 ) Solar power for Pulmuone Health & Living The Doan plant complex of Pulmuone Health & Living installed a 195kwh-scale solar power generation facility Wood pellet boilers in Uiryeong tofu/Pulmuone Kibun plants for its green juice plant, health supplement production 2015 Sustainability Management Performance plant for Greenche and ‘JaDamYeon(a pond which holds In response to climate change, Pulmuone is actively pushing the drive to install wood pelletnature)’, the waste treatment plant built with Pulmuone’s powered boilers for its production plants. Starting from the seven-ton wood pellet boiler green management philosophy, to power their utilities and deployed in the Eumsung tofu plant in 2013, Pulmuone replaced the LPG boilers of Uiryeong ofﬁces with solar energy on a sustainable basis. Coupled tofu and Pulmuone Kibun plants with wood pellet boilers. The newly deployed four-ton wood with this, the Doan production plant has introduced a webpellet boilers are now reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 1,051tCO₂e every year. based monitoring system to constantly measure the impact of solar power generation. The solar power facility which generates about 210,600kwh per year is reducing carbon emissions so much, which is equivalent to planting more than 60,100 pine trees. Meanwhile, the Idong plant of Pulmuone Waters installed the energy-efﬁcient machine for rounded rice cake and high-efﬁcient HID lighting ﬁxtures for its initiative to save energy and reduce the number of lightings. The energy-saving endeavor continued in 2015, deploying an automatic maintenance and control system for air compressors, and constructing the piping for a freezer. All of these efforts led to effective actual reductions higher than the targets for 2013-2015. APPENDIX 74 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 75 Business Performance ORGA Jeongja becoming the 300th Green Store ORGA Whole Foods winning an award at Green Store Contest O R GA W h o le Fo o d s J e o n g j a h e l d a ORGA Whole Foods Seohyeon won a good practice award for small-and mid-sized stores at congratulatory ceremony in partnership with the 2nd Green Store Contest in 2015 hosted by the Ministry of Environment and organized by the Ministry of Environment on December 22, the KEITI(Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute). Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey 2015 after being designated as the 300th Green The 2nd Green Store Contest in 2015 selected and awarded those with good practices Store. Stores can be designated as Green Stores which facilitated green product sales and distribution, and eco-friendly consumption. when they are recognized for spreading ‘Green Out of all 274 Green Stores across the nation as of August 2015, ORGA Whole Foods Purchase ’ among consumers, selling ecoSeohyeon is the only small-and mid-sized store that received the good practice award. friendly products, and reducing greenhouse gas ORGA has named eco-friendly elements within its stores as Green Spot to communicate emissions and energy. The Jeongja store directly managed by ORGA Whole Foods also sells its efforts for the environment. Such eco-friendly elements include ‘Green Product Zone’ more than 5,000 eco-friendly products which have received Green Mart Certiﬁcate and Good for products with the green mark, low-carbon agricultural products which emitted less Recycling Certiﬁcate. The store has also installed high-efﬁency LED lightings and energycarbon in the production process, energy-saving door-type refrigerators, energy efficient saving door-type refrigerator shelves to cut down greenhouse gas emissions. Shopping LED lightings, biodegradable trays and packing materials made of corn starch. It also offers bags used in the store are all made of natural sugar cane extracts, and plastic trays are diverse services that encourage green purchasing such as giving more mileage points 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome made of corn starch to minimize pollution from discarded wastes. to consumers who use the green card, the campaign to use reusable shopping baskets, ORGA Whole Foods has participated in the Green Store Accreditation Scheme of the and LOHAS lectures where they can experience eco-friendly farming and lifestyle so that Ministry of Environment starting from 2011, having a total of 11 stores designated as Green consumers themselves can voluntarily develop eco-friendly lifestyle. Store with its Jeongja store certiﬁed in 2015 along with other ﬁve stores including Seohyeon, Yatap, Yongsan and Juyeop stores. Chuncheon plant joining the campaign to restore the lenok population Joining forces with the Wonju Regional MOU signing for win-win GAP collaboration Environment Ofﬁce, the Odae Mountain National On November 20, 2015, ORGA Whole Foods Park Office and the Fish Research Center of signed an MOU in its Bangyi store for win-win Gangwon University, Pulmuone’s Chuncheon 2015 Sustainability Management Performance collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, plant has been releasing lenoks(Siberian Food and Rural Affairs to place more GAP trouts) and Korean big snakes, spieces of the products in its supply chain. GAP(Good endangered grade 2, to restore the wildlife Agricultural Practices) is a food safety ecosystem of the Odae Mountain National management scheme that rigorously controls Park. Pyeongchang Gaejani Valley, which is the tributary of the Odae Mountain, used to all possible risks that may arise throughout the be known as a habitat for the large lenok population with its crystal-clear and cool water, process from production to sales, inspecting not only the farming soil quality for vegetables, but the lenoks were driven to the brink of extinction due to reckless ﬁshing. To prevent its fruits and mushroom but also the agricultural water quality, and screening out potential complete extinction, Pulmuone Chuncheon plant releases 500 lenoks into the water every harmful substances such as heavy metal, pesticide and harmful organisms. ORGA Whole year. Pulmuone has also been releasing Korean big snakes since 2015 to counter their rapid Foods pledged its commitment to facilitate the distribution of GAP products in partnership decline due to the reckless hunting as they are known for boosting stamina and vitality. with the Ministry. To build a reliable supply platform that can replace the low-pesticide Pulmuone Waters conducts a comprehensive environmental assessment on its bottled farming certification scheme after it was abolished, ORGA Whole Foods acquired the water plant every ﬁve years in compliance with the relevant laws and regulations to decide GAP accreditation for agricultural products sourced from 135 farms as of November. In the appropriate amount of water intake. However, the environment impact research by parallel with this, it has increased the GAP certiﬁed products to six types(apple, pear, grape, the bottled water plant only looks at the possible ground sinking, landslide and withering plum, tangerine, watermelon). The number of GAP products is expected to increase to 25 of plants which implies the soil is deprived of moisture due to groundwater drawing, and APPENDIX including vegetables and grains by the year 2017. doesn’t study the comprehensive impact on the nearby ﬂora and fauna. Thus, it doesn’t tell which plants or animals are directly inﬂuenced by the water intake. 76 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 77 Business Performance Outcome of Climate Change Response Raw Materials & Energy Consumption Pulmuone is engaging in diverse activities to counter climate change such as registering The energy intensity of the manufacturing sector increased about 8% from 2014, and itself as the KVER(Korea Voluntary Emission Reduction) business under KEMCO(Korea the Shinsunnatto plant and Pulmuone Kibun plant were included in the list under close Energy Management Corporation), monitoring its progress, building the greenhouse gas monitoring management starting from 2015. Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey inventory, and receiving accreditation for carbon emissions labels on its products, and low-carbon or carbon-neutral products. It has installed wood pellet boilers in Eumsung Decreasing 107% Direct energy 103% tofu, Uiryeong tofu and Pulmuone Kibun plants, introduced the solar power system to energy 98% 96% Indirect energy consumption 100% 93% Total energy the Doan plant of Pulmuone Health & Living, and received the low-carbon certiﬁcates for 89% 88% 84% four of its products made of Korean beans and organic tofu. Pulmuone has lowered its 79% 78% 76% greenhouse gas emissions by proactively responding to threats of climate change although 74% 72% 71% 69% 66% 65% it is not obligated to join the greenhouse gas reduction target management program of the 62% 57% 56% 56% government or the emissions credit trading scheme. 49% 49% 41% Greenhouse gas (CO₂ , CH4 N2O,HFCs, PFCs, SF6) emissions 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions 100% 90% 79% 77% Total raw materials usage 64% 54% 47% Category Subcategory Unit 2008 2013 2014 2015 Materials usage Bean-based product yield (product output/bean input) % 367.6 414.3 321.0 441.9 efficiency Direct energy consumption kgOE/product ton 43.6 25.2 23.4 18.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy Indirect energy consumption kgOE/product ton 60.2 39.7 38.4 31.4 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Water Water consumption ㎥/product ton 19 9 8 7 Green transport for the environment CO2 emission in total ktCO2 /yr 57.5 82.1 73.7 78.7 CO2 emission from production ktCO2 /yr 34.1 35.0 32.7 35.5 Exofresh Logistics has introduced a vehicle control system designed to improve driving CO2 emission from logistics ktCO2 /yr 22.7 34.8 35.5 35.5 practices while waging the eco-driving campaign in an effort to reduce emissions of Greenhouse gas CO2 emission from service provision ktCO2 /yr 0.7 12.2 5.5 7.7 greenhouse gas and air pollutants generated from its logistics chain. It is never hesitant when considering new ways to reduce the environmental footprint of its logistics chain. CO2 intensity of production tCO2 /product ton 0.232 0.130 0.108 0.095 Good examples include the introduction of large-sized transport vehicles and the cold-heat CO2 intensity of logistics tCO2 /KRW 1M 0.058 0.073 0.074 0.070 storage system. CO2 intensity of service tCO2 /KRW 1M 0.036 0.129 0.055 0.075 Water quality Discharged to water system ㎥/product ton 7.2 3.9 4.8 2.8 management Amount Ton/product ton 0.108 0.031 0.035 0.028 Treatment – Recycling % 99% 96% 99% 99% Waste Landfill % 1% 3% 1% 0% Incineration % 0% 1% 1% 1% APPENDIX Environmental investment & management cost KRW 100M 57 57 40 46 78 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 79 Business Performance Water reuse & recycling ODS emissions Exofresh Logistics is reusing around 700 tons of water per year purified at the sewage Pulmuone regulates new devices that use ODS(Ozone Depleting Substances) such as treatment plant to wash its transport/delivery vehicles. The rest that has not been used for CFCs and HCFCs following the Montreal Protocol and manages refrigerant charges for the car washing is again sent to the wastewater treatment plant at the end of the treatment existing facilities. Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey process of the respective local district and then released to the natural water system. ODS emissions C407 R11 R22 R404a R407 R407a R717 NH3 R140 Impact of water intake on water resource & biodiversity Pulmuone Waters takes water from the underground bedrock as it has rigorous quality 500 700 145 standards for its drinking water. Therefore, ensuring a reliable water supply and preempting 100 700 any negative impacts on the ecosystem is a very important issue for Pulmuone Waters. 520 50 1,112 Every ﬁve years, the company conducts an environmental impact study which looks at the 302 976 470 209 groundwater reserve, output status, underground geological survey, appropriate intake for 3,523 sustainability, scope of environmental impact, damage to the environment, water quality 3,004 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome 2,765 and others. The inspection result is reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Environment. 2,686 2,827 2,396 Based on the environmental impact survey and assessment result, Pulmuone Waters 2,496 makes it a rule to take less than 1,297 tons of water per day. It always receives an approval 256 0 from the Gyeonggi provincial government before extracting water to assure sustainability of 480 the groundwater resources and protect it from threats like depletion, quality degradation or 1,083 40 540 damage to the surrounding environment. Details can be viewed in its technical report on the 100 60 200 100 100 100 120 100 environmental impact survey. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Minimal Pollutant Emissions 2015 Sustainability Management Performance To minimize the environmental impact of its business activities, Pulmuone has set the Air pollutant emissions 74.06 celing of pollutants emitted at the final stage of its production as 50% lower than the 54.7 Pulmuone runs boilers for steam generation, powered maximum emission level allowed by the law. It has also applied a more rigorous water by LNG and LPG fuels; therefore, it is not mandated to quality standard to its plants that discharge water directly into the natural water system measure its air pollutant emissions as dictated by the 24.1 such as the Pulmuone Health & Living Doan plant, the Eumsung fresh noodle plant and the Clean Air Conservation Act. Plants powered by wood 3 Chuncheon plant to treat and discharge water with the BOD level lower than 8mg/L. The 0 0 pellet boilers such as Eumsung tofu plant, Uiryeong SOx(ppm) NOx(ppm) Dust(mg/S㎥) standard is also applied to plants in China and Japan as well as those in Korea when a new tofu/Pulmuone Kibun plant measure their Sox, NOx Eumsung tofu plant Uiryeong tofu/Pulmuone Kibun plant wastewater treatment plant is built or an existing wastewater treatment plant is renovated. and dust emissions for air quality management. The cost for such construction is reﬂected in its ﬁnancial accounting as investment. APPENDIX 80 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 81 Business Performance Handling of environmental complaints Environmental investment & cost Environmental investment & management cost When a resident of the apartment complex near the Exofresh Logistics Yongin Center ﬁled Pulmuone is closely managing its expenses for (Unit : KRW 100M) a complaint about noise to the Kiheung district public ofﬁce of Yongin, Pulmuone promptly environmental management and investment. The formed a TFT to make a proper response to the grievance. The team developed various expenses rose 41% in 2015 due to the deployment 2013 59 Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey ways to reduce noise, tested possible solutions and applied the one with the best result of wood pellet boilers, which was to increase the 2014 46 which was building a sound-proof canopy wall around the cooler. This lowered the gap ratio of new renewable energy in its energy mix. 2015 64 between the intrusive sound coming from the cooler and the ambient sound to less than 3dB, successfully redressing the grievance. Waste treatment Pulmuone is doing its utmost effort to reduce waste disposal in its production process and recycle as much paper or synthetic resin waste as possible. Waste disposal by year 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome 18,000 0.120 0.114 0.108 16,000 0.100 0.089 14,000 0.080 0.066 2015 Sustainability Management Performance 12,000 0.060 0.053 0.049 15,831 15,646 15,589 10,000 0.040 13,296 0.033 12,520 0.031 11,662 0.028 8,000 10,235 10,440 0.020 8,112 6,000 0.000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Incineration 87 72 39 17 153 53 47 75 89 Landﬁll 122 165 182 285 103 227 252 64 32 Recycling 15,831 15,646 15,589 13,296 12,520 11,662 8,112 10,235 10,440 APPENDIX Basic unit 0.114 0.108 0.089 0.066 0.053 0.049 0.031 0.033 0.028 82 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 83 Business Performance DMA Social Responsibility Social Value Sharing Pulmuone’s outreach programs based on ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’ are constantly evolving to offer more CSV(Creating Shared Value). ‘Authentic wholesome foods Signiﬁcance Education Campaign’, the most representative campaign for social contribution, has been Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey expanded to become ‘LOHAS Dietary Education’, and ‘Good Cleaning Class’ designed to Businesses are increasingly shifting their primary focus from profit generation to fulfilling educate LOHAS lifestyle was added to the list to spread and further communicate the corporate social responsibilities in the process of pursuing proﬁts. Pulmuone is engaging itself LOHAS values. in various social responsibility initiatives to practice its philosophy of ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’. It will also fulﬁll its responsibility as a global LOHAS company that creates much social value through diverse activities. Authentic wholesome foods Education Campaign Pulmuone has been rolling out ‘Authentic wholesome Management foods Education Campaign’ since 2010 that help not Policy | Pulmuone assigns the role of a control Activities | Pulmuone is carrying out diverse social only children but also adults to learn where, how and tower to its PR office for corporate-wide contribution programs that center around the four by whom their food is made to tell apart Authentic 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) activities. topics(Authentic Wholesome Foods, Environment, wholesome foods from band ones and make the right It is to facilitate both internal and external Social Responsibility and Mecenat) to realize dietary choice. Educational programs under the initative communication and effectively handle community the LOHAS society by making contribution to are offered to pre-school kids, primary school students, demands. The PR office defines the direction of communities. It is also spreading the value of parents and their children under three topics(food labels, socially responsible initiatives and mid-to longauthentic wholesome foods and LOHAS through nutritional balance and palate). During 2015, Pulmuone offered the education program for term business strategy, plans and operates various initiatives including ‘Authentic wholesome 706 times to 17,595 people in partnership with the Ministry of Education, Food for Change, socially responsible programs and support foods Education Campaign’ to help the public and Homeplus e-Paran Foundation. employee outreach and fundraising activities. develop the good dietary habit, and ‘Good Cleaning It also designates social responsibility officers Class’ that teaches LOHAS lifestyle. Pulmuone Milestones of Authentic wholesome foods Campaign to build an internal collaboration scheme, and employees are also actively involved in diverse 2013 2014 2015 2015 Sustainability Management Performance encourage its subsidiaries to share their records outreach activities such as volunteering through Session(times) 387 534 706 of socially responsible practices and plans through the corporate social service club LOHAS Designer Attendee(people) 9,113 12,055 17,595 Session D, the company-wide CSR/CSV council. and fundraising events. Performance & Assessment Good Cleaning Class, LOHAS lifestyle education Performance Index Performance in 2015 Target for 2016 Mid-to Long-Term Target Pulmuone launched ‘Good Cleaning Class’ to spread Authentic wholesome Offered education sessions on Offer more sessions on the 5S activities(Sort, Set, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) foods Campaign Aiming to reach authentic wholesome foods authentic wholesome foods: implementation 90,000 people by 2018 crucial for the LOHAS lifes. It is a creative education 706 times, 17,595 people 800 times, 20,000 people across the nation program to help children realize cleaning can be fun and · LOHAS dietary life · LOHAS dietary life motivate them to clean their surroundings for neighbors Designed an educational educaton program for parents Expand its scope to cover · 100 sessions of the and the environment. The program was offered for 108 Offered the program for nursing teachers LOHAS dietary life times to 2,454 lower-grade primary students and preMore education 29 times before ofﬁcial Add the LOHAS diet education by 2018 schoolers. on the LOHAS launch experience to the values · LOHAS lifestyle education program · 1,000 sessions on APPENDIX Designed the good 50 sessions for parents LOHAS lifestyle cleaning class for and nursing teachers education by 2018 children · LOHAS lifestyle education Offered 108 sessions 200 sessions 84 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 85 Business Performance LOHAS dietary life education Project WET for children Pulmuone spearheaded the efforts to spread the right and good dietary habit across the nation. As Pulmuone started to offer Project WET(Water Education part of this drive, it has expanded the scope of its ‘Authentic wholesome foods Education Campaign’, for Teachers) to children. The world-wide water which was at first designed to help children develop the right dietary habits, to include parents education program was designed to raise awareness Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey and children of low-income families, and named the program as ‘LOHAS Dietary Life Education’. about the importance of water and water preservation. For parents, Pulmuone has designed an education program together with the Korean Society Project Wet is a global water education program provided for Community Nutrition to show how to eat ‘Low GL(Glycemic Load) Diet1)’, which captures the by the US WEF(Water Education Foundation) since 1984 essence of LOHAS dietary life. The program for parents was offered for 29 times in local childcare to support individuals, groups, schools or businesses support center across the nation starting from Septemper 2015. Apart from this, an easy-toto develop and provide educational programs based on read and simple leaﬂet was generated as learning materials so that parents can implement the natural science targeting teachers and students aged 5-18. Under Project WET, Pulmuone tips in their homes. Starting from 2016, LOHAS dietary life education is expected to offer handsoffered 100 sessions of education attended by a total of 2,520 primary school students on experience as well as academic leaning. Meanwhile, LOHAS dietary life program designed for in 2015. The curriculum consists of the four programs named ‘Blue Planet’, ‘Box of Life’, children of low-income families offers education on nutrition to children suffering from serious ‘Treasure in the Bucket’ and ‘One Power’, all of them designed to emphasize the importance nutritional imbalance. The curriculum consists of authentic wholesome foods education using of environmental protection. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome vegetables and whole grains complemented by four cooking classes for children. Classes were Water Education that Comes to Your Classroom available in ﬁve local childcare centers in December 2015. Year 2013 2014 2015 Session(times) 51 112 100 Status of LOHAS Dietary Life Education *Commenced in Attendee(people) 1,147 2,643 2,520 2015 Sep 2015 Milestones in 2015 Parents Low-income family children Session(times) 29 20 Food for Change, Attendee(people) 406 400 the leader of the Authentic Wholesome Foods Campaign 1) Low GL Diet: A meal of adequate amount of vegetable, protein with less saturated fat and whole grains to Pulmuone supported the establishment of ‘Food for Change’ as non-proﬁt social enterprise 2015 Sustainability Management Performance achieve nutritional balance. Its core objective is to reduce carbohydrate intake. The low GL diet is conducive to preventing lifestyle dieases such as obesity, insulin resistance syndrome and etc as its low GL stops excessive to drive the authentic wholesome foods campaign in a proactive manner in 2012 and has excretion of insulin. been rolling out the campaign education together with Food for Change. Food for Change is a non-profit corporation dedicated to establishing a good dietary life Pulmuone Foundation, the champion of Pulmuone CSR initiatives and providing education on authentic wholesome foods. Pulmuone has rendered support Pulmuone established Pulmuone Foundation in 2012 as part of the drive to further extend to the social enterprise in partnership with the Hope Institute by serving as incubator and augment its CSR initiatives. The foundation is a non-profit entity promoting public since October 2011. Pulmuone has delegated the role to lead Authentic wholesome foods interest established to organize CSR activities in a more professional and structured Education Campaign, one of its mid-to long-term campaigns, to Food for Change. It trains manner, respecting the spirit of ‘Love for Neighbor and Respect for Life’ in memory of Fuducators(Food+Educators) and professional lecturers on Authentic wholesome foods, Won, Gyung-Sun, the founder of Pulmuone who dedicated his life to organic farming, and deploys them in classrooms teaching the concept of authentic wholesome foods and environment preservation and peace. how to choose such foods by checking the information on the food labels such as additives, Pulmuone Foundation is driving social contribution programs for public interest and nutrients and the shelf life. extending its project scope with focus on Authentic wholesome foods, environment, social responsibility and cultural programs. In order to support initiatives of the foundation, Pulmuone donates 0.1% of its sales revenue from ‘Love for Earth Mark’ products to ‘Love APPENDIX for Earth Fund’, and its employees voluntarily donate a certain portion of their salary every month to ‘Love for Neighbor Fund’. 86 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 87 Business Performance Support for Korean traditional music performance Outreach for women, children and the elderly Pulmuone hosts a traditional music performance every year to revive the cultural heritage Pulmuone employees organize and engage in many volunteering activities for communities, of Korea jointly with other companies who agree to the cause since 2004 and invites and one of them is to visit and help seniors living alone. Volunteers take care of the seniors, employees and their families to the concert held in the National Gugak Center. In 2015, making a meal and having conversations to become a good company. When holidays come, ￦ Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey four food companies such as Samyang, DongaOne and Sempio joined the drive to host the Pulmuone also throws an event for the underprivileged communities to enjoy traditional Donated KRW performance together. games together. For homeless girls exposed to much more risk when they are out on the 12 million to the street without caretakers, Pulmuone donated KRW 12 million to Wildﬂower Youth Center, Wahaha(Wildflower Museum KIMCHIKAN, the new Kimchi museum in Insa-dong an organization to support homeless youths untile they have their independence, and Youth) Foundation to support provided ‘Authentic wholesome foods Cooking Class’ as a vocation training and cooking Pulmuone Kimchi Museum was reborn as ‘Museum KIMCHIKAN(間)’ and opened on April independence of experience for the disadvantaged youths. Cultural exchanges and Kimchi-making events youths 21, 2015 in Insa-dong, Jongro district where cultural heritage meets the present. Visitors have also been organized in connection with the employee social service programs. to Museum KIMCHIKAN can enjoy documentary videos produced by ‘Mankind in Cooking’ team of KBS(Korean Broadcasting System). The documentary shows various types of Kimchi made by families with long history and culinary heritage, unique Kimchi recipes Meerae Forum, ‘Design Club for Ultra-Aged Society’ 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome of different local districts and Kimchi for the royal family during the Joseon Dynasty. The Pulmuone is a corporate member of the Meerae Forum which gathers opinion leaders from museum also has several halls with diverse themes to stimulate curiosity and interest of each sector of society(government, corporations, NGOs, etc) to have a debate and research visitors such as secret ‘Room of Scientists’ to study lactic acid bacteria of Kimchi, ‘Kimchi together in order to create a future where families and communities can trust and help out Smile Exhibition’ hosted by the global new media group ‘Kimchi & Chips’, ‘Jangdokdae(a each other. In 2015, Pulmuone Group General CEO was assigned to the corporate research platform of croks that hold condiments and sauces) Viewed from Sky’ made by a crock team of ‘Design Club for Ultra-Aged Society’ as Project Manager. The team is also joined by master and ‘Digital Kimchi Play’ with exciting contents. Excluding special programs for Yuhan Kimberly, Univera, Sempio Foods and Lina Insurance where they study and discuss foreigners and children, ‘Kimchi School’ program is especially popular, helping visitors learn how we should prepare ourselves for the incoming ultra-aged society. Pulmuone also about Kimchi ingredients through ﬁve senses and make Kimchi on their own. After making participates in the regular forum hosted by Meerae Forum and its operating committee. Kimchi together, they can eat the Kimchi and take the rest to home if they want. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Known to overseas countries thanks to the coverage by global media such as BBC, NHK, CCTV, CNN and the New York Times, Pulmuone Kimchi Museum was named as one of the world’s best 11 food museums by CNN in March 2015, building its prestige and value further. Website | www.kimchikan.com Open | 10:00-18:00 on Tue-Sun(entrance closed at 17:30) Address | 4th-6th floors of the main hall of Insa-dong Closed | Every Monday, Jan 1, New Year’s Day, Korean APPENDIX Maru, 196-10, Gwanhun-dong, Jongro district, Seoul Thanksgiving, Christmas Phone | 02-6002-6456, 02-6002-6477 88 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 89 Business Performance Join to Share Love for Neighbor Fund Pulmuone executives and employees donate certain LOHAS Designer portion of their salary to Love for Neighbor Fund to help In July 2009, Pulmuone established ‘LOHAS Designer’, neighbors in need every month. In 2015, the fund raised Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey the enterprise-wide social contribution club, to wage KRW 118 million to be donated to various social outreach social service campaigns in a more structured way. programs. Under the vision of having ‘ people committed to sustainable health of society and neighbors’, a total of 3-year fundraising of Love for Neighbor Fund 69 volunteering teams were formed across the Group to undertake outreach activities for the underprivileged. Year Fund size In 2015, a total of 2,795 LOHAS Designer members 2013 KRW 103 million participated in diverse volunteering activities in many local communities, donating their 2014 KRW 117 million talent, cooking snacks for kids, painting murals, planting trees, assisting the intellectually 2015 KRW 118 million challenged to adapt to society, and improving surroundings of cultural heritage. All of these 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome activities amounted to 14,056 hours in total. Fundraising for Nepal earthquake relief Participants in outreach activities Pulmuone people also organized a fundraising event to help out displaced refugees of Nepal Year Participant(people) who lost their homes to violent earthquake. To raise a fund, employees sold a kit consisting 2013 2,518 of diverse Pulmuone products during their commute and lunch hours, and donated all of 2014 2,729 the revenue to the refugees with Pulmuone Foundation also donating the matching amount 2015 2,795 of money. The fund, which amounted to KRW 27.6 million, was delivered to the earthquake refugees with the help from the Korea Food for the Hungry International. Planting trees to reduce CO2 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Pulmuone is an active participant in Zero Carbon campaign. It had organized ‘Tree Planting for Next Participate in ‘One Grain Marathon’ to ﬁght hunger Generations’ event to offset all of its carbon emissions Pulmuone donates bottled water of Pulmuone Waters every year to ‘One Grain Charity from plant tours and the general shareholders’ meeting Marathon’ hosted by the Korea Food for the Hungry International for the hungry across the up until 2014, and hosted another type of a tree-planting globe. Pulmuone people and their families also participate in the event as runners to show event in partnership with LOHAS Academy to create their support for the cause. ‘Forest of Healing’ in 2015. ‘Forest of Healing’ is a project launched through public-private partnership to turn desolate land sparsely lined with trees into a lush forest for healing. On March 28, more than 130 Pulmuone executives and high-ranking employees and relevant officials from local authorities and the Korea Forest Service descended on the government-owned forest in Sari, Goesan county in North Chungcheong to plant 3,000 pine seedlings. On top of this, Pulmuone employee green club wages a separate tree-planting initiative to clean and take care of the Noel Park on a quarterly basis. APPENDIX 90 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 91 UN SDGs Business Performance (SDGs : Sustainable Development Goals) The UN SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals) 2030’ announced in August 2015 is a global development Pulmuone & UNGC Korea agenda studied, debated and agreed by government representatives of 193 UN member countries and Since its launching ceremony on July 2, 2007 and inaugural assembly on September civic groups around the world. To better understand the SDGs deﬁned as the follow-up initiative to the UN 17 of the same year, the UNGC(UN Global Compact) has been very active in Korea. MDGs(Millennium Development Goals), Pulmuone has prepared itself to review and implement the 17 Pulmuone is the 1st food company to join the UNGC in April 2007, rendering strong goals and 169 targets delineated in the SDG list. The review has found some of Pulmuone activities and Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey support to spread and realize the UNGC vision. It has engaged in diverse activities to milestones in 2015 can be viewed as related to the 17 UN development goals as described below: meet the 10 UNGC principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Pulmuone is working hard to fulﬁll its role and responsibility by implementing solutions to help achieve the Details of such endeavor can be found in various sections of this Integrated Report. UN SDGs. It will continue to drive a range of activities not just for economic growth but also for the SDGs realization designed to bring harmony between humans and nature. 1 No Poverty 2 Zero Hunger 3 Good Health and Well-being 10 Reduced Inequalites 11 and Sustainable Cities Communities 12 and Responsible Consumption Production Pulmuone employees and their Ensured the production of high-quality Raised awareness for authentic Fair and transparent personnel Pulmuone Foundation extended CSR More low-carbon agricultural products families participate as runners in ‘One bean sprouts through the inclusive wholesome foods and implemented the management in compliance with no support and green consumption by promoting Grain Marathon’ to ﬁght hunger and growth model jointly developed and LOHAS dietary life and the 5S campaign discrimination policy as stipulated in the low-carbon products in ORGA Life Pulmuone Waters donate its water to undertaken with Ganghwa Woori Village Labour Relations Act stores 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome the event every year 4 Quality Education 5 Gender Equality 6 Clean Water and Sanitation 13 Climate Action 14 Life Below Water 15 Life On Land Employees can receive education at Created a working environment inclusive · More rigorous food safety management · Eco-friendly water-based ink materials · Higher quality standard applied to · Ecosystem restoration by Pulmuone PBS(Pulmuone Business School), the of women by assigning a certain portion by tightening safety control of and eco-friendly package development agricultural water used in the Doan Chuncheon plant and the Doae MBA course developed by Pulmuone of executive roles to female employees veterinary medicines and conducting to lower CO ₂emissions plant of Pulmuone Health &Living mountain park 2015 Sustainability Management Performance and take foreign language classes and allowing pregnant employees t o inspections ‘to eliminate threats from · Efforts to lessen its environmental · Project WET to raise awareness about · ‘Forest of Healing’ project waged in work shorter hours without getting an toxic molds impact by receiving low-carbon the importance of the water collaboration with the Korea Forest ofﬁcial approval from the management · Voluntary product recalls by Pulmuone accreditation for its four domestically environment Service Foods, Foodmerce, Pulmuone Health grown, organic bean tofu products & Living 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 16 and Peace, Justice Strong Institutions 17 for Partnerships the Goals · Adopted the new renewable energy · Working for indirect employment of the Opened Pulmuone childcare centers · A range of corporate social service · Consulting service on GAP(Good system to power its production plants physically challenged through diverse evaluated and accredited by the Ministry programs such as visiting seniors living Agricultural Practices) farming and a · Wood pellet boilers deployed in more supports including ISO 22000 accreditation of Health and Welfare alone and supporting runaway youths fair process for vendor selection and plants and the solar power system in of Ganghwa Woori Village to stand on their own assessment the Doan plant of Pulmuone Health & · Developing local talents by running · Love for Neighbor Fund raised by · Help boost social and environmental Living special zones of local specialty products Pulmuone employees and fundraising performances of vendors through in the resting stops along the Seoul for emergency relief in Nepal Pulmuone Best Partners ’ Day Outer Circular Expressway APPENDIX 92 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 93 2015 Sustainability 4 Pulmuone is a leading LOHAS company that aspires to achieve Management sustainability of life, society and Performance environment. LOHAS values which deeply care about humans and nature are essential to achieve sustainability management. TISO Management Business Performance Introduction TISO communication with employees Pulmuone has its Compliance organization in place for effective TISO planning and Pulmuone has opened a new category ‘TISO Management’ in the internal community execution by business unit. The Compliance organization is dedicated to implementing fair named ‘Talk to Group General CEO’, a channel for two-way communication between the and transparent management across the Group. It engages in a range of activities to make top management and employees to discuss the value scheme of Pulmuone. The new Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey the corporate culture aligned with the TISO principles and the corporate value scheme category is used as a tool to communicate ongoing upates on relevant rules, guidelines and (mission, vision and core values). amendments to encourage compliance with fair and transparent management. Diverse contents such as the code of conduct for leaders and team members, or case examples of the desired behaviors are also developed and shared to help improve the relationship between employees and realize GWP(Great Work Place), which creates a vibrant and sound TISO Initiatives & Outcomes corporate culture. TISO Management Ofﬁce Pulmuone has assigned its CCO(Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer) to the role of supervising TISO Continuous implementation leveraging the best practices management across the Group with the support from TISO Compliance Management TISO(Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, Openness) stands for core values each and every one of 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Division which would carry out TISO-related initatives across the Group and provide Pulmuone employees have to internalize and abide by. It is not a mere slogan but a way of assistance to CCO’s work. It has also designated TISO Leaders who would deliver on life for Pulmuone people. Therefore, it is utmostly important for employeses to understand TISO tasks within their respective business unit. TISO Compliance Management Division its meaning and act on the principles in a day-to-day work environment. To make this is dedicated to driving fair and transparent management across the Group. It is planning possible, Pulmuone has waged TISO Best Practice Contest open for all employees across and running a range of initiatives to have its employees internalize the corporate value the Group starting from 2011, which marked its 5th opening in 2015. Major practices scheme(mission, vision and core values) and TISO principles which served as the foundation recognized for excellence receive awards and prize money, and are published on the online for the corporate culture since the Group ’s inception. The division is also in charge of bulletin board for all employees to see. And above all, they are included in the internal spreading TISO Management principles not only in Korea but also to overseas ofﬁces in the education courses for employees as case examples to help employees understand and US, China, Japan and etc in order to embed TISO principles into the layers of Pulmuone’s act on the core values. Pulmuone introduced a system where managers recommend global organizational culture. candidates for the contest in order to encourage managers to pay more attention to how 2015 Sustainability Management Performance their team members are implementing the values, and shared all practices submitted TISO compliance internalized through ongoing education and selected across the Group. This year, there will be some changes to how the contest Pulmuone provides TISO education to its employees on a regular basis to reinforce their gathers applications of employees: The format will be changed from the open contest with commitment to TISO. Every new hire has to receive the education on the corporate value a deﬁned application period to an ongoing event which gathers good practices throughout scheme twice per month. In 2015, Pulmuone developed an online training program for the year. To support the change, Pulmuone plans to build an appropriate process to develop TISO to mark the 10th anniversary of declaring the TISO Management Charter with 1,982 good practices with stages of ‘target setting-review-evaluation’ for individual employees to people out of a total of 2,191 trainees completing the program. The online training has been implement core values in their own respsctive ways. Good practice sharing will continue to made into a mandatory course for all employees across the Group to give more learning evolve into a core tool to increase employee engagement by letting employees share their opportunities to ﬁeld workers(production workers, event promoters, dieticians, cooks) who practices, give compliments to each other in relay and vote for good practices. This would have relatively less exposure to TISO education. In parallel with this, Pulmuone produced help employees internalize the corporate culture more smoothly. and displayed TISO Management posters during holiday seasons(e.g. Lunar New Year’s Day, Korean Thanks Giving Day) for better communication along with TISO screen savers as a reminder of the meaning of TISO Management and the pledge employees made when they ﬁrst implemented the values to their work ﬁelds. APPENDIX 96 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 97 Business Performance Pulmuone’s TISO Management TISO Code of Conduct Pulmuone promulgated TISO Charter that describes how, to whom, through which TISO TISO Code of Conduct has been prepared and put in place to explain conducts employees principles have to be practiced in March 2005. Marking its 10th anniversary in 2015, the have to internalize to practice ‘Pulmuone TISO Charter’. It consists of 15 clauses such as charter offers a sweeping view toward the TISO concept, extending its target to include how to handle commands and instructions that hamper fair work practices, no preferential Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey consumers, stakeholders, communities as well as employees based on the core values treatment, no anti-competition acts(i.e. collusion with competitors), no wielding of unfair (Trust, Integrity, Solidarity, and Openness). inﬂuence for personal interest, prohibition of acts that harm the company, no personal use of classiﬁed information, non-competition agreement, no forgery of document or statistics and no false reports, external activities, and consumer information security. TISO Code of TISO by Pulmuone Conduct is uploaded on Pulmuone Groupware(KWP) for all employees can view anytime Pulmuone believes TISO is ﬁrst and foremost ‘a caring mind to offer authentic wholesome they want or need. It enables employees to clearly understand the criteria, direction and foods to my family’. It is about assuring food safety and taking care of foods to maintain its principles of TISO values in conflict situations they are bound to face both internally and values. Second, it embodies ‘commitment to understanding the values Pulmuone provides externally in the process of undertaking the given assignments. to consumers and delivering such values without any distortion or overstatement’. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Pulmuone TISO is a framework of the corporate culture as well as business philosophy. It is Code of Practice Handbook traced back to the company motto set in 1982, ‘Right Mind(正心), Right Farming(正農), Right Eating(正食)’. TISO, which stands for Trust, Integrity, Solidarity and Openness, is based on ‘Code of Practic Handbook’ has been prepared to help employees better understand ‘TISO Right Mind(正心) to state the mindset every Pulmuone employee should internalize. Code of Conduct’ by offering more detailed explanation on fair and transparent work process, prohibition of using one’s authority at work for personal gain, work discipline, what should be refrained between employees, making accurate and faithful reports, company/ TISO compliance by Pulmuone consumer information protection, whistleblowing and rewards. It defines all kinds of TISO compliance refers to business practices in accordance with TISO. It is driving “fair and misconduct that can be committed unawares as well as material breaches like bribe or transparent business activities for healthy life of consumers and sustainability of the earth” corruption as factors that undermine TISO principles and thus, places such misconducts based on the universal values represented by TISO. under supervision by clearly informing rules and procedures employees have to comply with in each situation. Pulmuone has distributed the handbooks to make the information more 2015 Sustainability Management Performance easily available to employees. TISO Management Policy For better operation of TISO-related institutions, Pulmuone has prepared and revised ‘TISO TISO Pledge Policy’ which defines the framework, basic procedure and standards of TISO operation, ‘TISO Code of Conduct’ which tells how to act on TISO principles and ‘TISO Code of Practice Every year, Pulmuone people write a pledge that states they understand what TISO aspires Handbook’ which explain the Code of Conduct in more details for better understanding of to and will do their best to faithfully abide by company provisions for TISO values. As a employees. constant reminder of TISO values, executives working in corner offices hang the framed TISO Charter and TISO Pledge on the wall, and employees carry a business card-sized printout of TISO Charter with them all the time. TISO Pledge is written and signed around March 7 every year, and upon signing a new pledge for the coming year, employees are advised to look back on the past year for any breaches. Online submission of the pledge was made available in 2007. APPENDIX 98 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 99 Business Performance Anti-Corruption Policy Holiday gift return With the determination to eradicate the gift-giving practice between stakeholders before TISO, the value scheme aspired by Pulmuone big holidays, Pulmuone has communicated an ofﬁcial notice from General CEO stating the Pulmuone has established its Compliance organization dedicated to banning all types of gift banning policy since 2004. Gifts delivered against the notice are all returned and those Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey corruption including inappropriate acquisition of favors, bribery, and etc by having TISO that cannot be returned are put on an auction at less than 50% of their market price whose principles as core values of its business. The division is developing relevant policies and proceeds go to the ‘Love for Neighbor Fund’. The gift return policy has been fully entrenched institutions for effective implementation, and reinforcing periodic education and monitoring as distinct corporate culture of Pulmuone that has to be observed not only around holidays activities for preemption of any unethical conduct. It has also opened Whistleblowing but also in everyday practice. Employees now report to the office in charge without Channel to encourage employees disclose any wrongdoings for a healthy corporate culture hesitation if they receive gifts from stakeholders. According to the internal survey conducted with strict disciplinary measure enforced for any breaches of TISO compliance rules. by the Compliance organization based on direct interviews with stakeholders, respondents Rules and policies regarding TISO compliance are shared across the enterprise via the were conﬁrmed to fully understand the intent and content of the no-gift provision. In 2015, a internal groupware bulletin board. Pulmuone has opened Cyber Audit and Irumi System total of 24 unreturned gifts were donated to the fund, raising KRW 924,600. at its ofﬁcial website to monitor and audit internal/external wrongdoing, misconduct and Holiday gift return : reports & value corruption committed by subsidiaries, afﬁliates or overseas ofﬁces. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Year Reports Value 2013 31Cases KRW 1,194,000 Anti-corruption & integrity contract policy 2014 22Cases KRW 1,041,650 ‘TISO Code of Conduct’ has been developed to strictly ban employees from receiving, promoting 2015 24Cases KRW 924,600 or condoning inappropriate favors including gifts, entertainment, treats or conveniences directly or indirectly offered by other stakeholders. Employees who turn out to be involved in such indecent behavior are subjected to disciplinary actions in accordance with relevant regulations. Furthermore, to encourage employees to implement anti-corruption principles Non-Compliance Case more proactively, procurement managers in charge of goods, service, and construction or Bri.N accused of excessive advertising service provision agreements have been required to include ‘Integrity Contract’ provisions in In February 2015, a complaint ﬁled to Shinmungo(complaint ﬁling channel to public ofﬁces) 2015 Sustainability Management Performance their contracts before signing a purchase contract since March 2005, and if it is not possible to of the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety argued Bri.N emulsions sold by Pulmuone Health include such provisions in contracts, they are required to prepare additional ‘Pledge for Integrity & Living made a claim on its label that it ‘normalizes the erratic skin cell regeneration Contract’ before signing a deal. cycle’, which can constitute a breach against the industry guideline that a cosmetics product should not make a claim that makes it look like having medicinal efficacy. As a result, Pulmuone Health & Living was put to three months of sales suspension from June 18, 2015 Policy on political lobby and contribution, to September 17 of the same year. However, it turned out the phrase in question on the donation to political parties or sponsors product label was printed for batches of subsidiary materials before the label guideline was In its TISO Code of Conduct, Pulmuone expressly stipulates it will always work hard to revised to remain in compliance with the tightened regulation. In addition, the emulsion has manage its businesses in a transparent manner. To distance itself away from any types of not been produced since September 2014. Pulmuone Health & Living ofﬁcially withdrew the cozy relationship with the political circle and favor-currying, in compliance with Chapter product from distribution channels and the market right after it came to have the knowledge 6, Article 31 of the Political Funding Law(limit in political contribution), Pulmuone strictly about the ﬁled complaint. Afterwards, Pulmuone Health & Living has been making every abides by its TISO Code of Conduct, and has made no ﬁnancial contribution to a political effort to make sure there is no such violation by thoroughly reviewing information on the party or a political sponsor. label of every skin care product. APPENDIX 100 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 101 Human Rights & Labour Business Performance Pulmuone alleged to breach the Customs Act Employee composition Pulmuone was prosecuted in 2012 by the Supreme Prosecutors’ Office for its alleged As of the end of 2015, the total number of executives and employees across the Group stood violation of the Customs Act concerning its purchase of organic beans from China and was at 5,722 people. Its HR structure is roughly divided into the management control/operational found not guilty both at the first(ruled by the Seoul Central District Court on December positions, and frontline workers(i.e. sales/PR, logistics/production, and cook/dietician, etc). Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey 10, 2013) and the second trial(ruled by the Seoul High Court on November 6, 2014). After Out of 5,722 employees in total, 2,619 are male and 3,103 are female workers. Women make the ruling, the prosecutor appealed to have it reviewed by the Supreme Court. Pulmuone up 54.2% of the total headcount and 15.2% of the managerial level or above(57 out of 374 sourced the Chinese organic beans through a legitimate route in the domestic market sold mid-managers or senior executives are females). by an authorized importer, and therefore, will faithfully go through the legal process until Headcount by contract type (unit : persons) the end to ultimately prove its innocence at the Supreme Court. Year 2014 2015 Male 2,496 2,493 Permanent Exofresh Logistics ﬁned for not conducting health check-ups Female 2,469 2,428 Subtotal 4,965 4,921 for three employees Male 71 125 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome In March, 2015, Exofresh Logistics was ﬁned KRW 120,000 by the Ministry of Employment Temporary Female 519 624 and Labour for failing to take health check-ups on three of its employees working at Subtotal 590 749 logistics centers. An inspection found the non-compliance was just a simple mistake of the Male three workers who forgot to take the health check-ups during the set period, and Exofresh General AT Female 10 8 Logistics paid for the penalty without delay. Afterwards, Exofresh Logistics is actively Subtotal 10 8 encouraging all of its employees to take the periodic health check-ups to protect their Male 2 1 health ﬁrst and foremost and to ensure its compliance. Part-timer Female 62 43 Subtotal 64 44 Foodmerce ﬁned for not complying with workplace safety measures Total by gender Male 2,569 2,619 Female 3,060 3,103 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Foodmerce was ﬁned KRW 1 million on August 12, 2015 for its safety violation in the Yangji logistics center. In response to that, Foodmerce took the required measure to correct Total 5,629 5,722 its mistake and paid for the fine. Since then, Foodmerce has been continuously making necessary improvements to ensure occupational safety and health by appointing an agency Headcount by geography (unit : persons) specialized in safety and health, and formed the internal safety health council consisting of safety experts to fully assure occupational safety. Year 2014 2015 Greater Seoul(Seoul/Gyeonggi) 3,204 3,179 Busan 239 268 Daegu 220 200 North/South Gyeongsang 477 468 Headcount Jeolla/Gwangju 420 403 North/South Chungcheong 922 948 Gangwon 0 104 Daejeon 147 152 Total 5,629 5,722 Note) Headcount by geography has been calculated since 2014. APPENDIX 102 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 103 Business Performance Average male-female pay ratio by job type Job Creation & Turnover The average pay of full-time permanent workers of Pulmuone recorded KRW 48,538,000 for The permanent job creation rate in 2015 reached 1.7% on average with 14.2% turnover rate, males and KRW 39,977,000 for females in 2015, which takes up 54.8% and 45.2% of the total a slight decline from the previous year. During the year, Pulmuone welcomed a total of 1,304 payroll expense respectively. The average pay of male workers stands higher than that of new hires(permanent: 729 people, temporary: 575 people), which accounted for 22.8% of Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey females since women account for a higher portion in frontline jobs (i.e. cook/dietician) and the total headcount. the pay structure and grade differs depending on job type within the company. There is no noticeable difference in the average pay between men and women when it comes to ofﬁce Year 2013 2014 2015 workers in business management or operation functions. Total headcount(persons) 5,175 5,629 5,722 Employment Permanent hires 4.2% 8.8% 1.7% Employee turnover(%) Permanent workers 17.1% 15.3% 14.2% Employment status & policy Pulmuone, guided by its fair and equal employment principle, does not discriminate against women or the physically challenged in its recruitment, hiring or treatment of employees, 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome and endeavors to protect human rights for its managers and employees alike. The Average Years in Service company has instituted a communication system to create mutual beneﬁts for its labourThe years in service were 5.7 years on average with 6.4 years for permanent workers and 1.4 management relationship while promoting the work-life balance for employment stability. years for temporary workers in 2015. It also provides systematic support for its employees to lead a LOHAS way of life by giving Year 2013 2014 2015 them opportunities to directly try out a LOHAS value-oriented program. Years in employment Permanent 5.9년 5.9년 6.4년 (based on the current payroll) Temporary 1.1년 1.1년 1.4년 Total 5.4년 5.3년 5.7 년 Personnel Recruitment in Major Markets Pulmuone recruits talents through the recruiting website or search ﬁrms for its overseas 2015 Sustainability Management Performance ofﬁces or assign its Korean employees to the ofﬁces. Applicants who pass the preliminary screening based on their resumes are invited to a job interview with the company. New hires Human Rights & Diversity who receive grades higher than the company criteria become candidates for permanent No discrimination: prevention & monitoring full-time employment after a probation period. Once qualiﬁed with the grades, they can be Having signed the UN Global Compact, Pulmuone aligned its business strategy in signed on as permanent employees. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, and is fully committed to eradicating discrimination in employment and occupation, following Principle 6(“Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.”). In compliance with the nodiscrimination rule included in the Labour Standards Act and the Act on Equal Employment and Support for Wok-Family Reconciliation, Pulmuone expressly stipulates in its corporate policy (refer to Article 5. Rules for Employment) the prohibition of any discriminatory treatment based on race, gender, age, religion, social status, hometown, academic background, marital status·pregnancy·childbirth, medical history, nationality and disability in areas from hiring and training to compensation and promotion, and works to adopt APPENDIX objective and justifiable criteria such as work experiences and performance evaluation results. Thanks to the strenuous efforts to root out all discriminatory practices through 104 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 105 Business Performance continuous trainings(8 sessions in total for 2015) that deepen the understanding of HR No child labour: policy & monitoring officers on the non-discrimination policy and the annual labour inspection for rigorous Abiding by UN Global Compact Principle 5(“Businesses should uphold the effective abolition monitoring waged for several years, there has not been one single case of violation for the of child labour.”), Pulmuone works to eradicate child labour and remains in full compliance past three years. Pulmuone is taking the initiative to eliminate any type of discriminatory with the Labour Standards Act and no child or no forced labour policy of ILO(International practices toward women in employment and occupation to the next level by rolling out a Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Labour Organization). Pulmuone doesn’t have a single case of employing a child aged less project to increase the ratio of female workers in managerial or executive positions to 30% than 18, and none of its vendors were involved in child labour either. Pulmuone has made it by 2020. Pulmuone expects the project will establish the company firmly as a leader in a strict rule not to transact with a company who has used child labour. equal employment by breaking the glass ceiling suppressing women in the corporate world. In addition to this, Pulmuone is providing human rights-related education to its employees across the Group which was attended by 5,436 employees in 2015. Win-Win Industrial Relations No forced labour policy & monitoring Freedom of association ‘No forced labour’ is one of the crucial elements in the Labour Standards Act. Pulmuone As stipulated in UN Global Compact Principle 3(“Businesses should uphold the freedom of 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome doesn’t permit or condone any types of forced labour. This is expressly stipulated in UN association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.”), Pulmuone Global Compact Principle 4(“Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of guarantees the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. In accordance forced and compulsory labour.”), and during its annual labour inspection, the company with the Constitution, and the Trade Union and Labour Relations Adjustment Act, Pulmuone also goes out to detect any violation of this ﬁrm principle, especially forced labour of the fully guarantees its employees the right to establish a labour union or another form of a vulnerable (e.g. women, underage, migrant workers, etc). Regarding maternity protection, representative body. This means every employee is entitled to joining a labour union based for example, Pulmuone always seeks consent for overtime work from a female worker in on the aforementioned act and the collective labour agreement of the company. Pulmuone accordance with the Labour Standards Act when it has been less than a year since she has shown stellar performance in this area as it has never been accused of unfair labour gave birth to her child, prohibits pregnant workers from working overtime, at late night practices, which run counter to the freedom of association and therefore, specifically or holidays and lowers their workload during pregnancy. This is all part of its efforts to banned by the Trade Union and Labour Relations Adjustment Act. Plus, there has not been strictly abide by all relevant regulations to protect socially or physically disadvantaged a single complaint from employees concerning this matter for the past three years. people. Pulmuone also took one step further to guarantee the right of female workers in Pulmuone is convinced there’s not a single business across the Group at risk of violating 2015 Sustainability Management Performance September 2014 by mandating workplaces to reduce work hours of female workers in less the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Although Pulmuone is refraining than 12 weeks or more than 36 weeks of pregnancy by 2 hours without cutting their salary. itself from demanding the same practices for its partner companies since it can be seen The less-workhour beneﬁt used to be given only when it was requested by the person in as interference of business toward the partners on an equal footing, it makes it a principle question, but now the company has made it mandatory for all workplaces, spearheading not to start a partnership in the ﬁrst place with those who don’t recognize the freedom of the initiative for maternity protection. Furthermore, Pulmuone stipulates in its employment association of their workers. policy and collective agreement that the company should allow menstrual leave, pre/postchildbirth leave(miscarriage or stillbirth included), paternity leave and less workhours when employees have to raise babies. They also define the criteria for application, grant and period of family care leave. There has not been a single breach of these policies for the past 3 years. Pulmuone willingly goes beyond just abiding by its ‘no forced labour policy’ to granting up to 6-month leave every 2 years for unspeciﬁed but justiﬁable personal reasons in addition to the conditions defined by the relevant law. As long as there is a justifiable reason, employees can take their time off whenever and however long (up to 6 months) they want, and return to their work as guaranteed by the company policy. APPENDIX 106 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 107 Business Performance Labour union structure Unfair labour practice alert process & its status Pulmuone has 8 labour unions across the Group as of end of December 2015. A total of Pulmuone stipulates and complies with the Rules of Employment for the establishment 62.2% of the employees have joined the unions. There may be some minor differences and management of Internal Disciplinary Committee to address unjust disciplinary action in organizational structure of the labour union but in general, labour organizations are and unfair labour practice. Furthermore, Pulmuone places a human-resources and labourPulmuone’s 10-Year Journey structured as described in the following chart. management director in each of the business sites to examine unjust disciplinary actions and unfair labour practices. Also, employees are encouraged to report individual grievances Labour union orgnization chart to the Grievance Redress Committee. The company conducts internal inspection to preempt Members (Representatives) unjust disciplinary action and unfair labour practice during the course of regular labour inspections and issue handling. For the past 3 years, the company operated without any Chairperson incidents of unjust disciplinary action or unfair labour practice. Deputy Chairperson Compliance status in employment Accounting/Audit Pulmuone declares ‘Trust for abiding by promises and rules’ as one of its core values, which 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome is the overarching framework to be applied to both internal and external stakeholders. Head of Head of Head of Head of Head of Organization Dispute General Affairs Welfare Education Thus, Pulmuone strictly complies with all relevant laws that govern the labour relations, and works hard to always improve its labour practices by thoroughly examining its compliance status during its annual labour inspection. In 2015, the company reviewed Union member status compliance with all 84 rules based on the voluntary checklist distributed by the Ministry of In accordance with the Trade Union and Labour Relations Adjustment Act, Pulmuone Employment and Labour, and conducted more intensive inspection on 13 primary rules on employees entitled to join a labour union can also establish a labour union themselves. labour contract, employment condition, collective bargaining, union member list generation Each of Pulmuone’s eight labour unions has deﬁned its qualiﬁcations for membership in and management, wage and severance pay, document management in accordance with its own provisions, and those entitled to labour unions are free to join any unions of their relevant laws, maternity protection measures, employee vacation records, discrimination choosing to carry out activities as members. in recruiting and employment, sexual harassment prevention effort, employee grievance 2015 Sustainability Management Performance redress status, and outsourced contract management system. (As of the end of 2015) Pulmuone Health & Living ECMD Site PPEC PPEC Eumsung Eumsung PPEC PPEC Pulmuone (Dongsan Total Labour dispute status Health Chuncheon Uiryeong Waters Medical Green juice fresh noodle vegetable functional Center) In 2015, Pulmuone carried out labour-management negotiations regarding wage and an amendment of the collective agreement at 8 of its business sites which have formed Industry Union Company Company Company Company Industry Company level/ their own labour unions. Thanks to the increased mutual understanding between the two type level/ level/ level/ level/ Industry level/ level/ /Head FKCWU1) of FKCWU of FKCWU of FKCWU of CTIU of KCTU CTIU of 3) 4) level/ Medical sides, all negotiations were settled without a single incident of labour strike or collective FKTU Union union FKTU2) FKTU FKTU FKTU KCTU of KCTU action. Such outcome comes from the constant effort to maintain communication channel between labour and management through systems such as Labour-Management Council Total(ppl) 99 84 156 88 96 123 55 36 737 and Grievance Redress in addition to efforts to promote further consensus. Pulmuone does Qualiﬁed 82 84 122 82 86 93 44 36 629 not plan to stop its effort here but plans to continuously strengthen cooperative labour Union 79 84 122 21 20 28 12 25 391 management relations going forward. members Membership 96.3% 100.0% 100.0% 25.6% 23.3% 30.1% 27.3% 69.4% 62.2% rate(%) APPENDIX 1) Federation of Korean Chemical Worker’s Union 2) Federation of Korean Trade Unions 3) Chemical and Textile Industry Union 4) Korean Confederation of Trade Unions 108 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 109 Business Performance Policy & process to communicate operational changes to employees Communication Channel Cycle Description Common understanding and cooperation from employees are crucial in order Every year : Changes in major working condition Yearly, for important policies and structural changes to successfully take hold within an Collective bargaining such as wage Ongoing : Items that require Ongoing labour-management discussion organization. Bearing this in mind, Pulmuone engages its union representatives in Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey the communication process by sharing information through the Labour Management Share management status, discuss important Labour Management Council and takes appropriate consultations whenever there is a major change in Quarterly issues between labour-management, handle (employees) Council grievances for employees its operation. Likewise, for business sites where there are established unions, the company consults with the labour unions to set basic direction for personnel policies CEO round-table Bimonthly Conversation with the CEO based on the collective agreement. When it comes to any material changes in the Communication with employees Bimonthly Provide material information for all employees company ’s operation such as partial outsourcing, or split, merger and acquisition, Pulmuone consults with its labour unions as part of the ongoing effort for employment Environmental Safety Commission Bimonthly Discuss all topics related to occupational safety stability. In addition, Pulmuone ’s labour and management engage in collective negotiations Integrated Report Yearly Report major policies, performance, plans 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome every year to agree on wage and working conditions through periodic meetings. Since the Act on Prohibition of Age Discrimination in Employment and Aged Employment Handle employee grievance redress and Promotion is scheduled to take effect in phases starting from 2016, raising the Irumi proposal system Ongoing proposal processing through internal system Better remedy grievances and improve policy legal retirement age to 60 years old or higher, Pulmuone signed in 2014 a collective bargaining agreement with its labour unions to raise the corporate retirement age Performance management Jan~Feb: Goal-setting | Apr: 1Q progress check from 55 to 60 before the law comes into effect. And afterwards, the company held Interview Semiannually Jul: 1H progress check | Oct: 3Q progress check (Communication for Success) Following Jan: Performance evaluation a workshop on the new retirement age and its consequences to gather opinions of employees. Gathering opinions and building a consensus as part of a proactive Grievance redress, preparation certainly helped implementation of the change across the Group one year ER(Employee Relations) Ongoing Handle grievances of employees, and etc face-to-face talk before the law is implemented. Furthermore, the company uses its internal communication channels to share Daily, Deliver daily sales report, important external/ 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Intranet system (KWP1)) information with employees. Announcing daily sales, holding regular labourOngoing Internal information management council and round-table meetings with the CEO, providing real-time Publish Pulmuone’s e-company magazine updates of internal/external information via Intranet(KWP), publishing the corporate Publish internal newsletter Monthly ‘Pulstory’ Introduce company-related information magazine(monthly), conducting Occupational Safety & Health Committee(quarterly), and activities institutionalizing the grievance redress system, publishing the sustainability Voice of consumers, Voice of Employees, other SNS (Facebook, Twitter), blog Ongoing management report(yearly), and communicating with employees are all part of information, etc. Pulmuone ’ s endeavor to provide comprehensive information about management across the organization. By sharing management information and aspirations of the 1)KWP(Knowledge Worker Platform) : Pulmuone Intranet company with employees, Pulmuone encourages and enhances a sense of ownership and engagement of its employees as stakeholders. APPENDIX 110 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 111 Business Performance Work-Life Balance Emplyee health counseling To help manage employee health, Pulmuone invites LOHAS nutrition program nurses to visit its business sites and provide professional Pulmuone invites clinical dieticians every Tuesday health counseling sevices. Enployees found to have Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey and Thursday to offer its employees consultations on high risk for or symptoms of metabolic syndrome(e. nutrition. It is a health management program to prevent g. diabetes, high blood pressure/cholesterol), curious or treat chronic lifestyle diseases including obesity, to know more about their health exam results, or hypertension, diabetes and dyslipidemia. Employees can wanting to have fast simple check-up and consultation receive a total of five sessions of tailored consultation to improve their lifestyle habits for better health can on their nutrient intake and health regimen. In 2015, the receive counseling from the visiting nurses. The counseling session proceeds after taking consultation service was offered for 831 times in total to a blood test or a blood pressure test and reviews the regular health exam reports of those 62 executive ofﬁcer/ofﬁcer and 131 employees, bettering their health status such as weight employees. loss(-12kg of weight with -8.7kg of body fat at maximum) and lessening the symptoms of dyslipidemia and hyperglycemia. The program is gaining more popularity with the gradual 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Find Happiness Program increase of participants, offering consultations to 501 employees for 1,916 times in total for the past ﬁve years. In 2015, the program was extended to cover employees outside of Pulmuone promotes the work-life balance of its employees through regular special lectures Greater Seoul(18 people). Pulmuone also award the recipients who got good evaluation and professional counseling which guarantees conﬁdentiality as part of the EAP(Employee results for their excellent implementation of the LOHAS regimen. Assistance Program). In 2015, Pulmuone tests the stress levels of its employees through the MPM(Mental Pressure Management) test to provide analysis-based counseling services. There was also a special lecture titled ‘Stress Release and Smile Coaching’ to help Refresh Cleanse Program for employees employees ﬁgure out their stress levels and learn how to control or manage such stress. Pulmuone offered its employees the one-day detox program that cleanses toxic bodily Employees can also receive help from the EAP when they want to develop their careers, waste and revitalizes their physical energy to enhance their health. Employees were also design finance and receive professional legal services. Pulmuone plans to introduce the given another option of experiencing the program for four weeks at a discounted price. The ASPEL(Anti-Stress Program for Emotional Labour) for its employees who are required to do program was particularly received well by female employees as it was known to be effective 2015 Sustainability Management Performance emotional labour at work to prevent and effectively manage their wok-related stress. for fatigue, skin care and even weight loss. The free experience program will also be offered to more employees in 2016. Retirement pension plan November 2011, Pulmuone introduced the corporate retirement pension program to assist employees in building their own assets to prepare for life after retirement. It was a decision to improve employee welfare, recognizing their needs to have income security in old age. Pulmuone has bought the DB(Deﬁned Beneﬁt) plan to assure employees the same amount of money to the existing severance payment. Pay into the Provide a stream pension fund of income after and control retirement Red Beet & Carrot Sweet Pumpkin & Onion Kale & Spinach Coconut Milk & Ginger its operation Financial (190ml) x 2 bottles (190ml) x 2 bottles (190ml) x 2 bottles (190ml) x 2 bottles Company entity Retiree APPENDIX Reﬁll your energy Don’t go hungry and Refresh yourself to Wrap up your day with and wake up ﬁll your stomach with beat the afternoon nourishing and digestible your body healthy taste drowsiness juice instead of heavy meal 112 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 113 Business Performance Diverse welfare beneﬁts Efforts to improve working environment Pulmuone has a range of benefit programs in place to enhance the employee welfare. Pulmuone spares no effort to make the company into a GWP(Great Work Place), and in a bid It wants to develop distinct employee welfare programs of its own to help them lead the to create a GWP across all of its business sites, it is actively pursuing programs to improve LOHAS lifestyle. the working environment for its employees. It carried out C-Cubic activities to enhance Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey employee satisfaction while regularly campaigning for ‘leave work on-time’ to promote Program Description work-life balance. In addition, Pulmuone is conducting regular and random inspection to Pulmuone provides selective welfare system so employees can choose from take preventive measures and to proactively improve employees’ working condition. Thanks various welfare options according to their own needs. The program offers ﬁxed to the efforts, Pulmuone has been named as one of the ‘100 GWPs in Korea’ by GWP Korea amount of welfare points per year to allow employees to use the points for for 5 consecutive years, contributing greatly to advancing the corporate culture in Korea by Cafeteria beneﬁt options of their choices such as books, performances, travels, theme parks, plan health check-ups within the given limit. In addition, as a leading LOHAS company, spreading the belief that ‘a good company should create a good workplace for employees’ it provides LOHAS points to its employees to promote healthy lifestyle, and allow and ‘human resources are the best competitive edge of a company’. a better access to purchase various health supplements, cosmetics, ORGA Whole Foods products at a discount. Flexible work scheme 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Support for When employees purchase fresh raw foods, green juice, spring water, health Flexible work scheme has been introduced for employees who have to use the services of purchasing supplements, Pulmuone contributes a set amount (30~40% of the price) to let Pulmuone products employees and their families enjoy an array of Pulmuone products inexpensively. kindergartens or nursery centers to take care of their children while they are at work. For employees who have primary school(lower grades) or pre-school(kindergartens) children When employees establish clubs in pursuit of sports, hobbies, culture or and therefore ﬁnd it difﬁcult to come and leave work at a ﬁxed time, Pulmuone allows to Support for club volunteer work, they receive allowance for club operation. As of now, more than adjust the work hours to be either 10:00~19:00 or 08:00~17:00. activitie 1,000 employees are actively enjoying various corporate club activities during their free time. When employees die from accidents or diseases, Pulmuone pays KRW 100 million C-Cubic to make a great work place Group insurance out of its group insurance policy. Medical bills for cancer diagnosis and two major Since 2008, Pulmuone has carried out diverse activities policy diseases (stroke, heart attack) can also be subsidized depending on individual (life/accidents) contract or insurance policy riders. The company pays the full cost of an insurance to reinvent its organizational culture and be reborn as GWP(Great Work Place). Thanks to such endeavor, 2015 Sustainability Management Performance against death of employees, or 30~50% for policy riders based on the age. Pulmuone has been named as ‘GWP in Korea’ in the retail By opening up around 20 recreational facilities across the country, Pulmuone is Access to resort funding holidays for its employees and their families. The company also allows and sales sector for the past six years. The year 2015 was facilities and employees an access to LOHAS Academy in Goesan, North Chungcheong, to try not an exception. C-Cubic offered a range of activities every LOHAS Academy out LOHAS lifestyle. month to let employees enjoy their work at Pulmuone. Through the initiative, Pulmuone is building its own Professional consultation for lifestyle and diet plans is available from nutrition Nutrition organizational culture with the active and voluntary participation of employees. specialist to all employees, similar to the services provided by hospitals and some consultation private companies that aim to manage health of their executives and employees. Major Programs Pulmuone provides ﬁnancial aid for EAP(Employee Assistance Program: 1) ‘Let’s Color(C7)’, the kick-off ceremony 7) ‘One Fine Day in October’, professional counseling program), major life events and school tuitions. It also awards long-serving employees, supports infant and young children care for C7 Pulmuone Cinema Picnic! Others 2) Fundraising for Nepal earthquake relief 8) ‘Here It Comes, C-Cubic!’ allowances, extends loan system through mutual cooperatives, supports self-development and health check-ups, assists in housing lease for employees 3) ‘Stop MERS with C-Cubic’ (touring event for regions outside Seoul) assigned to the workplace far away from their own hometown. 4) ‘Let’s 氣-Up’ program 9) Kick-off ceremony for ‘Smart Ofﬁce’ with 5) Summer vacation with C-Cubic: C-Cubic 7 ‘Sweet Book-cance with Ice-Cream!’ 10) ‘Happy LOHAS-MAS’ with C-Cubic 7 Integrated internal Pulmuone; Daewoong Pharmaceutical; WONANDONE; Bullsone; Kooksoondang brewery; APPENDIX sales mall, Zero Sempio Foods products are on offering through a new concept known as ‘welfare mall’ 6) Pulmuone Thanksgiving KIT sharing event 11) Family Love Day on every Friday Shop (Oshop mall) where products are available at 15~50% discounts for internal sales to employees. 114 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 115 Business Performance ‘Smart Ofﬁce’ introduced Pulmuone MBA for the next-generation leaders Pulmuone introduced ‘ Smart Office ’ which allows its PBS(Pulmuone Business School) is a corporate MBA course developed by Pulmuone to employees to freely choose seats they want on a ﬁrst come, help its employees better understand the essence of Pulmuone business and acquire first served basis. Employees now can choose their own management knowledge and know-hows to grow into key talents of the company. It focuses Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey seats in ofﬁces or use meeting rooms or other work spaces on producing the next-generation leaders who will drive sustainable growth of Pulmuone, designed for specific purposes based on the type of work leveraging strategic thinking and problem-solving capability. PBS, Pulmuone’s unique MBA they want to do. In addition to regular work spaces, there course, offers tailored contents such as Pulmuone milestones and best practices for its are also the post office which integrates all post-related business management class. PBS offers a curriculum centering on core areas of business works of the company for better management, phone booths where employees can have private management such as business strategy, personnel organization, marketing, financial phone calls, resting lounges for men and standing meeting rooms available for employees. accounting and creative innovation. Each class is taught by a renowned professor of that discipline. Classes are structured to impart academic learning concerning the particular subject combined with action learning Talent Development & Growth designed to improve problem-solving capability and effective implementation into the 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome field. For action learning, course takers are grouped into several teams and carried out Pulmuone always exerts its utmost to teach and train its employees on a sustained basis group assignments to complete various ﬁeld tasks for six months under the guidance of for talent development and growth. Accordingly, per capita training hours of every business professors. Starting from January 2013 up until 2015, a total of four semesters have been unit has been on the steady increase. completed, producing 93 graduates. In 2015, a priority in talent development was placed on further developing competency of leaders through the leadership pipeline. Pulmuone reestablished its leadership pipeline, improved its training courses for leaders across the company based on their stages in the Pulmuone leadership training system redesigned pipeline, and provided trainings to leadership candidates to let them internalize leadership based on its leadership pipeline qualities. Meanwhile, foreign language classes were made available in its business sites Pulmuone redesigned its leadership pipeline in 2015. The newly structured pipeline consists outside Seoul to let them better operate their overseas businesses. The training course to of six stages in total starting with Working-Level Manager, Entry-Level Manager, Mid-Level internalize Pulmuone’s core competencies is also being offered on a sustained basis so that Manager, Functional Manager and General Business Manager and Group Manager. The 2015 Sustainability Management Performance employees can actually align their work principles and attitudes with the corporate vision leadership pipeline clearly defines the desirable leadership qualities(capacity) by stage, and mission. serving as lynchpin for Pulmuone to restructure its Group-wide leadership training system, Average hours of employee training (Unit : persons, hours) and mainly targets leaders in transition to the next stage. 2013년 2014년 2015년 The leadership training offers intensive courses especially for the ﬁrst-time leaders such Average Total Per capita Average Total Per capita Average Total Per capita as ‘a course for entry-level managers’, ‘an advanced course for entry-level managers’, ‘a Category number of training training number of training training number of training training basic course for entry-level managers’ and ‘a preparatory course for entry-level managers’ emplyees hours hours emplyees hours hours emplyees hours hours since those who have ﬁrst taken up the leadership role in their respective work areas need Holding Company 250 21,167 84.7 250 24,441 97.8 250 51,938 207.8 trainings to mold their mindsets into those of leaders. Pulmuone Foods 393 20,129 51.2 426 16,720 39.2 1,744 86,988 49.9 Foodmerce 355 11,661 32.8 315 17,082 54.2 247 16,398 66.4 Pulmuone Health 162 7,082 43.7 157 5,310 33.8 160 7,038 44.0 & Living ECMD 1,330 40,307 30.3 1,600 46,559 29.1 1,800 50,951 28.3 ORGA Whole 328 7,520 22.9 446 15,539 34.8 440 12,542 28.5 Foods APPENDIX Pulmuone Waters 88 1,754 19.9 86 1,100 12.8 85 1,844 21.7 Total 2,906 109,620 37.7 3,280 126,751 38.6 4,726 227,699 48.2 116 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 117 Business Performance Pulmuone Knowledge Worker Course introduced across the Group in place, and promotes the work-life balance for employees, boosting their engagement level and productivity at work. Pulmuone developed its Knowledge Worker training course in 2011 with the aim to more Pulmuone plans to introduce effective support schemes that provide actual benefits to effectively implement the corporate mission into the work ﬁelds and maximize capabilities employees in a phased manner in accordance with the Labour Standards Act and the Act on of individual employees as a way to realize its vision. In 2015, the course was extended to Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation. Since Pulmuone believes Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey cover the Uiryeong tofu plant with the online course made available to 2,897 employees who childbirth and childcare should take the center in its support system to realize familycompleted the offline course first. The online course is recognized to motivate individual friendly management, and its top management also pays keen interest in this area, it plans employees further while helping them clearly understand Pulmuone values and directions to introduce diverse support measures such as more and better in-house daycare centers for the future. For 2016 and onward, Pulmuone plans to further refine and develop the to support childcare, automatic application for paternity leave, and support for returnees course contents and help course-takers internalize the corporate core values more after their paternity leaves are over. Coupled with this, it has already developed concrete effectively through iterative learning. measures to nurture female talents such as assigning 30% of the high-ranking managerial posts to female workers by 2020. Its Family Day has already been ﬁrmly established within Foreign language class for employees the organization with active participation of employees. Smart Office for a flexible work Foreign language classes are available in the corporate buildings by inviting lecturers to the regime is also receiving a good review and the flexible workhour scheme for employees 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome ofﬁces to improve the language skills of employees. The three-month course was offered with pre-school children that allows them to come or leave work at different hours was once both in the 1st and 2nd half of the year with the curricula to make employees have a expanded to cover employees with children at lower grades of primary school. better command of foreigh languages(i.e. English, Chinese, Japanese) in various business As was explained, Pulmuone is creating a family-friendly work environment to boost its settings. In 2015, 37 employees completed the language courses in the 1st half and 90 competitiveness, which would enable the company to attract and maintain more talents employees in the 2nd half. New classes were opened for employees in Eumsung(tofu/ who can help it build a better sustainable management scheme. Going forward, Pulmuone fresh noodle/vegetable plants) and Yangji(logistics center) in the 2nd half. The outcome continues to realize a sustainable win-win growth where the company shares mutual is especially impressive in Eumsung with the attendance rate exceeding 94%, which has beneﬁts with its employees and society. prompted the company to extend the program to other regions after conducting a demand study. LOHAS lifestyle experience program Pulmuone is running LOHAS Academy, an experience 2015 Sustainability Management Performance center to promote good lifestyle and habits where Employee Policy & Support employees can ﬁnd their pupose in life and implement Family-friendly management continues! changes to their lives. The academy, considered as Asia’s largest passive house, was opened in October Among the subsidiaries and afﬁliates in Pulmuone Group, Pulmuone Foods became the 1st 2013, designed to preach the LOHAS spirit and values. one to acquire the government’s family-friendly management accreditation in December It offers new lifestyle programs to employees of 2012. Since the three-year accreditation given by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Pulmuone and LOHAS partner companies where they was scheduled to expire in December 2015, Pulmuone Foods submitted an application can experience a lifestyle that represents Pulmuone’s corporate values. So far, a total for re-accreditation and went through the process of document review, field inspection of 6,158 people attended the program. External programs have been further diversiﬁed and deliberation by the accreditation committee. It received a great review during the ﬁeld by opening more LOHAS family camps, offering youth music & science camps for the inspection for its genuine and proactive support for employee families, which should be underprivileged youths and rolling out other CSR initiatives for the disadvantaged to seen as closely aligned with the Pulmuone values. The re-accreditation expires in two create sustainable values for communities. years and thus, Pulmuone wants to solidify its reputation as family-friendly business by leveraging its support schemes and best practices. Pulmuone is exerting sustained efforts APPENDIX to realize the win-win management that brings mutual beneﬁts to workers, business and communities, building on its new corporate culture that has diverse family-friendly supports 118 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 119 Business Performance ‘Healing Forest’ in partnership with Korea Forest Service the front gate of the center during the period. The accreditation attests to the high service quality of Pulmuone Daycare Center, making it a more reliable and trustworthy partner for Pulmuone is waging the CO₂reduction campaign to restore forests in partnership with parents who have to leave their precious babies and children to the care of the center. the Korea Forest Service by planting trees and working for reforestation. Caring for and protecting the forests for our future generation is closely aligned with the LOHAS values of 2) Dodamtteul Program received an award Pulmuone Daycare Center received a good Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Pulmuone. program award given by the Hansol Education Foundation in 2015 for two years in a row. The center ranked within the top 10 list among the 60 daycare centers operated by the foundation, which shows the center is recognized for its quality and excellence. (Awarded Pulmuone Daycare Center offering satisfactory childcare service program: ‘Parents Reading a Book, Kids Singing a Song’, Dodamtteul Program for babies) to employees Pulmuone Daycare Center was opened in Suseo, Seoul in March 2014. As of the end of 3) Received two awards on the Day of Childcare On December 2015, Pulmuone Daycare December 2015, it has 43 children of Pulmuone employees taken care of by 13 faculty Center received two awards in Program Award and Teacher Award at the Day of Childcare members(headmaster included). The center is differentiated from other childcare event organized by the Gangnam district office. The 1st award was given to the center’s character development program for babies at the contest held in Gangnam and the 2nd 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome centers from the start by ensuring continuity in education between 1~5 years olds(preschool children). As of February 2016, the center produced a total of ﬁve graduates, fully one was given to one teacher of Pulmuone Daycare Center for the excellent performance. established in a short space of time, offering satisfactory childcare services to employees. The character development contest of Gangnam district gives out only six awards out of all According to the satisfaction survey conducted by the Hansol Education Foundation which the participants including families, private/national/public/corporate childcare centers in was consigned to operate the childcare center, the center’s satisfaction score increased the district, and Pulmuone has the honor of being named as one of the six recipients in the slightly to 4.6 points out of 5 points from 4.29 points in 2014. contest. The satisfaction level was especially higher in safety, nutrition and health. The center has grown to be recognized and trusted by Pulmuone employees thanks to the passionate and faithful devotion of the headmaster and teachers combined with heavy investment of the Charity donations by Pulmuone Daycare Center company. In the new semester that began in March 2016, the center received 53 children Pulmuone Daycare Center raised KRW 229,000 by selling cubed radish Kimchi and plum with the plan to recruit more teachers. Pulmuone ﬁrst focused on improving the internal extract made by children. Albeit small, the raised money was donated in the names of 2015 Sustainability Management Performance satisfaction of the center, and later plans to have the center recognized externally by having the children for meaningful purposes including helping out the underprivileged, teaching its existing programs such as Dodamtteul Program and Parent Talent Donation Program Korean letters and giving emotional support to children growing up under mothers with entrenched further introducing new learning methods and activities to develop creativity physical and intellectual challenges, creating an environment that encourages children to and good attitudes of kids. read more books. 1) Pulmuone Daycare Center acquired the government accreditation The Ministry of Health and Welfare has an accreditation scheme for childcare and daycare centers Sports day & Chirstmas concert across the country to evaluate them in six areas(e.g. childcare environment, operational management, care process, care activities and interactions, health and nutrition, safety) Pulmuone Daycare Center held the sports day in October 2015 to teach children how to and accredit those with high scores in document review, ﬁeld inspection and deliberation keep order and follow the rules. Children had a bonding time by participating in the event by the accreditation committee. The accreditation scheme has been introduced to evaluate with their families as one team. Kids together with their parents enjoyed the happiness childcare services objectively and enhance the childcare service on the national level. of working together through various exercise programs. On the Christmas day of 2015, Pulmuone Daycare Center received the perfect score in all of the aforementioned six areas Pulmuone Daycare Center held a concert celebrating Christmas. Kids played musical to receive the ofﬁcial accreditation which remains effective for three years from December instruments, sang carols and showed cute dances in front of their happy and proud parents. The concert also featured the magic show to much amazement and happiness of kids. APPENDIX 15, 2015 to December 14, 2018. A plaque that proves the accreditation will be placed on 120 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 121 Business Performance Talent Donation by Parents Female leadership development Pulmuone Daycare Center provides services not only in childcare but also in education. It Pulmuone is passionately committed to building an institutional and cultural environment has rolled out a program that engages parents(‘Talent Donation by Parents’) to help them that supports the work-life balance in order to recognize and develop the values of female communicate and interact with their children and the faculty. The program was introduced talents. It has various supportive measures in place such as running Pulmuone Daycare Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey in phases starting from September 2014 and started the full-scale operation in May 2015. Center, shortening the workhours of pregnant employees, improving the working conditions Talent Donation by Parents is divided into ‘Parents Care’ and ‘Pulmuone Teacher’ programs. of female employees who are pregnant, just gave birth to, or raising a child, and supporting Parents Care program appoints parents as one-day teacher at the center, distributing the childcare allowance. Furthermore, as part of the effort to send more female workers meals, putting kids to nap and reading books to babies and kids to learn how their babies or into leadership positions, it has introduced the equitable and objective promotion system kids spend a day in the daycare center. based on capability and performance so that it would not be influenced by any genderOn the other hand, Pulmuone Teacher program lets parents choose one topic out of four related biases, and set the quota of female executive to maintain an appropriate male to LOHAS Habits(e.g. Body Habits, Eating Habits, Mind Habits, Environmental Habits) and female ratio in the management positions. After making an announcement to assign 30% of organize a class starting from designing the curriculum to teaching a class to children with its managerial posts to female workers by 2020, Pulmuone has already designed ‘In & Out the guidance of teachers. Activities included in the topics are as follows: Management’ plan for the qualiﬁed personnel. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Female employees are strongly encouraged to participate in ‘Open Meeting with the Eating Habits Body Habits Mind Environmental Habits Group CEO’ to understand his management direction and openly communicate with him. Table manners, recipes, Exercise using Habits(intelligence) Cleaning and sorting, nutritionally balanced apparatus, 5 senses Music, painting, story science game, forest Pulmuone will do more research and gather opinions to design an institution to eliminate diets game, etc telling, etc experience, etc any forms of gender discrimination that can put female employees at disadvantage along with systemic supports that motivate female workers to push themselves further to become leaders. Talent Donation by Parents gives working parents who cannot spend much time with their children a valuable opportunity to spend quality time together, building fond memory with children to help them grow up happy and healthy. The program, above all, gives emotional stability to children, and therefore, will be further developed for children on an ongoing Maternal/Paternal Leave, Return rate after Leave basis. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Category 2013 2014 2015 Those on maternal leave(persons) 94 101 107 Maternal Leave Maternal leave usage(%) 100% 100% 100% Event for new hires Return after maternity leave(%) 98% 96% 98% On the 1st day at work, Pulmuone doles out a box of ofﬁce stationery, a company badge and Those on paternity leave(persons) 90 92 127 a company diary to new hires. And before the new hires come to work, Pulmuone sends a Paternal Leave Paternal leave usag(%) 96% 91% 119% box of diverse food products of Pulmuone to their homes as welcome gift so that they can Return after paternity leave(%) 92% 95% 92% enjoy Pulmuone brands with their family members. APPENDIX 122 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 123 Business Performance Female-friendly work environment Initiative Description Pulmuone Integrated Report APPENDIX Empowerment Develop leadership of female employees by offering more empowering Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey of female employees opportunities such as the employee management council and etc No gender Guarantee equal pay(promotion or compensation) to everyone on the equal discrimination rank doing the equal jobs Support for childcare, Provide 1:1 consultation with experts counseling on education Offer cozy resting spaces(with the heating ﬂoor) and lactation rooms for Female resting lounges female employees 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome Fetus checkup for the Guarantee one-day paid monthly leave to pregnant employees for a fetus pregnant checkup Encourage employees to take out leaves including the half-day leave for More utilization childcare and offer information about shortened workhours to employees of work leaves who have to take care of young kids or babies Allow employees to adjust the time to come to and leave work when they Flexible workhours have to take care of pre-school kids or lower-grades primary school kids Childcare allowance for Grant the childcare allowance for 24 months to those on parental leave to those on parental leave support their childcare cost 2015 Sustainability Management Performance Allow pregnant employees to work shorter hours without receiving a formal Shorter workhours approval from the management (Daily workhours become 2 hours shorter of the pregnant automatically before 12 weeks pregnant and after 36 weeks pregnant) Employees who worked for less than three months (received no formal evaluation): 50% of the average salary increase for the respective business unit. Compensation Employees who worked for three months or longer(subject to evaluation): (salary adjustment) The rate of pay increase is decided based on the compensation grade of each employee, but those who received the ‘grade I’ will receive at least 50% of the average increase of the business unit APPENDIX 124 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 125 Third Party Assurance Business Performance To the Management of 2) The GRI G4 Guideline was established by the GRI, convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP in 1997. After the first universal GRI sustainability reporting guidelines for the “2015 Pulmuone Integrated Report”, multinationals was released in 2000, the latest G4 version was introduced in May 2013, with enhancements in supply chain, governance, ethics & integrity, anti-corruption, GHG emissions & energy disclosures. The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged to undertake a 3) The B.E.S.T Guideline was jointly developed by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Energy (MOCIE), the review of Pulmuone’s “2015 Integreted Report” (hereafter “Report”) to provide independent Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 as a third-party assurance on its contents. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the sustainability reporting and assurance guideline, and provides for five levels of reporting rigor (Level 1 ~ 5). following third-party statement of assurance. Work Undertaken and Scope Responsibility and Objective The Auditor confirmed 1) the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of the reported Pulmuone is responsible for all information and claims contained in the Report regarding content; 2) the reliability of the reported performance data; 3) level of compliance against the establishment of its sustainability management goals, performance management etc. GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines; and 4) level of compliance relative to the B.E.S.T The responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the ﬁndings from its assurance undertaking Reporting Guidelines through the process outlined below. 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome to the management of Pulmuone. The key objective of the assurance is to check · Interviews with persons responsible for different dimensions of sustainability performance whether there are any material bias or errors present in the Report; assess whether the and individuals responsible for performance data collection to determine the adequacy of underlying data collection system is in proper working order; while undertaking in an the reported content overall review of the company’s process for identifying issues of material importance to · Review of Pulmuone’s materiality identiﬁcation processes and outcomes sustainability management as well as the produced results so that the Auditor may deliver · Review of available stakeholder engagement processes recommendations that can help improve the quality of future reporting. · On-site review of the system and processes in place for the collection and reporting of raw performance data · Review of underlying reference data for economic, social, and environmental performance Assurance Type and Level Sample testing to determine the completeness and accuracy of information contained in the Report The Report was reviewed against the following criteria and guidelines: 2015 Sustainability Management Performance (1) AA1000 Assurance Standards (2008)1; (2) Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines2; and (3) B.E.S.T Sustainability Reporting Guidelines3 Limitations The scope of this undertaking was limited to: Assurance Scope Contents of the “Pulmuone 2015 Integrated Report” by Pulmuone · Interviews with individuals responsible for different performance dimensions and the Assurance Type & Level Type II, Moderate collection of performance data; review of the adequacy of the reported data · “IPS Assurance Manual” to verify compliance against AA1000AS (2008) · On-site review of Pulmuone ‘s Head Ofﬁce standard’s three core principles Assurance Criteria · “IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria” to assess the reliability of · Assurance based on relevant data and information available for the relevant reporting performance indicators period · GRI G4 Guideline ‘Option’ and B.E.S.T Guideline’s “reporting level” · Review of the reliability of reported performance data 1) AA1000AS is a sustainability assurance standard developed by the UK-based Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability (AccountAbility) in November 1999 to assure organization-wide sustainability performance and accountability by improving the quality of accounting, auditing and reporting practices in the social and business APPENDIX ethics domain. The revised 2008 version has been in effect since 2010. 126 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 127 Business Performance Assurance Findings [Responsiveness] The Auditor did not ﬁnd any material misstatements or bias contained in the Report. Does the Report provide an adequate response to stakeholder demands and interests? The Auditor found Pulmuone to be providing an adequate response to issues of concern and interest to its stakeholders. We noted that various communication channels have been [Inclusivity] Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey put in place by the company, along side efforts to incorporate the results from its ongoing Is Pulmuone’s strategy-setting and related processes communication efforts as well as the company’s response in its Reports. Marking the 10th for stakeholder engagement adequate? publication of its Report, the company carried out an in-depth survey of stakeholders and It is the Auditor’s view that Pulmuone has adequate strategies for stakeholder engagement experts and disclosed its ﬁndings, as part of a diverse set of efforts to be more responsive to in place as well as relevant processes for using key findings toward its sustainability stakeholder demands and interests. Also, much in line with the principle of responsiveness, management activities. The company was found making efforts to collect stakeholder views the Auditor also affirmed on-going work to further develop its communication channels through diverse communication channels (e.g. “open” general meeting of shareholders, catering to the unique characteristics of different stakeholder groups. labour-management consultation council, CEO town-hall meetings, CS center, consumer satisfaction surveys, round table meetings with suppliers, etc.) after identifying its [GRI “In Accordance” Criteria] shareholders, management and employees, consumers, business suppliers, and the local 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome community as key stakeholder groups relevant to the company. Additionally, while preparing The Auditor found the Report to be consistent with the “in accordance” Comprehensive its Report, the company carried out various questionnaire surveys of management and option of the GRI G4 Guidelines with respect to its General Standard Disclosures and employees, consumers, business suppliers, and the local community to assess their level Additional Disclosures(materiality aspects, DMA, performance indicators) as indicated in of awareness toward sustainability management while identifying key issues of concern, the G4 Guidelines. while also putting in place a process for engaging stakeholder representatives and experts in interviews concerning various issues of material importance to Pulmuone in line with the [Reliability of Performance Indicators] principle of inclusivity. After reviewing the performance data stated in the Report, the Auditor found its underlying data collection system to be adequate and failed to ﬁnd any material errors that can either [Materiality] bias the company’s judgment or compromise the reliability of the data. The following Does the Report contain information of the highest material importance to Pulmuone performance indicators were reviewed for the purpose of this assurance 2015 Sustainability Management Performance stakeholders across the economic, social, and environmental dimensions? Key Sustainability It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude any issues of importance Performance Indicators Unit 2015 Issues to the sustainability management activities of Pulmuone. The Auditor verified efforts No. of cases 24 (KRW by the company to identify and prioritize relevant issues of concern (business impact TISO Management No. of holiday season gift returns ﬁled and value (value) 924,600) analysis and assessing the level of stakeholder interest), based on a three-step materiality No. of persons taking part in the Authentic and Persons 17,595 testing process designed to uncover issues of material importance to the company, while Creating Wholesome food campaign working to reflect those findings in its Report. Notably, the Auditor found the section of Shared Value Average Pulmuone food safety and quality Points 78.2 the Report outlining sustainability management outcomes to be aligned with the principle assessment score of materiality, providing a concrete and detailed account of the top 11 issues identiﬁed to No. of persons taking part in the Kidzania Authentic be of material importance in, based on its set “reference point” as a baseline. Meanwhile, authentic wholesome food “school” immersion Persons 39,111 Wholesome Food program the Auditor confirmed efforts by Pulmuone to analyze and report upon nine years worth Consumer No. of consumer VOC’s ﬁled No. of cases 142,898 of materiality assessment ﬁndings from 2008 to 2016, in compliance with the principle of Communication Consumer Happiness Center monitoring score Points 96.1 materiality as well as efforts to better manage relevant materiality issues. Product Quality APPENDIX Consumer safety & health violations No. of persons and Safety Management 128 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 129 Business Performance Shared Growth Pulmuone Water social/environmental audits No. of vendors 10 For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the following. and Win Win · Expand the scope of reporting with respect to the supply chain Cooperation No. of vendors taking part in “Best Partner’s Day” No. 52 · Reinforce disclosure of performance outcomes for subsidiaries and afﬁliates subject to 4 locallyconsolidated reporting produced · Strengthen response to stakeholder views Pulmuone’s 10-Year Journey Low-carbon product certiﬁcation Products soy bean Climate Change tofu · Compose and disclose Report centered around performance and “aspect” rather than Response products indicators tCO2/product · Provide an even more “integrated” Report outlining not only past ﬁnancial results or GHG emission unit 338.8 ton future outlook and long-term plans, but also other indicators showing the company’s General average wage for Pulmuone KRW 1000 44,257 capacity to create and maintain value in the short, medium, and long term Performance Related to Management and No. of employee training hours hours 48.2 Employees Absentee rate from injuries % 0.0317 No. of persons taking part in volunteer public Independence Persons 2,795 2015 Pulmuone 5 Issues DMA & Outcome service activities Social Contributions Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor was not involved in the KRW one preparation of any part of the Report, and has no commercial afﬁliation with Pulmuone that Neighbor Love Funds 118 million might compromise our independence. Water demand, unit factor Product ton 27.0 Environmental This book has been produced by using only the eco-friendly paper and soybean oil ink accredited by the FSC. Management Environmental investment and maintenance KRW 100 46 costs million Qualiﬁcations of the Auditor * Represents a partial sub-set of indicators most relevant to sustainability management Commissioned by Pulmuone as the Auditor for this assurance undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was established in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, CSR, and Recommendations sustainability management since 2002. 2015 Sustainability Management Performance The Auditor found the “2015 Integrated Report” by Pulmuone highly commendable in the following respects. The company (1) has worked to put together an integrated companyMarch 11, 2016 wide Report, compiling contents from its existing sustainability Report together with Lee, Yoon-Cheol the financial and operational performance of its subsidiaries and affiliates subject to Chairman, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies consolidated ﬁnancial reporting as well as their future outlook; (2) provides a more detailed account of its top 5 issues (authentic and wholesome food, product quality and safety management, shared growth and Win Win cooperation, climate change response, social contribution activities for the local community), while conﬁguring the Report in a way that discloses results from its sustainability management efforts in a easy to understand way; (3) while providing a three-dimensional account of its stakeholder engagement efforts, changes in identiﬁed material issues, sustainability management outcomes, etc. over the past ten years, marking the 10th publication of its Report. APPENDIX 130 Pulmuone Integrated Report 2015 131 Pulmuone Co., Ltd. www.pulmuone.co.kr 280, Gwangpyeong-ro, Gangnam-Gu, Seoul, Korea Tel 02-2040-4400
