UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Blue Moon LLC 23 Nahda St., Queen Tower Maadi 11431 Cairo, Egypt www.bluemoon‐eg.com Statement by General Manager Blue Moon is a privately owned business in Egypt. The company was established in 2008 as a limited liability company. Our mission is to provide comprehensive services to the fresh produce sector in an effort to enhances the competitiveness of the Agriculture Sector in Egypt. Further information is available at our website www.bluemoon-eg.com We started with one office in Cairo and 3 employees. Now we have 25 full time employees and two branches in Beheira and Luxor. Blue Moon joined the Global Compact Network Egypt in 2012 and signed the UN Global Compact Letter of Commitment. We also joined the Global Compact Business for Peace as a founding member in 2013. Our Code of Practice underlines the Principles that Blue Moon uses in its relationship with employees, business partners and other stakeholders. It also illustrates that the UN Global Compact Principles are an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture. We regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. As a result of our assessment, we share good practice to advance practical solutions and strategies to common challenges in the fresh produce sector. We also advance sustainability solutions in partnership with our stakeholders including UN agencies, governments, civil society, and others within the sector. Our accomplishments are greatly connected to our corporate culture, which is based on an entrepreneurial spirit and a passion for business, where healthy profitability and sustainable growth are key factors for success. In the “Communication on Progress” we describe our actions to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its Principles into our business strategy and daily operations. We also commit to share this information through our website and within our sphere of influence. Manal Saleh General Manager Blue Moon, Egypt The UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Labour Environment Anti‐Corruption Principle 3 Businesses should Principle 1 Businesses should Principle 7 Businesses should Principle 10 Businesses should uphold the freedom of support and respect the support a precautionary work against corruption in association and the effective protection of internationally approach to environmental all its forms, including extortion recognition of the right to proclaimed human rights; and challenges; and bribery collective bargaining; Principle 8 undertake Principle 2 make sure that they Principle 4 the elimination of The UN Global Compact Ten (10) initiatives to promote greater are not complicit in human all forms of forced and Principles are derived from: environmental responsibility; rights abuses. compulsory labour; the Universal Declaration of and Human Rights, the International Labour Principle 9 encourage the Organization’s Declaration on Principle 5 the effective development and diffusion of Fundamental Principles and abolition of child labour; and environmentally friendly Rights at Work, the Rio technologies. Declaration on Environment and Development, and Principle 6 the elimination of the United Nations Convention discrimination in respect of Against Corruption employment and occupation. www.bluemoon‐eg.com February 2016 3 Human Rights • Commitment – Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and • Principle 1 operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. – Businesses should support and • Management system respect the protection of – Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 1 & 2 as an integral part of our internationally proclaimed human business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture. rights – We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to • Principle 2 develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. – Make sure that the business is not • Activities complicit in human rights abuses. – Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and pays special attention to avoid involvement in human rights abuses owing to societal practice e.g. discrimination, gender issues, etc. • Performance – Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 1 & 2. – During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 1. www.bluemoon‐eg.com February 2016 4 Labour • Commitment – Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Labour Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. • Principle 3 • Management system – Businesses should uphold the – Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 3-6 as an integral part of our business strategy, day-today operations and organizational culture. freedom of association and the – We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, effective recognition of the right to as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. collective bargaining; • Activities – Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote labour rights • Principle 4 within its sphere of influence • Blue Moon facilitates the Egyptian Suppliers Ethical Trade Forum since 2010 in an effort to improve the – the elimination of all forms of working conditions of workers in Egypt with a focus on casual workers and labour providers. National legislations and ETI code underpin the Forum’s activities. forced and compulsory labour; • Blue Moon delivers capacity building programs to the Food Sector on behalf of FTA/BSCI in Egypt and Turkey • Blue Moon designed and implements the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers • Principle 5 since 2011. The project serves 11 small producer organisations with more than 4000 small growers, and 10 Agriculture Technical Schools with more than 20,000 students in 4 governorates. For further information, – the effective abolition of child please visit www.smallgrowers-eg.com labour; and • Performance – Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that • Principle 6 might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 3-6. – During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning – the elimination of discrimination in violations of Principle 3-6. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labor rights has been commended. respect of employment and occupation. www.bluemoon‐eg.com February 2016 5 Environment • Commitment – Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a • Principle 7 transparent and trustworthy way. – Businesses should support a • Management system – Our Code of Practice illustrates Principles 7-9 as an integral part of our business strategy, precautionary approach to day-to-day operations and organizational culture. environmental challenges; – We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. • Principle 8 • Activities – undertake initiatives to promote – Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote Good greater environmental Agriculture Practice within its sphere of influence • Blue Moon established the GLOBALG.A.P. national technical working group for fruits and responsibility; and • vegetable in Egypt. Blue Moon designed and implements the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers since 2011. The project serves 11 small producer organisations with more than 4000 • Principle 9 small growers, and 10 Agriculture Technical Schools with more than 20,000 students in 4 governorates. For further information, please visit www.smallgrowers-eg.com – encourage the development and • Performance diffusion of environmentally – Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks friendly technologies. that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principles 7-9. – During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 3-6. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labor rights has been commended. www.bluemoon‐eg.com February 2016 6 Anti-Corruption • Commitment – Blue Moon actively supports the universal declaration of Human Rights. We respect and promote Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a • Principle 10 transparent and trustworthy way. – Businesses should work against • Management system – Our Code of Practice illustrates Principle 10 as an integral part of our business strategy, corruption in all its forms, including day-to-day operations and organizational culture. extortion and bribery. – We use the Global Compact Self Assessment tool to regularly assess our risks and opportunities, as well as the impact of our operation, in order to develop and refine our goals, strategies, and policies. • Activities – Blue Moon strictly follows national regulations and exerts a lot of effort to promote Good Agriculture Practice within its sphere of influence • Blue Moon is a member of EJB anti-corruption task force since 2012 • In 2013 Blue Moon joined the GC Business for Peace as a founding member • Blue Moon designed and implements the USAID-funded Premium Project for Egyptian Small Growers since 2011. The project serves 11 small producer organisations with more than 4000 small growers, and 10 Agriculture Technical Schools with more than 20,000 students in 4 governorates. For further information, please visit www.smallgrowers-eg.com • Performance – Based on Blue Moon’s scope of services and code of practice, there are no significant risks that might cause a violation to our commitment to the Global Compact Principle 10. – During the past year, we did not receive any negative feedback from our stakeholders concerning violations of Principle 10. On the contrary our efforts to raise awareness for labor rights has been commended. www.bluemoon‐eg.com February 2016 7
