SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 ACTING SUSTAINABLY ACHIEVING OBJECTIVES Contents page 3 You will find the consumption and CO² emissions Preface 3 figures of the vehicles presented in this publication here > page 154. An overview of the BMW Group 5 Value chain 6 Business model 7 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 2.1 CO² emissions 21 page 21 2.2 Electromobility 26 2.3 Mobility patterns 29 page 29 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption of resources 38 3.2 Renewable energy 47 3.3 Sustainable, resource-­efficient supply chain 51 page 61 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 4.1 Health and ­­performance 61 4.2 Long-term employee development 65 4.3 Diversity 71 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding 75 page 67 5 FUNDAMENTALS 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction 82 5.2 Economic effects 84 5.3 Compliance and human rights 87 5.4 Stakeholder engagement 89 5.5 Reinforcing ­sustainability 93 Further key indicators 95 GRI G4 Content Index 114 Appendix 149 page 82 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 2 Sustainable management For the past 100 years, our company has inspired people around the world with fascinating products and services for individual mobility. Not many companies reach such an age – and not many companies have the opportunity and the resources to shape their own future. Long-term thinking and responsible conduct lay the foundation for the BMW Group’s economic success. The company has firmly established environmental and social sustainability throughout its value chain. This also includes comprehensive product responsibility and a clear commitment to resource conservation. We remain committed to the principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact, which we have implemented at all our locations since 2001. Our actions are aimed at shaping the mobility of the future and securing our leading position as a successful company. We have set ourselves concrete sustainability targets for 2020. Last year, once again, our projects and activities brought us a good deal closer to these targets – as confirmed by the key performance indicators in this Sustainable Value Report. Harald Krüger However, it does not stop here. In 2016, we will once again be Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG looking ahead. We see electrification and digitalisation as two of the main driving forces for the future. Over the next few years, these factors will change the automotive industry more than anything we have seen over the past 100 years. We recognised the direction the industry was going from automobile manufacturer to provider of the individual ­premium mobility and services of tomorrow. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 3 This vision of the future not only includes vehicles with lower The BMW Group foundations also aim to create added value emissions and better fuel economy, it is also about developing for society. All activities of this kind will now be concen­t rated new solutions for urban mobility – to improve the quality of in the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt. The BMW Group life in cities. will also increase the Foundation’s funding by 50 million euros to 100 million euros. We stand by our promise of cutting fleet emissions in Europe from 1995 levels in half by 2020 and will continue to increase The BMW Group can look back on one hundred years of the percentage of renewable energies used in production. ­h istory. And we will continue to take responsibility in the We will offer plug-in hybrids in all segments as well as expand future – when it comes to both technology and society. We our car-sharing service to further cities worldwide. will continue to captivate our customers with our fascinating products and services. And by implementing innovative Digitalisation offers enormous potential – especially for traffic ­concepts, we will continue to build a positive future for our in urban areas. Vehicles that are connected to one another company. enable traffic in cities to be organised much more efficiently: new traffic guidance systems will help avoid traffic jams, while intelligent parking management solutions will reduce traffic. In short, the connected vehicle will become the nucleus of a plethora of new services. Through all this technological progress and development, our actions will always remain focused on the individual and their specific needs. The year 2015 demonstrated that our Harald Krüger society still faces major challenges. We firmly believe that Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG intercultural understanding is one of the most important factors in overcoming these challenges, together. For many years now we have been and remain very committed to promoting intercultural exchange of inside and outside the company. Through our partnership with the UN Alliance of Civilizations, we are proud to present the Intercultural Innovation Award to honour exemplary grassroots initiatives in this area. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 4 An overview of the BMW Group Our production network Profit before tax in 2015 (in € million) Sales volume automobiles in 2015 (in thousand units) 30 production and 9,224 2,247.5 ­assembly facilities in 2015 2015 14 countries Our suppliers Around 13,000 suppliers 2014 8,707 2014 2,118.0 Our sales network Research and development expenditure in 2015 CO² emissions of BMW Group Automobiles in 2015 Around 6,000 dealerships (in € million) (in g/km*) 5,169 127 in over 150 countries 2015 2015 2014 4,566 2014 130 * Fleet consumption of newly registeredvehicles in Europe (EU-28) BMW Group employees in 2015 (number) 122,244 Investment in further education and training 2015 in 2015 (in € million) 2014 116,324 2015 352 2014 335 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 5 Value chain Research and Supply chain Production Logistics and Sales and Disposal and development transport ­utilisation ­recycling Main activities Development of innovative, Global cooperation with Manufacturing of cars and Securing customer-oriented Range of premium products Recovery and dismantling of ­f ascinating cars, motorcycles ­suppliers to create ­m otorcycles by a highly expert ­t ransport logistics in the and services for individual vehicles for and services – M odules / systems and diverse workforce network of ­m obility through – Reuse – Vehicle design – Components – Engine construction – Suppliers –C  oordination of a worldwide –R  ecycling and disposal of vehicle – Series development – Bodywork – Plants ­d ealership/repair shop network components and materials – Parts – Production planning – Paintwork – Dealerships – I mplementation of a coordinated – Raw materials and target-group-oriented – Assembly worldwide through the seamless ­m arketing mix – Quality control combination of various modes of transport – Provision of financial services Areas of action –E  nvironmentally friendly – I mplementation of environmental –R  eduction in resource consump­ –P  roduction in the sales markets Promotion of sustainable mobility –E  xpansion and management ­p roduct design and social standards in the tion (energy, water, waste) – I ncrease in the share of modes of behaviour patterns based on of a network for vehicle recovery – Design for recycling ­supply chain –R  eduction in ­e nvironmentally transport with low emissions – I nformation (e. g. vehicle fuel and recycling –D  evelopment of more ­e fficient –P  romotion of transparency damaging waste water and –O  ptimisation of capacity consumption data) and training –R  esearch on recycling and and alternative ­d rivetrains and resource efficiency in the ­e missions utilisation of modes of transport in fuel-efficient driving ­second life use of components ­( Efficient Dynamics strategy) supply chain –U  se of recycling material –C  onnected drive (e.g. carbon-fibre-reinforced –P  urchase of raw materials from plastic and batteries) –P  lanning and development of –P  romotion of lifelong learning –M  obility services in the area new mobility services environmentally and socially and the development of key skills of electromobility, friendly sources among employees e. g. 360° ­ELECTRIC –C  onnected drive, digital ­n etworking –P  urchase of renewable raw –P  romotion of diversity within –C  ar-sharing products (DriveNow) ­m aterials and materials with the company – Life cycle engineering sustainable characteristics, –M  obility assistance services e. g. secondary aluminium –C  reation of a working –M  obility services to promote environment that fosters intermodal mobility long-term health and high performance GRI G4-12 6 Business model Please find further information about Bayerische Motoren Werke Aktiengesellschaft (BMW AG) has its BMW Motorcycles also focuses on the premium segment and offers the BMW Group and its brands at: headquarters in Munich/DE. Bayerische Motoren Werke GmbH came a wide range of products. Innovative technologies and a large number into being in 1917, having been founded in 1916 as Bayerische of driving apparel options contribute towards increasing customer > www.bmwgroup.com Flugzeugwerke AG (BFW). It became Bayerische Motoren Werke safety and comfort. > www.bmw.com Aktiengesellschaft (BMW AG) in 1918. > www.mini.com The financial services segment is a partner to the sales organisation, > www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com The BMW Group is one of the most successful manufacturers of cars and is represented in over 50 countries worldwide. The largest and motorcycles in the world and its BMW, MINI and Rolls-Royce business area in the financial services segment is loan financing and premium brands are three of the strongest in the automotive industry leasing of BMW brand cars and motorcycles for private customers. today. In addition to its car brands, the BMW Group also has a strong Under the brand name Alphabet, the BMW Group has an international market position in the motorcycle industry and is a successful multi-brand vehicle fleet business that offers loans to large customers financial services provider. In recent years, the company has also to finance their car fleets. It also provides comprehensive management become one of the leading providers of premium services for individual of company vehicle fleets in 18 countries. This also includes full-service mobility. One example of this is DriveNow, the car-sharing programme solutions such as the corporate car-sharing programme AlphaCity, the company offers in collaboration with Sixt SE. as well as AlphaElectric, a comprehensive e-mobility solution. The BMW Group is an international company, represented in over Thinking for the long term and responsible action have always been 150 countries around the globe. At the end of the year it employed the basis for our business success. In addition to business aspects, a total of 122,244 people (2014: 116,324 employees). The company other integral parts of the BMW Group’s strategy are environmental has a large research and innovation network, with 13 locations in and social criteria along the entire value chain, product responsi­ five countries around the world. Currently, its production network bility in all areas as well as a clear commitment to resource efficiency. comprises 30 locations in 14 countries. The worldwide vehicle sales network is currently made up of around 3,310 BMW, 1,550 MINI and 140 Rolls-Royce car dealerships. The company also has around 1,150 BMW Motorcycle dealerships worldwide. With its brands, the BMW Group offers its customers a broad spec­ trum of individual mobility in the premium segment. Furthermore, with the BMW i brand, the BMW Group has continued to expand the meaning of the term premium. BMW i is even more strongly characte­ rised by the idea of sustainability; it stands for vehicles that lead the way in terms of electric drive, revolutionary lightweight construction, exceptional design and mobility services that have been designed from the ground up. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 7 STRATEGY Introduction 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix 1 Search Strategy Our sustainability goals are in line with the Action 2020 pro­ Introduction OUR VISION gramme we developed in collaboration with other companies The BMW Group is the world’s most successful and sustainable on the > World Business Council of Sustainable D ­ evelopment ( WBCSD) . 1 STRATEGY premium provider of individual mobility. They provide the basis for our goals and activities. The BMW Group integrates sustainability along the entire value 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES chain and in all underlying processes – thus creating added value for the company, the environment and society. GRI G4-14 3 PRODUCTION AND In order to make sure we are fit for the future, we continuously VALUE ­CREATION invest in integrating sustainability into our business model. Identifying key issues We see global sustainability challenges as an opportunity to In order to identify in good time which topics may bring oppor­ 4 EMPLOYEES develop innovative products and services. In this way, sustain­ tunities and risks to our business today or in the future, and AND SOCIETY ability makes a long-term contribution to the business success to focus our activities accordingly, we use an “environmental of the BMW Group. Our innovations are not developed to be radar” to scan external trends on an ongoing basis. In addi­ 5 FUNDAMENTALS of benefit to our customers only – we also want them to have tion, we carry out a regular materiality process. To do this, we a positive impact on society and the environment. analyse the importance of current sustainability topics, both Further key indicators from the perspective of different stakeholder groups as well as Taking social and environmental responsibility for all we do that of the company. The changes picked up by the environ­ GRI G4 Content Index is an integral part of how we perceive ourselves as a company. mental radar form the basis for identifying topics and validat­ We are convinced that the lasting economic success of any ing the results of the materiality process. The environmental Appendix enterprise in today’s world is based increasingly on acting radar and the results of the materiality analysis (the materiality responsibly and ensuring social acceptance. We want to matrix) then form the basis for regular reviews of our strategic achieve a clear competitive advantage with efficient and direction as well as our sustainability goals and indicators resource-friendly production processes and state-of-the-art > Figure 1.01. The result of our materiality analysis 2015 con­ solutions for sustainable individual mobility for our firmed that our long-term sustainability goals cover the customers. relevant topics. In future, we will place more strategic focus on new topics in the matrix such as “autonomous driving”. INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY In order to ensure our long-term success, we integrate sustain­ ability into all levels of our corporate strategy, business model and value chain. When we began to realign our corporate strategy in 2015, we set the course for a successful future. Sustainability is a key component in this regard and makes an important contribution towards our competitive edge. It is also deeply established within our corporate culture and our basic principles. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 9 Search Materiality analysis F 1.01 Low materiality Medium materiality High materiality Introduction High relevance Fuel efficiency and CO² emissions of vehicles 1 STRATEGY Energy efficiency and CO² emissions from value creation 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES Air emissions of vehicles A lternative drivetrain technologies Occupational health and safety Product safety 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION  nvironmental and social standards in the E Connected and autonomous driving supply chain / sustainable sourcing  obility concepts M 4 EMPLOYEES Human rights and services Importance for the stakeholders AND SOCIETY P  revention of corruption and Data protection anticompetitive behaviour 5 FUNDAMENTALS A  ir emissions from Attractive workplace, talent attraction and retention* Further key indicators value creation* Diversity and equal opportunity* Customer satisfaction GRI G4 Content Index Employee development and training* Socio-economic impacts on society* Appendix Design for Recycling * Water consumption Waste and waste water Use of urban space R  esponsible marketing and product communication Responsible financial services Employee-management relations Development of local companies Efficient use of resources in value creation Biodiversity Political involvement Corporate volunteering Low relevance Donations and philanthropy Corporate citizenship Low relevance Importance for the BMW Group High relevance * These areas were rated highly material, as they were among the three topics the respondent stakeholder groups considered most important. Further information: > Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 10 Search Materiality analysis 2015 Pursuing long-term sustainability goals Introduction In 2015, a survey was carried out among internal experts and The BMW Group has set itself ten strategic sustainability goals telephone interviews were held with 13 representative stake­ running through to 2020. The goals focus on three areas: 1 STRATEGY holders as part of the review process to get an update on how –– Products and services the topics are seen from an external perspective. The list of 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES topics for evaluation was updated based on the BMW Group’s –– Production and value creation list of topics from 2013, the stakeholder dialogues > Chapter 5.4, –– Employees and society 3 PRODUCTION AND the > GRI G4 Guidelines , the > UN Global Compact , the main topics VALUE ­CREATION of the > Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the > BMW Group sustainability goals. > UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) . Customers, suppliers, 4 EMPLOYEES investors, authorities, NGOs and scientists from different AND SOCIETY With our long-term sustainability goals we are fulfilling our regions of the world were among the interviewees. In addition, vision of being the most successful and sustainable premium the topics were reviewed by internal BMW Group experts 5 FUNDAMENTALS supplier of individual mobility. In our opinion, sustainable who are in regular contact with the main stakeholders. The operations contribute towards higher profits. We take the analysis was accompanied by an internal document analysis Further key indicators entire supply chain into account in this regard. This includes of the sustainability context. To get an update from an internal the development of products and services, the supply chain, perspective, we carried out a materiality workshop and priori­ GRI G4 Content Index production and responsibility towards our employees, custom­ tised relevant sustainability topics from the perspective of the ers as users, and vehicle recycling. In addition, we continuously BMW Group. The relevant corporate areas (including strategy Appendix address the issues and challenges that are topics of much departments of the divisions) as well as corresponding execu­ discussion among the general public. Some examples of this tives subsequently validated the materiality matrix. GRI G4-18 would be our positions on manipulation of emissions values The review process resulted in the revised materiality matrix. > Chapter 2.1, on digitalisation > Chapter 2.3 and on receiving Topics that both stakeholders and the BMW Group considered refugees > Chapter 4.4. highly material were rated in the matrix as highly relevant. Topics that the BMW Group considers extremely relevant as well as the top three most relevant topics for the stakeholder respondents were also included in the matrix. The analysis identified 19 topics as highly material. > Figure 1.01. GRI G4 -19, GRI G4 -26, GRI G4 -27 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 11 The BMW Group has set itself ten strategic sustainability goals through to 2020. Our goals They focus on three main areas: products and services, production and value creation, employees and society. PR VA O D LU UC E C TIO Mobility patterns RE N A Co AT N ns IO D um N il it y pt ob ion r om Permanent change as a of re e ct result of integrated mobility so El services in selected metropolitan areas ur ce Leader in taking a > Chapter 2.3 Water, energy, waste, s holistic approach solvents per vehicle to premium reduced by 45 % (base electromobility year 2006) > Chapter 2.2 > Chapter 3.1 Re n CO ewa PRO ² emiss ble e ions Reduced by at least Leader in using D AND UCTS 50 % in the European renewable energy for ner g new vehicle fleet production and value ­S E R BMW GROUP (base year 1995) creation V ICE SUSTAINABILITY GOALS S > Chapter 2.1 > Chapter 3.2 y The BMW Group is the most successful and Sust ­sustainable ­premium provider Increase transparency a Leader in effic inable, re and resource intercultural of individual mobility. l efficiency in the tur a g understanding supply chain rcul ient s s uppl ource-­ > Chapter 4.4 I nte s t a n d i n > Chapter 3.3 er y cha ­und Increase diversity Foster individual in within the company responsibility and and enhance design the working innovative strength environment Find employees, tap into young talent, ce > Chapter 4.3 > Chapter 4.1 develop potential and n Di secure employability r ma ve fo S EE Y rs > Chapter 4.2 er Y it y n d ­­p P LO I E T C lt ha EM SO D a AN Long-term employee He development Search MEASURING SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Five-year overview of key sustainability indicators T 1.01 Introduction   11  12  13  14  15  Change to  previous 1 STRATEGY year in %  2 PRODUCTS Business activities  AND ­SERVICES Revenues (in € million)   68,821  76,848  76,059  80,401  92,175  14.6  Profit before tax (in € million)   7,383  7,803  7,893  8,707  9,224  5.9  3 PRODUCTION AND Sales volume automobiles (in thousand units)   1,669.0  1,845.2  1,963.8  2,118.0  2,247.5  6.1  VALUE ­CREATION Products and services  4 EMPLOYEES CO² emissions of BMW Group Automobiles (EU-28) (in g/km)   145  138  133  130  127  − 2.3  AND SOCIETY Sales of BMW i vehicles (number)   –  –  311  17,793  29,513  65.9  DriveNow users (number)   13,000  75,000  214,000  395,000  579,000  46.6  5 FUNDAMENTALS Production and value creation  Further key indicators Energy consumption per vehicle produced (in MWh/vehicle)   2.43  2.41  2.36  2.25  2.19  − 2.7  Water consumption per vehicle produced (in m³/vehicle)   2.25  2.22  2.18  2.18  2.24  2.8  GRI G4 Content Index Process waste water per vehicle produced (in m³/vehicle)   0.57  0.51  0.47  0,47  0.45  − 4.3  CO² emissions per vehicle produced (in t/vehicle)   0.75  0.72  0.68  0.66  0.57  − 13.6  Appendix Waste for disposal per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle)   8.49  6.47  5.73  4.93  4.00  − 18.9  Volatile organic compounds (VOC) per vehicle produced (in kg/vehicle)   1.75  1.78  1.59  1.29  1.22  − 5.4  Share of renewable energy purchased from third parties (in %)¹   28  36  48  51  58²  13.7  Share of production-relevant purchasing volume in the CDP Supply Chain Programme (in %)  –  –  –  45  53  17.8  Employees and society  BMW Group employees at end of year (number)   100,306  105,876  110,351  116,324  122,244  5.1  Attrition rate at BMW AG (as a percentage of workforce)   2.16  3.87  3.47  1.41  2.08  47.5  Share of women in the entire workforce of the BMW Group (in %)   16.1  16.8  17.4  17.8  18.1  1.7  Share of women in management positions at BMW Group (in %)   11.8  12.7  13.8  14.2  14.5  2.1  Average days of further training per BMW Group employee (days per employee)   3.3  3.7  3.5  3.9  4.1  5.1  Accident frequency at BMW Group (per one million hours worked)   7.1  5.8  4.8  5.1  4.4  − 13.7  Expenditure on donations by the BMW Group (in € thousand)   12,873  9,638  8,485  10,199  17,066  67.3  Expenditure on corporate citizenship (in € thousand)   36,846  31,979  28,944  34,524  39,109  13.3  1 C alculated based on volumes of green energy purchased as well as the conservative calculation of country-specific energy shares from renewables purchased from third-parties (Modification in calculation method for Germany and Austria due to use of transparency data in supplier invoices since 2012). 2 F igure not directly comparable to 2014. Figure includes all BMW Group production locations as well as corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE. The 2014 figure was based on vehicle production. Figure for vehicle production in 2015: 56 %. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 13 Search Introduction BMW Group and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) At the conference, the BMW Group announced that it had joined the > American Business Act on Climate Pledge . Companies In autumn 2015, the General Assembly of the United Nations announced participating in this initiative support far-reaching agreements 1 STRATEGY the > Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) . We see the SDGs as within the scope of the Climate Change Conference and a suitable framework within which companies can align their activities commit to company-specific goals as well as action against 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES in such a way that they contribute towards solving global environmental climate change. In addition, the BMW Group participates and societal challenges. The United Nations’ goals are a good basis on in the > RE100 Initiative of the Climate Group , in which ­influential 3 PRODUCTION AND which the BMW Group can review and further improve its sustainability companies worldwide commit to using 100 % renewable VALUE ­CREATION goals and measures. The SDGs are therefore considered in our strategic electricity in the future. deliberations and were taken account of when the topic list for our 2015 4 EMPLOYEES materiality analysis > Figure 1.01 was being prepared. AND SOCIETY Recognition of sustainability performance A number of different ratings document our sustainability 5 FUNDAMENTALS performance and how it is externally perceived. In 2015, the BMW Group again ranked high in several sustainability Further key indicators indices and received a number of awards > Figure 1.02. The BMW Group and the Climate Change Conference in Paris The 21st UN Climate Change Conference took place in GRI G4 Content Index Paris in 2015. At the Conference, 195 countries reached an agreement that obliges all countries to engage in climate Appendix protection by international law. The countries committed to operating on a de facto carbon-neutral basis by the second half of this century in order to keep global temperatures from rising by more than 2 degrees. The results of the confer­ ence were seen by many players from government, industry and civilian society as a breakthrough in the struggle against climate change. The BMW Group played an active role in the discussions during the conference. Since as far back as 1992, the company has been contributing its expertise to the Climate Change Conferences worldwide. For example, at the first international BMW Group Student Forum in Paris on 30 November 2015, students from 12 countries talked to BMW experts about challenges and solutions of urban mobility. In addition, high-level company representatives took part in a variety of conferences and meetings. Among others Peter Schwarzenbauer, Board member of BMW AG, spoke at the Sustainable Innovation Forum 2015 in Paris Focus on urban mobility: the BMW Group Student Forum at the 2015 about challenges and potential solutions for urban mobility. Climate Change Conference in Paris. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 14 Search Introduction Sustainability ratings 2015 F 1.02 Ratings 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Evaluation and results The BMW Group again reached first place in the In the > CDP , the BMW Group achieved for the third In 2015, the BMW Group was again listed on automotive industry on the > Dow Jones Sustainability consecutive time 100 out of a possible 100 points for > FTSE4Good , an index of the British index family 4 EMPLOYEES Indexes (DJSI) and is now the only automotive company transparent reporting as well as a top mark A for climate on sustainability and corporate governance provided AND SOCIETY that has been listed on the index since the very beginning. protection measures. This makes the BMW Group by FTSE in London. one of only three companies worldwide that have been 5 FUNDAMENTALS awarded an A in the CDP for the sixth time a row. Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index BUSINESS CASE FOR SUSTAINABILITY success in 2015. One indicator that this is the case is that 24,057 BMW i3s and 5,456 BMW i8s were sold in the year Appendix Systematic integration of sustainability into our business under report. At the end of 2015, just under 580,000 custom­ model and along our entire value chain contributes towards ers were registered with our car-sharing service DriveNow the business success of the company. The following sections (2014: over 390,000), an increase of around 50 %. With these and chapters will give some examples that describe in more products and solutions, the BMW Group also helps our detail how sustainability contributes towards the business fleet customers achieve their CO² targets > Chapter 2. success of the BMW Group: –– Reducing costs through resource efficiency Efficient use of resources reduces risks that can be generated –– Achieving a competitive edge through our by availability bottlenecks and fluctuations in price. In ­Efficient ­D ynamics strategy addition, it makes a direct contribution towards the result Strategic corporate planning leads to long-term success. by reducing costs, while at the same time being good for the The competitive edge achieved based on the Efficient environment. Between 2006 and 2015, we were able to signifi­ Dynamics development strategy, which was launched in cantly reduce energy and water consumption, waste and the year 2000, is one of the reasons why in 2015 the VOC emissions per vehicle produced in the BMW Group’s BMW Group had its sixth consecutive record year > Chapter 2. worldwide production network. As a result, we achieved –– Increase revenues through innovative products cost savings of € 8.2 million in 2015 > Chapter 3. and ­mobility services Investments in innovative mobility concepts made a Back considerable contribution towards the company’s business SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 15 Search –– Remaining competitive through sustainable HR policies Introduction In 2015, the BMW Group was able to further consolidate its position as one of the most attractive employers worldwide. 1 STRATEGY Our leading role in the area of sustainability ensures that our employees identify with and are satisfied with the 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES company and its products. The resulting low attrition rate enables us to keep HR recruitment costs low. In addition, 3 PRODUCTION AND it is our experience that a satisfied workforce leads to higher VALUE ­CREATION levels of productivity > Chapter 4. 4 EMPLOYEES –– Savings through Ideas Management AND SOCIETY The Ideas Management system at the BMW Group enables all employees to play a part in change within the company 5 FUNDAMENTALS by contributing their ideas. The ideas submitted result in improvements to the products and processes as well as cost Further key indicators savings. In 2015, around 4,900 ideas were implemented, leading to € 17.5 million in savings. In addition, Ideas GRI G4 Content Index Management improves our competitiveness by, on the one hand, reinforcing loyalty to the company and, on the Appendix other, fostering motivation as well as entrepreneurial thinking and action. –– Fostering innovation by involving employees The Innovationswerk is the BMW Group’s internal consult­ ing company for user-focused innovations. The teams help employees to understand future requirements and to generate innovative products and services that users will love. Special facilities at the research and innovation site in Garching/DE have been set up for work on innovation projects. These allow the project teams to act with empathy and focus in their research work and to optimally apply the tools of design thinking, the lead/extreme user method and strategic consulting. GRI G4-2 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 16 Search 1.0 Headline lorem ipsum dolor sit amet Sustainability throughout the entire life cycle F 1.03 Introduction Vehicle development Key measures 1 STRATEGY 1. 1. – Alternative Drive Concepts – Efficient Dynamics 2 PRODUCTS – Design for Recycling AND ­SERVICES – Life Cycle Engineering 4. 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 2. – Sustainability Standards for Suppliers Vehicle – Clean Production 4 EMPLOYEES life cycle – Green Logistic Concepts AND SOCIETY Vehicle recycling Vehicle production 3. – Concepts for Fuel-efficient Driving 5 FUNDAMENTALS 2. – Active and Passive Safety – Traffic Management Concepts Further key indicators – Mobility Services GRI G4 Content Index 3. – Alternative Engines Vehicle utilisation 4. – Take-back Systems Appendix – Recycling Concepts A large part of the environmental and social impact caused by a vehicle We aim to achieve a substantial improvement from one vehicle generation throughout its life cycle is determined during the initial development stage. to the next. We manage the implementation of the goals and evaluation of Some of the main influencing factors are material selection, production progress by applying the Life Cycle Assessment in accordance with technologies, supplier selection, engine type, as well as the recyclability of ISO 14040/44. The latest example of this is the new BMW 7 Series. the vehicle’s components. Challenging sustainability goals are therefore Systematic optimisation of the drivetrain as well as more efficient use of just as much part of the development process of the vehicle as, for resources in materials and production led to a reduction of 25 % in example, cost or weight criteria. The basis for this is holistic accounting, greenhouse gas potential (measured in CO² equivalents) throughout which evaluates the impact of our products along the entire life cycle the entire life cycle of this vehicle, compared to the previous model. in terms of environmental, economic and social criteria. In line with our principle of Design for Recycling, we create our vehicles We use Life Cycle Engineering to increasingly integrate environmental in such a way that their components can largely be reused or recycled aspects into the design and development of our products. efficently throughout the life cycle. GRI G4-EN27 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 17 PRODUCTS Introduction 1 STRATEGY AND ­SERVICES 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 2.1 CO² emissions 2.2 Electromobility 2.3 Mobility patterns 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix 2 Search Relevance for BMW Group Introduction For us, sustainable mobility begins with the development of 1 STRATEGY efficient vehicles with low emissions. In doing this, we comply 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES both with stricter legislation worldwide and our customers’ 2.1 CO² emissions 2.2 Electromobility increasing awareness of environmental issues. With innovative 2.3 Mobility patterns electric and hybrid drivetrains as well as smart services, we are 3 PRODUCTION AND shaping the mobility of the future. Our autonomous driving VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES technologies contribute towards sustainable and safe mobility AND SOCIETY for our customers and other road users. 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 19 Search Key facts and figures Introduction CO² emissions of BMW Group Automobiles DriveNow users (number) (EU‑28) (in g/km) 579,000 1 STRATEGY 127 2015 2 PRODUCTS 2015 AND ­SERVICES 395,000 2.1 CO² emissions 2014 2.2 Electromobility 2.3 Mobility patterns 2014 130 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Sales of BMW i vehicles (number) 29,513 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 2015 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index 2014 17,793 Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 20 CO² emissions Sustainability goal Products By 2020, the BMW Group will have reduced CO² emissions in the European new vehicle and ­services fleet (EU-28) by at least 50 % compared to the base year 1995. DriveNow: more and more BMW i3s are available for customers to use in the car-sharing fleets. Search 2.1 CO² emissions Due to climate change issues and ever scarcer resources, Global CO² regulation Introduction we reduce the CO² emissions of our vehicles on an ongoing basis. We start accounting for reduction targets from the Medium to long-term targets to reduce fuel consumption and CO² emis­ 1 STRATEGY product development stage onwards. Our range of efficiency sions from vehicles have already been set in Europe, North America, technologies represents the first and currently most effective Japan, China and other countries. However, the targets cannot be 2 PRODUCTS component in the reduction of CO² emissions. GRI G4-EC2 directly compared on an international level, as the calculation cycles AND ­SERVICES in the individual countries are different, and segment and drivetrain 2.1 CO² emissions Statutory emissions limits pose a considerable challenge mixes also tend to vary considerably. 2.2 Electromobility to the automotive industry worldwide. Almost all of the cars we sell are subject to varying national climate protection Europe set a target average of 130 g CO²/km to be reached by 2015 2.3 Mobility patterns for all new vehicles sold. The EU regulation defined its targets for regulations in the individual countries. These regulations may continue to become more stringent, leading to difficult CO² emissions based on vehicle weight. For the BMW Group, this meant 3 PRODUCTION AND a target of below 140 g CO²/km. The regulations stipulate that the VALUE ­CREATION market conditions. European new vehicle fleet of all manufacturers must achieve an Between 1995 and 2015, we were able to reduce CO² emis­ average of 95 g CO²/km by 2020. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY sions of our newly sold vehicles in Europe (EU -28) by 40 % In the USA, consumption and CO² targets have been set through to 2025. > Table 2.01. Average fuel consumption in 2015 was 5.7 litres 5 FUNDAMENTALS Based on a gradual reduction starting in model year 2012, the new vehicle of petrol per 100 kilometres and 4.7 litres of diesel per fleet of all manufacturers must achieve an average of 250 g CO²/mile 100 kilometres. In Europe (EU -28), average emissions were Further key indicators (155 g CO²/km) by model year 2016 and 163 g CO²/mile (101 g CO²/km) 127 g CO²/km (internal BMW calculation, not yet officially by model year 2025. These targets have also been calculated based on confirmed by the European Commission). GRI G4-EN7, GRI G4-EN17, GRI G4 Content Index vehicles sold. GRI G4 EN27 In 2015, 86 of our models had maximum CO ² emissions of 120 g/km. This means that we have similar fuel Japan also set ambitious targets for reducing fuel consumption. For 2020, Appendix consumption and CO² emissions in Europe as a number a consumption target of 20.3 km/l was set – this is equivalent to a CO² of other large carmakers. The average fleet CO² emissions emissions level of 117 g CO²/km. per kilometre worldwide decreased in 2015 by 3.3 % to 147 g CO²/km (2014: 152 g CO²/km). Average CO² emissions In China, the fuel efficiency of the vehicle fleet is regulated. For 2020, in the USA were 170 g CO²/km (internal BMW calculation, an average consumption target of 5 litres per 100 kilometres has been not yet officially confirmed by the Environmental Protection set. Discussions about subsequent regulation have already begun. In Agency EPA) and in China 170 g CO²/km. The regional addition, weight-based consumption limits have been set for individual ­d ifferences in fleet use are a result of differing consumer vehicles. behaviour, which is in turn due to a variety of factors. These include differing tax situations for different types of Above and beyond national regulations, measures are increasingly being vehicle engines, as well as local consumer preferences taken on regional and municipal levels. Varying requirements for drivetrain for diesel vehicles or specific types of vehicles such as SUVs. technologies in particular will start to have considerable influence on GRI G4 EN19 product strategy (e.g. the Californian Zero Emission Vehicle (ZEV) programme or the limits on registration plates in Chinese metropolises). Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 22 Search SAVING FUEL AND REDUCING EMISSIONS Introduction Our Efficient Dynamics Technologies are not just optional 1 STRATEGY extras for niche or special models but have been gradually introduced as standard components in every new vehicle 2 PRODUCTS since March 2007. These include efficient engines and gear­ AND ­SERVICES boxes, optimised aerodynamics (air flap control, air curtain/ 2.1 CO² emissions breather, Aero wheel rims), intelligent energy management, 2.2 Electromobility lightweight design, forward-looking drive control, connec­ tivity services for low-consumption and shortest routes, 2.3 Mobility patterns the Auto Start Stop function, brake energy regeneration, and tyres with reduced rolling resistance. GRI G4EN27 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY ECO PRO mode in BMW models: greater fuel economy and lower emissions through optimised vehicle efficiency settings. 5 FUNDAMENTALS Development of CO² emissions of BMW Group cars in Europe T 2.01 Further key indicators (Index: 1995 = 100; Basis: Fleet consumption of newly registered cars in Europe [EU-15] measured on the basis of the New European Driving Cycle in accordance with the ACEA self-commitment) 110                     GRI G4 Content Index 105                     100                     Appendix 95                     90                     85                     80                     75                     70                     65                     60                     55                                                                 98  99  00  01  02  03  04  05  06  07  08  09¹  10  11  12  13  14  15     101.0 98.6 96.7 96.7 92.9 92.9 94.8 90.0 88.6 80.0 73.3 71.4 70.0 69.0 66.0 63.0 62.0 60.0  1 M easured only on EU-27 basis from 2009 onwards and on EU-28 basis from 2014 onwards. Back GRI G4-EN17 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 23 Search As well as reducing the carbon emissions of our cars, we are Product responsibility in BMW Group vehicle projects F 2.01 Introduction constantly working to bring down other emissions. The Euro 6 standards call for a further reduction in nitrogen oxide (NOx ) 1 STRATEGY Management Board levels for diesel vehicles. We apply the best implemen­tation concept in accordance with the specific requirements of the 2 PRODUCTS vehicles, engines and markets. Depending on the vehicle Targets AND ­SERVICES Reporting concept, we use the maintenance-free NOx catalytic converter 2.1 CO² emissions or Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) using urea (also known Executive units product responsibility 2.2 Electromobility as AdBlue) or a combination of both systems. To close the gap ( e. g. Efficient Dynamics strategy ) in emissions measurements between test and real conditions, 2.3 Mobility patterns a new testing cycle ( WLTP – Worldwide Harmonized Light 3 PRODUCTION AND Vehicles Test Procedures) and a new emis­sions test for real Vehicle projects VALUE ­CREATION driving situations (Real Driving Emissions RDE) are cur­ rently being developed. We support the rapid introduction of the new regulations in order to create trans­parency for Coordinating units complete vehicle 4 EMPLOYEES ( e. g. Efficient Dynamics unit ) AND SOCIETY consumers and for the industry as soon as possible. Requirements 5 FUNDAMENTALS Measures TAKING ACCOUNT OF CO ² TARGETS IN Further key indicators ­PRODUCT ­DEVELOPMENT Specialist departments Drivetrain – chassis – body – electrics/electronics/cockpit GRI G4 Content Index The above-mentioned aspects of product responsibility are an integral part of the target systems and organisational Appendix process­es of our vehicle development units > Figure 2.01. This process entails the BMW Group defining specific CO² targets for each product line and each new vehicle project. A department within the Strategy unit is responsible for monitoring and further developing these targets. The Complete Vehicle Architecture unit coordinates the development and implementation of fuel-saving technologies in the individual vehicle projects. This ensures that the market-specific fleet requirements are taken into consideration in the very early stages of vehicle development and are subject to Efficient Dynamics measures during the development process. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 24 Search DIGITAL ENERGY SOLUTIONS – DRIVING FORWARD Introduction THE ENERGY TRANSITION 1 STRATEGY In order to be a participant in the energy market of the future and to help drive forward the energy transition, the 2 PRODUCTS BMW Group founded a joint venture called Digital Energy AND ­SERVICES Solutions in collaboration with Viessmann. The main aim of 2.1 CO² emissions this business model is to identify and create energy flexibility 2.2 Electromobility and to provide digitally based, operationally optimised man­ agement of this energy for small and medium-sized enter­ 2.3 Mobility patterns prises from the industrial and trades sectors. Customers benefit from this in three ways: their energy costs are optimised 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION holistically, their CO² footprint is reduced sustainably and they can be sure of improved security of supply at their 4 EMPLOYEES company locations. The overall aim of the joint venture is to AND SOCIETY achieve the CO² emissions targets in the energy, heat and transport sector at low cost, in particular in Germany. At some 5 FUNDAMENTALS BMW locations, e. g. at the Leipzig/DE and Eisenach/DE plants and at the Research and Innovation Center in Munich/ DE, Further key indicators the BMW Group has been using this business model since 2015 to sell its flexible capacity from the heat and power it GRI G4 Content Index generates in-house. Appendix FORECAST In 2016, we will continue to expand the integration of our efficient technologies into the fleet, thus further reducing fleet emissions. However, the drop in fuel prices and the accompanying changes in customer demand will present some challenges with regard to achieving the 2020 fleet targets. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 25 Electromobility Sustainability goal Products The BMW Group is the leader in taking a and ­services holistic approach to premium electromobility. Electrification: charging a BMW ActiveE. Search 2.2 Electromobility In order to further reduce CO² emissions in our new vehicle LEVERAGING FURTHER POTENTIAL WITH PLUG-IN Introduction fleet, to improve the air quality in cities and, in particular, HYBRID DRIVETRAINS to be able to offer our customers an entirely new, dynamic 1 STRATEGY driving experience, we have been adding electric vehicles to Plug-in hybrid models use up to 50 % less fuel than their our model range. We started to do this in 2013 when we combustion-powered equivalents. Typical commutes during 2 PRODUCTS introduced the fully electric BMW i3, followed by the plug-in the week, for example, could be driven in electric mode, AND ­SERVICES hybrid vehicle BMW i8 in 2014. In 2015 and 2016, we will add while longer journeys can also be covered using the 2.1 CO² emissions four new plug-in hybrid vehicles in the medium and luxury combustion engine. 2.2 Electromobility categories to our range. 2.3 Mobility patterns The market for electric vehicles is growing, but in overall ZERO-EMISSIONS LOCAL DRIVING WITH numbers it remains relatively small. To help our customers ­E LECTRIC ­DRIVETRAINS 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION become used to the idea of electromobility, we offer plug-in hybrid vehicles that, in contrast to purely electric vehicles, Since 2007, our BMW i project has been developing com­ 4 EMPLOYEES enable both electrically powered commutes and also longpletely new concepts for individual mobility as well as vehicle AND SOCIETY distance capabilities, when required. At the same time we architecture and production that integrate our sustainable are introducing BMW i3 vehicles into our DriveNow fleet. solutions in an even more innovative fashion along the entire 5 FUNDAMENTALS value chain. Another key factor for the success of electromobility is suffi­ Further key indicators cient availability of (fast) charging points. The BMW Group is The resulting models of the BMW i brand do not simply replace working in China, the EU and the USA to expand the neces­ the combustion engine with an electric one or add an electric GRI G4 Content Index sary charging infrastructure – both for private customers as engine (conversion approach). What we did from the very well as in public spaces. With ChargeNow, BMW i drivers beginning was to plan new and independent vehicle concepts Appendix can easily find one of 38,000 public charging points in a large (purpose-built approach) in order to exploit the full potential and constantly growing network worldwide. of the new drivetrain technology and make it practicable for customers. This includes intelligent lightweight design using Positive political framework conditions can also make an carbon-fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP) and a host of new important contribution towards a breakthrough for electro­ materials, as well as highly resource-efficient and at the same mobility. This has become clear in fast-growing electromobility time environmentally friendly production methods. The result markets such as Norway. For this reason, the BMW Group is visionary vehicles that represent an ideal balance between is working with partners from government, industry and emissions, range and driving enjoyment. This is how BMW i society to improve framework conditions: for example in creates the basis for a considerable reduction in CO² emissions the Nationale Plattform Elektromobilität (NPE) in Germany, throughout the entire product life cycle. The BMW i value in the Foreign Expert Panel of a high-level advisory commit­ chain stands out for its consistent use of renewable energy tee for the Chinese central government as well as in sources – from the manufacture of energy-intensive materials the > PEV Collaborative in California, which addresses issues such as CFRP and aluminium, to vehicle production, right up around market access and of which the BMW Group was to the BMW Green Energy package we offer our customers Back a founding member. when they purchase their vehicle. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 27 Search Using renewable energy to charge electric vehicles Electric scooters for more sustainable urban mobility Introduction An electric car can only reach its full sustainability potential We launched our electric scooter in 2014. The fully electri­c­ when it runs on electricity that is as carbon-neutral as possible. ally powered scooter produces 47.5 hp with a range of 1 STRATEGY We estimate that around three-quarters of all electric vehicle 100 km. It is designed to be a “commuting vehicle” for travel owners in Germany recharge their vehicles at home using between the outskirts and the city centre. The main focus 2 PRODUCTS renewable energy sources. here is on two requirements: firstly, that performance is AND ­SERVICES comparable to that of a combustion-powered maxi-scooter, 2.1 CO² emissions BMW i customers in Germany can benefit in this regard from and secondly, that it has a long range in practice. 2.2 Electromobility the BMW Group’s strategic partnership with > ­Naturstrom AG . This gives BMW i customers the option of purchasing a suit­ Increasing range with hydrogen and fuel cells 2.3 Mobility patterns able green electricity package for charging their electric As an alternative to developing purely electric drivetrains, we vehicles. We also have a partnership with Solarwatt, a com­ are also doing research into hydrogen fuel cell technology, 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION pany that manufactures solar modules for surfaces like with a view to developing further long-term solutions for carports and house roofs. This allows customers themselves long-distance emissions-free driving. Here, hydrogen is used 4 EMPLOYEES to produce green energy to recharge their > BMW i3 or > BMW i8 as an energy source that is converted by the fuel cell into AND SOCIETY in their own homes. electricity and water. The BMW Group is collaborating with the Toyota Motor Corporation in this area. 5 FUNDAMENTALS The BMW i Green Energy products now provide customers in 15 countries with support in the use of energy from renew­ Further key indicators able sources. Ten providers of green energy as well as four manufacturers of solar energy systems for carports, house FORECAST GRI G4 Content Index and garage roofs are among the companies the BMW Group We will continue to offer innovative solutions for the diverse has partnerships with in this area. mobility needs of our customers. We are deliberately focusing our Appendix efforts on building a broad technology base so that in the coming Recycling batteries to improve our carbon footprint years we can offer tailored solutions worldwide for different Instead of being recycled, batteries that are too old for in-­ individual mobility needs. We will gradually integrate the plug-in vehicle use are reused for stationary energy storage. During hybrid technology from the > BMW i8 into the BMW 2 Series, this “second life”, they help us to integrate renewable energy BMW 3 Series, BMW 7 Series and BMW X5 models. into the power grid and reduce overall energy costs. BMW has demonstrated the technical and economic feasibility of this approach by introducing a large number of pilot systems in Europe, Asia and the USA. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 28 Mobility patterns Sustainability goal Products The BMW Group will have permanently and ­services changed mobility patterns in selected metropolitan areas by 2020 through the introduction of integrated mobility services. DriveNow: find and book vehicles with an app. Search 2.3 Mobility patterns We want to offer safe and sustainable individual mobility in Opportunities and challenges of digitalisation Introduction premium quality. We are meeting the challenges of urban mobility, not only by making changes in the vehicles but also We see digitalisation as an area that is bringing huge change to 1 STRATEGY with mobility services. In addition, our safety technologies the automotive industry and which will be even more challenging than and smart driving technologies promote sustainable and safe the introduction of electromobility. 2 PRODUCTS mobility for our customers and other road users. The main AND ­SERVICES We are getting ready for a world in which Connectivity, i.e. digitally driver of these new opportunities is the digitalisation of our 2.1 CO² emissions business model. networked vehicles, will be just as important to customers as aspects like vehicle design. We already offer a traffic jam avoidance service, 2.2 Electromobility We are convinced that digitalisation can make a key contri­ RTTI (Real Time Traffic Information) and a certain degree of auto­ 2.3 Mobility patterns bution to the sustainable design of urban mobility. What is mated driving in stop-and-go traffic. In five to ten years, our vehicle the future of individual mobility in cities with increasingly generations will offer a much broader range of services than they 3 PRODUCTION AND do today, for example business trip organisation or hotel bookings. VALUE ­CREATION dense populations? What concepts are needed in order to make mobility climate-friendly and easy on resources? In And vehicles will be able to find the closest parking spaces and park order to answer these questions from an even more strategic themselves. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY perspective and in dialogue with our stakeholders, we To find the best mode of transport to get from A to B in a specific founded the Center of Competence for Urban Mobility in 5 FUNDAMENTALS situation, the “GoNow @ BMW Group” pilot project developed 2015. This interdisciplinary team was given the task of an intermodal navigation mobility app in 2105 for BMW Group working with cities and local stakeholders to develop and Further key indicators employees at our location in Munich/DE. promote solutions for urban mobility. For example, we established an e-alliance partnership with the City of GRI G4 Content Index Munich/DE, which will take strategic approaches towards improving the framework conditions necessary for market OFFERING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY SERVICES Appendix success, for example by entering into public-private partner­ ON A GLOBAL SCALE ships to finance and operate charging infrastructure. It will also, however, carry out a non-monetary function by Our BMW i brand offers innovative services that enhance promot­i ng the application of legislation that privileges urban mobility – both with and without a car > Figure 2.02. electromobility. Similar agreements have also been made in Hamburg/DE and Berlin/ DE. The corresponding action Promoting premium car-sharing with electromobility plans will be developed and implemented in 2016. In Since 2011, the BMW Group and Sixt SE have been offering addition, further talks are being held with other cities in their joint venture car-sharing service > DriveNow . We are Europe and beyond. also integrating electric vehicles into the range of cars available from DriveNow. For example, in 2015 we intro­ duced over 800 > BMW i3 vehicles into our car-sharing fleets worldwide (400 of which were in Copenhagen/ DK). By 31 December 2015, DriveNow had a total of around 490,000 customers in Germany and around 580,000 worldwide Back (in 2014: over 390,000 worldwide). SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 30 Search Introduction BMW Group mobility services for different user groups F 2.02 1 STRATEGY BMW and MINI-related Car-related Mobility-related 2 PRODUCTS Vehicle-related service for BMW and MINI drivers Vehicle-independent service for car users in general Smartphone user service, independent of brands and vehicles AND ­SERVICES 2.1 CO² emissions * * 2.2 Electromobility 2.3 Mobility patterns 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators Creating sustainable parking patterns with ParkNow worldwide. The BMW Group also offers an installation GRI G4 Content Index > ParkNow is an appand Web-based service that is fundamen­ service that checks whether the BMW i Wallbox Pure can be tally changing parking patterns. First, it makes the parking installed at the customer’s home. If requested, the qualified Appendix space situation in a city more transparent. And it also allows on-site electrician from our partner installation company users to book their parking space in advance and then be can also deliver, install, start-up and provide instructions guided directly to their selected spot. So ParkNow users are on how to use the system. 360° ELECTRIC also includes also protecting the environment and avoiding stress as the Assistance Services with connected drive services designed tiresome traffic caused by drivers having to search for specifically for electromobility, as well as further service parking spaces is no longer generated. and repair offers. Creating convenient electromobility with BMW i In addition, BMW Add-on Mobility gives customers access 360° ­ELECTRIC and ChargeNow to conventional BMW or MINI vehicles for long-distance One example of our holistic approach to electromobility is travel as well as to the car-sharing service DriveNow. 360° our ­> 360 ° ­ELECTRIC product and service package. It includes ELECTRIC thus provides easy and convenient electromobil­ recharging both at home with the BMW i Wallbox and on the ity in virtually any situation. go at public charging points that accept > ChargeNow – a recharge card that currently enables access and payment at Back 38,000 public charging points installed by various providers SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 31 Search PROMOTING SAFETY IN ALL AREAS Using safe materials Introduction In the early development phase, we evaluate the potential As a provider of premium products, safety is fundamental materials to be used in a product in order to determine their 1 STRATEGY to the BMW Group’s sense of product responsibility. This goes risk potential and eliminate any problematic materials from for our customers’ safety as well as that of other road users. the outset. This ensures that all legislation with regard to 2 PRODUCTS product safety, health and the environment is complied with AND ­SERVICES Reducing accidents through active and passive safety systems worldwide for every phase of the vehicle life cycle (from 2.1 CO² emissions Active safety includes perfect chassis tuning, optimal traction development to utilisation, and right up to the recycling 2.2 Electromobility and effective brakes. Electronic chassis control systems as well stage). People with nickel allergies, for example, will be as a range of driver assistance systems also contribute towards happy to hear that there are no exposed nickel surfaces in 2.3 Mobility patterns preventing accidents. In addition, a number of passive safety current BMW vehicles. systems in our vehicles keep road users safe and save lives 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION every day. These include energy absorbing crumple zones, Due to our internal commitment to Responsible Care, the safety passenger cells, belt systems and airbags. BMW Group has been collaborating with independent toxi­ 4 EMPLOYEES cologists since the 1990s to measure emissions in vehicle AND SOCIETY In addition, driver safety training courses ensure the safety interiors, in order to ensure that the targets set by the of road users. Today the BMW and MINI Driving Experience experts are met in all new vehicles. 5 FUNDAMENTALS programme offers some 50 different training courses in over 30 countries worldwide for BMW and MINI cars and Further key indicators BMW motor­c ycles, with over 26,000 participants in 2015 SMART VEHICLES FOR MORE SAFETY AND in Germany alone. ­E NVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GRI G4 Content Index Guaranteeing product and service information for customers BMW ConnectedDrive is a package of intelligent technol­ Appendix Information on the safety of our vehicles and on protecting ogies that interconnect the driver, vehicle occupants, the the health and safety of our customers can be found in the vehicle itself and the environment. The system is based on in-vehicle operating manuals, in printed form or as an app, the two pillars of driver assistance systems (comfort and and they are also available on the Internet. This is comple­ safety functions) and services (infotainment and mobility mented by vehicle signage and additional background infor­ products). mation on services, accessories and components. BMW i ConnectedDrive Services, for example, uses the The BMW Group is obliged by the applicable legislation to Intermodal Routing service to find public transport, free inform customers about the proper use of its products and parking spaces close to the respective stop and any bicycles services as well as any potential risks and hazards. In the available from Call a Bike – the bike rental system of European Union, for example, we report on the fuel economy Deutsche Bahn AG. In this way, the BMW Group makes of our vehicles based on the NEDC (New European Driving an active contribution towards increasing intermodal Cycle). We also publish information on fuel consumption mobility in cities. and CO² emissions for each vehicle model on the websites Back of the individual brands. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 32 Search With the products and services provided by the navigation identify potential weak points and close security gaps even Introduction service HERE, which we purchased in cooperation with other before the components are approved. We turn newly emerg­ carmakers in 2015, we are taking an important next step ing knowledge into binding standards on an ongoing basis 1 STRATEGY towards further smart networks. A wide range of maps and in order to provide the greatest possible protection against state-of-the-art understanding of location-based services as manipulation, both with regard to access to control devices 2 PRODUCTS well as secure processing of private data form the basis on as well as external penetration of vehicle interfaces. AND ­SERVICES which HERE will expand its growth in future. HERE will 2.1 CO² emissions remain open for all customers and other investors, in order Personal data of our customers is only collected, processed 2.2 Electromobility to broaden the shareholder base. or used if this is legally permissible, or with the consent of the person in question. In addition, we invest in technical 2.3 Mobility patterns Safe driving with driver assistance systems measures to protect the data. Driver assistance systems play an important role in making 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION driving safer by providing a second set of eyes to observe To protect employee data, the BMW Group successfully what is happening on the road in order to warn and support completed the approval process for the Binding Corporate 4 EMPLOYEES the driver. These systems are now available for all models, Rules (BCR) in 2014. The BCR guarantee a statutory data AND SOCIETY from MINI to all BMWs, right up to the Rolls-Royce models. privacy standard that must be implemented and complied Driver assistance systems that enable partially automated with by BMW AG and all its international subsidiaries. 5 FUNDAMENTALS driving are already integrated into BMW 7 Series vehicles. Drivers themselves decide in each situation what they want Further key indicators to use. One example is Driving Assistant Plus with a steering PROMOTING INNOVATIVE MOBILITY CONCEPTS and lane control assistant as well as remote-controlled GRI G4 Content Index parking. The lane control assistant with side collision In order to create ideal conditions for the use and promotion protection not only ensures that the car does not leave its of innovative mobility services, the BMW Group founded Appendix lane but also actively controls the steering wheel to avoid > BMW i Ventures to invest in innovative start-up companies. accidents caused by vehicles approaching from the side. Our partners benefit from our many years of experience, our These systems are an important step towards highly reach and our broad network of established brands. automated driving, the aim being to increase safety, convenience and efficiency in the future. BMW i Ventures has made 14 investments so far. In 2014/15, these included: The next goal for the BMW Group to achieve by 2020 is to enable highly automated driving on European motorways, –– > Zendrive for lower-cost driving with all the challenges this entails, such as crossing country Drawing upon mobile technologies and large data volumes, borders or driving through roadworks. Zendrive provides driver-specific analyses of the economy of the driving style, for example. The driver can access these Preventing manipulation and ensuring data protection analyses at any time. In order to prevent system manipulation, we have a clear procedure in place that forms an integral part of our develop­ Back ment work. Methodically executed “penetration tests” SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 33 Search –– Intermodal route planning with > Moovit Introduction FORECAST The Moovit app integrates comprehensive information on bus, tram and subway schedules by using the timetable We will continue to work on intelligent networking of mobility 1 STRATEGY services, vehicles and infrastructure in order to make urban data of local transport companies as well as real-time data and live information from the “Moovit Community”. mobility more flexible, convenient and sustainable. 2 PRODUCTS Digitalisation will lower entry barriers to the sector, and there are AND ­SERVICES –– > ZIRX on-demand parking service new competitors with offerings such as vehicles with driver 2.1 CO² emissions Users can enter their destination into the ZIRX smartphone assistance systems and mobility services. With its strong brands 2.2 Electromobility app. When they arrive, a ZIRX agent will be there to park and innovative solutions such as connected drive, the BMW Group the car. While the car is parked, users can book additional is well prepared for this competition. In addition, digitalisation 2.3 Mobility patterns services via the ZIRX app. also comes with new vehicle safety challenges. By complying with the relevant standards, we aim to consistently meet these 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION challenges, thus maintaining our customers’ trust. RESEARCHING THE MOBILITY OF THE FUTURE 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Placing the focus of research on mobility in megacities worldwide In 2015, the > Institute for Mobility Research (ifmo) carried out 5 FUNDAMENTALS a project on the topic of “New Utilisation Concepts for Individual Mobility” to analyse how car-sharing is changing Further key indicators user mobility patterns. The research found that the average number of kilometres driven per person each year had GRI G4 Content Index dropped. Furthermore, the vehicles were used more efficiently. Appendix In another project, the ifmo is currently investigating the long-term effects on mobility patterns of a fully automated vehicle fleet. Sustainable Mobility Project – working together to shape urbanity Under the auspices of the > World Business Council for Sustainable Development ( WBCSD) , the BMW Group participated in the > Sustainable Mobility Project 2.0 from 2013 to 2015. In this project, global and cross-sectoral groups of mobility-related companies came together with selected city governments to promote sustainable urban mobility, define tracking indicators and identify solutions. You will find further information and data on products and Back services here > Further key indicators. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 34 PRODUCTION AND Introduction 1 STRATEGY VALUE CREATION 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption of resources 3.2 Renewable energy 3.3 ­Sustainable, ­resource-efficient ­supply chain 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix 3 Search Relevance for BMW Group Introduction Climate change, scarce resources and social inequality are some of 1 STRATEGY the greatest challenges facing society today. In order to fulfil our 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES vision of being the most sustainable premium manufacturer, we are 3 PRODUCTION AND continuously reducing CO² emissions and resources used per vehicle VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption produced, as well as increasing our use of renewable energy sources of resources 3.2 Renewable energy to supply our locations worldwide. In addition, we foster transparency, 3.3 ­Sustainable, resource efficiency and the implementation of environmental and ­resource-efficient ­supply chain social standards in our supply chain. In doing this, we are making a 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY contribution towards solving the challenges faced by society, and are 5 FUNDAMENTALS at the same time reducing both risk and production costs. Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 36 Search Key facts and figures Introduction Share of renewable energy purchased from CO² emissions per vehicle produced 1 STRATEGY ­third parties (in % ) (in t/vehicle) 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND 2015 58 2015 0.57 VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption 2014 51 2014 0.66 of resources 3.2 Renewable energy 3.3 ­Sustainable, Energy consumption per vehicle produced Waste for disposal per vehicle produced ­resource-efficient (in MWh/vehicle) (in kg/vehicle) 2.19 4.00 ­supply chain 4 EMPLOYEES 2015 2015 AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators 2014 2.25 2014 4.93 GRI G4 Content Index Water consumption per vehicle produced Share of production-relevant purchasing volume Appendix (in m³/vehicle) in the CDP Supply Chain Programme (in %) 2015 2.24 2015 53 2014 2.18 2014 45 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 37 Consumption of resources Sustainability goal Production and The BMW Group will reduce its resource consumption (energy, water, waste, solvents) ­value ­creation per vehicle produced by 45 % by 2020 (base year 2006). Environmentally friendly energy generation: the methane gas plant in the US BMW Group plant in Spartanburg. Search 3.1 Consumption of resources We apply an environmental management system in order to in accordance with a national standard, all of our production Introduction continuously reduce the energy required to produce our locations, German dealerships, as well as six others in Europe ­vehicles, CO² emissions and raw materials. As a result we (Vienna/AT, Zurich/CH, Rome/ IT, Milan/ IT, Madrid/ ES and 1 STRATEGY reduce our environmental impact, make a contribution Barcelona/ES) are now certified in accordance with ISO 14001 2 PRODUCTS towards climate protection and save on scarce resources. At > Further key indicators. AND ­SERVICES the same time we reduce our production costs. Environmental improvements that have been effective at one 3 PRODUCTION AND Since 2006, we have reduced our use of energy and water, location are implemented at other locations wherever possible. VALUE CREATION waste and waste water as well as solvents and CO² emissions Our six competence centres (for water, waste, energy, emis­ from vehicle production per vehicle produced by an average sions, training and the environmental management system) 3.1 Consumption of 48.1 % > Table 3.01. are staffed by environmental experts from the different plants of resources and by specialists from Corporate Environmental Protection. 3.2 Renewable energy They discuss legal requirements and best-practice solutions Improvement in resource consumption and emissions T 3.01 3.3 ­Sustainable, from vehicle production since 2006 with technology experts from the production plants and ­resource-efficient develop reference systems on which to base future planning ­supply chain Energy consumption  − 36.0 %  and process improvements. Water consumption  − 31.3 %  4 EMPLOYEES Process waste water  − 45.1 %  AND SOCIETY Waste for disposal  − 78.9 %  INTELLIGENT APPLICATION OF RAW MATERIALS Solvent emissions  − 51.4 %  ­T HROUGHOUT THE LIFE CYCLE OF OUR VEHICLES 5 FUNDAMENTALS CO² emissions  − 45.7 %  In the early stages of vehicle development, the decisions our Further key indicators designers and engineers make, including the materials and In 2015, utilisation of resources and emissions per vehicle components they select, will determine the resource efficiency GRI G4 Content Index produced were reduced by an average of 7.0 % compared of our vehicles. We use Life Cycle Engineering to increasingly with the previous year, yielding savings of € 8.2 million. integrate environmental aspects into the design and develop­ Appendix ment of our products > Figure 1.01. Environmental protection is part of our sustainability manage­ ment system. When we signed the > International Declaration on Cleaner Production of the United Nations Environment Programme in 2001, we expressly committed to keeping the environmental impact and resource consumption of our production activities as low as possible. The BMW Group has thus established environmental manage­ ment systems at all of its existing production plants and plans to install them at all future facilities. With the exception of Back the motorcycle production in Manaus/BR, which is certified SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 39 Search Using secondary and renewable raw materials Together with its sales organisations in each country, the Introduction Secondary raw materials are finding more and more applica­ BMW Group has installed recovery systems for end-of-life tions in our vehicles. Up to 20 % of the thermoplastic materials vehicles in 30 countries and offers vehicle owners environ­ 1 STRATEGY in our automobiles are already made from recyclates (2012: mentally friendly vehicle recycling at dedicated recovery 2 PRODUCTS up to 15 %, 2013 and 2014: up to 20 %). These materials centres. GRI G4 EN27, GRI G4 EN28 AND ­SERVICES account for an average of 12 % of vehicle weight > Tabelle 3.14. The increas­i ng proportion of recyclates used shows how In 2015, the legally required recycling rate for end-of-life 3 PRODUCTION AND successful our efforts to complete material cycles in our vehicles, components and materials in the EU and South Korea VALUE CREATION vehicles have been. Wherever it makes technical, business was raised to 95 % overall recovery (85 % reuse and recycling and environmental sense and is socially acceptable, we replace of materials). We laid the groundwork for this early on: 3.1 Consumption technical primary materials with natural, renewable materials. all BMW Group vehicles brought to market since 2008 already of resources This enables us to make an important contribution towards meet the requirements set for 2015. 3.2 Renewable energy resource efficiency. 3.3 ­Sustainable, At our recycling and disassembly centre, we continuously ­resource-efficient Reducing use of rare earths test new recycling concepts for new vehicle components, ­supply chain Rare earths are key raw materials of a number of components for example for the innovative lightweight material carbonin modern vehicles. How we use rare earths can contribute fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP). 4 EMPLOYEES towards reducing fuel consumption, for example by increas­ AND SOCIETY ing the efficiency of electrical systems. They are among the critical raw materials when it comes to availability risks. 5 FUNDAMENTALS When using them, we carefully balance weight, function and costs. Further key indicators For example, we are working to further develop magnetic GRI G4 Content Index materials in order to reduce the use of rare earths without any negative functional impact. For other components, too, Appendix it has been possible to find alternatives to rare earth ele­ ments which may become scarce. End-of-life vehicle recovery and recycling Established recovery systems for end-of-life vehicles, compo­ nents and materials ensure that they are reintegrated into the raw materials cycle. So we do not consider end-of-life vehicles as waste to be disposed of, but rather as a secondary Modern lightweight design: the carbon-fibre frame for the production of the BMW i3 source of raw materials. at the BMW Group plant in Leipzig. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 40 Search OPTIMISING ENERGY EFFICIENCY compare it against the central company network. It is thus Introduction seamlessly integrated into and complementary to the existing In 2015, we further reduced energy consumption from vehicle energy consumption metering systems within the facility 1 STRATEGY production per vehicle produced to 2.19 MW h. This is an and supply structures. As a result, electricity consumption 2 PRODUCTS improvement of 2.7 % compared to the previous year (2014: can be reduced and at the same time production security and AND ­SERVICES 2.25 MW h) and a reduction of 36.0 % compared to the base product quality can be increased. The development of the year 2006 > Table 3.02. Our measures to reduce energy smart energy data management system is part of the 3 PRODUCTION AND consumption are thus having an effect and we are coming BMW Group’s production concept for Industrie 4.0, and it VALUE CREATION closer to our goal of reducing consumption per vehicle by received funding from the > European Regional Development Fund 45 % by 2020 compared to 2006. GRI G4 EN5, GRI G4 EN6 In ( ERDF ) . 3.1 Consumption of resources addition, the resulting reduction in energy costs in the face of rising energy prices in the medium term makes a signifi­ 3.2 Renewable energy cant contribution towards the BMW Group becoming more SYSTEMATICALLY REDUCING CO ² EMISSIONS 3.3 ­Sustainable, profitable and more competitive. ­resource-efficient Climate change is highly relevant for the BMW Group. ­supply chain Reducing CO² emissions not only makes environmental Energy consumption per vehicle produced¹ T 3.02 sense – it is also a business opportunity for the BMW Group. 4 EMPLOYEES in MWh/vehicle Fewer CO² emissions mean cost savings and competitive AND SOCIETY 3.0        advantage due to less energy consumption and avoidance of 2.8        CO² levies. In addition, many of our fleet customers have 5 FUNDAMENTALS 2.6        high expectations with regard to green car policies. So we 2.4        are reducing CO² emissions both at our own locations as Further key indicators 2.2        well as along the value chain.        GRI G4 Content Index   11  12  13  14  15  Minimising CO² emissions at company locations  CO² emissions at the BMW Group locations are generated Appendix  2.43 2.41 2.36 2.25 2.19  directly from burning fossil fuels (Scope 1 emissions) and indirectly through the company’s electricity and heat consump­ 1 E fficiency indicator = energy consumption from vehicle production (without motorcycles) minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the tion (Scope 2 emissions). We focus on reducing CO² emissions Magna Steyr/AT and Nedcar contract production plants. from our production facilities, which account for around 90 % GRI G4-EN5, GRI G4-EN6 of these Scope 1 and 2 emissions. We are pursuing our vision of CO² -free energy supply at all locations. Smart management of energy data At its locations in Spartanburg/ USA, Leipzig/DE, Regensburg/ DE, Munich/DE and Landshut/DE, the BMW Group employs a smart energy data management system. The system is based on smart electricity meters that continually measure the Back energy consumption of production systems and robots and SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 41 Search Through the use of our eight highly efficient combined heat Reducing CO² emissions in the value chain Introduction and power plants currently in operation, the use of renew­ Both upstream and downstream in the value chain, we contin­ able energy at our production locations as well as improved ually reduce emissions caused by the use and disposal of our 1 STRATEGY energy efficiency, CO² emissions from vehicle production products, in our supply chain, in transport logistics and by 2 PRODUCTS per vehicle produced decreased in the reporting period by employees commuting to and from work (Scope 3). Just over AND ­SERVICES another 13.6 % compared to the previous year, to 0.57 tonnes 70 % of these Scope 3 emissions are generated during the (2014: 0.66 tonnes CO² per vehicle). We see the continuous utilisation phase (not including upstream fuel). With our 3 PRODUCTION AND decrease in CO² emissions per vehicle in recent years as Efficient Dynamics Strategy we are continually reducing the VALUE CREATION proof of the effectiveness of our measures > Table 3.03. average fleet emissions of CO² per kilometre worldwide – in 2015 by 3.3 % to 147 g CO²/km (2014: 152 g CO²/km). 3.1 Consumption of resources CO² emissions per vehicle produced ¹ T 3.03 Another 24 % of the Scope 3 emissions were generated in the 3.2 Renewable energy in t/vehicle upstream supply chain. We constantly work with our suppliers 3.3 ­Sustainable, 0.80        to look for further possibilities to use resources more efficiently ­resource-efficient 0.75        > Chapter 3.3. Around 2 % of the Scope 3 emissions are caused ­supply chain 0.70        by the global transport volume required to supply our produc­ 0.65        tion plants with materials, to deliver our vehicles and to 4 EMPLOYEES 0.60        supply spare parts to the markets. In order to keep these CO² AND SOCIETY 0.55        emissions to an absolute minimum, we work on the principle        “production follows the market”. We are also continually 5 FUNDAMENTALS   11  12  13  14  15  increasing the share of low-carbon modes of transport. For  example, we were able to significantly reduce the share of air Further key indicators  0.75 0.72 0.68 0.66 0.57 ²  freight in overall transport volume in the reporting period. The large number of new vehicles that leave our plants by rail GRI G4 Content Index 1 E fficiency indicator = CO² emissions (from vehicle production, without motorcycles) from Scope 1 also contribute towards lower CO² emissions. We were able and Scope 2 minus CHP losses divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr and Nedcar contract production plants. to keep this number at a high level of 63.1 % (2014: 63.3 %). 2 Calculated using revised emissions factors. If 2014 factors were applied, an improvement of 6.1 % Appendix compared to 2014 would result as well as an improvement of 0.9 % for total emissions from vehicle production including CHP losses. With Design for Recycling, we ensure that as many of the GRI G4-EN18 components as possible flow back into the materials cycle once the vehicle has reached the end of its life cycle. This In 2015, total emissions in our production network amounted leads to lower CO² emissions in the value chain > Introduction. to 1,267,485 tonnes of CO² (2014: 1, 369,877 t). This means that, in spite of an increase in production volume in 2015 com­ pared to 2014, we achieved a decrease in overall CO² emissions in this area. GRI G4-EN18, GRI G4-EN19 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 42 Search Introduction BMW Group CO² footprint T 3.04 in t CO² 1 STRATEGY   11  12  13  14  15   2 PRODUCTS Total emissions¹   2,715,364  61,603,503  64,019,874  66,913,264  68,991,955  AND ­SERVICES Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions  3 PRODUCTION AND Total emissions   450,828  484,612  492,798  494,931  536,168  VALUE CREATION  Emissions of BMW Group locations   370,241  395,012  399,473  403,810  443,575 ²  3.1 Consumption  Company vehicles   76,120  84,633  88,695  85,695  87,358  of resources  Company-owned planes   4,468  4,966  4,630  5,426  5,235  3.2 Renewable energy Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions  3.3 ­Sustainable, Total emissions   858,785  862,214  922,843  966,067  923,313 ³  ­resource-efficient  Electricity/heat purchased by BMW Group locations   858,785  862,214  922,843  966,067  923,313 ³  ­supply chain Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions  4 EMPLOYEES Total emissions   1,405,751  60,256,678  62,604,233  65,452,266  67,532,474  AND SOCIETY  Logistics   1,195,887  1,247,100  1,383,774  1,518,304  1,402,082   Business trips   108,492  111,971  113,388  137,601  138,522  5 FUNDAMENTALS  Employees’ commuter traffic 4   101,372  113,505  122,584  121,428  133,690   Upstream chain5   –  12,592,090  13,274,865  14,331,118  14,886,300  Further key indicators  Utilisation phase 6   –  45,251,958  46,696,786  48,239,470  49,582,958   Disposal 5   –  940,054  1,012,836  1,104,345  1,145,158  GRI G4 Content Index 1 A ddition of emissions from employees’ commuter traffic, from 2012 onwards emissions from supply chain, utilisation phase and disposal as well as from 2015 onwards BMW Group location emissions from BMW Motorrad Berlin/DE and corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE. Climate-relevant gases other than CO² are not included in Scope 1 and 2 emissions. Appendix 2 Figure not directly comparable to previous year due to changes in system boundaries. Emissions from company production locations, including BMW Motorrad Berlin/DE as well as corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE. Application of VDA emissions factors revised in 2015. 3 Figure not directly comparable to previous year due to changes in system boundaries. Emissions from company production locations, including BMW Motorrad Berlin/DE as well as corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE. Market-based emissions in accordance with GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. Application of supplier electricity labelling 2014 in Germany, RE DISS II factors 2013 in UK and AT as well as the VDA factors revised in 2015. Scope 2 emissions calculated using “location-based” method (overall third-party electricity and heat purchased calculated using VDA factors): 1,472,437 t CO². 4 E xtrapolation from the table “Means of transport used by BMW employees and indirect CO² emissions from employees’ commuter traffic”. 5 Thinkstep's LCA tool Gabi calculates emissions from supply chain and disposal processes, based on the carbon footprints of representative vehicles from the product lines (including the climate-relevant gases CO², CH4 , N²O, SF6 , NF³, among others). Corresponding with the CO²e emissions, energy consumption (lower heating value) is calculated based on the environmental footprints. Around 67,850,000 MWh in the supply chain as well as 460.000 MWh at the disposal companies. 6 The fleet emissions are extrapolated from the average fleet emissions of the main sales markets of the BMW Group. The calculation was based on an average mileage of 150,000 km. GRI G4-EN4, GRI G4-EN15, GRI G4-EN16, GRI G4-EN17 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 43 Search Non-recyclable production waste was further reduced in 2015, Introduction to 4.0 kg per vehicle produced (−18.9 % compared to 2014, > Table 3.05). We see this as evidence that our waste reduction 1 STRATEGY efforts have been successful. 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES Waste for disposal per vehicle produced¹ T 3.05 3 PRODUCTION AND in kg/vehicle VALUE CREATION 14.0        12.0        3.1 Consumption 10.0        of resources 8.0        3.2 Renewable energy 6.0        4.0        3.3 ­Sustainable, 2.0        ­resource-efficient        ­supply chain Avoiding waste: waste management employees at the   11  12  13  14  15  US BMW Group plant in Spartanburg.  4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY  8.49 6.47 5.73 4.93 4.00  AVOIDING AND RECYCLING WASTE 1 E fficiency indicator = waste for disposal from vehicle production divided by the total number of vehicles 5 FUNDAMENTALS produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr/AT and Nedcar contract production plants. With raw materials becoming increasingly scarce worldwide, Further key indicators the BMW Group engages in recycling management through­ out material life cycles. We want to reduce all waste to a GRI G4 Content Index minimum, to the extent that it is technically possible. This also makes business sense, because what we think of as Appendix waste is often a valuable resource. We have already achieved our aim of reducing waste volume by 45 % by 2020 compared to the base year 2006. In spite of this, we continue to minimise the share of waste for disposal, and integrate as many residual materials as possible into a complete life cycle management system. We achieve this by improving our waste separation processes and working hard to find further recycling and reuse options for the individual waste types. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 44 Search REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTE WATER Water consumption from vehicle production per vehicle was Introduction 2.24 m³ in 2015. This is a decrease of 31.3 % compared to the Water is becoming an ever scarcer resource. Currently, there base year 2006; however, it is a slight increase compared to 1 STRATEGY is no risk to water supply at the BMW Group’s production the previous year (2014: 2.18 m³). The main reason for this is 2 PRODUCTS plants, even though we are active in countries with high the extremely hot and dry summer worldwide, which led to AND ­SERVICES water risk, such as South Africa, the USA and China. How­ significantly higher water consumption for cooling and air ever, in these countries in particular, we are continuing to humidification. 86 % of the water used by the BMW Group 3 PRODUCTION AND reduce our water consumption in order to help preserve comes from the public drinking water system. The remaining VALUE CREATION this very scarce resource. 14 % is groundwater. We avoid consuming water from sensi­ tive sources (i.e. water from conservation areas). There was no 3.1 Consumption We work on an ongoing basis to implement our vision of such consumption in the reporting period, nor is it planned of resources waste-water-free processes in our production facilities. in the future. 3.2 Renewable energy The three largest water consumers at the BMW Group are 3.3 ­Sustainable, the sanitary facilities for our workforce (45 %), evaporation, In 2015, 0.45 m³ of process waste water was generated per ­resource-efficient mainly in cooling towers (around 35 %), and the production vehicle > Table 3.07. Through continuous improvement of our ­supply chain processes, in particular at the paint shops (20 %). We are plants, in particular the optimisation of our paint shops, a continuously improving our resource efficiency in all three reduction of 4.3 % compared to the previous year was achieved 4 EMPLOYEES areas. (2014: 0.47 m³). This is a reduction of 45.1 % compared to 2006. AND SOCIETY So we have already achieved our savings target for 2020 (45 % reduction compared to 2006). 5 FUNDAMENTALS Water consumption per vehicle produced¹ T 3.06 in m³/vehicle Further key indicators 2.5        Process waste water per vehicle produced¹ T 3.07 2.4        in m³/vehicle GRI G4 Content Index 2.3        0.70        2.2        0.60        Appendix 2.1        0.50               0.40          11  12  13  14  15  0.30                 2.25 2.22 2.18 2.18 2.24    11  12  13  14  15   1 E fficiency indicator = water consumption from vehicle production divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr/AT and Nedcar contract production plants.  0.57 0.51 0.47 0.47 0.45  1 Efficiency indicator = process waste water from vehicle production divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr/AT and Nedcar contract production plants. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 45 Search MINIMISING SOLVENTS Introduction FORECAST In our Group-wide environmental efforts, we also aim to mini­ The BMW Group will continue to successfully pursue its efforts to 1 STRATEGY mise the impact on the environment of our emissions of volatile increase resource efficiency in the coming years. For example, organic compounds (VOC). These are primarily generated in at our plant in Munich/DE, we are currently building a new top-coat 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES our paint shops. By the end of 2015, VOC emissions from lacquer system that will start series production in the third quarter vehicle production per vehicle produced had been reduced by of 2017. 3 PRODUCTION AND 51.4 % compared to 2006, significantly exceeding the goal In order to further reduce our energy consumption, we plan to VALUE CREATION we had set ourselves of a 45 % reduction by 2020 > Table 3.08. switch a large number of our production plants to LED lighting This decrease was achieved by modernising older plants, technology in 2016 and 2017. In addition, we intend to continue 3.1 Consumption optimising existing plants and improving post-process to expand the existing combined heat and power plants and of resources treatment systems. install new ones at further locations. 3.2 Renewable energy To further reduce water consumption, we plan to introduce 3.3 ­Sustainable, With an average of 1.22 kg VOC emissions per vehicle pro­ meas­ures to reduce freshwater consumption in the paint shop ­resource-efficient duced, we are below the stringent maximum levels stipulated of our Spartanburg/USA plant. In addition, we are making a ­supply chain in Germany at almost all plants worldwide. The maximum contribution towards reducing freshwater consumption by levels stipulated by the individual countries are also complied rebuilding our paint shop in Munich. 4 EMPLOYEES with at all production locations. VOC emissions per vehicle We will continue to work to reduce VOC emissions, although in AND SOCIETY produced dropped by 5.4 % in 2015 compared to 2014 through 2016 process start-ups in Munich/DE and Dingolfing/DE are likely the use of integrated paint process technology and improved 5 FUNDAMENTALS to cause a temporary increase. post-process treatment of waste air. Further key indicators Solvent emissions per vehicle produced¹ T 3.08 GRI G4 Content Index in kg/vehicle 2.00        Appendix 1.75        1.50        1.25        1.00                 11  12  13  14  15    1.75 1.78 1.59 1.29 1.22  1 E fficiency indicator = VOC emissions from vehicle production divided by the total number of vehicles produced, not including the vehicles from the Magna Steyr/AT and Nedcar contract production plants. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 46 Renewable energy Sustainability goal Production and By 2020, the BMW Group will be the leader ­value ­creation in the use of renewable energy in production and value creation. Renewable energy: the photovoltaic system on the roof of the BMW Group plant in Oxford. Search 3.2 Renewable energy Global climate change has led us to continuously reduce CO² Introduction Share of renewable energy purchased from third parties¹ T 3.09 emissions caused by energy consumption at our production facilities. The BMW Group takes a holistic approach to energy. in % 1 STRATEGY Top priority is given to systematic reduction of energy con­ 60        2 PRODUCTS sumption, as energy savings are always the best alternative, 50        AND ­SERVICES both for the environment and for our business. To cover the 40        remaining energy requirements, we are expanding our own 30        3 PRODUCTION AND renewable energy generation systems and are increasingly 20        VALUE CREATION drawing power from local renewable sources. 10               3.1 Consumption   11  12  13  14  15  We continually increase the use of renewable energy along the of resources  entire value chain. In addition to promoting the use of renew­ 3.2 Renewable energy able energy in vehicle utilisation > Chapter 2. 2, we primarily  28 36 48 51 58 ²  3.3 ­Sustainable, focus on our own plants. A large share of CO² emissions in 1 C alculated based on volumes of green energy purchased (directly or indirectly via certificates of origin) ­resource-efficient the manufacture of our products are generated by our as well as the conservative calculation of country-specific energy shares from renewables purchased from third parties. (Modification in calcu­lation method for Germany and Austria due to use of ­supply chain suppliers. That’s why we support the use of renewable energy transparency data in supplier invoices since 2012.) 2 F igure not directly comparable to 2014. Figure includes all BMW Group production locations as well as in our supply chain, too. corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE. The 2014 figure was based on 4 EMPLOYEES vehicle production. Figure for vehicle production in 2015: 56 %. AND SOCIETY This enables us to promote the use of sustainable energy sources, reduce our environmental impact and make sure that 5 FUNDAMENTALS we work as efficiently as possible with scarce raw materials. EXPANDING USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AT Depending on the region and measures taken, our commit­ Further key indicators BMW GROUP LOCATIONS ment pays off, as technological advances have made green energy increasingly affordable and it is already sometimes GRI G4 Content Index We do not focus on any one particular renewable energy source cheaper than CO² -emitting power from the public networks. at our locations. We decide at each location which concept Appendix makes the most sense in view of local conditions. A number Continuing to increase the share of renewable energy at our locations of different technologies are therefore used to generate energy In 2015, we continued to expand our use of renewable energy. at our locations. Two examples of this are our plants in South There was a significant increase in the volume of electrical Africa and Austria: energy drawn from renewable sources worldwide. For the BMW Group, this share amounted to 58 % > Table 3.09. This –– Rosslyn/ZA in­crease is the result of our continuous measures to increase Since October 2015, a combined heat and power plant of the use of renewable energy sources. an independent operator > Bio2 Watt has been supplying renewable energy to our plant in Rosslyn/ZA. The power plant runs on biogas drawn from waste from cattle and chicken farms as well as from food production plants. In 2015, the plant delivered 3.1 GW h, or 4.5 % of the entire Back electricity volume required by our plant. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 48 Search OFFERING FLEXIBLE SOLUTIONS FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY Introduction 1 STRATEGY A key prerequisite for the expansion of renewable energy is to separate generation and consumption of energy in terms 2 PRODUCTS of time. To achieve this, we are taking a number of innova­ AND ­SERVICES tive approaches. One example is Battery Second Life: 3 PRODUCTION AND –– Battery Second Life VALUE CREATION Battery Second Life offers a solution for flexible storage of renewable energy. Old BMW i batteries are used for 3.1 Consumption stationary storage of excess energy. We already have a of resources system at our Leipzig/ DE plant that shows how this can 3.2 Renewable energy work. We combined four used > BMW i3 batteries to make 3.3 ­Sustainable, one large, 1,000 kg-heavy storage system. This store is ­resource-efficient sufficient to supply a three-person household with ­supply chain energy for one week. Using new ideas: environmentally friendly energy from biomass for the South African BMW Group plant in Rosslyn. 4 EMPLOYEES The system stores the energy from four wind turbines AND SOCIETY that supply the plant, thus making it possible to have –– Steyr/AT renewable energy available, even when the wind is not 5 FUNDAMENTALS The majority of the energy supplied to our plant in Steyr/AT blowing. The > BMW i3 charging points installed at our is green energy. Just under half of the heat required comes plant are also supplied with energy from this source, so Further key indicators from district heating that is completely carbon-neutral the vehicles can be run on energy from wind power. as it is drawn from wood chip combustion. The remaining GRI G4 Content Index heat required is primarily drawn from CO² -efficient ­gasfired combined heat and power plants installed directly Appendix in the plant. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 49 Search The production of carbon fibre is very energy-intensive. There­ Introduction fore, the availability of renewable hydropower was key in the decision to build the plant in Moses Lake/ USA. The plant is 1 STRATEGY run entirely on renewable energy, which is mainly generated 2 PRODUCTS by two neighbouring power plants at Columbia River. With AND ­SERVICES our joint venture, we are laying the foundation stone at the very beginning of the value chain for the reduction of CO² 3 PRODUCTION AND emissions throughout the life cycle of the BMW i models. VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption of resources FORECAST 3.2 Renewable energy In the coming years, we will further intensify our activities to expand renewable energy use. Among other things, we plan to 3.3 ­Sustainable, expand our in-house energy generation via photovoltaic systems ­resource-efficient at our plants in Germany. Similar plans are in place for our inter­ ­supply chain Harnessing existing potential: carbon-fibre production in Moses Lake/US national locations. In addition, we plan to support the generation with hydroelectric power. of renewable energy at plants close to our production locations 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY in Germany and the UK. PROMOTING RENEWABLE ENERGY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN And we will also analyse the economic, political and regulatory 5 FUNDAMENTALS framework conditions to expand renewable energy in all countries We also promote the use of renewable energy in our supply with BMW Group production locations, and define further steps Further key indicators chain. Our work begins at the strategic level: based on to expand our use of green energy. information we draw from our suppliers as part of the Supply GRI G4 Content Index Chain Programme of the > CDP > Chapter 3.3, we agree with our suppliers that they will increase the share of renewable Appendix energy they use. Manufacturing carbon fibres with hydropower We use our own experience with the use of renewable energy in order to also reduce CO² emissions within our supplier network. One example of this is the production of carbon fibre by our joint venture with the SGL Group in Moses Lake/ US, where the carbon fibres for our BMW i models are manufactured. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 50 Sustainable, resource-­efficient supply chain Sustainability goal Production and The BMW Group will significantly increase ­value ­creation transparency and resource efficiency in the supply chain by 2020. Working together with suppliers: seats for the Tiexi plant in China. Search 3.3 Sustainable, ­resource-efficient ­supply chain As part of the global growth of the BMW Group, we are We were able to make significant progress in 2015: Introduction shifting our value creation more strongly towards the –– Around 1,900 supplier locations were assessed for the first respective sales markets. Increasing internationalisation of 1 STRATEGY time based on an industry-specific sustainability procurement leads to great opportunities but also to new questionnaire. Assessments are carried out at all 2 PRODUCTS sustainability risks. In view of our large number of suppliers nominated supplier locations as well as at potential and AND ­SERVICES and sub-suppliers, maintaining sustainability standards is a already active facilities. huge challenge. Only if we work closely with our business 3 PRODUCTION AND partners can we increase transparency and resource efficiency –– Supplier locations that do not comply with the VALUE CREATION in the supply chain and ensure that sustainability standards BMW Group’s minimum requirements (e.g. in accordance are complied with. with > UN Global Compact criteria) must agree to install a 3.1 Consumption corrective action plan. In 2015, our system logged of resources Because much of the value-added is created by our suppliers, corrective action plans with target deadlines for around 3.2 Renewable energy it is not enough for us to comply with sustainability standards 400 supplier locations. 3.3 ­Sustainable, only for our own production. This is why we insist that our –– Suppliers who took part in the Supply Chain Programme ­resource-efficient suppliers also implement social, environmental and gover­n ­ of the CDP in 2015 reported an overall reduction of 35 ­supply chain ance standards. In addition, we train our own employees ­m illion tonnes in CO² emissions (2014: 21 million t). as well as those of our business partners to implement 4 EMPLOYEES sustainability criteria along the value chain. Principles and standards for suppliers AND SOCIETY For the BMW Group, it is essential that our business partners We have set ourselves the goal of significantly increasing 5 FUNDAMENTALS meet the same environmental and social standards we have transparency and resource efficiency in the supply chain by set ourselves. The BMW Group Supplier Sustainability 2020. To do this, we have a comprehensive risk management Further key indicators Standards are the foundation on which this process is based. system in place to ensure that our sustainability standards The standards establish basic principles that are to be are complied with, in particular at the production facilities of GRI G4 Content Index adhered to by all BMW Group suppliers. This includes our direct suppliers. We work with our suppliers to develop compliance with all internationally recognised human rights increasingly efficient ways of using resources, provide direct Appendix as well as environmental, labour and social standards. The support for innovations in the area of sustainable technolo­ BMW Group Sustainability Standard is an integral part of gies and processes, increase transparency and improve the the request for proposal documentation for new suppliers working conditions at our suppliers’ companies. For selected and is thus a key tool in the integration of sustainability raw materials we also analyse what action needs to be taken aspects into the procurement process. to implement sustainability criteria along the supply chain and carry out the required measures in collaboration with Each potential new supplier must take into consideration our suppliers. This helps us to reduce risk, raise awareness the BMW Group sustainability requirements when submitting for sustainability and protect resources. a proposal. All agreements concluded by BMW AG with its suppliers contain clauses based on the principles of the > UN Global Compact and the > International Labour Organization Back ( ILO) . These agreements also specify that a contractual SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 52 Search commitment must be made to comply with human rights, Introduction Regional mix of BMW Group purchase volumes in 2015 T 3.10 labour and social standards as well as to implement environ­ mental management systems > BMW Group website on supplier in %, basis: production material 1 STRATEGY network . When they sign the contract, our suppliers also e f 2 PRODUCTS commit to ensuring that their suppliers in turn comply with d AND ­SERVICES these agreements. a 3 PRODUCTION AND Adapting purchasing to local value creation c VALUE CREATION Increasing globalisation, networking of supplier markets and expansion of the BMW Group’s sales and production activities 3.1 Consumption overseas leads to constant change in the distribution of b of resources purchasing volumes. The focus of growth in the coming years  3.2 Renewable energy in this area will be in the NAFTA region (USA, Canada and a) Germany  42.6 d) NAFTA  15.9 3.3 ­Sustainable, Mexico). In 2015 the share of local value creation was 15.9 % b) Central and Eastern Europe  19.7 e) Asia/Australia (incl. China)  4.6 ­resource-efficient (2014: around 14.5 %). This is due to the increase in produc­ c) Rest of Western Europe  15.8 f) Africa  1.4 ­supply chain tion volume at the Spartanburg plant in the USA. It is also GRI G4-12 the result of the construction of the BMW Group plant in San 4 EMPLOYEES Luis Potosí in Mexico, which is scheduled to open in 2019. AND SOCIETY This is in line with the company’s strategy of balanced global Another important enabling measure in 2015 was our sustain­ growth in sales, production and purchasing volumes. ability day for suppliers and all employees of the BMW Group 5 FUNDAMENTALS > Table 3.10 gives an overview of the origin of our production at the Munich/DE location, where 19 of our most innovative material. suppliers presented their sustainability strategies and Further key indicators measures. Training employees and suppliers GRI G4 Content Index Our sustainability training programmes are designed both for our purchasers and our suppliers. We raise their aware­ Appendix ness of the topic and they learn about cause and effect. We also clearly communicate our expectations to them. In this way, we enable participants to make decisions that contri­ bute towards greater sustainability in the supply chain. We aim to train as many of our purchasers as possible. In 2015, around 247 new purchasers (2014: 581) took part in this training. We also provided training for 20 of our suppliers (2014: 38) and carried out cross-industry training courses for BMW suppliers with identifiable sustainability deficits in India (15 suppliers) and South Africa (46 suppliers). Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 53 Search Introduction Risk management process of the BMW Group F 3.01 1. Identify risks 2. R  etrieve self-assessment 3. Carry out assessments and audits 1 STRATEGY ­questionnaire 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES Identify high-risk Identify and analyse Obtain Develop supplierSustainability Corrective supplier locations high-risk suppliers self-assessment/ specific corrective audit conducted action plan based on sustainability based on media sustainability action plan, based on by independent based on 3 PRODUCTION AND risk filter screening questionnaire self-assessment external auditors audit result VALUE CREATION 3.1 Consumption MINIMISING RISKS management system in accordance with ISO 14001 is also of resources logged by the new questionnaire and is the basic prerequisite 3.2 Renewable energy The main instrument we use to ensure implementation of for our suppliers of production material and capital equip­ 3.3 ­Sustainable, our sustainability standards is our sustainability risk ment. After the proposal has been submitted, these details ­resource-efficient management process. It is made up of the following three are included as key decision-making indicators in the pro­ ­supply chain steps > Figure 3.01. curement process. In 2015, a total of around 1,900 nomi­ nated, active and potential suppliers were assessed via this 4 EMPLOYEES 1. Identify risks questionnaire. By establishing sustainability requirements AND SOCIETY In order to identify risks, we use a BMW Group-specific sus­ in the tendering process, we not only increase transparency tainability risk filter. This filter takes account of both regional along the supply chain but also raise the awareness of this 5 FUNDAMENTALS and product-specific risks. This includes, for instance, an topic on the part of our suppliers’ top managers. As a result, assessment of social risks in certain countries, such as child a number of our suppliers have taken decisive measures to Further key indicators labour or forced labour. However, we also consider environ­ better establish sustainability within their companies. mental risks such as damage to nature, emissions and process GRI G4 EN32, GRI G4 LA14, GRI G4 HR10, GRI G4 SO9 GRI G4 Content Index materials containing substances that can be hazardous to health. If a low sustainability level is identified on a supplier’s ques­ Appendix tionnaire, we communicate the industry-wide standard 2. Retrieve self-assessment questionnaire recommendations to them, which we evaluate based on the In many areas, it is more efficient to take a cross-industry BMW Group sustainability standards for the supplier network. approach. In autumn 2014, we replaced the BMW Group selfIn order to ensure that such a supplier qualifies for nomina­ assessment questionnaire with a sustainability questionnaire tion in the tendering process, the BMW AG purchaser requires for the automotive industry. Each nominated supplier must that improvement measures be implemented by start of provide information about their implementation of environ­ production at the latest. mental, social and governance standards, for example with regard to compliance with human rights and bans on forced In 2015, our system logged corrective action plans with target labour at their production locations. Sustainable use of deadlines for around 400 supplier locations. An external materials such as secondary aluminium is also verified at the service provider checks that the measures have been imple­ Back request for proposal stage. The existence of an environmental mented by the date agreed upon. The key corrective measures SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 54 Search from the perspective of the > UN Global Compact were related If the results of an audit show non-compliance or potential for Introduction to implementation of the following aspects: S ­ ustainability improvement, we work with the supplier to develop a specific policy for suppliers and their sub-suppliers, Human Rights plan of action and provide as much assistance as possible with 1 STRATEGY policy, social and compliance management systems, as well as implementation, which generally must take place before start 2 PRODUCTS instructions on how to work with chemicals. of production. If the supplier is uncooperative or in breach of AND ­SERVICES a fundamental BMW Group sustainability clause, the contract For suppliers with sustainability deficits, we supplement the may not be granted or termination of business relations may 3 PRODUCTION AND supply contracts with corrective action plans and binding follow. Our goal, however, is to determine the majority of VALUE CREATION rules. We can thus ensure that all sustainability requirements risks during the first two steps, to manage these risks and to will be met by start of production or provision of services. help suppliers raise their sustainability standards. 3.1 Consumption GRI G4 EN33, GRI G4 LA15, GRI G4 HR11, GRI G4 SO10 of resources Our Supply Chain Response Team responds to individual non3.2 Renewable energy In the case of sub-suppliers, we only have indirect influence compliance with our sustainability principles. The team is made 3.3 ­Sustainable, on the implementation of sustainability standards. However, up of one representative each from Operational and Strategic ­resource-efficient we oblige our direct suppliers to ensure that our sustain­ Purchasing, Corporate Strategy (a sustainability expert), ­supply chain abili­t y requirements are also met by their sub-suppliers. In Corporate Communications and the Works Council. In 2015, addition, we develop specific measures for individual supply the Supply Chain Response Team had no cases to address as 4 EMPLOYEES chains such as participation in the > ­Aluminium ­Stewardship there were no reports of potential non-compliance with our AND SOCIETY Initiative (ASI) , a cross-industry initiative for sustainable manu­ sustainability principles. facture of aluminium. The ASI aims to establish a standard 5 FUNDAMENTALS for responsibly produced aluminium along the entire value chain. The initiative was able to make significant progress Further key indicators in recent years. This includes the formulation of principles, criteria and indicators in a multi-stakeholder process. In GRI G4 Content Index addition, a traceability model for the value chain was devel­ oped. The next step is to establish the ASI as an independent Appendix organisation and carry out a pilot application of the standard. 3. Carry out assessments and audits If the sustainability risk filter identifies supplier locations that demonstrate an increased risk of non-compliance with sustainability standards, they are checked, trained and, if applicable, certified by independent sustainability audits or BMW Group sustainability assessments. The sustainability audits are carried out by external auditors, while the sustainability assessments are implemented by employees of the BMW Group. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 55 Search quantitative questions are answered, ranging from integra­ Introduction tion into corporate strategy, to risk management, targets and initiatives, right up to CO² emissions and volumes of renew­ 1 STRATEGY able energy used. An overall evaluation verifies the complete­ 2 PRODUCTS ness and content of the answers. The results are fed into the AND ­SERVICES purchasing strategies of the relevant departments and a com­ petitive comparison is played back to the key suppliers during 3 PRODUCTION AND their annual supplier development interviews. Based on this, VALUE CREATION we make agreements with our suppliers on development paths for improvement. 3.1 Consumption of resources Of the 99 BMW suppliers participating in the CDP in 2015, 3.2 Renewable energy 84 % integrated measures to combat climate change into their 3.3 ­Sustainable, corporate strategy and 64 % also set themselves correspond­ ­resource-efficient ing targets. 80 % of participating suppliers already reported ­supply chain reduced emissions for individual projects and 35 % were even Innovative logistics: the first electric 40-tonne truck to supply the BMW Group plant in Munich. able to keep their overall CO² emissions constant or reduce 4 EMPLOYEES them. Savings of 35 million tonnes of CO² equivalent were AND SOCIETY reported to us from our supplier network for the year 2015 INCREASING TRANSPARENCY AND IMPROVING (2014: 21 million t). These savings mainly resulted from an 5 FUNDAMENTALS RESOURCE EFFICIENCY increase in energy efficiency in production processes and from optimisation of transport processes. Further key indicators Our sustainability risk management system increases trans­ parency with regard to social and environmental risks in the The rising number of suppliers in the CDP as well as the GRI G4 Content Index supply chain, raises awareness among our suppliers’ top increase in average disclosure within the CDP would seem management and helps us to introduce and track the corre­s ­ to indicate that our efforts to increase transparency in the Appendix ponding corrective measures. A further measure to increase supply chain are effective. In addition, the rise in CO² savings transparency in the supply chain and to improve resource communicated to us indicates that resource efficiency in the efficiency is the Supply Chain Programme of the > CDP . supply chain is increasing. Since 2014, we have been participating in the Supply Chain Programme of the CDP and have set ourselves the ambitious goal of having a large part of our direct purchasing volume covered by the CDP reporting of our suppliers by 2016. In 2015, we were already able to cover around half of our pur­ chase volume. Within the CDP, participating suppliers report on their CO² status and, if applicable, the water consumption Back status of the previous year. A large number of qualitative and SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 56 Search SUSTAINABLE EXTRACTION AND PROCUREMENT Introduction OF RAW MATERIALS 1 STRATEGY With today’s multilayered and dynamic global supply chains, 2 PRODUCTS tracing the route of a raw material from the mine to the end AND ­SERVICES product is an extremely complex undertaking. This is mainly due to the intermediate trade and processing stages and 3 PRODUCTION AND commodities trading on the stock exchange. It is therefore VALUE CREATION quite a challenge to implement sustainability standards as early as the raw materials extraction stage. 3.1 Consumption of resources In view of this, the BMW Group focuses on selected relevant 3.2 Renewable energy or critical raw materials and supply chains. We analyse and 3.3 ­Sustainable, evaluate both the supply chains as well as the action required ­resource-efficient and then derive measures that we implement in conjunction ­supply chain with our suppliers. We also participate in cross-industry initiatives for sustainable use of raw materials. One example of 4 EMPLOYEES this is the > ­A luminium ­Stewardship Initiative (ASI) > Minimising risks. AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS FORECAST Further key indicators From 2016 onwards, progress compared to the previous year will be evaluated during the suppliers’ CDP interviews. A pilot project GRI G4 Content Index to consider CO² emissions levels in the tendering decision is also planned. Appendix We also work with our suppliers to look for further possibilities to use resources such as energy more efficiently as well as to continuously improve working conditions in the supply chain. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 57 EMPLOYEES Introduction 1 STRATEGY AND SOCIETY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 4.1 Health and ­performance 4.2 Long-term employee development 4.3 Diversity 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index 4 Appendix Search Relevance for BMW Group Introduction The success of the BMW Group is based on the performance of its 1 STRATEGY employees. Their dedication makes the crucial difference in remaining 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES competitive. The increasing average age of the world population as 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION well as the diversity of lifestyles and cultures call for foresight and 4 EMPLOYEES flexibility. As a company that is currently active in over 150 countries, AND SOCIETY these developments affect us worldwide. With secure and attractive 4.1 Health and ­performance jobs and our commitment to promoting intercultural communication, 4.2 Long-term employee development we make a contribution to safeguarding our future viability. 4.3 Diversity 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 59 Search Key facts and figures Introduction BMW Group employees at end of year (number) Expenditure on donations by the BMW Group 122,244 (in € thousand) 1 STRATEGY 17,066 2015 2 PRODUCTS 2015 AND ­SERVICES 116,324 3 PRODUCTION AND 2014 10,199 VALUE ­CREATION 2014 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 4.1 Health and Attrition rate at BMW AG ­performance (as a percentage of workforce) Expenditure on corporate citizenship (in € thousand) 2.08 39,109 4.2 Long-term employee development 2015 2015 4.3 Diversity 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding 5 FUNDAMENTALS 2014 1.41 2014 34,524 Further key indicators Share of women in management positions GRI G4 Content Index at BMW Group (in %) 14.5 Appendix 2015 2014 14.2 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 60 Health and ­­performance Sustainability goal Employees To preserve the health and the performance of our employees in the and society long term, we promote personal responsibility and an appropriately designed work environment. Mutual interest: the BMW Group supports and promotes the health of its employees. Search 4.1 Health and ­performance In an ageing society, we can only be successful in the long employ­ees and executives to become active in these areas. Introduction term if we contribute towards ensuring that our employees The measures and programmes listed form part of the remain healthy. The merging of our Health Management, BMW Group’s Health Initiative, which was launched in 2011 1 STRATEGY Occupational Safety and Ergonomics and Corporate Catering to serve as an umbrella entity for the company’s commitment 2 PRODUCTS departments to form the “Working Environment and Health” to the health and performance of its employees. These mea­s ­ AND ­SERVICES unit led to more efficient collaboration between areas related ures contribute to the BMW Group keeping its HR costs to preventive occupational health and safety. The measures competitive. 3 PRODUCTION AND we take are geared towards avoiding accidents, maintaining VALUE ­CREATION the health and performance capacity of our employees, and reducing absenteeism as well as health-related costs. Our FOSTERING HEALTH AND PERFORMANCE IN A HOLISTIC MANNER 4 EMPLOYEES health promotion activities also pay off in other ways as they AND SOCIETY lead to more creativity, productivity and innovation. The “Health Management 2020” programme is a holistic, 4.1 Health and internationally focused approach to fostering the long-term ­performance The health and performance of our employees is a top priority health and performance of our employees throughout their at BMW. As the workforce ages, absenteeism tends to increase. working life. The programme includes building knowledge 4.2 Long-term employee about health (information, talks, seminars, training courses), We carry out prevention campaigns in specific areas, e.g. high development blood pressure prevention and resilience measures. We imple­ identifying health issues (questionnaires, medical check-ups), 4.3 Diversity ment the campaigns internationally, according to common as well as deriving and developing needs-based measures 4.4 Intercultural goals and standards. Our prevention measures contributed, (e.g. prevention). ­understanding for example, towards keeping absenteeism low in 2015 in spite of the influenza epidemic. Absenteeism due to illness Around 10,100 employees have participated and received 5 FUNDAMENTALS was below average in Germany. personal health reports since the programme was launched in 2014. At departmental level, 170 reports were compiled Further key indicators Some of our main activities in the areas of occupational health in 2015, identifying a range of potential improvements and and safety include integrated health management, ageingstrengths in the area of health promotion within the depart­ GRI G4 Content Index appropriate work systems, a high level of work safety and a ments. From this we derive specific measures for the working focus on offering healthy canteen meals. At the same time, environment. The programme contributes to reinforcing Appendix we are raising employees’ awareness of healthy eating habits individuals’ personal responsibility and designing a healthy by labelling meals and carrying out campaigns – and we have working environment. The aim is to integrate 10 % of the achieved measurable success in this area. Compared to 2013, BMW Group’s workforce annually into the “Health Manage­ the number of employees choosing healthier meals has ment 2020” programme from 2016 onwards. The percentage increased by 5,000. We also offer an extensive prevention of participants was 7.5 % in 2015. and rehabilitation programme, which includes fitness courses and other sports activities as well as nutrition seminars, occu­ pational health and safety and ergonomics courses as well as stress management. We hold special events that draw atten­ tion to important topics such as resilience, cancer prevention Back and addiction hazards. They are designed to motivate SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 62 Search Working with new technologies Continuous improvement of occupational health and safety Introduction systems, workplace safety conditions and dedicated safety Working with new technologies and increasing automation presents the training courses contributed to a decrease in the accident 1 STRATEGY company with new challenges in terms of occupational health and safety. fre­quency rate at the BMW Group in 2015 to 4.4 accidents 2 PRODUCTS For example, the BMW Group is taking a very close look at the area of per one million working hours > Table 4.01. At our German AND ­SERVICES human-machine collaboration, which is already used, for example, to roll dealerships, the accident frequency rate decreased by over out the door soundproofing in the Spartanburg/USA and Dingolfing/DE 20 % compared to the previous year, i.e. less than half the 3 PRODUCTION AND plants. Risks are avoided by carrying out innovative measures. Employ­ industry average (BGHM). VALUE ­CREATION ees can also suffer from mental stress due to the increasing diversity of components and the rising number of different vehicle models. There have been no fatal accidents at the BMW Group for the 4 EMPLOYEES To counteract this, plant information systems are there to provide support. last ten years. GRI G4-LA7 In 2011, we set ourselves the target of AND SOCIETY For example, employees can see which components to assemble without reducing the long-term accident frequency rate worldwide 4.1 Health and having to read long article codes. to below 4.5 accidents per one million hours worked by 2020. ­performance This is a decrease of around 50 % compared to the accident frequency rate in 2010. We were already able to beat this target 4.2 Long-term employee for the first time in the current reporting period. development 4.3 Diversity INTEGRATED HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT Accident frequency rate at BMW Group¹ T 4.01 4.4 Intercultural Occupational health and safety committees are in place at per one million hours worked ­understanding almost all BMW Group locations, with representation from 8.0        both the employer and employee sides. 7.0        5 FUNDAMENTALS 6.0        At the BMW Group, occupational health and safety issues are 5.0        Further key indicators dealt with in collaboration with the works councils. GRI G4-LA8 4.0        Well over 90 % of employees are represented on the health        GRI G4 Content Index and safety committees. This figure also includes temporary    11  12  13  14  15  workers, interns, thesis students working at the company  Appendix as well as doctoral candidates. GRI G4-LA5  7.1 5.8 4.8 5.1² 4.4 3  1 N umber of occupational accidents per one million hours worked with at least one day At present, 25 of our 30 production locations have occupa­ of absence from work. 2 F igure not directly comparable to previous years' due to expansion of scope to include the tion­a l health and safety management systems certified German dealerships (2014 figure not including dealerships: 4.4). Around 88 % of BMW Group according to the OHRIS (Occupational Health and Risk employees captured. 3 F igure not directly comparable to previous year due to expansion of scope to include the Management System) or OHSAS (Occupational Health and plants in Brazil, Thailand and India (2015 figure in 2014 scope: 4.5). Around 90 % of BMW Group employees captured. Safety Assessment Series). The other facilities work with systems that meet national standards. The new production GRI G4-LA6 plant in Brazil as well as the UK location Hams Hall will Back be certified in 2016 according to OHSAS 18001. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 63 Search SUPPORTING AGEING-APPROPRIATE WORKING CONDITIONS Introduction Share of employees with severe disabilities at BMW AG¹ T 4.02 AND PEOPLE WITH PERFORMANCE LIMITATIONS in % 1 STRATEGY        The BMW Group sees demographic change as a challenge that 6.0 we are actively addressing. We have been developing construc­ 5.0        2 PRODUCTS tive responses to this trend for many years in our “Today for 4.0        AND ­SERVICES Tomorrow” programme. We aim to create working conditions 3.0        3 PRODUCTION AND worldwide in which young employees can remain healthy as 2.0        VALUE ­CREATION they grow older and older, employees can contribute their 1.0        particular strengths. The BMW Group therefore speaks not        4 EMPLOYEES of age-appropriate but of ageing-appropriate working condi­    11  12  13  14  15  AND SOCIETY tions that preserve employee health and performance.   5.1 6.0 5.9 6.2 6.4  4.1 Health and ­performance At our plants, we make every effort to secure the workplaces 1 T he share of employees with severe disabilities is based on the statutory requirements in accordance of employees with debilitating health issues in the long term. with the German Social Code (SGB IX). In addition, the BMW Group awarded contracts amounting to 4.2 Long-term employee around € 26.3 million to workshops for the severely disabled in Germany in 2015, of which € 6.8 million One preventive measure from the “Today for Tomorrow” can be written off in accordance with the compensatory levy act. development ­programme in 2015 is the “Chairless Chair” pilot project, 4.3 Diversity which helps keep assembly employees healthy. This stand-up/­ 4.4 Intercultural sitdown device helps employees with debilitating health ­understanding issues by reducing physical stress and improving workspace FORECAST ­ergonomics. Due to its success, the “Health Management 2020” programme 5 FUNDAMENTALS will continue to be implemented internationally in 2016. The The share of BMW AG employees with severe disabilities campaigns launched in 2015 as part of the “Health Initiative Further key indicators continued to increase in 2015, reaching 6.4 % of the 2015”, i.e. the international campaign to improve mental health workforce > Table 4.02. and resilience as well as the healthy drinking campaign, will GRI G4 Content Index continue in 2016. The accident frequency rate, which currently Training centre for the deaf in Dingolfing/DE covers 90 % of BMW Group employees, including BMW AG, the Appendix German subsidiaries and all production locations worldwide, will The BMW plant in Dingolfing/DE has developed a dedicated support be continuously extended to apply to 100 % of the workforce. programme aiming to fully integrate deaf employees into the manufac­ turing processes. In addition to an information and communication forum for the exchange of expertise and skills, the programme also offers conversation support by providing interpreters or technical tools (e.g. iPad voice recognition). Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 64 Long-term employee development Sustainability goal Employees The BMW Group ensures long-term employee development by fostering its employees’ and society abilities, making the most of their talents, developing potential and ensuring employability. Staff development: young BMW Group talents at a workshop on the future design of the company. Search 4.2 Long-term employee development The success of the BMW Group is based on the dedication and As one of the world’s most attractive employers, the Introduction technical expertise of its employees. We make every effort to BMW Group has a decisive advantage in the competition for recruit and keep the best people. To achieve this, we offer skilled workers. This is demonstrated, for example, by studies 1 STRATEGY them attractive and secure jobs, comprehensive development on the attractive­ness of employers conducted by Trendence 2 PRODUCTS and training opportunities, and good long-term career and U­ niversum, in which we were once again given top ratings AND ­SERVICES prospects. in 2015. 3 PRODUCTION AND The BMW Group attaches great importance to the training and Thanks to the high demand for our products and services, VALUE ­CREATION further education of our employees. This is essential for keep­ the number of employees working for the BMW Group ing pace with the technological advances in the automotive increased worldwide by 5.1 % to a total of 122,244 by the end 4 EMPLOYEES industry. We therefore continuously invest in the qualifica­ of 2015 > Table 4.03. Job security is our highest priority here. AND SOCIETY tion of our employees as a way of promoting the long-term 4.1 Health and innovative strength of the BMW Group. The BMW Group con­ ­performance sistently pursues the concept of life-long learning. We also OFFERING FAIR PAY AND ATTRACTIVE SOCIAL BENEFITS pay above-average compensation and give our employees a 4.2 Long-term employee range of options to help them find the right work-life balance. The BMW Group policies for remuneration and additional development benefits apply for all of our companies, and we follow the 4.3 Diversity guiding principle that the total remuneration package must 4.4 Intercultural be above the average for the respective labour market. Our ­understanding BMW Group employees at end of year¹ T 4.03 remuneration policy is furthermore based on the principle of Number quid pro quo: we see pay as a reward for good performance and 5 FUNDAMENTALS 120,000        not simply as an incentive. The total remuneration package, 100,000        made up of the monthly fixed salary, a variable share in the Further key indicators 80,000        company’s profits and a wide range of social benefits, enables 60,000        us to reward personal performance in a fair manner while GRI G4 Content Index 40,000        continuously promoting employee motivation. Our remuner­ 20,000        ation policy is thus an integral part of a consistent and trans­ Appendix        parent process of employee development. GRI G4-LA2    11  12  13  14  15   Total  100,306 105,876 ² 110,351 ³ 116,324 4 122,244 5  Employees in Germany Employees international 1 Figures exclude suspended contracts of employment, employees in the non-work phases of ­pre‑retirement arrangements and low income earners. 2 O f whom 35.2 % are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 3 O f whom 35.1 % are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 4 O f whom 36.1 % are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. 5 O f whom 36.3 % are tariff-bound production employees of the BMW Group. Back GRI G4-10 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 66 Search ENCOURAGING WORK-LIFE BALANCE Introduction 1 STRATEGY To enable the best possible work-life balance, the BMW Group offers its employees a wide range of flexible modules so they 2 PRODUCTS can tailor their working hours and locations to their personal AND ­SERVICES needs. More and more private services (for example, laundry services) are also being offered close to the workplace to free 3 PRODUCTION AND up more time for people to spend either on work or private VALUE ­CREATION pastimes. 4 EMPLOYEES Offering flexible working hours AND SOCIETY In addition to statutory working time arrangements such as 4.1 Health and part-time work or parental or caregiver leave, the BMW Group ­performance also offers employees options such as sabbaticals (worldwide) or the “Vollzeit Select” (Fulltime Select) scheme to provide 4.2 Long-term employee further attractive ways to individually plan working hours. development Training and upskilling: employee training at the BMW Group plant in Munich. Our “Vollzeit Select” working time tool allows employees in 4.3 Diversity Germany and Austria to take 20 additional days of leave each 4.4 Intercultural Guaranteeing a gender-neutral remuneration system year with corresponding adjustments to their salaries, without ­understanding The BMW Group policies for remuneration and additional any complicated red tape. Demand for these options contin­ benefits apply regardless of gender, religion, origin, age, ued to grow in 2015, confirming that the offer of flexible 5 FUNDAMENTALS ­d isability, sexual orientation or country-specific characteristics. working time arrangements meets a real need. Our commitment to equal pay is pursued worldwide and Further key indicators monitored regularly. Enabling mobile working In 2014, the first year after the introduction of mobile working, GRI G4 Content Index In 2014, the BMW Group established a multidimensional the number of tariff employees working all day on a mobile monitoring process to annually verify that remuneration is basis already more than quadrupled, with some 25,072 users Appendix gender-neutral. Men’s and women’s monthly salaries are > Table 4.04. Mobile working does not change the volume of compared based on the dimensions of fullor part-time, pay work but allows for a more flexible organisation of existing grade and age. There were no significant differences between working hours to gain more personal freedom and flexibility. the base salaries of women and men for either non-tariff Childcare and caring for dependents, for example, can then employees or for tariff employees paid based on working be better integrated into the everyday work routine. Outside time (administration, IT and development) or performance of agreed working hours, employees also have the right to (production). GRI G4-LA13 switch off and be unavailable. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 67 Search Introduction Alternative work forms at BMW AG¹ T 4.04 Number of employees 1 STRATEGY    11  12  13  14  15   2 PRODUCTS Part-time employees   3,825  3,948  3,966  3,739  3,943  AND ­SERVICES in % of total number of employees   6.0  5.8  5.7  5.1  5.1  3 PRODUCTION AND Teleworking positions³   11,717  15,235  18,094  22,297 ²  25,072  VALUE ­CREATION in % of total number of employees   16.4  22.5  25.9  49.9  53.0  Sabbaticals   450  514  511  516  462  4 EMPLOYEES in % of total number of employees   0.6  0.8  0.7  0.7  0.6  AND SOCIETY Parental leave   1,513  1,674  1,968  2,271  2,535  in % of total number of employees   2.1  2.5  2.8  3.1  3.3  4.1 Health and ­performance 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent and part-time contracts. 2 Reporting logic was adapted when teleworking was introduced in 2014. In the past, reporting was based on the technical possibility of teleworking; since 2014, the number of employees is reported 4.2 Long-term employee who actually engage in teleworking. 3 Administrative positions. development GRI G4-10, GRI G4-LA3 4.3 Diversity 4.4 Intercultural Supporting parents through childcare employee receives a consistent and comprehensive individual ­understanding We have established childcare services at many of our German performance and career development review at least once a and international locations. With the support of parents’ initia­ year. GRI G4-LA11 5 FUNDAMENTALS tives, we were able to accommodate over 300 children aged zero to six years at our German sites as of the end of 2015. In 2015, we had over 1, 500 apprentices worldwide. There are Further key indicators currently over 4,700 young people taking part in vocational and young talent programmes in the BMW Group, over 3,800 GRI G4 Content Index FOSTERING TALENT AND TRAINING EMPLOYEES of them in Germany > Table 4. 24. Appendix We invest in training our employees and fostering their talents on an ongoing basis. This enables us to fill our long-term staffing requirements in a dynamic, fast-changing environ­ ment. The BMW Group’s global package of measures ranges from vocational training to young talent programmes for student target groups to high-potential programmes for future managers. BMW Group expenditure on training and further education increased in 2015 to € 352 million. On average, our employees participated in 4.1 days of further training in 2015 Back >­ Table 4.05. GRI G4 LA9 Furthermore, every BMW Group SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 68 Search Training managers and employees Introduction Average days of training and further education T 4.05 per BMW Group employee¹ Our Group-wide “Corporate Leadership Programme” offers our managers a wide range of advanced training opportuni­ 1 STRATEGY Number ties. The programme promotes the further development of 4.0        2 PRODUCTS strengths-based leadership skills at all hierarchy levels. 3.5        AND ­SERVICES 3.0        To foster international young talent, the BMW Group devel­ 2.5        3 PRODUCTION AND oped the “Global Leader Development Programme”. Integral VALUE ­CREATION 2.0        components of the programme are various practical phases 1.5        in Germany and abroad, targeted training measures, and 4 EMPLOYEES        diverse networking and exchange opportunities. Special AND SOCIETY    11  12  13  14  15  emphasis is placed on developing intercultural competence  4.1 Health and GRI G4 LA10.  3.6 3.7 3.5 3.9 4.1  ­performance 1 D ata retrieved by direct capture of the number of participants as well as a small share 4.2 Long-term employee by qualified extrapolation. development GRI G4-LA9 4.3 Diversity 4.4 Intercultural Establishing dual vocational training worldwide ­understanding We believe in the dual vocational training system because it optimally combines theoretical content with the acquisition 5 FUNDAMENTALS of practical skills. For this reason, we are extending the dual concept, which has proven so successful in Germany and at Further key indicators our production sites in China, the USA, South Africa and the UK, to our other international locations. In 2015, we launched GRI G4 Content Index dual training programmes in Brazil, Thailand and Mexico. In Germany, we introduced a new recruiting process for Appendix trainees that is tailor-made for the BMW Group. In addition to the applicant’s academic credentials and technical skills, it also takes into account interdisciplinary abilities and per­ sonality traits. This enables us to select those best suited Executives and employees: average number of training and further education for vocational training. days increased. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 69 Search Retaining satisfied employees Employee attrition rate BMW AG¹ T 4.07 Introduction A Group-wide employee survey is conducted every two years, as a % of the workforce most recently in June and July 2015. 88 % of those surveyed 1 STRATEGY 5.0        were satisfied with the BMW Group. Very positive ratings 4.0        2 PRODUCTS were also given to attractiveness as an employer (90 %), social 3.0        AND ­SERVICES benefits (86 %) and job security (89 %) > Table 4.06. 2.0        1.0        3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Group-wide BMW Group employee survey in 2015 T 4.06        in %    11  12  13  14  15  4 EMPLOYEES Overall satisfaction   88   AND SOCIETY 0  100   2.16 3.87 3.47 1.41 2.08  Attractiveness as employer   90  4.1 Health and 1 Number of employees on unlimited employment contracts leaving the company. 0  100  ­performance GRI G4-LA1 Additional social benefits   86  4.2 Long-term employee 0  100  development Job security   89  4.3 Diversity 0  100  FORECAST 4.4 Intercultural In terms of in-house advanced training, the focus for 2016 will be ­understanding on expanding expertise in the BMW Group in new and strategically In 2015, the employee attrition rate rose to 2.08 % > Table 4.07. important fields such as lightweight construction and digitali­ This was mainly due to more employees entering the non-work sation. We also plan to expand our international education and 5 FUNDAMENTALS phase of pre-retirement arrangements in 2015. If retirement change management network to further improve the transparency, figures are excluded, the attrition rate remains at a constant attractiveness and availability of training and qualification pro­ Further key indicators low level, as the BMW Group’s proven programmes and grammes. To this end, the marketing of training programmes will measures geared toward increasing the attractiveness of the be standardised globally, and more on-demand Web-based GRI G4 Content Index company as an employer are having the desired effect. training will be offered. This network can then be used to Appendix implement new standards for quality assurance and process efficiency, putting in place worldwide standards for trainer selection and certification. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 70 Diversity Sustainability goal Employees Through its diverse workforce, the BMW Group increases its competitiveness and society and enhances its innovative strength. Achieving goals, together: employees from more than 50 countries work at the BMW Group plant in Munich. Search 4.3 Diversity Modern society is characterised by a variety of different life­ PROMOTING FEMALE EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS Introduction styles. The diversity of the population as a whole has increased as a result of demographic change, changing values in society The BMW Group’s Diversity Concept aims to bring the share 1 STRATEGY and increasing global mobility. As an international company, of women in management positions into line with the overall 2 PRODUCTS the BMW Group regards an intercultural workforce, an employee structure. This also means that we are complying AND ­SERVICES appropriate gender balance and a good age mix as beneficial with the recommendations of the German Corporate Gov­ to our business. We are convinced that a diverse workforce ernance Code. In 2011, together with the other DAX30 3 PRODUCTION AND enhances our innovative strength and further increases our compa­n ies, we made a commitment to increase the share of VALUE ­CREATION competitiveness, for example by helping us to better under­ females in management positions. We want to maintain the stand customers’ needs. The right mix lets us see the bigger 15 –17 % share of women in our general workforce and also 4 EMPLOYEES picture so we can make smarter decisions. achieve this ratio in management positions by 2020, both in AND SOCIETY Germany and worldwide. The ratio of female managers in 4.1 Health and Each and every one of our employees, in all their diversity, the BMW Group worldwide was 14.5 % as of the end of 2015 ­performance is accorded equal levels of appreciation, respect and opportu­ (share of women in the entire workforce: 18.1 %). In Germany, n­ity. To further promote diversity among our workforce, the the proportion of women in the total workforce reached 4.2 Long-term employee Board of Management passed a Diversity Concept in 2010, 15.3 %, and in the Board of Management 12.5 %. GRI G4-LA12 development defining three dimensions where diversity is to be strength­ 4.3 Diversity ened throughout the BMW Group, taking due consideration Share of female employees in management positions T 4.08 4.4 Intercultural of local conditions: gender, cultural background, age and at BMW AG / BMW Group ­understanding experience. in %   13  14  15  5 FUNDAMENTALS Ensuring equal opportunities  The BMW Group’s declared goal is to promote human diversity Supervisory Board  20.0 25.0 30.0  Further key indicators in the company worldwide, because employees’ unique and Board of Management  12.5 12.5 12.5  different talents and personalities are a valuable resource. At Non-tariff employees  GRI G4 Content Index all of our locations, we seek to prevent discrimination on the BMW AG  10.9 11.4 11.9  grounds of gender, age, sexual orientation, religion, disability BMW Group  13.8 14.2 14.5  Appendix or origin. The BMW Group Legal Compliance Code prohibits discrimination of any sort. Employees can address any queries GRI G4-LA12 in this connection to their own managers, the relevant offices of the BMW Group, the HR department or the works council. The BMW Group SpeakUP Line further­more gives all em­­ ploy­ees worldwide a way to anonymously and confidenti­a lly report possible breaches of this principle. GRI G4-HR3 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 72 Search The diversity of our employees helps us to understand the Introduction Share of female employees in total workforce T 4.09 of BMW AG / BMW Group specific needs of our customers worldwide. Moreover, we are convinced that mixed teams are more creative and perform 1 STRATEGY in % better. 18        2 PRODUCTS 17        AND ­SERVICES We foster cultural diversity by focusing on recruiting new 16        employees locally at our facilities in the growth markets and 15        3 PRODUCTION AND by recruiting employees from other countries to work in VALUE ­CREATION 14        Germany. To enhance cooperation, we also promote employee 13        exchanges between BMW Group companies worldwide. 4 EMPLOYEES 12        AND SOCIETY        To further promote an international perspective and intercul­   11  12  13  14  15  4.1 Health and tural understanding among our new employees, we designed  ­performance our BMW vocational training as well as the “Global Leader BMW AG  13.5 14.2 14.5 14.8 15.3  Development Programme” with the needs of international 4.2 Long-term employee BMW Group  16.1 16.8 17.4 17.8 18.1  participants in mind. development GRI G4-LA12 4.3 Diversity Share of employees at BMW AG from Europe (not including T 4.10 4.4 Intercultural Getting women interested in technical occupations Germany) and from non-EU countries ­understanding We place a special emphasis on women in both our academic in % youth talent programmes and our vocational training pro­ b c 5 FUNDAMENTALS grammes in an effort to recruit more female employees in the long term. The proportion of women in the “Global Leader Further key indicators Development Programme” was 44 % at the end of December 2015. This creates the basis for a new generation of leadership GRI G4 Content Index that is more feminine, technically competent, well-networked, and sensitive to cultural and social issues. Appendix a  UNDERSTANDING CUSTOMERS BETTER THROUGH a) From Germany  90.5 ­CULTURAL DIVERSITY b) Europe (not including Germany)  4.4 c) Non-EU countries  5.1 As a company that is currently active in over 150 countries, we see diversity among our workforce as a major opportunity. GRI G4-LA12 In Germany, we currently have employees from 115 different countries working together very successfully. GRI G4-LA12. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 73 Search As an international company with an intercultural workforce, Introduction BMW AG employees according to age group, T 4.11 we focus on recruiting managers with international experience divided into functions and gender¹ and are also working to increase the share of non-German 1 STRATEGY in % top managers. The international character of the Board of  < 30 years old  30 – 50 years old  > 50 years old  2 PRODUCTS Management and the Supervisory Board of BMW AG also  AND ­SERVICES reflects the global scope of the company’s business. 2013 total   12.5  64.1  23.5  3 PRODUCTION AND 2014 total   12.5  62.0  25.5  VALUE ­CREATION TAKING ACCOUNT OF AGE DIVERSITY 2015 total   12.95  60.56  26.49  4 EMPLOYEES When setting up new locations or divisions we recruit people  direct²   16.71  55.71  27.59  AND SOCIETY from a range of age groups. For example, at our new BMW  indirect³   10.47  63.76  25.77   male   11.62  60.57  27.81  4.1 Health and locations in Brazil and Mexico we are recruiting a mixed-age  female   21.05  60.46  18.49  ­performance workforce from the start. This will allow us to avoid age struc­ ture issues and to focus on tapping into the specific strengths 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. 4.2 Long-term employee 2 Clock-controlled production employees. of different age groups. 3 All employees without clock control. development GRI G4-LA12 4.3 Diversity The number of years each employee works for the BMW Group 4.4 Intercultural is increasing. This is a result of earlier entry into the company ­understanding and later exit, due for example to rising retirement ages. In order to benefit from the special strengths and experiences of FORECAST 5 FUNDAMENTALS employees of different ages, we have introduced extensive In the coming years we intend to integrate our Diversity and programmes for flexible and mobile working > Chapter 4. 2. To Inclusion Concept even more thoroughly in the entire BMW Group. Further key indicators maintain employees’ performance as the workforce ages, we The dimensions of gender, age, experience and cultural back­ introduced the “Today for Tomorrow programme” > Chapter 4.1. ground will be given particular emphasis here. In view of the GRI G4 Content Index In addition, the wide-ranging s­ upport offered by our Health company’s increasingly international scope, we aim to focus more Initiative helps employees stay healthy in the long term. To strongly on hiring foreign employees at our German sites. When Appendix complement this, we raise a­ wareness among managers of the setting up our plant in Mexico, we will engage in specific human challenges posed by mixed-age teams. resources marketing that addresses and recruits candidates from target groups of different ages. This will allow us to avoid too many simultaneous retirements. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 74 Intercultural ­understanding Sustainability goal Employees The BMW Group is a leader in intercultural and society understanding. Discussing future challenges with stakeholders: the first international BMW Group Student Forum 2015 in Paris. Search 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding If you want to be successful tomorrow, you have to start laying cultural Innovation Award in collaboration with the > ­United Introduction the groundwork today. The BMW Group works in a complex, Nations Alliance of Civilizations ( UNAOC) . The award recognises fast-changing environment. Our success depends not only on innovative projects designed to solve intercultural tensions 1 STRATEGY our own performance and innovative strength, but also on and conflict. 2 PRODUCTS the social climate. With our commitment to resolving inter­ AND ­SERVICES cultural conflicts, we contribute towards creating added value The partnership between UNAOC and the BMW Group is for society and lay the cornerstone for our future viability. unprecedented, representing a new model of cooperation 3 PRODUCTION AND between the United Nations and the private sector. The VALUE ­CREATION Corporate citizenship forms an integral part of the partners manage the project together and mobilise their BMW Group’s vision of itself as a business enterprise. We resources, time and networks to support the award winners. 4 EMPLOYEES attach particular importance to knowledge transfer and Both partners bring their respective expertise to bear in AND SOCIETY to ensuring that our support measures help people to help order to ensure the sustained impact of the awarded projects. 4.1 Health and themselves in the long run. In addition to providing financial support, we also offer award ­performance winners the opportunity to benefit from any BMW Group In addition to our focus on intercultural understanding, we competencies that may serve their purpose. For a period of 4.2 Long-term employee one year, a pool of experts offers project-related support and also develop specific educational offerings and corporate development citizenship projects for our various locations. Before we launch provides advice on organisational development. 4.3 Diversity a project, we examine the social challenges faced at the local 4.4 Intercultural level. The key question we ask ourselves is whether and how We set ourselves the goal of reaching out to a total of one ­understanding the expertise we provide can actually improve local conditions. million people by 2020 with our activities in the areas of We also benefit as a company from our corporate citizenship intercultural understanding and social inclusion. This goal 5 FUNDAMENTALS activities. For example, we become more familiar with local was, however, achieved much sooner: by the end of 2015 we social structures, we learn to see things from an alternative had already supported more than one million people world­ Further key indicators perspective, and on this basis we are able to reach new target wide, primarily through the > Intercultural Innovation Award . groups. Our corporate citizenship activities moreover enhance GRI G4 Content Index the reputation of the company and lead to closer dialogue Integrating refugees with our stakeholders. Another example of intercultural understanding and social Appendix integration is the initiative “ WORK HERE!”, which the BMW Group launched in late 2015. In cooperation with the PROMOTING INTERCULTURAL UNDERSTANDING German Federal Employment Agency and the job centre, the AND SOCIAL INCLUSION BMW Group offers qualified refugees the opportunity to take part in a nine-week course of practical training. The partici­ As a global corporation with a multinational workforce, the pants are accompanied by BMW Group employees as mentors BMW Group has been working for many years now to promote and also receive language lessons and integration training. understanding between different nations, religions and ethnic The project started with 37 refugees in Munich/ DE and will groups. In 2011, we inaugurated for this purpose the Inter­ be extended to further BMW Group locations in 2016. A pro­ Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 76 Search gramme offering a six-month “starter qualification” preparing SHAPING SOCIETY THROUGH FOUNDATIONS Introduction younger refugees for the job of production mechanic will also be extended, with up to 20 additional places available in We believe it is possible to successfully shape a society that is 1 STRATEGY Munich/ DE from January 2016. based on social cohesion and innovation if the competencies 2 PRODUCTS and skills of each individual are harnessed for the general AND ­SERVICES The BMW Group has been assisting refugees in the vicinity good and used to implement social change. Our foundations of the Munich plant since early 2015. Through the neigh­ contribute towards making this happen. The BMW Foundation 3 PRODUCTION AND bourhood project “Lifetalk”, we foster mutual learning and Herbert Quandt and the Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation VALUE ­CREATION exchanges between refugees and other young people with have been working in these fields for decades, receiving and without a migratory background. The initiative is geared financial support from the BMW Group. Both foundations 4 EMPLOYEES toward promoting encounters within the company and are independent, both legally and with respect to their content, AND SOCIETY assisting young people in their vocational orientation. Some and they plan and manage their programmes themselves. 4.1 Health and 40 young people and unaccompanied refugees regularly took ­performance part in the workshops in 2015. The project was able to give BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt more than half of the participants a better idea of possible The > BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt brings people from differ­ 4.2 Long-term employee future occupations. ent cultures, nations and sectors together to drive social development innovations, promote global dialogue and encourage decision4.3 Diversity makers to act responsibly. We take this approach in order to 4.4 Intercultural break down barriers between policymakers, industry and ­understanding civil society, so that the community can benefit from the cre­ ative diversity that results from cross-border collaboration. 5 FUNDAMENTALS Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation Further key indicators BMW AG’s > Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation sees itself as a creator of forums within which social responsibility can be GRI G4 Content Index fostered in Germany. Its mandate is to promote entrepre­ neurial thinking and action above and beyond the economic Appendix context. According to the motto “freude am neu:wagen” (try some­t hing new), it develops and tests new solutions for today’s social issues. Projects are undertaken with selected partners in the fields of education, employment and sustain­ able action. When the projects reach completion they become independent entities that can have an impact on “Work here!” qualification programme for young refugees at the BMW Group plant in Munich. day-to-day life. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 77 Search CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ON A GLOBAL SCALE Measuring the effects of our activities Introduction Corporate citizenship should have a measurable effect. The BMW Group has 30 manufacturing and assembly plants For this reason measurability is high on our list of priorities. 1 STRATEGY in 14 countries. Its sales network has 42 sales locations. Since 2010, we have been measuring the effects of our 2 PRODUCTS Wher­ever we are represented in the world, we are committed corporate citizenship activities using the iooi (Input Output AND ­SERVICES to social responsibility. Two good examples of our activities Outcome Impact) method. This approach provides us with in this area are the BMW Warm Heart Fund in China and important feedback on whether projects are continuing to 3 PRODUCTION AND the BMW Korea Future Fund. Both funds offer a platform that develop and whether they are having a long-term impact. VALUE ­CREATION enables the BMW Group, its workforce, dealerships and customers to make a contribution towards improving society 4 EMPLOYEES in the respective countries. Amount of expenditure on corporate citizenship, T 4.12 by type of activity¹ AND SOCIETY in € thousand 4.1 Health and Raising awareness of how to work responsibly with resources 40,000        ­performance 35,000        4.2 Long-term employee Using natural resources responsibly is an important challenge in today’s 30,000        development society. The BMW Group aims to raise the awareness of people living 25,000        close to its production locations by providing training and projects 20,000        4.3 Diversity focusing on environmental and resource protection. 15,000        4.4 Intercultural 10,000        ­understanding One example of this is the > Care 4 Water initiative, which is carried 5,000        out by BMW Group Financial Services in collaboration with the non-profit        5 FUNDAMENTALS organisation “Waves For Water”. The mission of “Waves For Water”    11  12  13  14  15  is simply to ensure that every person who needs clean water receives it.  Further key indicators To achieve this, the organisation uses portable and durable water filters Total   36,846 31,979 28,944 34,524 39,109  to support people in need all over the world. The initiative draws upon GRI G4 Content Index employee fundraising activities in over 50 markets as well as the direct Donations / contributions in kind Community investment Commercial activities engagement of employees on the ground, who distribute the water 1 T he activities of the BMW Group in the area of corporate citizenship are divided into three main areas. Firstly: monetary donations and donations in kind. Secondly: community investment. Community Appendix filters to the local population and explain how they work. In line with investment refers to investment in project initiatives conceived in-house, cooperative endeavours and partnerships as well as corporate volunteering by BMW Group employees. And thirdly: commercial the motto “Helping people to help themselves”, the idea is to enable activities, i.e. sponsorship and cause-related marketing. communities to secure their own access to clean water. GRI G4-EC1 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 78 Search Expenditure on corporate citizenship Rackwitz in Saxony. The BMW Group bestows awards on Introduction In 2015, we spent a total of € 39.1 million on our corporate such projects as a way of thanking employees worldwide for citizen­ship activities (2014: € 34.5 million). To see how these volunteering in their free time. 1 STRATEGY funds were allocated to our various areas, please refer to 2 PRODUCTS > Table 4.12 and > Table 4.13. The significant increase in total You can find further information and data on employees and AND ­SERVICES expenditure of the BMW Group on corporate citizenship society at > Further key indicators. activities compared to financial year 2014 is mainly due to a 3 PRODUCTION AND rise in donations to the BMW Foundation Herbert Quandt VALUE ­CREATION and the Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation. FORECAST 4 EMPLOYEES The BMW Group will continue to expand on the content and AND SOCIETY BMW Group donations worldwide in 2015 T 4.13 structure of its corporate citizenship activities in the focal areas in %, total amount € 17,065,895¹ of intercultural understanding and social inclusion. Our aim is 4.1 Health and e f to further implement this strategy at our locations worldwide in ­performance cd 2016 and to create platforms for actively involving employees, 4.2 Long-term employee customers and dealerships. development b 4.3 Diversity a 4.4 Intercultural ­understanding 5 FUNDAMENTALS  a) Science / education  61.9 d) Politics  0.2 Further key indicators b) Society / community  27.9 e) Environment / sustainability  0.2 c) Culture  4.1 f) Sport  5.7 GRI G4 Content Index 1 T he sum indicated here does not include either cause-related marketing or sponsorship and does not contain the projects and activities carried out in the context of the company’s corporate citizenship and cultural activities. Appendix GRI G4-EC1 Rewarding volunteer work by employees To complement our corporate citizenship measures, we bestow annual awards on employees worldwide who deserve recognition for what they have given back to society. The non-profit organ­isation > The Banyan in India, for example, helps disabled and mentally ill people, and the project “Alltagslotse für Asyl­bewerber” (Everyday Guide for Asylum Back Seekers) assists refugees arriving in the German town of SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 79 FUNDAMENTALS Introduction 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction 5.2 Economic effects 5.3 Compliance and human rights 5.4 Stakeholder ­engagement 5.5 Reinforcing ­sustainability Further key indicators 5 GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Search Relevance for BMW Group Introduction The BMW Group manages its business in accordance with the prin­ 1 STRATEGY ciples of sustainable and responsible Corporate Governance. This 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES includes observing sustainability criteria and respecting human rights 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION along the entire value chain. We also maintain an ongoing dialogue 4 EMPLOYEES with our stakeholders and integrate sustainability as a watchword for AND SOCIETY all we do into our corporate structure, culture and processes. This 5 FUNDAMENTALS 5.1 Customer enables us to increase customer satisfaction and ensure the long­satisfaction 5.2 Economic effects term competitiveness of the BMW Group. At the same time, our 5.3 Compliance and sustainable business operations contribute to value creation and human rights 5.4 Stakeholder the advancement of society. ­engagement 5.5 Reinforcing ­sustainability Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 81 Search 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction Customer focus is one of our basic principles. Satisfied custom­ The results are evaluated both at the BMW Group level and Introduction ers are essential to the long-term success of the company. In also at our subsidiaries and dealerships so that we can respond many markets, the overall image of a company increasingly quickly to customer wishes. Our 2014 and 2015 surveys, for 1 STRATEGY depends not only on classical factors such as product and example, provided important insights, contributed by purchas­ 2 PRODUCTS service quality but also on taking the right approach to sustain­ ers of battery-powered electric vehicles, that can be incorpo­ AND ­SERVICES ability. Sustainability is therefore fundamental to our brands rated into product strategies for future vehicles. This will and plays an increasingly important role in our sales allow us to align their design even more closely with customer 3 PRODUCTION AND operations. requirements. Our surveys show that our customers’ needs VALUE ­CREATION vary considerably from country to country. This is a finding we have also made in our global stakeholder dialogues 4 EMPLOYEES RESPONDING TO CUSTOMER EXPECTATIONS > Chapter 5.4. We take these national and cultural differences AND SOCIETY into account in our decisions. GRI G4 PR5 Most customers hold the companies they purchase from res­ 5 FUNDAMENTALS pon­sible for developing their products and services in a sus­ To help us track the effectiveness of our measures, the sales 5.1 Customer tainable manner. They expect sustainability to be an integral organisations in our largest markets (such as the USA, China ­satisfaction part of the business model. This is a stable trend that has and Germany) report regularly to a specially established com­ 5.2 Economic effects been identified in all areas, not just among customers with mittee which deals exclusively with customer satisfaction. a special awareness of sustainability. In addition, specific customer concerns are analysed at the 5.3 Compliance and management level to identify potential process weaknesses human rights But there are also contradictions between our customers’ exand develop appropriate solutions. 5.4 Stakeholder pectations of sustainability and their individual preferences. ­engagement Many different factors play a role in the purchase decision. 5.5 Reinforcing For example, the current low fuel costs mean that fewer cus­ ­sustainability tomers are opting for the most fuel-efficient vehicle types. Further key indicators Beyond such short-term trends, however, our brands address sustainability in multiple ways, from the development of fuelGRI G4 Content Index efficient and electric drivetrains and the use of renewable raw materials in the vehicle interior all the way to our mobility Appendix services. We conduct annual surveys to enable us to optimise our pro­ ducts, services and support according to the needs and expec­ tations of our customers and prospective customers. We also continuously measure customer satisfaction on the basis of uniform global standards. Customers furthermore have the opportunity to contact us directly with qualitative feedback, Back which we analyse according to a uniform classification system. Customer focus: vehicle delivery at BMW Welt in Munich. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 82 Search EXPERIENCING SUSTAINABILITY IN SALES AND SERVICES Introduction As we integrate sustainability into our strategies, activities 1 STRATEGY and brands, we want this commitment to be tangible for our 2 PRODUCTS customers. Since 2012, for example, our architectural AND ­SERVICES advisers have been helping our dealerships to implement “Green Building standards”, in particular for new buildings, 3 PRODUCTION AND and to ensure the efficient use of resources in sales operations. VALUE ­CREATION For this purpose we have developed our own standard – based on the conventional “Green Building certificates” – that is 4 EMPLOYEES specially adapted to the needs of our sales organisation. AND SOCIETY Implementing this standard allows us to plan dealerships 5 FUNDAMENTALS that consume a minimum of energy while offering customers 5.1 Customer and employees maximum light and a pleasant room climate. ­satisfaction One example is the ZK Motors dealership in Kielce/ PL, Sustainability in sales: ZK Motors in Kielce/PL is the first dealership in the world to achieve 5.2 Economic effects where a combination of daylight and LEDs ensures optimum “BMW dealership Sustainable Standard” certification. lighting conditions throughout the building. Geothermal 5.3 Compliance and energy provides heating and air conditioning, while an inno­ human rights vative building management system monitors and controls 5.4 Stakeholder energy consumption at all times. ­engagement 5.5 Reinforcing In addition to taking into account various aspects of sustain­ ­sustainability ability in our dealerships, our goal is for our staff there to be so well-informed that they are able to answer almost any Further key indicators question customers may have on the BMW Group’s sustain­ ability activities. Aspects of sustainability are therefore an GRI G4 Content Index integral part of our sales training, and all sales staff are trained on the theme of sustainability from the very start of Appendix their career. We also carry out special train-the-trainer quali­ fications for multipliers in sales in which we go into topics such as our vehicles’ CO² emissions throughout the product life cycle and environmental protection in aftersales. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 83 Search 5.2 Economic effects Sustainable management combines long-term commercial intermediate products also secures jobs in our supply chains. Introduction success with added value for society. As a global company, the In 2015, the BMW Group paid a total of approximately BMW Group creates jobs around the world and contributes € 2.828 million in income taxes (2014: € 2.890). These funds 1 STRATEGY to economic prosperity. pro­mote development in the regions where our production 2 PRODUCTS sites are located. We see the positive trend in our figures as AND ­SERVICES The BMW Group currently employs 122,244 people in attrac­ confirma­tion of our contribution to social prosperity. tive jobs (2014: 116, 324) and is training 4,700 young people GRI G4 EC7, GRI G4 EC8 3 PRODUCTION AND at its worldwide locations (2014: 4, 595). The purchase of VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Vehicle production of the BMW Group by plant T 5.01 in units 5 FUNDAMENTALS   14  15  Change  Share of  in % production 5.1 Customer in % ­satisfaction  5.2 Economic effects Munich, DE   228,126  221,998  − 2.7  9.7  Dingolfing, DE   369,027  360,804  − 2.2  15.8  5.3 Compliance and Regensburg, DE   272,015  304,509  11.9  13.4  human rights Leipzig, DE   211,434  233,656  10.5  10.3  5.4 Stakeholder Rosslyn, ZA   68,771  71,353  3.8  3.1  ­engagement Spartanburg, US   349,949  400,904  14.6  17.6  142,767  5.5 Reinforcing Dadong¹, CN   143,390  − 0.4  6.3  Tiexi¹, CN   144,076  144,988  0.6  6.4  ­sustainability Rayong, TH   6,012  8,928  48.5  0.4  Araquari, BR   5,616  9,936  76.9  0.4  Further key indicators Chennai, IN   4,824  7,716  60.0  0.3  Oxford, UK   179,318  201,206  12.2  8.8  GRI G4 Content Index Graz (Magna Steyr)², AT   113,401  82,655  − 27.1  3.6  Born (VDL Nedcar bv)², NL   29,196  57,019  95.3  2.5  Appendix Goodwood, UK   4,495  3,848  − 14.4  0.2  Assembly plants   35,916  27,216  − 24.2  1.2  1 BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd., Shenyang/CN (joint venture). 2 Contract production. GRI G4-9 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 84 Search Introduction Financial figures T 5.02 in € million 1 STRATEGY   11  12  13  14  15  Veränderung  in % 2 PRODUCTS  AND ­SERVICES Capital expenditure   3,692  5,240  6,711  6,100  5,890  − 3.4%  Revenues   68,821  76,848  76,059  80,401  92,175  14.6%  3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Profit before financial result   8,018  8,275  7,978  9,118  9,593  5.2%  Profit before tax   7,383  7,803  7,893  8,707  9,224  5.9%  4 EMPLOYEES Income taxes   2,476  2,692  2,564  2,890  2,828  − 2.1%  AND SOCIETY Net profit   4,907  5,111  5,329  5,817  6,396  10.0%  5 FUNDAMENTALS GRI G4-EC1 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS BMW Group value added T 5.03 5.2 Economic effects THROUGH GROWTH in % 5.3 Compliance and human rights The sustainable, profitable growth of the BMW Group creates c d Employees  48.3 value. Direct positive economic benefits are risk-commensurate 5.4 Stakeholder returns for capital providers, attractive salaries for employees ­engagement as well as a social contribution through income tax payments. a 5.5 Reinforcing These are quantified in the allocation statement for net value Providers of finance  8.5 Government / ­sustainability added. public sector  14.8 b Shareholders  9.3 Group  19 Further key indicators At € 22, 524 million (2014: € 20,620 million), the net value added Minority interest  0.1 of the BMW Group has remained at a constant high level.  GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 EC1 The bulk of the net value added, 48.3 %, is applied to a) Net value added  24.2 employees (2014: 47.4 %). The proportion applied to providers b) Cost of materials  54.8 Appendix of finance remained at the previous year's level of 8.5 %. c) Depreciation and amortisation  8.8 The government/public sector (including deferred tax expense) d) Other expenses  12.2 accounted for 14.8 %. The proportion of net value added applied to shareholders, at 9.3 %, was higher than in the GRI G4-EC1 previous year. Other shareholders take a 0.1 % share of value added. The remaining share (19.0 %) will be retained in the Group to finance future operations > Table 5.03. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 85 Search DRIVING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BMW Group but also fostering the development of new Introduction markets for sustainable mobility. By implementing innovations and opening up new business 1 STRATEGY –– The broader market launch of fuel cell technology calls for fields, the BMW Group fosters the creation of new value the corresponding refuelling infrastructure. For this 2 PRODUCTS chains and jobs. Examples: purpose, the BMW Group has joined forces with four other AND ­SERVICES –– The BMW Group continues to build on its capabilities in carmakers to form the European “HyFIVE Project”. This is the field of electromobility and alternative drivetrains. one of the largest projects in Europe dedicated to promot­ 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Based on the experience and expertise gained from series ing fuel-cell-powered vehicles. As part of the project, the production of the BMW i3, BMW i8 and other plug-in BMW Group, in cooperation with TOTAL , opened one of 4 EMPLOYEES hybrid vehicles, we are pushing ahead with the further the first public hydrogen filling stations in the summer of AND SOCIETY spread of electric vehicles. 2015, offering two alternative techniques for refuelling. –– The BMW Group has been conducting research on fuel–– > BMW i Ventures , based in New York City/ USA, is investing 5 FUNDAMENTALS cell-powered vehicles for more than 15 years. The fuel cell in start-ups in the field of mobility services and aspires to 5.1 Customer converts hydrogen into electrical energy and water vapour, enter into long-term strategic partnerships in the areas of ­satisfaction enabling emissions-free driving without forfeiting the e-mobility, flexible use, parking and intermodality. In 2015, 5.2 Economic effects brand’s signature dynamics. The fuel cell strategy is an the start-up > ZIRX joined the BMW i Ventures portfolio. innovative long-term option for emissions-free mobility. ZIRX offers innovative parking services in congested urban 5.3 Compliance and Through our research in this area, we are not only areas. human rights expanding the variety of drivetrains offered by the –– In order to benefit from the energy market of the future 5.4 Stakeholder and play a part in driving the transformation of the ­engagement German energy industry, the BMW Group has founded the 5.5 Reinforcing joint venture > Digital Energy Solutions with the company ­sustainability Viessmann. The business model is based on identifying and creating energy flexibility as well as digital-based Further key indicators energy marketing for small and medium-sized companies in industry and commerce. Energy flexibility is achieved GRI G4 Content Index through intelligent coordination of energy production, storage and consumption. The joint venture is thus pro­ Appendix mot­i ng sustainable economic development and contrib­ uting to reaching CO² emissions targets in the electricity, heat and transport sectors. Back Breaking new ground: a hydrogen filling station at Innsbruck in Austria. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 86 Search 5.3 Compliance and human rights We regard lawful conduct and respect for human rights as ENSURING DUE DILIGENCE WITH REGARD TO HUMAN RIGHTS Introduction fundamental prerequisites for fair competition and good ­corporate citizenship. As an international enterprise with Our due diligence process for human rights is modelled on the 1 STRATEGY highly complex supply chains, the BMW Group is exposed to > UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights . In ­particular, 2 PRODUCTS increased risk of being confronted directly or indirectly we expect our employees to respect human rights and protect AND ­SERVICES with legal or human rights violations. We therefore treat them in their daily actions. We also require our business compliance with legal provisions and the protection of human partners to comply with human rights. G4-HR9 Starting in 3 PRODUCTION AND rights as top priorities and require our business partners 2016, we will gradually integrate human rights requirements VALUE ­CREATION to do the same. into our global Compliance Management System in order to entrench them even more firmly at all our locations. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY MANAGING COMPLIANCE Commitment to international conventions and principles 5 FUNDAMENTALS In order to protect the company systematically against com­ Our models for ensuring compliance with environmental and social 5.1 Customer pliance-related and reputational risks, the Board of Manage­ standards along the value chain are based on various internationally ­satisfaction ment created a Compliance Committee several years ago. recognised guidelines. The BMW Group is thus committed to adhering 5.2 Economic effects The BMW Group Compliance Management System includes to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development training and communication measures, individual counselling, (OECD) > Guidelines for multinational companies , the contents 5.3 Compliance and consistent follow-up on cases of non-compliance as well as the of the > ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development human rights management of compliance-relevant processes and controls. as well as the United Nations > Environment Programme Cleaner 5.4 Stakeholder Production Declaration (UNEP) . ­engagement The extent and intensity of compliance activities are based on 5.5 Reinforcing an annually updated Group-wide compliance risk assessment By signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2001 and, together ­sustainability covering more than 300 BMW Group business units and with employee representatives, issuing a > Joint Declaration on functions worldwide. GRI G4-SO3 Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, the Board Further key indicators of Management gave its commitment to abide worldwide by inter­ The > BMW Group Legal Compliance Code , which was updated nationally recognised human rights and with the fundamental working GRI G4 Content Index in 2014, is the cornerstone of the Group’s Compliance Manage­ standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). ment System, spelling out the Board of Manage­ment’s acknowl­ GRI G4-15, GRI G4-56 Appendix edgement of the fact that compliance is a joint responsibility (Tone from the Top). In our > Annual Report 2015 , we provide comprehensive information on the actions we take to ensure responsible and lawful conduct. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 87 Search TRAINING EMPLOYEES IN HUMAN RIGHTS OBLIGING BUSINESS PARTNERS TO OBSERVE HUMAN RIGHTS Introduction We educate our employees on the position taken by the We expect our business partners to consistently observe 1 STRATEGY BMW Group and on the specific requirements with regard to human rights and see this as an important criterion for 2 PRODUCTS human rights in business operations. The training is geared long-term business relations. We implement this principle AND ­SERVICES in particular toward managers and focus groups, for example at the following levels: in Purchasing. They are informed of what they have to be –– Suppliers: We ensure our suppliers’ commitment to 3 PRODUCTION AND aware of in their daily actions and whom they can turn to VALUE ­CREATION respecting human rights via our risk management process for questions. GRI G4-HR2 > Chapter 3.3. Human rightsrequirements are also taken 4 EMPLOYEES into account in investment decisions and the choice of AND SOCIETY company sites. In 2015, 100 % of the order volume for all ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS our material investments in property, plant and equipment 5 FUNDAMENTALS (including production equipment and buildings) were If employees have any questions regarding human rights, they 5.1 Customer covered by human rights clauses. G4-HR1 can ask their line managers or the BMW Group Human Rights ­satisfaction Contact helpline. Employees also have the opportunity to –– Dealers and importers: Since 2015, all dealership contracts 5.2 Economic effects submit information about possible human rights violations in Europe as well as all contracts with importers worldwide within the company via the BMW Group SpeakUP Line – have contained a binding human rights clause, including 5.3 Compliance and a requirement to comply with the core labour standards of anonymously and confidentially. The Human Rights Response human rights the > International Labour Organization (ILO) . In the course of Team, which includes one representative from the Works 5.4 Stakeholder Council, handles the reports by employees and initiates mea­ revising and harmonising BMW Group sales contracts ­engagement sures as required to remedy possible violations. worldwide, we intend to gradually integrate this clause 5.5 Reinforcing into all non-European dealership contracts as well. ­sustainability In 2015, no human rights violations within the company were –– Joint ventures: By joining the > UN Global Compact in reported via internal channels. Nor were any relevant reports J­ anuary 2014, our joint venture BMW Brilliance Further key indicators received regarding our supplier network. GRI G4-HR12 Automotive Ltd. in China also explicitly committed to observing human rights. GRI G4 Content Index We see the integration of human rights clauses into contracts Appendix with business partners as an important step in establishing human rights requirements in the value chain, and as an indicator of growing awareness on the part of our partners. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 88 Search 5.4 Stakeholder engagement As a global corporation, both our manufacturing activities REGULARLY AND SYSTEMATICALLY EXCHANGING Introduction and our products have an effect on the environment as well as VIEWS WITH STAKEHOLDERS on diverse groups of stakeholders. At the same time, the 1 STRATEGY viewpoints, decisions and actions of our stakeholders have Our subsidiaries, our political offices in the different markets 2 PRODUCTS a decisive impact on the success of our enterprise. The as well as our plants engage in regular dialogue with local AND ­SERVICES BMW Group therefore engages in ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders on relevant topics. A range of committees and stakeholders at all its locations and in relevant markets. channels allow our different corporate departments to contact 3 PRODUCTION AND relevant stakeholder groups directly. VALUE ­CREATION By fostering dialogue with our stakeholders, we want to build trust, gain a better understanding of each other’s positions, One of the cornerstones of this dialogue is our ongoing and 4 EMPLOYEES systematic identification and prioritisation of stakeholders and identify trends and consolidate partnerships. These exchanges AND SOCIETY their topics of interest. To this end, we regularly map out stake­ also give us an opportunity to clearly and transparently explain the extent of our potential influence on social and holder groups that are involved in strategically important 5 FUNDAMENTALS topics at all relevant locations. environmental issues. 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction Our basic goal is to host at least one multi-stakeholder dialogue Our > ­Stakeholder Engagement Policy forms the basis for contin­ per year in Europe, Asia and North America respectively. 5.2 Economic effects uous dialogue. It defines the goals of the dialogue, sets the We set the themes for these stakeholder dialogues according to criteria for identifying and prioritising our stakeholders, and 5.3 Compliance and provides a template for a range of suitable dialogue formats how topical they are and how well they lend themselves to human rights and communication channels. GRI G4-25 ­comparing and contrasting the different regions. In 2015, for exam­ple, we conducted stakeholder dialogues on the topic of 5.4 Stakeholder urban mobility in Berlin/ DE, London/ UK, Shanghai/CN, ­engagement Seattle/ USA and Paris/FR. In addition to these events, we also 5.5 Reinforcing have direct contact with individual stakeholders on specific ­sustainability occasions when special topics arise (for example, in 2015, there were requests for information on environmental protection Further key indicators at our plant in Tiexi/CN and on social and environmental stan­dards in the value chain). This is usually a case of questions GRI G4 Content Index or criticisms expressed by NGOs or individuals on different issues or incidents at our production sites or in the supply chain. Appendix Our Supply Chain Response Team looks into each case in a matter of days. The management of the supplier company is asked to respond to the specific issue or case. If any doubts remain, we intensify our investigation and send someone to look into things-on site. For an overview of the forms of dialogue and stakeholder Back In discussion with stakeholders: the BMW Group Student Forum in London. groups of the BMW Group, see > Figure 5.01. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 89 Search Introduction Stakeholder groups and forms of dialogue F 5.01 1 STRATEGY Capital market Individual and group dialogue, roadshows, conferences, informational events 2 PRODUCTS on new products, telephone conferences AND ­SERVICES Suppliers Dialogue in industry initiatives, joint events, training courses, lectures, 3 PRODUCTION AND ­Supplier Risk Assessment, Learning from Suppliers forum VALUE ­CREATION Networks and 4 EMPLOYEES Participation of Board members and technical experts in a number of initiatives, AND SOCIETY forums and events, membership of initiatives ­a ssociations 5 FUNDAMENTALS Workshops on key topics, regular “Green Tables” with parliamentarians Policymakers in Germany 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction BMW Group Research 5.2 Economic effects in dialogue Round tables, visits from universities, lectures, discussions, “BMW Group ­Dialogue” with students 5.3 Compliance and The BMW Group fosters both human rights individual dialogue with Dialogue in the form of public relations trips and press releases, informational Media stakeholders as well as 5.4 Stakeholder multi-stakeholder dialogue events on new products, test drives, trade fairs with represen­t atives of ­engagement different stakeholder groups. Business partners 5.5 Reinforcing Dialogue with sales organisations and the association of German BMW dealerships, business conferences, dialogue via the central coordinating units of importers ­sustainability Further key indicators One-on-one dialogue, plant visits, neighbourhood dialogue, press events Local stakeholders GRI G4 Content Index Civil society Face-to-face meetings/dialogue, responding to enquiries Appendix and NGOs Dialogue with employees and managers, employee survey, Employees idea ­management, internal media Customers Customer survey, social media, trade fairs, media Back GRI G4-24, GRI G4-26 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 90 Search Seven key stakeholder perceptions and F 5.02 All of our stakeholder dialogue formats are based on one Introduction ­recommendations principle: that the views of our stakeholders feed back into the company. On the other hand, the stakeholders become 1 STRATEGY familiar with the BMW Group’s views and positions on 1. Individual premium mobility certain topics and can take account of these in their day-to2 PRODUCTS Demand for individual premium mobility remains but strategic AND ­SERVICES day work. For an overview of the results of the stakeholder evaluation is needed since vehicle use cases are challenged. dialogues in 2015 see > Figure 5.02. 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 2. Policy focus Further information on specific events taking place as part Policy focus is on clean air, congestion and land use, but electric vehicles of the > BMW Group Dialogue are published online on the 4 EMPLOYEES cover only one area. BMW Group website. AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS 3. E-mobility E-mobility still requires policy support but also new business models can IN DIALOGUE WITH POLITICAL DECISION-MAKERS 5.1 Customer foster the market uptake. ­satisfaction By engaging in regular, active and open dialogue with political 5.2 Economic effects decision-makers, union representatives and associations 4. Car sharing as well as non-governmental organisations (NGOs), we play 5.3 Compliance and Car sharing has a growing customer base which could be increased by additional customer value. a constructive and transparent role in shaping the general human rights political framework for our business activities. We offer our 5.4 Stakeholder expertise to help promote fair competition for all involved ­engagement 5. Mobility services and find sustainable solutions. We regard this as an important IT-enabled mobility services offer great opportunities but stakeholder 5.5 Reinforcing expectations are still vague. aspect of our corporate responsibility. ­sustainability The political offices concern themselves with public affairs as 6. Autonomous driving they affect environmental, financial and socio-political topics Further key indicators Autonomous driving is perceived as being positive but will bring complex and deal with relevant economic policy and industry-specific and new challenges for carmakers. GRI G4 Content Index issues. In the period under report, the main topics in this regard were how to put CO² regulation into practice, how to Appendix 7. Dialogue format deal with trade barriers, fair taxation legislation, changes The stakeholder dialogue format contributes to trust in BMW but could be brought about by digitisation, the challenges of urban mobili­used even more strategically. ty as well as international regulations on measuring emissions. GRI G4-27 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 91 Search Improving CO² regulation Supporting democratic parties Introduction Legal regulations on emissions are becoming increasingly The BMW Group supports the work on social policy carried stringent worldwide, continually posing new challenges to out by the democratic parties in Germany (CDU, CSU, SPD, 1 STRATEGY the automotive industry. As early as 2000, the BMW Group FDP and Bündnis90/Die Grünen). The company places high set the course for reducing fuel consumption and emissions value on transparency in this regard and complies with the 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES with its Efficient Dynamics strategy. Electromobility is relevant legislation. Since 2014, the BMW Group has supported essential for achieving further reductions. the work of political parties in Germany solely through content3 PRODUCTION AND based partnerships, for example by sponsoring public discus­ VALUE ­CREATION Favourable economic conditions have proven conducive to sion forums and dialogue formats. All partnerships are subject the successful introduction of new technologies. This is why to the clear sponsorship guidelines of the BMW Group. 4 EMPLOYEES we maintain a dialogue with the political stakeholders in the AND SOCIETY main markets on central issues such as promoting electro­ mobility, not distorting competition according to market 5 FUNDAMENTALS segment, supporting new efficiency technologies, a realistic FORECAST 5.1 Customer connection between targets and measuring methods as well We will continue to hold at least one annual Stakeholder ­satisfaction as consistency of supply-side and demand-side policies. ­Dialogue event in Europe, North America and Asia. Key topics for 2016 include “digitalisation” and “urban mobility”. 5.2 Economic effects The BMW Group would like to see countries in all markets 5.3 Compliance and take effective measures to promote electromobility, such as human rights those already in place for example in Japan, China and 5.4 Stakeholder ­C alifornia. ­engagement Promoting the transatlantic free trade agreement 5.5 Reinforcing As a global enterprise, the BMW Group supports the further ­sustainability opening of worldwide markets as well as the continuous re­duction of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers. The BMW Group Further key indicators is one of the biggest payers of customs duties in transatlantic trade. We therefore welcome the bilateral negotiations on a GRI G4 Content Index comprehensive and far-reaching economic and trade pact between the EU and the USA ( > Transatlantic Trade and Appendix Investment Partnership, TTIP ). Reducing trade barriers should lead to considerable benefits for corporations and will there­ fore also have positive effects for consumers on both sides of the Atlantic. At the same time, closer regulatory cooperation is urgent not only in the areas of fuel economy and emissions, but above all in drafting rules and regulations for networking between vehicles and autonomous driving. Common standards Back will help to pave the way for the spread of new technologies. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 92 Search 5.5 Reinforcing ­sustainability The BMW Group manages its business in accordance with MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Introduction responsible corporate governance principles geared to longterm value creation in all areas of the company. The Sustainability Board makes decisions on the long-term 1 STRATEGY alignment of the sustainability-related areas of action included 2 PRODUCTS The Board of Management governs the enterprise under its in Strategy Number ONE. The entire Board of Management AND ­SERVICES own responsibility, acting in the interests of the BMW Group is represented on the Sustainability Board, along with the with the aim of achieving sustainable growth in value. It heads of Sustainability and Environmental Protection and of 3 PRODUCTION AND thus determines the strategic orientation of the enterprise Corporate Communications. GRI G4-34 The Sustainability VALUE ­CREATION and ensures its implementation. The Board of Management Board convenes twice a year to assess the company’s progress is furthermore responsible for compliance with all provisions on economic, environmental and social issues. In particular, 4 EMPLOYEES of the law and internal regulations as well as for adequate it determines the degree to which sustainability principles AND SOCIETY risk management and risk controlling. The Supervisory Board have been integrated into the various departments. GRI G443, advises and supervises the Board of Management in conducting GRI G4 47 The Supervisory Board in turn requests progress 5 FUNDAMENTALS its duties (dual management system). GRI G4-34, GRI G4-39 reports from the Board of Management. 5.1 Customer ­satisfaction Sustainability is a component of our corporate strategy. For Organisation of sustainability in the BMW Group F 5.03 5.2 Economic effects this reason, our Sustainability and Environmental Protection department has been directly incorporated into our Corporate 5.3 Compliance and Planning and Product Strategy unit since 2007, under the Sustainability board human rights mandate of the Chairman of the Board. This unit is responsi­ – Comprises the entire Board of Management 5.4 Stakeholder ble for the sustainability strategy and sustainability manage­ – Chairman: Chairman of the Board of Management ­engagement ment worldwide. Some of the department’s tasks are: – Responsible for strategic alignment 5.5 Reinforcing –– To identify and take an internal approach to addressing ­sustainability core challenges. Further key indicators –– To develop and monitor sustainability goals. Sustainability circle –– To further develop, specify and integrate our sustainability GRI G4 Content Index – Comprises department heads from all divisions initiatives into individual divisions, taking account of – Responsible for preliminary work to support decision-making the entire value chain. Appendix –– To ensure the cooperation of all departments in the ­company involved in sustainability. –– To provide a central corporate function for environmental Specialist divisions protection (Group Representative) and manage – Implement measures and processes needed for the the ­environmental protection network. BMW Group to achieve its sustainability goals –– To manage global centres of competence on a range of Back environmental issues. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 93 Search For example, the Supervisory Board has established the REWARDING SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SUCCESS Introduction Board of Management’s obligation to report on the subject of diversity. GRI G444 The Sustainability Circle, which comprises The Supervisory Board decides on the level of compensation 1 STRATEGY department heads from all divisions, prepares decisions for received by members of the Board of Management, orienting 2 PRODUCTS presentation to the Sustainability Board > Figure 5.03. its decisions on the sustainable development of the AND ­SERVICES GRI G4 -35, GRI G4 -36, GRI G4 42, GRI G4 43 BMW Group. Bonuses are also based in part on personal per­ formance, evaluated primarily according to qualitative criteria. 3 PRODUCTION AND The BMW Group management principles are also set down These criteria include ecological innovation (e.g. reduction of VALUE ­CREATION in the > Corporate Governance Code . carbon emissions), customer focus, leadership accomplish­ ments and the ability to lead change processes. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY AS A STRATEGIC Further key performance indicators for measuring contribu­ ­C ORPORATE OBJECTIVE tions made to the sustainable development and future viability 5 FUNDAMENTALS of the company are enhancing its attractiveness as an employer, 5.1 Customer Sustainability has been established at the BMW Group since progress in the implementation of the diversity concept as ­satisfaction 2009 as a strategic corporate objective based on specific targets well as activities in the field of corporate social responsibility 5.2 Economic effects and key performance indicators. Sustainability is therefore > Compensation Report in the 2015 Annual Report . GRI G444, GRI G4-51 an explicit component of the BMW Group’s management 5.3 Compliance and system. This means on the one hand that every major project You can find further information and data on fundamentals at human rights must be measurable in terms of “Sustainability” as a corpo­r­ate > Further key indicators. 5.4 Stakeholder objective, ensuring that, in addition to economic factors, ­engagement environmental and social aspects are also accounted for in 5.5 Reinforcing the decision-making process. ­sustainability It also means that sustainability as a corporate objective is Further key indicators broken down to the level of business areas and divisions. As a result, the personal targets set for managers include sustain­ GRI G4 Content Index ability aspects and criteria which have an effect on their performance-based remuneration. Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 94 FURTHER Introduction 1 STRATEGY KEY INDICATORS 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators Strategy Products and services Production and value ­creation Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Search Further key indicators: Strategy Introduction Research and development expenditure T 1.02 in € million and € per employee 1 STRATEGY 5,000 4,500 2 PRODUCTS 4,000 AND ­SERVICES 3,500 3 PRODUCTION AND 3,000 VALUE ­CREATION 2,500 4 EMPLOYEES 11 12 13 14 15 AND SOCIETY € million 3,373 3,952 4,793 4,566 5,169 5 FUNDAMENTALS € per employee1 36,998 41,275 47,939 43,180 46,191 Further key indicators 1 Based on the average number of people employed during the financial year (not including trainees and ­students ­gaining work experience). Strategy In the reporting period, expenditure on research and development, in particular for future technologies, rose by 13.2% Products to €5,169 million (2014: €0,000 million). It accounted for 5.6 % of revenues (2014: 5.7 %) thus remaining on the level of the previous year. and services Production and value ­creation Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 96 Search Further key indicators: Products and services Introduction Fleet consumption of BMW Group vehicles sold in the USA (according to CAFE¹) T 2.02 in mpg² 1 STRATEGY 35 34 2 PRODUCTS 33 AND ­SERVICES 32 3 PRODUCTION AND 31 VALUE ­CREATION 30 29 4 EMPLOYEES 28 AND SOCIETY 27 26 5 FUNDAMENTALS 25 24 Further key indicators 23 Strategy 22 Products 21 and services 20 19 Production and value ­creation 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15³ Employees and society Fleet value of cars sold Fleet value of “light trucks” sold (X3 xDrive/X4/X5/X6) Fundamentals 1 CAFE: corporate average fuel economy. 2 mpg: miles per gallon. GRI G4 Content Index 3 BMW Group forecast, not yet officially confirmed by National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). The BMW Group’s Efficient Dynamics strategy calls for fuel economy technologies to be made accessible to all customers worldwide as soon as possible. Efficient Dynamics are thus part of the standard equipment in our Appendix vehicles. The slight decrease is primarily due to the drop in fuel prices and the accompanying increase in customer demand for larger models and more powerful engines. GRI G4-EN27 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 97 Search Fuel consumption and CO² emissions of the most efficient and best-selling BMW Group models in 2015¹ T 2.03 l/100 km l/100 km g CO²/km g CO²/km kWh/100 km Manual Automatic Manual Automatic transmission transmission transmission transmission Introduction (combined) (combined) 1 STRATEGY Most efficient models worldwide BMW 116d EfficientDynamics Edition 5-door 3.8 – 3.4 – 101 – 89 – – 2 PRODUCTS Mini One D 3-door 3.5 – 3.4 – 92 – 89 – – AND ­SERVICES X5 xdrive 40e – 3.4 – 3.3 – 78 – 77 15.4 – 15.3² BMW i8 – 2.1 – 49 11.9² 3 PRODUCTION AND BMW i3 (with range extender) – 0 (0.6) – 0 (13) 12.9 (13.5)³ VALUE ­CREATION Best-selling models in Germany 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY BMW 116i Hatch 5-door 5.4 – 5.0 – 126 – 116 – – BMW 320d Touring 4.7 – 4.3 4.5 – 4.1 123 – 113 119 – 109 – 5 FUNDAMENTALS Best-selling models in EU-28 Further key indicators BMW X3 xDrive20d 5.5 – 5.1 5.3 – 4.9 145 – 135 139 – 129 – BMW 116d Hatch 5-door 4.1 – 3.7 4.1 – 3.6 107 – 97 107 – 96 – Strategy Products As at 3 / 2016. Further, regularly updated information on the vehicles referred to in this publication can be found at www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com. 1 Fuel consumption is determined in accordance with the ECE driving cycle. Detailed information on the local and long-distance consumption of the vehicles listed here can be found in the table “Fuel consumption and CO² emission values and services of the ­vehicles referred to in this publication”. 2 Combined electricity consumption (in addition fuel consumption). Production and 3 Average total energy consumption. value ­creation Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 98 Search Further key indicators: Production and value ­creation Introduction Coverage rate of the production locations with T 3.11 quality management systems 1 STRATEGY as a % of production location workforce 100 2 PRODUCTS 80 AND ­SERVICES 60 40 3 PRODUCTION AND 20 VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES 11 12 13 14 15 AND SOCIETY 100 100 100 100 100 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators Strategy Products and ­services Production and value ­creation Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 99 Search Energy consumption in detail T 3.12 in MWh   11  12  13  14  15 ¹   Introduction Total energy consumption (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels)  Total energy consumption   4,278,582  4,549,788  4,721,174  4,867,094  5,479,002  1 STRATEGY  of which vehicle production   4,278,582  4,549,788  4,721,174  4,867,094  5,054,722   of which motorcycle plant in Berlin/DE    –  –  –  80,535  2 PRODUCTS  of which corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE    –  –  –  343,745  AND ­SERVICES Total energy consumption in detail (upper heating value in case of fossil fuels)  3 PRODUCTION AND Electricity (external source)   1,702,157  1,790,534  1,910,065  2,141,222  2,485,881  VALUE ­CREATION Community heating   200,808  249,123  316,532  281,216  366,593  Community cooling in MWh   –  –  –  –  1,002  4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Fossil fuels  Fuel oil   12,176  12,622  14,023  7,459  4,667  5 FUNDAMENTALS Natural gas   2,034,529  2,169,059  2,165,362  2,198,202  2,393,723   of which CHP losses   211,680  210,514  191,840  210,740  214,569  Further key indicators Non-fossil fuels  Strategy Biogas (landfill gas)   328,912  328,450  315,192  238,654  226,146   of which CHP losses   91,600  103,422  94,486  73,638  98,670  Products Wood pellets   –  –  –  –  430  and ­services Regenerative fuels  Production and Solar energy (photovoltaics)   0  114  142  341  559  value ­creation 1 To further increase transparency, energy consumption from the corporate functions, development and administration in Munich/DE as well as the motorcycle plant in Berlin/DE are included in the report for the first time. Employees and society GRI G4-EN3 Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 100 Search Certified environmental management systems in production facilities of the BMW Group T 3.13 Site Environmental management systems Most recent year of certification Introduction Berlin plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 Dingolfing plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 1 STRATEGY Eisenach plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 Goodwood plant, UK ISO 14001 January 2015 2 PRODUCTS Hams Hall plant, UK ISO 14001 January 2015 AND ­SERVICES Landshut plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 3 PRODUCTION AND Leipzig plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 VALUE ­CREATION Munich plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 Oxford plant, UK ISO 14001 January 2015 4 EMPLOYEES Regensburg, plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 AND SOCIETY Rosslyn plant, ZA ISO 14001 January 2015 Spartanburg plant, US ISO 14001 January 2015 5 FUNDAMENTALS Steyr plant, AT ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 Swindon plant, UK ISO 14001 January 2015 Further key indicators Wackersdorf plant, DE ISO 14001/ EMAS January 2015 Strategy CKD plant, Araquari, BR ISO 14001 planned in March 2016 Products CKD plant, Chennai, IN ISO 14001 January 2015 and ­services CKD plant, Jakarta, ID (external production) ISO 14001 May 2013 CKD plant, Cairo, EG (external production) ISO 14001 October 2014 Production and CKD plant, Kaliningrad, RU (external production) ISO 14001 July 2014 value ­creation CKD plant, Kulim, MY (external production) ISO 14001 November 2013 Employees CKD plant, Manaus, BR (external production) National standard Introduced and society CKD plant, Rayong, TH ISO 14001 January 2015 Fundamentals BMW Brilliance Automotive, Shenyang, CN (joint venture) ISO 14001 December 2012 SGL Automotive Moses Lake, US (joint venture) ISO 14001 January 2016 GRI G4 Content Index SGL Automotive Wackersdorf, DE (joint venture) ISO 14001 January 2015 Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik Graz, AT (contract production) ISO 14001/ EMAS July 2015 Appendix VDL Nedcar, Born, NL (contract production) ISO 14001 October 2014 Environmental management systems are in place at all BMW Group production facilities worldwide as well as in the central planning departments. With the exception of the Manaus/BR plant, these systems are certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The German and Austrian sites additionally meet the EMAS European environmental management standard. The environmental management system in accordance with ISO 14001 is currently being introduced at the Araquari/BR plant. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 101 Search Average distribution of materials in BMW Group vehicles¹ T 3.14 Investment in environmental protection¹ T 3.15 in % in € million g h i 160 ef d 140 Introduction 120 c 100 1 STRATEGY 80 a 60 2 PRODUCTS b 40 AND ­SERVICES 20 3 PRODUCTION AND  VALUE ­CREATION 11 12 13 14 15 a) Steel and iron  56 f) Textile  1 b) Non-ferrous metals  18 g) M.O.N.³  1 4 EMPLOYEES Germany 32.6 50.9 78.6 68.2 69.7 AND SOCIETY c) Thermoplastic resins  12 h) Other  5 Entire d) Elastomers²  4 i) Operating fluids  1 production network 134.4 148.1 149.8 109.6 5 FUNDAMENTALS e) Duromers  2 1 Calculation of integrated environmental investments of the BMW Group according to VDA standard. 1 C alculation of representative vehicles includes: BMW 1 Series, BMW 3 Series, BMW 5 Series, Total investment by the BMW Group in environmental protection decreased compared to 2014, amounting Further key indicators BMW 7 Series, BMW X1, BMW X5, MINI Hatchback, MINI Countryman, RR, i3, i8. to €109.6 million in the reporting period, while investment in Germany remained on a comparably high level 2 Such as tyres and seals. (€69.7 million). One of the main reasons for the decrease in investment volume in our non-German plants Strategy 3 Modified organic natural materials. is that the large-scale investment in the modernisation of the paint shop systems at the plant in Spartanburg/ USA was almost completed in 2014. Products and ­services Production and value ­creation Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 102 Search BMW Group input/output assessment for 2015 vehicle production T 3.16 Input Output Introduction Raw materials¹ Vehicles Steel 2,419,434 t BMW Group vehicles produced5 2,139,829 1 STRATEGY Plastics ² 544,618 t Vehicles produced (contracted) 139,674 Aluminium 582,928 t Total waste4 754,747 t 2 PRODUCTS Magnesium 6,992 t of which recyclable 745,986 t AND ­SERVICES Operating fluids ³ 69,445 t of which waste for disposal 8,761 t 3 PRODUCTION AND Water 4 4,819,684 m³ Total waste water 4 3,108,587 m³ VALUE ­CREATION Energy 4 5,054,722 MWh CO² emissions 4 1,266,697 t 6 Volatile organic compounds (VOC)5 2,618 t 4 EMPLOYEES NOX 5 602 t AND SOCIETY CO 5 367 t SO² 5 6t 5 FUNDAMENTALS Particulates, dust 5 59 t Further key indicators 1 Due to the fact that internal reporting has a different scope, this figure excludes BMW Brilliance (CH) but includes Magna Steyr/AT. 2 Component weight. Strategy 3 Operating fluid for products (e.g. engine and gear oil, brake and cooling fluid, cooling agent, fuel for production refuelling). As the data is captured via the central purchasing system, this figure excludes BMW Brilliance (CH) and Magna Steyr/AT. 4 Incl. BMW Brilliance (CH), excluding contract production. Products 5 BMW Group measurements/capture as well as calculations based on energy consumption (primarily heating oil and gas) with the aid of the VDA emission factors. 6 Calculated using updated emissions factors. If 2014 factors were used: 1,355,037 t CO . and ­services ² The number of vehicles produced again showed a robust increase in the reporting period (+5.3 %). On the input side, the shift from steel to aluminium reported in 2014 continued due to the increase in lightweight Production and ­construction. Aluminium grew by 5.7 %, a much faster rate than steel (0.9 %). In addition, the efficiency indicators energy/water consumption, process waste water, waste for disposal, VOC and CO² emissions per vehicle improved by an average of 7.0 % compared to 2014. value ­creation GRI G4-EN1, GRI G4-EN2, GRI G4-EN3, GRI G4-EN8, GRI G4-EN15, GRI G4-EN21, GRI G4-EN22, GRI G4-EN23 Employees and society Fundamentals GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 103 Search Water consumption¹ T 3.17 11 12 13 14 15 Introduction Water consumption in m³ 3,678,738 3,910,923 4,105,937 4,434,595 4,819,684 of which drinking water in % 88 88 86 87 86 1 STRATEGY of which groundwater in % 12 12 14 13 14 of which surface water in % 0 0 0 0 0 2 PRODUCTS of which rainwater in % 0 0 0 0 0 AND ­SERVICES 1 This figures refer to the production sites of the BMW Group incl. the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint venture in Shenyang/CN. 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Measured against the increase in production at the BMW Group incl. BMW Brilliance (5.8 %), total water consumption rose disproportionately, by 8.7 % compared to 2014. The very hot and dry summer played a significant role in this increase at ­many locations. On the other hand, a large number of continuous improvement measures were taken. 4 EMPLOYEES GRI G4-EN8 AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Waste water¹ T 3.18 Further key indicators 11 12 13 14 15 Strategy Products Total waste water in m³ 2,557,493 2,535,980 2,825,825 2,965,615 3,108,587 and ­services of which process waste water in m³ 935,750 896,137 882,978 949,601 960,234 of which waste water from sanitary facilities in m³ 1,621,743 1,639,843 1,942,847 2,016,015 2,148,353 Production and Total heavy metals and heavy metal compounds in kg 463 474 465 492 502 value ­creation CSB² in kg 1,681,776 1,617,183 1,770,577 2,081,473 2,152,073 Employees AOX³ in kg 81 77 79 74 87 and society 1 The key performance indicator “Process waste water” is measured after waste water treatment in BMW Group plants (incl. the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint venture in Shenyang/CN) has taken place. Together with the waste water from Fundamentals sanitary facilities at the plants, this is the figure for total waste water. Due to factors such as evaporation, water input does not correspond to total waste water. 2 COD = chemical oxygen demand. 3 AOX = adsorbable organic halides in water. GRI G4 Content Index Materials input into waste water should be limited to volumes that will not overtax natural decomposition processes. At all of our plants, we have introduced our own BMW-specific waste water standards, which exceed local regulations in many cases. Appendix GRI G4-EN22 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 104 Search Waste¹ T 3.19 in t 11 12 13 14 15 Introduction Total waste 594,791 664,752 680,299 727,079 754,747 Hazardous waste for recovery 18,413 19,979 21,884 28,503 31,099 1 STRATEGY Hazardous waste for disposal 8,720 8,127 7,668 7,439 5,483 Non-hazardous waste for recovery 562,482 633,394 647,725 688,237 714,887 2 PRODUCTS Non-hazardous waste for disposal 5,176 3,252 3,022 2,900 3,278 AND ­SERVICES Materials for recycling 580,895 653,373 669,609 716,740 745,986 3 PRODUCTION AND Metals for recycling (scrap) 449,900 494,894 500,589 525,812 569,959 VALUE ­CREATION Waste for disposal 13,896 11,379 10,690 10,339 8,761 1 The indicators refer to the production locations of the BMW Group incl. the BMW Brilliance Automotive Ltd. joint venture in Shenyang/CN. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Waste for disposal was reduced to 8,761 tonnes in 2015 (2014: 10,339). This is a decrease of 15.3 %, in spite of an increase in production at the BMW Group locations, incl. BMW Brilliance, of 5.8 %. This reduction was primarily the result of the modification of the emulsion processing system at the Steyr/AT engine plant. At the same time, the proportion of materials for recycling or reuse increased again in 2015, reaching 99 % (rounded up ­figure) of total waste volume. 5 FUNDAMENTALS GRI G4-EN23 Further key indicators Strategy Modes of transport of BMW AG employees¹ T 3.20 Products and ­services 12 13 14 15² Production and value ­creation in % in t CO² in % in t CO² in % in t CO² in % in t CO² Employees and society Cars 47 53,036 50 59,882 51 60,009 52 65,922 Public transport 17 3,738 17 3,914 16 3,461 16 3,750 Fundamentals Plant bus 30 15,869 27 13,432 26 14,244 25 14,552 Bicycle/on foot 6 0 6 0 7 0 7 0 GRI G4 Content Index Total 100 72,643 100 77,228 100 77,714 100 84,225 Appendix 1 Headquarters, including Research and Innovation Centre Munich/DE, the Munich/DE, Dingolfing/DE, Regensburg/DE, Landshut/DE, Leipzig/DE and Berlin/DE plants. 2 63 % of BMW Group employees, 92 % of employees in Germany.w Total CO² emissions increased by 8 % due to a significant growth of 6 % in the workforce nationwide in Germany and by 12 % at German locations that have insufficient public transport infrastructure (e.g. Leipzig/DE and Landshut/DE). This also means that mobility patterns shifted towards more car journeys in 2015 compared to 2014. As the specific CO² vehicle emissions continued to decrease in the current portfolio of vehicles (e.g. due to i3 vehicles being used by employees for the first time), overall average CO² emissions per employee and production day were just below the previous year’s level (4.46 kg/employee/day). GRI G4-EN17 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 105 Search Logistics: carriers and CO² emissions¹ T 3.21 11 12 13 14 15 Introduction Inbound (material provision of the plants and spare parts delivery) Transport capacity in million tkm 9,072 10,703 11,560 12,682 13,822 1 STRATEGY CO² emissions in t 518,157 547,049 580,616 630,215 467,023 2 PRODUCTS Outbound (distribution vehicles and spare parts) AND ­SERVICES Transport capacity in million tkm 18,854 20,195 22,226 24,537 25,584 3 PRODUCTION AND CO² emissions in t 677,730 700,051 803,158 888,089 935,059 VALUE ­CREATION Total (inbound and outbound) 4 EMPLOYEES Transport capacity in million tkm 27,926 30,898 33,786 37,219 39,406 AND SOCIETY CO² emissions in t 1,195,887 1,247,100 1,383,774 1,518,304 1,402,082 5 FUNDAMENTALS Percentage share of carriers in total (inbound and outbound) in terms of transport volume and CO² emissions tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² tkm g CO² Further key indicators Strategy Sea 78.9 51.3 79.2 53.1 78.9 51.6 77.8 50.1 78.9 57.0 % Products Road 11.9 24.2 10.7 20.2 12.4 23.1 13.5 24.3 13.5 27.8 % and ­services Rail 8.2 5.5 8.9 4.6 7.5 3.8 7.3 2.7 7.0 3.2 % Air 1.0 19.0 1.2 22.1 1.2 21.5 1.4 22.9 0.6 12.0 % Production and value ­creation 1 Figures refer to BMW and MINI, excluding Rolls-Royce automobiles. CO² emissions calculated in accordance with DIN EN 16258. Since the 2011 financial year, the scope has expanded significantly and currently comprises: inbound volumes ­(material supplies to plants and spare parts delivery) for BMW and MINI vehicles in Germany, UK, USA, South Africa, China, Thailand, India and CKD/SKD locations as well as for delivery of spare parts to the parts supply centre ZTA in D ­ ingolfing/DE. Employees Outbound volumes (vehicle distribution and spare parts) as far as the distribution centres in the worldwide markets and in certain markets as far as the dealership. and society Transport volume increased by 5.9 % compared to 2014. This increase correlates with the rise in the number of BMW and MINI vehicles produced (+5.3 %) and shipped (+6.1 %). Total CO² emissions dropped by 7.7 % year on year, and even over 12 % per unit when the figure relates to the number of vehicles. This positive trend was achieved primarily due to a significant reduction of over 50 % in the share of air freight in transport volume. It is also reflected in Fundamentals the shifts in shares of modes of transport in transport volume and CO² emissions figures. GRI G4-EN17 GRI G4 Content Index Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 106 Search Further key indicators: Employees and society Occupational health and safety management systems at BMW Group sites T 4.14 Introduction Plant occupational health and safety certification Occupational health and Most recent year of certification safety management system 1 STRATEGY Berlin plant, DE OHSAS 18001 December 2014 2 PRODUCTS Dingolfing plant, DE OHRIS May 2015 AND ­SERVICES Eisenach plant, DE OHSAS 18001 September 2015 Goodwood plant, UK OHSAS 18001 September 2015 3 PRODUCTION AND Hams Hall plant, UK¹ HS(G) 65³ Introduced VALUE ­CREATION Landshut plant, DE OHRIS October 2015 Leipzig plant, DE OHRIS March 2013 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Munich plant, DE OHRIS August 2015 Oxford plant, UK OHSAS 18001 December 2015 6 5 FUNDAMENTALS Regensburg plant, DE OHRIS July 2015 Rosslyn plant, ZA OHSAS 18001 December 2014 Further key indicators Spartanburg plant, US OHSAS 18001 February 2013 Steyr plant, AT OHSAS 18001 October 2015 6 Strategy Swindon plant, UK OHSAS 18001 December 2015 6 Products Wackersdorf plant, DE 4 OHRIS July 2015 and ­services CKD production Araquari, BR OHSAS 18001 Planned 2016 Production and CKD production Chennai, IN OHSAS 18001 January 2013 value ­creation CKD production Jakarta, ID (external production) OHSAS 18001 January 2014 CKD production Cairo, EG (external production) OHSAS 18001 October 2014 Employees CKD production Kaliningrad, RU 5 (external production) National standard Introduced and society CKD production Kulim, MY (external production) OHSAS 18001 December 2012 Fundamentals CKD production Manaus, BR (external production) National standard Introduced CKD production Rayong, TH OHSAS 18001 January 2013 GRI G4 Content Index BMW Brilliance Automotive, Shenyang, CN² (joint venture) OHSAS 18001 January 2013 SGL Automotive Moses Lake, US (joint venture) OHSAS 18001 December 2015 6 Appendix SGL Automotive Wackersdorf, DE (joint venture) OHSAS 18001 December 2015 6 Magna Steyr Fahrzeugtechnik Graz, AT (contract production) OHSAS 18001 July 2015 VDL Nedcar, Born, NL (contract production) in accordance with OHSAS 18001 Not planned 1 OHSAS certification planned 2016. 2 Includes the Dadong/CN, Tiexi/CN and Powertrain/CN plants. 3 HS(G) 65, Successful health and safety management, British Government guidelines on safety at the workplace. Does not require certification. 4 Jointly certified with BMW Regensburg/DE plant. 5 GOST (state standard specification) 12.0230-2007SSBT. Does not require certification. 6 Date of issue of certificates January 2016. The BMW Group currently has certified occupational health and safety management systems in accordance with OHRIS and OHSAS in place at 25 of its 30 production locations, and corresponding systems in accordance with Back national standards at four further sites. The Eisenach/DE and Goodwood/UK locations completed the certification process in 2015. Certification of the Hams Hall plant in the UK as well as Araquari in Brazil is planned for 2016. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 107 Search Occupational safety at BMW Group T 4.15 Rate / number of participants / number 11 12 13 14 15 Introduction Accident frequency rate¹ BMW Group 7.1 5.8 4.8 5.14 4.45 Accident frequency rate¹ BMW AG 7.9 6.6 5.3 5.8 (4.9 6) 5.0 (4.3 6) 1 STRATEGY Safety training by BMW AG occupational safety association 1,059 4,315 2,387 2,750 1,809 2 PRODUCTS Web-based training in occupational AND ­SERVICES safety at BMW Group² 11,935 15,902 17,180 23,548 Other training courses in occupational 3 PRODUCTION AND safety at BMW Group² 16,513 10,892 10,984 17,536 VALUE ­CREATION Employees at BMW Group (number) 10,626 9,611 6,941 13,635 Employees of third-party companies (number) 5,887 1,281 4,043 3,901 4 EMPLOYEES BMW Group risk assessments³ 21,612 26,040 26,462 27,300 69,8877 AND SOCIETY 1 Number of occupational accidents with at least one day absent per one million hours worked. 5 FUNDAMENTALS 2 Training courses captured in 2012 for the first time. 3 Number of safety assessments of workplaces, including with regard to possible ergonomic and health strains. Figures are cumulative and refer to the BMW Group. 4 Figure not directly comparable to previous years’ figures due to addition of German dealerships to Scope (2014 figure not including dealerships: 4.4). Around 88 % of BMW Group employees captured. Further key indicators 5 Figure not directly comparable to previous years’ figures due to addition of plants in Brazil, Thailand and India to Scope (2015 figure in 2014 Scope: 4.5). Around 90 % of BMW Group employees captured. 6 BMW AG, not including dealerships. 7 Figure not directly comparable to previous years’ figures. The figure shown is the sum of the safety assessments of workplaces in the tariff-bound production area carried out so far in accordance with the ABATech method (30,451) Strategy and the hazard assessments in the non-tariff areas, which were captured for the first time (39,436). The figures are cumulative and refer to the BMW Group. Products The accident frequency rate at the BMW Group decreased by 13.7 % in 2015 (BMW AG: 13.8 %) compared to 2014. This is due to continuous improvement processes as well as dedicated safety training courses and ongoing and ­services improvement of technical safety conditions at workstations. In addition to training by the occupational safety association, a large number of internal training courses are carried out, data on which has been captured since 2012. A total of 17,536 employees of the BMW Group as well as employees of third-party companies took part in internal safety training courses. In addition 5,153 people underwent training in first aid in Germany alone. Production and GRI G4-LA6 value ­creation Employees and society BMW Group employees T 4.16 Fundamentals 11 12 13 14 15 GRI G4 Content Index Workforce according to segment Appendix Automotive 91,517 96,518 100,682 106,064 111,410 Motorcycles 2,867 2,939 2,726 2,894 3,021 Financial Services 5,801 6,295 6,823 7,245 7,697 Other 121 124 120 121 116 Share of employees with fixed-term contracts¹ in % 3.1 3.8 3.9 4.2 4.7 1 Excluding vocational trainees, interns and students. GRI G4-10 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 108 Search Accident frequency rate at BMW Group by region¹ T 4.17 Sickness rate at BMW AG T 4.18 per one million hours worked in % Accident frequency 5.0 4.5 Introduction Germany 5.0 4.0 Brazil² 0.0 3.5 1 STRATEGY UK and Ireland³ 3.5 3.0 India4 0.0 2.5 2 PRODUCTS North America5 2.1 AND ­SERVICES Austria6 7.3 11 12 13 14 15 3 PRODUCTION AND South Africa7 1.9 VALUE ­CREATION Thailand8 2.7 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.2 4.6 1 Occupational accidents with at least one day of absence from work per one million hours worked. The sickness rate at BMW AG (4.6 %) is 0.4 % higher than in the previous year. The main reason for this is 4 EMPLOYEES 2 Aquari/BR plant. a significantly higher number of employees suffering from influenza at the beginning of the year – this was AND SOCIETY 3 Plants in Oxford/UK, Swindon/UK, Hams Hall/UK, Goodwood/UK, Financial Services, sales centres, distribution also indicated by the influenza index of the Robert Koch Institute. ­centre and Alphabet. 4 Chennai/IN plant. GRI G4-LA6 5 FUNDAMENTALS 5 Spartanburg/US plant, Financial Services, sales centres. 6 Steyr/AT plant. 7 Rosslyn/ZA plant, Financial Services, sales centres. Further key indicators 8 Rayong/TH plant. Total days of work missed at BMW AG¹ T 4.20 Strategy Occupational accidents are currently captured in Germany as well as in the regions in which the BMW Group Number has its plants. At the end of 2015, we began to create the conditions for calculation of Group-wide accident Products frequency rates into which all companies will gradually be integrated. 18,000 and ­services GRI G4-LA6 16,000 Production and 14,000 value ­creation 12,000 Share of performance-related compensation in T 4.19 10,000 Employees BMW AG salaries, by employee category¹ 8,000 and society in % of salary group 6,000 Fundamentals 13 14 15 4,000 2,000 GRI G4 Content Index Upper management 53 – 69 53 – 72 52 – 71 11 12 13 14 15 Appendix Middle management 37 – 40 37 – 41 37 – 41 Total 15,892 12,737 14,853 13,952 18,774 Lower management 10 10 9 Due to a notifiable work accident. Due to a notifiable accident on the way to or from work. Performance-based remuneration comprises a personal bonus and a corporate earnings-related bonus. 1 Figures for BMW AG, including dealerships. Days of absence from work due to occupational accidents and/or The amount of the personal bonus depends on personal performance as well as achievement of the indi­accidents on the way to or from work with at least one day of absence from work. vidual’s targets. The amount of the corporate bonus depends on the company’s performance. The variable part of remuneration increases as more responsibility is taken within the company. The number of occupational accidents with days absent from work dropped by 9.6 % in 2015 compared to the previous year. GRI G4-LA6 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 109 Search Profit-sharing scheme at BMW AG by year of payment¹ T 4.21 Total number of employees leaving BMW AG, by reason for leaving¹ T 4.22 in % of monthly salary/in % of personal base value Number 200 3,000 175 2,500 Introduction 150 2,000 125 1,500 1 STRATEGY 100 1,000 75 500 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 98.0 153.0 152.6 162.8 167.3 Total 1,389 2,561 2,371 1,014 1,577 1 New employees receive full bonuses after four years of employment. Number dismissed by employer. 4 EMPLOYEES Voluntarily left company (termination or suspension of employment contract by employee). AND SOCIETY Since the 2010 financial year (payout in 2011), bonuses at BMW AG have been determined according to a Pension, death, pre-retirement part-time working arrangements. uniform system across all hierarchical levels. Starting in the 2011 financial year (payout in 2012) this system was also introduced for employees worldwide as a standardised corporate success component in nearly all 1 Figures refer to employees with permanent contracts. 5 FUNDAMENTALS BMW Group companies. The consistency of this component is thus ensured both hierarchically (from production worker to board member) and geographically (worldwide). This portion of the bonus depends on The sharp rise in the number of people leaving the company for age-related reasons (retirement, pre-retirethe earnings performance of the BMW Group and is calculated according to these three parameters: group ment part-time working arrangements) compared to 2014 led to an increase in the overall figure. The share Further key indicators earnings after tax, after-tax return on sales, and dividends. Including the post-tax return on sales in the of women in the total number of people leaving the company (1,577) was 14.0 % in 2015. The share of women among newly recruited employees was 22.4 %. calculation of bonuses (also for the Board of Management and the upper executives) in particular ensures an Strategy orientation towards the profitable, and hence sustainable, growth of the BMW Group. GRI G4-LA1 Products and ­services Production and Share of women in the workforce per country T 4.23 with production site(s) in 2015 value ­creation in % Employees a) Germany 15.8 % and society b) UK 14.8 % Fundamentals c) USA 24.5 % d) Austria 11.2 % GRI G4 Content Index e) South Africa 20.9 % f) India 8.8 % Appendix g) Thailand 37.9 % h) China 45.7 % i) Brazil 24.5 % j) Other countries 34.2 % The share of women in the workforce varies strongly in the different functional areas: the share of women in production-related activities is less than 10 %, while it is over 20 % in sales-related activities. The employee share and share of women is therefore lower in production-intensive countries. GRI G4-LA12 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 110 Search BMW Group apprentices as at 31 December T 4.24 Investment in further education and training at the BMW Group¹ T 4.25 Number in € million 5,000 400 4,500 350 Introduction 4,000 300 3,500 250 1 STRATEGY 3,000 200 2,500 150 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Total 3,899 4,266 4,445 4,595 4,700 246 282 288 335 352 In 2015, the BMW Group expanded its international training activities by opening new training centres 4 EMPLOYEES in Brazil, Mexico and Thailand. The number of people starting their careers at the company’s German 1 BMW Group investments are dependent on current further education and training requirements, AND SOCIETY training centres remained constant, at 1,200. Overall, more than 1,500 trainees signed contracts with the which may lead to year-on-year fluctuations. BMW Group in 2015. On the reporting date, 4,700 young people had vocational training contracts or were The BMW Group sees targeted employee training as an investment in the future. For this purpose, employed in young talent promotion programmes (2014: 4,595). ­investment in education and further training was increased by 5 % in 2015. Building up and maintaining 5 FUNDAMENTALS skills expertise within the Group’s workforce are key aspects of strategic corporate governance. Further key indicators Average training hours at the BMW AG Academy, T 4.26 Strategy by employee category¹ Share of employees per country with production site(s) in 2015 T 4.27 Products Number of employees in % and ­services 13 14 15 j Production and ghi ef value ­creation d Non-tariff employees 31.2 30.5 26.6 c Employees “Meister” and society (master craftsmen) 40.7 35.0 36.8 b Fundamentals Tariff² 17.0 17.5 18.2 Days of further training for managers in the BMW Group a GRI G4 Content Index Number 18,843 18,920 18,775 1 (w/o “Meister”) + vocational trainees + other. Appendix a) Germany 71.2 f) India 0.6 The training academy founded in 2009 coordinates vocational training at Munich/DE as well as training and further education for all company locations in Germany and the UK under one roof. This facilitates the b) UK 6.2 g) Thailand 0.3 coordination of training courses and generates synergies through the use of shared resources. In 2015, c) USA 6.9 h) China 1.5 the BMW Group’s training offensive provided similar results to the previous year. Both the average amount of time spent on training as well as expenditure were at a similar level to the previous year. This trend can d) Austria 2.9 i) Brazil 0.7 be observed throughout the entire company. In addition to classical training courses and e-learning, brand­ new education programmes were launched, such as bachelor’s and master’s degrees in cooperation with e) South Africa 3.0 j) Other countries 6.7 universities. The BMW Group invests continuously in training its managers worldwide. Nearly three-quarters of employees at the BMW Group work in Germany, followed by the USA with 6.9 % GRI G4-LA9 and the UK with 6.2 %. GRI G4-10 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 111 Search Share of local employees in management positions at major company locations¹ T 4.28 in % 11 12 13 14 15 Introduction Munich plant, DE 99.2 98.8 98.8 98.9 99.0 Dingolfing plant, DE 99.7 99.7 99.7 99.7 99.7 1 STRATEGY Berlin plant, DE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Landshut plant, DE 100.0 100.0 99.2 100.0 100.0 2 PRODUCTS Leipzig plant, DE 100.0 100.0 98.2 99.2 99.2 AND ­SERVICES Regensburg plant, DE 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 3 PRODUCTION AND UK 92.5 92.5 89.3 85.2 85.2 VALUE ­CREATION USA 90.9 91.2 89.0 86.8 86.1 Austria 88.8 83.0 84.7 86.2 75.1 4 EMPLOYEES South Africa 91.5 89.2 89.0 89.9 85.4 AND SOCIETY China ² (incl. joint venture) 43.3 28.4 63.0 50.6 65.2 India 56.0 54.8 59.5 61.8 71.1 5 FUNDAMENTALS Thailand 70.4 68.0 75.0 61.3 72.4 Further key indicators 1 “Local” refers to managers with local contracts. Persons deployed to work at the location who do not have a local employment contract are not included. Such persons are reflected in the difference from 100 % in each case. 2 Including employees of the joint venture BMW Brilliance Automotive, which is not consolidated in the BMW Group. Strategy GRI G4-LA12 Products and ­services Production and Share of employees represented by a trade union or falling under collective agreements T 4.29 value ­creation in % Employees 11 12 13 14 15 and society Germany ² 100 100 100 100 100 Fundamentals UK¹ 94 86 86 86 86 China (plant) 100 100 100 100 100 GRI G4 Content Index Austria ² 100 100 100 100 100 South Africa 51 61 61 60 59 Appendix USA (no collective agreements exist) 0 0 0 0 0 1 From 2012 onwards, all employees in corporate functions as well as the employees at the Goodwood/UK plant were included in this figure. 2 Excluding executives. At the BMW Group, institutionalised co-determination is implemented Group-wide according to the applicable national regulations. At all BMW AG plants and dealerships as well as in Austria and the UK, elected works councils observe co-determination for the employees. In China and South Africa, employees are represented by local workers’ representatives, while at the company locations in the USA no collective agreements exist in general. GRI G4-11 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 112 Search Further key indicators: Fundamentals Introduction BMW Group personnel costs per employee¹ T 5.04 Pension provisions T 5.05 in € in € million 1 STRATEGY 95,000 6,000 90,000 5,000 2 PRODUCTS 85,000 4,000 AND ­SERVICES 80,000 3,000 3 PRODUCTION AND 75,000 2,000 VALUE ­CREATION 70,000 1,000 4 EMPLOYEES 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 AND SOCIETY 84,887 89,161 89,869 92,337 97,136 2,183 3,813 2,303 4,604 3,000 5 FUNDAMENTALS 1 Figures exclude suspended employment contracts, employees in non-work phases of pre-retirement p­ art-time arThe bulk of the agreed pension benefits are covered in full by fund-based pension systems as well as accounting rangements, trainees, students and low income earners. ­provisions. Fund assets amounted to €16,930 million in 2015 (2014: €15,861 million). Pension provisions decreased Further key indicators to €3,000 million (2014: €4,604 million). The main reason for this was lower projected benefit obligations of Maintaining a competitive level of expenditure on personnel plays a major role in the success of the BMW the ­pensions entitlements combined with a simultaneous rise in the market value of the fund assets. From a legal Strategy Group. In addition to focusing on cost, the aim is also to increase efficiency at all levels of the business. The ­perspective, the BMW Group’s fund assets are managed in trusts, separately from its corporate assets. high degree of motivation amongst employees and the positive approach taken by the company towards Products the workforce are underscored by rewards that are determined individually on the basis of performance and GRI G4-EC1, GRI G4-EC3 success. and ­services GRI G4-EC1 Production and value ­creation Public sector grants: allowances from public institutions T 5.07 Public sector grants: public subsidies in the form of reduced T 5.06 in € million Employees taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes and society 135 in € million 120 Fundamentals 70 105 60 90 GRI G4 Content Index 50 75 40 60 Appendix 30 45 20 30 10 15 11 12 13 14 15 11 12 13 14 15 47 45 45 54 71 13 19 73 73 132 As in the previous years, public sector grants consisted of two parts in 2015. First, production costs were reduced due to public subsidies in the form of reduced taxes on assets and consumption-based taxes amounting to €71 million GRI G4-EC4 Back (2014: €54 million). Second, other operating income at the BMW Group also includes allowances from public institutions of €132 million (2014: €73 million). SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 113 GRI G4-EC4 GRI G4 Introduction 1 STRATEGY CONTENT INDEX 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index General standard disclosure Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Appendix Search GRI G4 Content Index Introduction GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS AND ­SERVICES G4-1 Statement from the most senior ­decision-maker 3 PRODUCTION AND pages 3–4 VALUE ­CREATION G4-2  ey impacts, risks, and opportunities K 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY concerning sustainability Impacts, risks and opportunities regarding 5 FUNDAMENTALS Products and services, page 19 Production and value chain, page 36 Further key indicators Employees and society, page 59 Fundamentals, page 81 GRI G4 Content Index Business case for sustainability, pages 15–16 General standard disclosure ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and G4-3 Name of the organisation boundaries of the BMW Group page 154 Appendix G4-4 Primary brands, products and services page 7 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters page 154 G4-6 Countries with significant operations * > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 BMW Group sales of vehicles by region and ­market, page 29 Vehicle production of BMW Group by plant, page 32 Sales subsidiaries, pages 200–201 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 115 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form * Introduction > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Business model, page 18 1 STRATEGY Disclosures relevant for takeovers 2 PRODUCTS and explanatory comments, page 83 AND ­SERVICES Consolidated financial statements, pages 90–167 3 PRODUCTION AND G4-8 Markets served * VALUE ­CREATION > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 4 EMPLOYEES BMW Group vehicle sales by region and AND SOCIETY market, page 29 Vehicle production of BMW Group by plant, 5 FUNDAMENTALS page 32 Sales subsidiaries, pages 200–201 Further key indicators G4-9 Scale of the organization GRI G4 Content Index page 5, page 84 General standard disclosure Specific standard disclosure G4-10 Employees by employment type, The number of employees in the BMW Group had increased gender and region worldwide by the end of 2015 to a total of 122,244 (2014: Identified material aspects and page 66, page 68 116,324 employees / +5.1 %). The ratio of tariff-bound pro­duction boundaries of the BMW Group Further key indicators, page 108, page 111 employees in the BMW Group was 36.3 %. The ratio of women in the overall workforce continues to increase. The share of Appendix women at BMW AG, for example, rose from 14.8 to 15.3 % and in the BMW Group from 17.8 to 18.1 %. The number of non-managerial staff is subject to very strong short-term fluctuations particularly in the summer during the main holiday period of the core workforce. Statements about the number of non-managerial staff as well as their composition by gender are therefore valid only for a very short time. Freelance staff are not relevant for most of the work in the BMW Group. (UNGC 6)¹ Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 116 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-11 Ratio of employees under collective The BMW Group complies with conventions 87 and 98 of the Introduction agreements ILO (International Labour Organization), which guarantee workers Further key indicators, page 112 freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. 1 STRATEGY This also includes the right to establish and to join independent 2 PRODUCTS trade unions and other advocacy organisations as well as pro­ AND ­SERVICES tection against discrimination on the grounds of membership in an employee representative body. Freedom of association is 3 PRODUCTION AND thus one of the principles set down in the > Joint Declaration on VALUE ­CREATION Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group . 4 EMPLOYEES The timely and comprehensive involvement of employee repreAND SOCIETY sentatives is ensured in the BMW Group by the Supervisory Board of BMW AG with equal representation of all parties as well 5 FUNDAMENTALS as by works councils and local employee representatives. Further key indicators (UNGC 3)¹ GRI G4 Content Index G4-12 Description of the supply chain page 6, page 53 General standard disclosure Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period boundaries of the BMW Group page 150 Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 117 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle (UNGC 7)1 Introduction Observing the precautionary principle through our comprehensive and integrated strategy, 1 STRATEGY pages 8–17 2 PRODUCTS Observing the precautionary principle through AND ­SERVICES a comprehensive understanding of product ­responsibility, pages 18–34 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Environmental protection within the organization and Clean Production approach, pages 35–50 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Precautions through supplier selection and management, pages 51–57 5 FUNDAMENTALS Safeguarding employees through a healthy Further key indicators work environment, pages 61–64 Fostering understanding between different GRI G4 Content Index nations, religions and ethnic groups, pages 75–79 General standard disclosure > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Specific standard disclosure Prevention through comprehensive compliance, Identified material aspects and pages 184–187 boundaries of the BMW Group Risk management, pages 68–80 Appendix G4-15 External initiatives that the organisation endorses page 87 G4-16 Significant memberships in industry Memberships in national associations: the German Association and business associations of the Automotive Industry (VDA), the Bavarian Employers' Associations for the Metalworking and Electrical Industries (bayme vbm), the Federation of German Industries (BDI), the Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA), international industry associations: European Automobile Manufacturers' Association (ACEA), Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers (Auto Alliance). Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 118 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES 1 STRATEGY G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 2 PRODUCTS page 149 AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND G4-18 Process for defining the report content VALUE ­CREATION page 11 4 EMPLOYEES G4-19 Material aspects identified AND SOCIETY pages 11, page 147–148 5 FUNDAMENTALS G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization Further key indicators pages 147–148 GRI G4 Content Index G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organization General standard disclosure pages 147–148 Specific standard disclosure G4-22 Restatements of information provided Where necessary and possible, restatements are explained in Identified material aspects and in previous reports footnotes to the respective graphics. boundaries of the BMW Group G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and Appendix aspect boundaries page 150 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged page 90 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders page 89 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 119 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Continuous worldwide in all locations and markets with a variety Introduction and frequency of different stakeholder groups. Specific stakeholder dialogues page 11, page 90 are listed as part of the definition of the report content. 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through The Materiality Matrix is illustrated in Chapter 1. The topics AND ­SERVICES stakeholder engagement and response therein and their relevance were determined in a stakeholder page 11, page 91 survey. 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION REPORT PROFILE 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY G4-28 Reporting period page 150 5 FUNDAMENTALS G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Further key indicators page 150 GRI G4 Content Index G4-30 Reporting cycle General standard disclosure page 150 Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding boundaries of the BMW Group the report page 155 Appendix G4-32 “In accordance” option with GRI and context index chosen pages 114–148, page 150 G4-33 External verification of the report page 151 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 120 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction GOVERNANCE 1 STRATEGY G4-34 Governance structure, including committees of The BMW Group governance principles are set down in * the highest governance body the > Corporate Governance Code dargelegt. 2 PRODUCTS page 93 AND ­SERVICES > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 3 PRODUCTION AND Overview of Supervisory Board Committees, VALUE ­CREATION page 179 4 EMPLOYEES G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, The Supervisory Board does not delegate any authority. AND SOCIETY environmental and social topics 5 FUNDAMENTALS page 94 Further key indicators G4-36 Executive-level position with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics GRI G4 Content Index page 94 General standard disclosure G4-37 Processes for consultation between stake* Specific standard disclosure holders and the highest governance body Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Statement on Corporate Governance: Appendix Employee representatives (company employees) on the Supervisory Board, page 168 Employee representatives (union representatives) on the Supervisory Board, page 168 Annual General Meeting, page 168 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 121 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body * Introduction and its committees Diversity, page 72 1 STRATEGY > BMW Group Company Profile 2 PRODUCTS Term AND ­SERVICES Stakeholder representation 3 PRODUCTION AND > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 VALUE ­CREATION Management: Members of the Board of Management/ 4 EMPLOYEES Members of the Supervisory Board, page 170 AND SOCIETY Composition and Work Procedures of the 5 FUNDAMENTALS ­Supervisory Board of BMW AG and its ­Committees, page 176 Further key indicators Independence: Composition objectives of the GRI G4 Content Index Supervisory Board, pages 171–173 General standard disclosure Mandates: Specific standard disclosure Members of the Board of Management / Identified material aspects and Members of the Supervisory Board, boundaries of the BMW Group pages 170–173 Gender: Appendix Members of the Executive Board / Members of the Supervisory Board, page 170 Social groups: Composition objectives of the Supervisory Board, pages 180–181 Stakeholder representation: Members of Supervisory Board, page 170 Competencies: Composition objectives of the Supervisory Board, pages 180–181 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 122 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-39 Independence of the Chair of the highest The Chairman of the Supervisory Board has no executive function. * Introduction governance body page 93 1 STRATEGY > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 2 PRODUCTS page 176 AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the * VALUE ­CREATION highest governance body > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 4 EMPLOYEES Composition and Work Procedures of the Board AND SOCIETY of Management of BMW AG and its Committees, pages 174–17 5 FUNDAMENTALS Composition and Work Procedures of the Supervisory Board of BMW AG and its Further key indicators ­Committees, pages 176–179 GRI G4 Content Index G4-41 Process for avoiding conflicts of interest There are already upper limits for mandates as well as a legal * General standard disclosure prohibition on certain ties pursuant to § 100 of the German > BMW Group Legal Compliance Code Specific standard disclosure Stock Corporation Act (AktG). Mandates in Supervisory Board Identified material aspects and > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 committees and comparable governance bodies of commercial boundaries of the BMW Group Shareholdings of members of the Board of enterprises are published in the Annual Report. ­Mangement and Supervisory Board, page 161 The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have pledged Appendix to observe the provisions for conflicts of interest in section 5.5 of the German Corporate Governance Code, in particular to disclose conflicts of interest and report on how they are dealt with. Business done with related parties or entities is reported in the financial reports in accordance with the IAS 24 standard (Related Party Disclosures). A quarterly survey of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board is conducted for this purpose. G4-42 Highest governance body's role concerning strategy and goals page 94 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 123 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-43 Measures taken concerning the highest Introduction governance body's knowledge in sustainability issues 1 STRATEGY pages 92–94 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES G4-44 Evaluation of the highest governance body's performance concerning sustainability 3 PRODUCTION AND page 94 VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES G4-45 Highest governance body's role concerning The Board of Management informs the Supervisory Board by * AND SOCIETY risks and opportunities way of the Audit Committee on risk management and the risk > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 situation. 5 FUNDAMENTALS Risk management system, pages 68–69 Further key indicators * G4-46 Highest governance body's role concerning effectiveness of risk management GRI G4 Content Index > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 General standard disclosure Report of the Supervisory Board, pages 7–13 Specific standard disclosure Risk management system, pages 68–69 Identified material aspects and G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body's * boundaries of the BMW Group review of sustainability impacts, risks and Appendix opportunities page 93 > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Risk management system, pages 68–69 G4-48 Highest committee that formally reviews and approves the Sustainability Report page 151 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 124 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns The chair of the BMW Group Compliance Committee and the * Introduction to the highest governance body heads of Group Reporting, Corporate Audit and Group Control> BMW Group Annual Report 2015 ling report directly to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory 1 STRATEGY Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 Board on a regular basis. Shareholders have the opportunity to 2 PRODUCTS voice their concerns to the BMW Group at the Annual General AND ­SERVICES Meeting. Employees can use their Compliance Contact or the BMW SpeakUp line for this purpose. 3 PRODUCTION AND Our regular stakeholder dialogues ensure that we proactively VALUE ­CREATION address the concerns of our various stakeholder groups. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY G4-50 Critical concerns that were communicated This information is confidential and is not communicated exterto the highest governance body nally by the BMW Group. 5 FUNDAMENTALS G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest * Further key indicators governance body and senior executives page 94 GRI G4 Content Index > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 General standard disclosure Compensation Report, pages 188–195 Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and G4-52 Process for determining remuneration * boundaries of the BMW Group > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Compensation Report, pages 188–195 Appendix Overview of compensation system and ­compensation components, page 190 External compensation consultant: Report of the Supervisory Board, pages 6–13 G4-53 Stakeholders' views regarding remuneration * > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Employee representatives on the Supervisory Board, pages 171–173 Information on the Company's Governing Constitution, page 168 Supervisory Board compensation, responsibilities, regulation pursuant to Articles of Incorporation, Back pages 194–195 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 125 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-54 Ratio of the highest annual total compensation The BMW Group policies for remuneration and additional benefits Introduction to the median annual total compensation apply for all of our companies, in connection with the guiding principle that the total remuneration package must be above the 1 STRATEGY average for the respective labour market across all hierarchy levels. 2 PRODUCTS We conduct annual compensation studies worldwide to determine AND ­SERVICES our current market positioning so that we can continue to align overall compensation with the market. This approach and our 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION basic philosophy apply to each and every employee and all companies of the BMW Group. This ensures that every employee 4 EMPLOYEES receives compensation commensurate with the relevant labour AND SOCIETY market. 5 FUNDAMENTALS The ratio of the annual compensation of the highest-paid employee to the median level of all employees is also in keeping Further key indicators with the market thanks to our globally applied approach; it can however vary greatly depending on the market spread between GRI G4 Content Index countries. For this reason, no definitive statement can be made. The percentage increase in annual compensation is decided General standard disclosure based on various factors such as the inflation rate and in principle Specific standard disclosure follows the market trend. Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in the highest Cf. G4-54 annual total compensation Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 126 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 1 STRATEGY G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms (UNGC 10)1 of behaviour 2 PRODUCTS International conventions and guidelines: page 87 AND ­SERVICES > Core principles of the BMW Group 3 PRODUCTION AND > BMW Group Legal Compliance Code VALUE ­CREATION > BMW Group values-oriented human 4 EMPLOYEES ­r esources policies AND SOCIETY > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and 5 FUNDAMENTALS Working Conditions at the BMW Group > BMW Group environmental guidelines Further key indicators > BMW Group sustainability standard for GRI G4 Content Index the ­supplier network General standard disclosure G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical (UNGC 10)1 * Specific standard disclosure and lawful behaviour Identified material aspects and > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 boundaries of the BMW Group Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 Appendix (UNGC 10)1 * G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical and unlawful behaviour > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 127 Search SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (UNGC 7)1 Management approach: pages 84–86 1 STRATEGY G4-EC1 Direct economic value created and Indicator is not reported by market. 2 PRODUCTS distributed AND ­SERVICES page 78, page 79, page 85, page 113 3 PRODUCTION AND G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and VALUE ­CREATION opportunities due to climate change page 15, pages 21–22, page 25, pages 27–28, 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY pages 30–31 5 FUNDAMENTALS G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan obligations * Further key indicators, page 113 Further key indicators > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 GRI G4 Content Index Provisions for pensions, pages 134–142 General standard disclosure G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from Indicator is not reported by market. * Specific standard disclosure g ­ overnment Identified material aspects and Further key indicators, page 113 boundaries of the BMW Group INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Appendix Management approach: pages 75–79, pages 84–86 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services provided pages 52–53, pages 84–86 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts pages 52–53, pages 84–86 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 128 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction MATERIALS (UNGC 7, 8)1 Management approach: 1 STRATEGY page 17, page 40, page 57 2 PRODUCTS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume AND ­SERVICES Further key indicators, page 103 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 4 EMPLOYEES page 40 AND SOCIETY ENERGY (UNGC 7, 8, 9)1 5 FUNDAMENTALS Management approach: Further key indicators pages 22–25, pages 41–43, page 56 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the GRI G4 Content Index ­organization General standard disclosure page 100, page 103 Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of Primary energy consumption in the utilisation the organization phase is not reported as this is managed based boundaries of the BMW Group page 43 on the CO² emissions per kilometre Appendix G4-EN5 Energy intensity page 41 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption page 41 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services page 22 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 129 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction EMISSIONS (UNGC 7, 8, 9)1 Management approach: 1 STRATEGY pages 18–34, pages 41–43, page 56 2 PRODUCTS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) AND ­SERVICES ­emissions (Scope 1) page 43, page 103 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION G4-EN16 Energyrelated indirect greenhouse gas 4 EMPLOYEES (GHG) AND SOCIETY emissions (Scope 2) page 43 5 FUNDAMENTALS G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Further key indicators ­emissions (Scope 3) pages 22–23, page 43, pages 105–106 GRI G4 Content Index General standard disclosure G4-EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions Specific standard disclosure page 42 Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) ­emissions Appendix page 22, pages 42–43 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances According to a BMW Group internal standard, substances with (ODS) ozone-depleting potential as listed in the legal provisions are not allowed. The BMW standard “Prohibited and declarable substances” contains a ban on chlorofluorocarbons and thus substances that have a strong ozone-depleting potential. The BMW Group thus not only regulates emissions of these substances but prevents them from being used at all. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air ­emissions Further key indicators, page 103 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 130 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (UNGC 9)1 Management approach: pages 17–34 1 STRATEGY G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of 2 PRODUCTS ­products and services AND ­SERVICES Complete life-cycle assessments: page 17 Efficient Dynamics: pages 22–23 3 PRODUCTION AND Design for Recycling: page 40 VALUE ­CREATION Further key indicators, page 97 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY G4-EN28 Reclaimed products and packaging Products: The BMW Group does not take back any products. page 40 Established systems for the recovery of end-of-life vehicles, 5 FUNDAMENTALS components and materials ensure that they are reintegrated into the raw materials cycle. Further key indicators Packaging: Vehicles are delivered to the end customer without GRI G4 Content Index packaging. We use covered rail wagons or protective film for transporting vehicles to the dealership. All protective film is General standard disclosure recycled after use. When parts are shipped to regional distribution Specific standard disclosure centres, any packaging materials (packaging materials for transIdentified material aspects and port and parts protection for separate parts) are professionally boundaries of the BMW Group ­disposed of there. In the further supply chain from the regional distribution centres Appendix to the BMW Group dealerships, responsibility for disposal of packaging materials lies with the dealership. Customers who purchase spare parts or lifestyle articles can return the packaging material to the BMW Group dealership. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 131 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (UNGC 1, 2)1 Management approach: pages 51–57 1 STRATEGY G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers who were In 2015, 86 % of BMW AG's new suppliers for direct purchasing 2 PRODUCTS reviewed according to environmental with a contract value of over euro 2 million as well as 91 % AND ­SERVICES criteria of new suppliers for indirect purchasing with a contract value of page 54 over euro 5 million were audited on the basis of the OEM 3 PRODUCTION AND ­questionnaire. VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES G4-EN33 Significant environmental impacts in the In 2015, around 1,900 suppliers were reviewed in terms of AND SOCIETY supply chain actual and potential negative environmental impacts. page 55 At around 400 supplier operations, potential negative impacts 5 FUNDAMENTALS were identified. Action plans and improvements were agreed with all of them based on the evaluation. Further key indicators Examples of reasons why suppliers could have possible negative environmental impacts were: GRI G4 Content Index – L ack of a sustainability policy for suppliers and their General standard disclosure ­sub-suppliers Specific standard disclosure – L ack of a policy for observing human rights Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group – L ack of a compliance management system – L ack of work instructions for the correct handling of chemicals Appendix – L ack of a social management system None of the working relationships was terminated, because the risk management process already excludes suppliers with actual or potential sustainability deficits unless a concrete plan of action is agreed and implemented. We are not aware of any significant negative impact in our supplier network. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 132 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction EMPLOYMENT Management approach: pages 59, pages 66–70 1 STRATEGY > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and ­Working Conditions at the BMW Group 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES G4-LA1 New employee hires and employee turnover The turnover rate for BMW AG and hence for 70 % of all employpage 70 ees is recorded centrally. The turnover rate at individual inter­ 3 PRODUCTION AND Further key indicators, page 110 national locations is also recorded, but not consolidated at the VALUE ­CREATION BMW Group level. 4 EMPLOYEES This indicator is not fully reported because it is not possible with AND SOCIETY the current system to break down the absolute and percentage values for employee hires and resignations by region and gender. 5 FUNDAMENTALS We plan to integrate this indicator in our data collection process by 2018. Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees Our principles apply to all employees. There is no distinction page 66 made between full-time employees and those with fixed-term General standard disclosure contracts or part-time employees. For part-time employees, the Specific standard disclosure principle of proportionate remuneration is applied, with some Identified material aspects and additional benefits even being granted on a full-time basis. boundaries of the BMW Group G4-LA3 Return to work after parental leave The current system records only the number of BMW AG Appendix page 68 employees (approximately 70 % of the employees of the BMW Group) on parental leave. We plan to integrate detailed data for the entire BMW Group into our data collection process by 2018. Nearly 100 % of the returnees stay in their jobs for longer than 12 months. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 133 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Management approach: pages 59, pages 61–64 1 STRATEGY > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in Special committees on occupational health and safety with health and safety committees representatives from both the employer and employee side are 3 PRODUCTION AND page 63 active at all BMW Group locations. They are structured in various VALUE ­CREATION ways, in some cases with union participation, and they adopt 4 EMPLOYEES so-called company agreements that often go well beyond the AND SOCIETY statutory requirements. The ratio of workers represented in the occupational health and safety committees is well above 90 %. 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index General standard disclosure Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 134 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days Occupational diseases are defined differently in different Introduction and work-related fatalities regions, so that an aggregate statement for the BMW Group is page 63 not possible. Work-related diseases are recorded in the English1 STRATEGY Further key indicators, pages 108–109 speaking countries. In Germany, this is not permitted for data 2 PRODUCTS privacy reasons. Instead, German figures for occupational AND ­SERVICES diseases are based on the precise definition in the German Social Insurance Code. According to this definition, BMW AG has 3 PRODUCTION AND a rate of occupational diseases in the range of 0.1 per thousand VALUE ­CREATION (cases per employee), so that we do not monitor diseases per individual location of the BMW Group. Through a systematic 4 EMPLOYEES analysis of all jobs in the BMW Group with the help of the IT tools AND SOCIETY ABATech, ZEUS and BAPA, both as a risk assessment and under 5 FUNDAMENTALS ergonomic aspects, negative impacts on the health of our em­ployees are identified and excluded using appropriate measures. Further key indicators Thanks to central planning based in Germany, the working conditions for handling hazardous substances and the ergoGRI G4 Content Index nomic design of workplaces are identical in all BMW Group General standard disclosure plants worldwide. In analogy, it can be assumed that the rate of occupational diseases abroad is the same as in Germany. Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and With regard to working conditions (occupational safety), there boundaries of the BMW Group are no gender-specific differences. Therefore, no gender-­ specific analysis is currently published and none is planned in the Appendix future. We follow the rules and regulations for accident statistics set forth in Book VII of the German Social Insurance Code. The BMW Group does not collect data from contractors active at our locations, as this information is subject to confidentiality clauses in our contracts. On-site contractors are instructed in occu­pational health and safety precautions before taking up their work. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or Employees of the BMW Group are not subject to an increased risk. risk of diseases page 63 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 135 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Occupational health and safety are regulated by law through the Introduction agreements with trade unions German Occupational Safety and Health Act. There are no formal page 63 agreements with trade unions on occupational health and safety 1 STRATEGY issues. In the BMW Group, occupational health and safety topics 2 PRODUCTS are regulated in cooperation with the works councils. For examAND ­SERVICES ple, in the 2014 financial year, a new statutory requirement (ArbMedVV) led to a company agreement being adopted in 3 PRODUCTION AND collaboration with the works council stipulating the implemen­ VALUE ­CREATION tation of medical screenings for occupational fitness for jobs involving driving, technical control or monitoring activities. 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY TRAINING AND EDUCATION 5 FUNDAMENTALS Management approach: pages 59, page 65, pages 68–69 Further key indicators > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group GRI G4 Content Index G4-LA9 Average hours of training We report on the average days of training and education for General standard disclosure pages 68–69 employees of the BMW Group. However, our current system Specific standard disclosure further key indicators, page 111 allows us to break down this training by employee category only Identified material aspects and for the BMW AG Academy (over 50 % of training). There are no boundaries of the BMW Group gender-specific differences in training volumes. Due to the current prioritisation of other topics, a suitable tool Appendix add-on for collecting this data can be defined at the earliest in 2018 and then implemented step by step throughout the BMW Group. G4-LA10 Programmes that support the continued Through our yearly skills analysis process, which also serves as employability of employees the basis for planning Group-wide and individual training, we page 69 assist our employees in building and maintaining skills throughout their career. We also offer seminars helping employees prepare for retirement from active working life. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 136 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Every BMW Group employee receives a consistent and comIntroduction performance and career development prehensive individual performance and career development reviews review at least once a year. 1 STRATEGY page 68 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (UNGC 6)1 Management approach: pages 59, pages 71–74 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by aspects of 5 FUNDAMENTALS diversity pages 72–74 Further key indicators Further key indicators, page 110, page 112 GRI G4 Content Index (UNGC 6)1 EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN General standard disclosure AND MEN Management approach: pages 66–67 Specific standard disclosure > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Identified material aspects and Conditions at the BMW Group boundaries of the BMW Group G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration The BMW Group policies for remuneration and additional beneAppendix of women to men fits apply for all of our companies, in connection with the guiding page 67 principle that the total remuneration package must be above the average for the respective labour market across all hierarchy levels. We conduct annual compensation studies worldwide to determine our current market positioning so that we can continue to align overall compensation with the market. This approach and our basic philosophy apply to each and every employee and all companies of the BMW Group. This ensures that every employee receives compensation commensurate with the relevant labour market. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 137 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 LABOUR PRACTICES 1 STRATEGY Management approach: pages 51–57 2 PRODUCTS G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were In 2015, 86 % of BMW AG's new suppliers for direct purchasing AND ­SERVICES screened using labour practices criteria with a contract value of over euro 2 million as well as 91 % of new page 54 suppliers for indirect purchasing with a contract value of over euro 3 PRODUCTION AND 5 million were audited on the basis of the OEM questionnaire. VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES G4-LA15 Significant impacts for labour practices In 2015, around 1,900 suppliers were reviewed in terms of AND SOCIETY in the supply chain actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices. page 55 At around 400 supplier operations, potential negative impacts 5 FUNDAMENTALS were identified. Action plans and improvements were agreed with all of them based on the evaluation. Further key indicators Examples of reasons why suppliers could have potential ­negative impacts were: GRI G4 Content Index General standard disclosure – L ack of a sustainability policy for suppliers and their sub-suppliers Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and – L ack of a policy for observing human rights boundaries of the BMW Group – L ack of a compliance management system – L ack of work instructions for the correct handling of chemiAppendix cals – L ack of a social management system None of the working relationships was terminated, because the risk management process already excludes suppliers with actual or potential sustainability deficits unless a concrete plan of action is agreed and implemented. We are not aware of any significant negative impact in our supplier network. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 138 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction INVESTMENT (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 Management approach: pages 87–88 1 STRATEGY G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements Significant investment volumes are investments that account for 2 PRODUCTS and contracts that include human rights at least 95 % of the total investment in tangible assets reported AND ­SERVICES clauses in the 2015 Annual Report. page 88 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights issues After the adoption of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and 4 EMPLOYEES page 88 Human Rights, we informed our employees via the hierarchy AND SOCIETY cascade of the BMW Group's position and the requirements with regard to human rights. Employees in purchasing in particular 5 FUNDAMENTALS have since then been required to take part in ongoing compulsory training. In the reporting period, for example, we trained Further key indicators 247 purchasing employees on the OEM sustainability questionnaire, which includes human rights requirements. Human rights GRI G4 Content Index are also part of the training for managers in their capacity as General standard disclosure multipliers as well as the Web-based training on sustainability. Specific standard disclosure As human rights are an integral part of this training, the actual hours of training are not recorded at present. Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group NON-DISCRIMINATION (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 Appendix Management approach: pages 71–74 > Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions at the BMW Group G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective The BMW Group is not currently involved in any court or arbi­ * actions taken tration proceedings that in the company's estimation might have page 72 a significant impact on its financial condition. Further information on cases of discrimination is subject to internal confidential> BMW Group Annual Report 2015 ity regulations. Report of Supervisory Board, pages 7-13 Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184-187 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 139 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction ASSESSMENT (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 Management approach: pages 87–88 1 STRATEGY G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human Following publication of the UN Guiding Principles on Business 2 PRODUCTS rights reviews and Human Rights, we performed a systematic analysis of the AND ­SERVICES page 87 rights cited in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with regard to their relevance and implications for different business 3 PRODUCTION AND units. Based on the results, we reviewed our strategic alignment VALUE ­CREATION and used what we learned to continuously develop our due diligence process for the company and in relation to our business 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY partners. Human rights are moreover an integral part of the assessment 5 FUNDAMENTALS process for new operation sites. Further key indicators SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 GRI G4 Content Index Management approach: pages 51-57 General standard disclosure G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were In 2015, 86 % of BMW AG's new suppliers for direct purchasing Specific standard disclosure screened with a contract value of over euro 2 million as well as 91 % Identified material aspects and page 54 of new suppliers for indirect purchasing with a contract value of over euro 5 million were audited on the basis of the OEM boundaries of the BMW Group ­questionnaire. Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 140 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-HR11 Significant human rights impacts in In 2015, around 1,900 suppliers were reviewed with regard to Introduction the supply chain actual and potential negative human rights impacts. At around page 55 400 supplier operations, potential negative impacts were identi1 STRATEGY fied. Action plans and improvements were agreed with all of them 2 PRODUCTS based on the evaluation. Examples of reasons why suppliers AND ­SERVICES could have potential negative impacts were: – L ack of a sustainability policy for suppliers and 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION their sub-suppliers – L ack of a policy for observing human rights 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY – L ack of a compliance management system 5 FUNDAMENTALS – L ack of work instructions for the correct handling of chemicals – L ack of a social management system Further key indicators None of the working relationships was terminated, because the GRI G4 Content Index risk management process already excludes suppliers with actual or potential sustainability deficits unless a concrete plan of action General standard disclosure is agreed and implemented. We are not aware of any significant Specific standard disclosure negative impact in our supplier network. Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE (UNGC 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6)1 MECHANISMS Appendix Management approach: page 88 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights impacts page 88 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption is part of the BMW Group Compliance * Management approach: page 87 Management System. > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 , (UNGC 10)1 Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 141 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-SO3 Percentage of operations assessed for risks * Introduction related to corruption and risks identified page 87 1 STRATEGY > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 , 2 PRODUCTS Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND G4-SO4 Communication and training on More than 31,500 managers and staff worldwide have received * VALUE ­CREATION anti-corruption training in compliance and anti-corruption basics since the > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 introduction of the BMW Group Compliance Management 4 EMPLOYEES Compliance in the BMW Group, page 185 System. Participation in the training programme is mandatory for AND SOCIETY all BMW Group managers and is ensured through corresponding personnel processes. In this way, the BMW Group achieves full 5 FUNDAMENTALS training coverage for its managers in compliance matters. In addition, compliance training is also available to all other Further key indicators employees throughout the BMW Group. Managers are responsible for selecting tariff-based employees for training and ensuring GRI G4 Content Index its implementation. Detailed information on the number of these General standard disclosure participants in the BMW Group is not available due to labour law Specific standard disclosure restrictions. Identified material aspects and G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption Major violations of the BMW Group Legal Compliance Code or the * boundaries of the BMW Group and actions taken BMW Group Policy “Corruption Prevention” (according to the antiAppendix > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 corruption directive) are reported in the BMW AG Annual Report Report of Supervisory Board, in the compliance section, including their legal investigation. page 7–13 In 2015, no such legal violations or infringements against the rules Compliance in the BMW Group, came to light. Nor were any legal proceedings concerning corrupt pages 184–187 practices concluded during the reporting period. Currently, the BMW Group does not dispose over Group-wide information about employment-contract sanctions as a result of breaches of the law. For this reason, this aspect of the indicator is not fully reported. We plan to incorporate this data in our data collection system by 2016 if possible. Detailed data on the total number of cases in which contracts with business partners were not renewed due to violations related to corruption are not currently available. We plan to incorporate this Back data as well into our data collection system, by 2018 if possible. SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 142 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR Anti-competitive behaviour is part of the BMW Group Compli* Management approach: page 87 ance Management System. 1 STRATEGY (UNGC 10)1 2 PRODUCTS G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive The reports received and breaches identified in individual cases * AND ­SERVICES ­behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly in 2015 gave no indication of serious or systemically-caused ­practices breaches of Compliance. 3 PRODUCTION AND > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 , VALUE ­CREATION Report of Supervisory Board, pages 7–13 4 EMPLOYEES Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 AND SOCIETY SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS (UNGC 10)1 5 FUNDAMENTALS ON SOCIETY Management approach: pages 51–57 Further key indicators G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were In 2015, 86 % of new direct suppliers with a BMW AG procureGRI G4 Content Index screened using criteria for impacts on ment volume over €2 million and 91 % of new indirect suppliers General standard disclosure society with a BMW AG procurement volume over €5 million were page 54 reviewed using the OEM questionnaire. Specific standard disclosure Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Appendix Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 143 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-SO10 Negative impacts on society in the supply In 2015, around 1,900 suppliers were reviewed with regard to Introduction chain and actions taken actual and potential negative impacts on society. At around page 55 400 supplier operations, potential negative impacts were identi1 STRATEGY fied. Action plans and improvements were agreed with all of 2 PRODUCTS them based on the evaluation. AND ­SERVICES Examples of reasons why suppliers could have potential negative impacts were: 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION – L ack of a sustainability policy for suppliers and their sub-suppliers 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY – L ack of a policy for observing human rights 5 FUNDAMENTALS – L ack of a compliance management system – L ack of work instructions for the correct handling of chemicals Further key indicators – L ack of a social management system GRI G4 Content Index None of the working relationships was terminated, because the General standard disclosure risk management process already excludes suppliers with actual or potential sustainability deficits unless a concrete plan of Specific standard disclosure action is agreed and implemented. We are not aware of any Identified material aspects and significant negative impact in our supplier network. boundaries of the BMW Group Appendix CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Management approach: pages 32–33 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and All BMW Group products are developed in strict compliance with service categories for which health and quality management systems. Vehicle safety is tested extensafety impacts are assessed sively to determine potential for improvement. pages 24, pages 32–33 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 144 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with BMW Group products are developed and manufactured in strict * Introduction regulations and voluntary codes compliance with quality management systems. The BMW Group concerning product and service monitors its products on the market and examines all feedback 1 STRATEGY information and labelling on the topic of safety. If necessary, the responsible authorities 2 PRODUCTS are informed without delay and all measures that serve customer AND ­SERVICES > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 safety are initiated. The BMW Group has established the relevant Report of Supervisory Board, pages 7–13 committees, processes and organisations for this purpose. Joint 3 PRODUCTION AND Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 events are held on a regular basis with fire departments, rescue VALUE ­CREATION forces and salvage operations to actively communicate our safety concepts. Our driver safety training also plays a part in 4 EMPLOYEES improving safety. For all compliance-relevant matters, the AND SOCIETY following applies in general: the reports received and breaches 5 FUNDAMENTALS identified in individual cases in 2015 gave no indication of serious or systemically-caused breaches of Compliance. Further key indicators PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING GRI G4 Content Index Management approach: pages 82–83 General standard disclosure G4-PR3 Principles and procedures for product and A technical and legal assessment during the release process Specific standard disclosure service information and labelling ensures that product and service information for customers Identified material aspects and (manuals in particular) meets all legal requirements with regard boundaries of the BMW Group to product liability. Each component of our vehicles can be tracked back to the supplier via the chassis number. Appendix G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations A technical and legal assessment during the release process * and voluntary codes concerning product and ensures that product and service information for customers service information and labelling (manuals in particular) meets all legal requirements with regard > BMW Group Annual Report 2015 to product liability. For all compliance-relevant matters, the Report of Supervisory Board, pages 7–13 following applies in general: the reports received and breaches Compliance in the BMW Group, pages 184–187 identified in individual cases in 2015 gave no indication of serious or systemically-caused breaches of Compliance. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring ­customer ­satisfaction page 82 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 145 Search Code Topics and page references Omissions and comments External verification Introduction CUSTOMER PRIVACY Management approach: page 33 1 STRATEGY G4-PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding The protection of information and data is an integral component 2 PRODUCTS breaches of data protection of our business processes and is based on the International AND ­SERVICES page 33 Security Standard ISO/IEC 27001. If customers or prospects lodge any complaints regarding data protection, for example with 3 PRODUCTION AND respect to advertising campaigns, such complaints are promptly VALUE ­CREATION addressed. The BMW Group is committed to the principles of data processing transparency and data minimisation. In 2014, 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY the BMW Group was thus the first carmaker worldwide to successfully complete the validation process for the Binding Corporate 5 FUNDAMENTALS Rules (BCR) scheme. The BCR guarantee a data protection standard that is to be upheld and maintained by BMW AG and all Further key indicators its subsidiaries. This ensures that in the BMW Group personal data is always handled at a uniformly high security level, regardGRI G4 Content Index less of whether the data are processed for example in Europe, Asia or America. An international network of local data protecGeneral standard disclosure tion coordinators ensures compliance with the Binding CorpoSpecific standard disclosure rate Rules. In the field of vehicle communication (­connected Identified material aspects and drive) as well, transparency for the customer as well as data boundaries of the BMW Group security and prevention of misuse are key concerns. The number of cases is subject to internal confidentiality regulations. Appendix Back 1 UNGC: References to the Global Compact Principles of the United Nations * Aligned with the audited section of the BMW Group Annual Report 2015 SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 146 Search IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES OF THE BMW GROUP Material GRI aspects of the BMW Group within the BMW Group: outside the BMW Group: G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 Introduction Socio-economic impacts on society 1 STRATEGY Economic performance significant Supply chain Indirect economic impacts significant Supply chain 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES Design for Recycling Materials significant Supply chain, Disposal firms 3 PRODUCTION AND Products and services significant Supply chain, Disposal firms VALUE ­CREATION Energy efficiency and CO² emissions in the value chain  4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Energy significant Supply chain Emissions significant Supply chain 5 FUNDAMENTALS Fuel efficiency and vehicle CO² emissions Further key indicators Energy significant Dealerships, Customers Emissions significant Dealerships, Customers GRI G4 Content Index Vehicle pollutant emissions General standard disclosure Emissions significant Supply chain, Dealerships, Specific standard disclosure Customers Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Pollutant emissions in the value chain Emissions significant Supply chain Appendix Alternative drivetrain technologies Emissions significant Supply chain, Dealerships, Customers Attractive workplace, talent identification and retention Employment significant — Equal remuneration for women and men significant — Occupational safety and health Work safety and safeguarding health significant Supply chain, Dealerships Employee development, training and education Training and education significant — Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 147 Search Material GRI aspects of the BMW Group within the BMW Group: outside the BMW Group: G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 Introduction Diversity and equal opportunity Diversity and equal opportunity significant Supply chain 1 STRATEGY Equal remuneration for women and men significant — Non-discrimination significant Supply chain 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES Human rights Investments significant Supply chain 3 PRODUCTION AND Product testing significant Supply chain VALUE ­CREATION Supplier human rights assessment significant Supply chain Human rights grievance mechanism significant Supply chain 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Combatting corruption and anti-competitive behaviour 5 FUNDAMENTALS Combatting corruption significant Supply chain, Dealerships Anti-competitive behaviour significant Supply chain, Dealerships Further key indicators Product safety GRI G4 Content Index Customer health and safety significant Customers General standard disclosure Customer satisfaction Specific standard disclosure Product and service information and labelling significant Dealerships Identified material aspects and boundaries of the BMW Group Data protection Customer privacy significant Dealerships Appendix Environmental and social standards in the supply chain – sustainable procurement Supplier environmental assessment significant Supply chain Supplier assessment for labour practices significant Supply chain Supplier human rights assessment significant Supply chain Supplier assessment for impacts on society significant Supply chain Networked and autonomous driving — significant — Mobility products and services — significant — Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 148 APPENDIX Introduction 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY 5 FUNDAMENTALS Further key indicators GRI G4 Content Index Appendix About this report Independent Practitioner’s ­Limited Assurance Report Fuel consumption and CO² ­emissions Imprint Search About this report Introduction The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report (SVR) 2015 has The report is published in German and English. For reasons been published to provide stakeholders with comprehensive of clarity and to avoid double references, generic references 1 STRATEGY information about the company’s sustainability strategy to the masculine in this document should be understood as 2 PRODUCTS and the progress made in integrating sustainability into its referring to both sexes. AND ­SERVICES corporate processes. Reporting period 3 PRODUCTION AND In accordance with the “Comprehensive” option of the The reporting period is the 2015 calendar year. The effective VALUE ­CREATION ­> ­Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . date for all figures and facts is 31 December 2015. GRI G4-28 The figures and facts section generally maps the key indica­ 4 EMPLOYEES For the first time, the BMW Group’s Sustainable Value tors for 2011–2015 (with the exception of key figures that AND SOCIETY Report 2015 has been compiled in accordance with only became relevant after 2011). They refer to the entire 5 FUNDAMENTALS the “Comprehensive” option of the Global Reporting BMW Group. There are, however, some exceptions concerning Initiative (GRI G4) guidelines. site-specific topics and local sustainability programmes. Further key indicators Wherever this is the case, the entity the figures apply to is Structure of report specified accordingly, e.g. BMW AG. The statements made GRI G4 Content Index The report is structured along the long-term sustainability in the SVR 2015 about the BMW Group generally refer to the goals of the BMW Group. In addition, the weighting of the group of consolidated companies in the 2015 Annual Report. Appendix topics in the report is based on the results of our systematic Any deviations from the group of consolidated companies materiality process > Chapter 1. GRI G4-23 As a result, changes in referred to in the 2015 Annual Report with regard to specific About this report content have primarily been made in the areas of Compliance key indicators are indicated and their scope specified in the Independent Practitioner’s and Risk Management, which refer more extensively to the footnotes of the respective tables and charts. GRI G4-17 Calcu­ ­Limited Assurance Report Annual Report in the SVR 2015. lation methods are explained in footnotes to the re­spect­ive Fuel consumption charts. Nothing has changed with regard to the structure and CO² ­emissions Each chapter starts with a one-page overview of the main facts. of the supply chain and relationships with suppliers, including The sub-sections of each chapter are introduced by a state­ the selection and termination of contracts. GRI G4-13 Imprint ment of the long-term sustainability goal of the BMW Group. The report contains the key performance indicators that The Sustainable Value Report (SVR) is published annually. control and monitor the BMW Group’s sustainability perfor­ GRI G4-30 The last SVR was published in March 2015 as an mance. Where appropriate, references are also provided to interactive pdf covering financial year 2014. GRI G4-29 supplementary information in the Annual Report or on other BMW Group websites. The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report is published on the BMW Group website. The next Sustainable Value Report In addition to the key indicators presented in the main text, will be published in early 2017. the Annex contains further key indicators on sustainability, including explanatory notes. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 150 Search UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Introduction FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The BMW Group committed to implement the principles of The BMW Group Sustainable Value Report 2015 contains various 1 STRATEGY the > Global Compact in 2001, and in this report once again forward-looking statements about future developments which reports on progress achieved in complying with these are based on the current status of the BMW Group’s assumptions 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES principles. References to the Global Compact principles have and forecasts. They are thus subject to a variety of predictable been integrated into the > GRI G4 Content Index. and unpredictable risks, uncertainties and other factors, so that 3 PRODUCTION AND the actual outcome, including the company’s financial and assets VALUE ­CREATION Third-party verification position, its development or performance could differ considerThe entire report (the texts of all chapters as well as further ably. The BMW Group makes no commitment to update such 4 EMPLOYEES forward-looking statements or to adapt them to future events key indicators were audited by Pricewaterhouse­Coopers AG, AND SOCIETY or developments. with limited assurance in accordance with ISAE3000 5 FUNDAMENTALS (revised) > Assurance Report. GRI G4-33 Indicators from the areas of environmental protection and occupational health and Further key indicators safety were audited by external auditors and experts in accordance with ISO 14001, EMAS and OHSAS. GRI G4 Content Index The Corporate Reporting, Corporate Communications and Appendix Policy as well as Corporate Planning and Product Strategy departments select the external auditors for the SVR. About this report Ms. Ursula Mathar, Head of Sustainability and Environ­ Independent Practitioner’s mental Protection, and Dr. Thomas Becker, Vice President of ­Limited Assurance Report Governmental and External Affairs, are responsible for expert Fuel consumption approval of the SVR. Overall responsibility lies with the Board and CO² ­emissions of the BMW Group (see Assurance Report). Third-party auditing enables us to document for the public the reliability Imprint and trustworthiness of the information provided. In addition, we regularly receive impetus for improvement and inno­ vation in the reporting process. GRI G4-33, GRI G448 Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 151 Search Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report TO BMW AG, MUNICH an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis”: “VO 1/2006”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Introduction We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engagement on including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the sustainability information in the Sustainable Value Report 2015 of ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and 1 STRATEGY BMW AG, Munich, (hereinafter the “Company”), for the period 1 January regulatory requirements. to 31 December 2015 (hereinafter the “Sustainable Value Report”).¹ 2 PRODUCTS AND ­SERVICES PRACTITIONER’S RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY 3 PRODUCTION AND Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation VALUE ­CREATION in the Sustainable Value Report based on our work performed. of the Sustainable Value Report in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting 4 EMPLOYEES Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on AND SOCIETY Initiative (GRI) (hereinafter the “GRI Criteria”). external sources of information or expert opinions, referred to in the Sustainable Value Report. 5 FUNDAMENTALS This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the Sustainable Value Report as well as the use of We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Further key indicators assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Engagements are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” published GRI G4 Content Index includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems and processes by IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance relevant for the preparation of the Sustainable Value Report, which is free engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters have come Appendix of material misstatements due to intentional or unintentional errors. to our attention that cause us to believe that the sustainability information About this report in the Sustainable Value Report has not been prepared, in all material AUDIT FIRM’S INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. Independent Practitioner’s ­Limited Assurance Report We have complied with the German professional provisions regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures Fuel consumption are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement and therefore and CO² ­emissions The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and professional significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance Imprint engagement. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s standards – in particular the Professional Code for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer judgement. This includes the assessment of the risks of material misstateund vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the joint opinion of ments of the sustainability information in the Sustainable Value Report the Wirtschaftsprüferkammer (Chamber of German Public Auditors; with regard to the GRI Criteria. WPK) and the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW): requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Gemeinsamen Stellungnahme der WPK und des IDW: Anforderungen 1 Our engagement applies to the German version of the Sustainable Value Report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in the German l­ anguage – the German text is authoritative. Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 152 Search Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others the following EMPHASIS OF MATTER – RECOMMENDATIONS procedures: Introduction Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company’s sustainability – Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainability 1 STRATEGY management and sustainability reporting: organisation and of the stakeholder engagement; 2 PRODUCTS – Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the Sustainable – Further standardisation and formalisation of reporting processes and AND ­SERVICES Value Report regarding the preparation process, the underlying internal the internal control system for sustainability information control system and selected sustainability information; – More focused representation of Disclosure on Management Approaches, 3 PRODUCTION AND – Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of processes for VALUE ­CREATION as well as stronger inclusion of challenges, especially with regard to a collecting, analysing and aggregating selected data: more balanced reporting – in the corporate headquarters in Munich 4 EMPLOYEES – in the production plant in Berlin (Germany) AND SOCIETY – in the production plant in Dingolfing (Germany) RESTRICTION ON USE AND DISTRIBUTION 5 FUNDAMENTALS – in the production plant in Goodwood (UK) We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed with the Com­ – in the production plant in Spartanburg (USA) pany. The audit has been performed for purposes of the Company and Further key indicators is solely intended to inform the Company about the results of the audit. – Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information of The report is not intended for any third parties to base any (financial) GRI G4 Content Index the ­Sustainable Value Report; deci­sion thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third parties. – Inquiries of personnel responsible for the reporting of fleet emissions Appendix and fuel consumption, as well as reconciliation of selected data points regarding fleet emissions and fuel consumptions with the official About this report ­infor­mation available from the Federal Office for Motor Traffic of Germany; Independent Practitioner’s – Comparison of selected sustainability information with corresponding ­Limited Assurance Report data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group Fuel consumption ­man­agement report; and CO² ­emissions – Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainability information in the Sustainable Value Report regarding the sustainability performance. Munich, March 16, 2016 Imprint PricewaterhouseCoopers CONCLUSION Aktiengesellschaft Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has come to our Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information in the Sustainable Value Report of the Company for the period 1 January to 31 sgn. Andreas Fell sgn. Hendrik Fink December 2015 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accord­ Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer ance with the GRI Criteria. (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 153 Search Fuel consumption and CO² emissions ratings for the vehicles referred to in this report Introduction Model   Urban  Extra-urban  Combined  CO² emissions  1 STRATEGY (l/100 km) (l/100 km) (l/100 km) combined (g/km)  2 PRODUCTS BMW 116d   4.4 – 3.9 [–]  3.5 – 3.1 [–]  3.8 – 3.4 [–]  101 – 89 [–]  AND ­SERVICES EfficientDynamics Edition 5-door 3 PRODUCTION AND BMW 116i Hatch  6.8 – 6.3 [ – ]  4.6 – 4.2 [–]  5.4 – 5.0 [–]  126 – 116 [–]  VALUE ­CREATION 5-door BMW 116d Hatch   4.8 – 4.3 [4.6 – 4.1]  3.7 – 3.3 [3.8 – 3.4]  4.1 – 3.7 [4.1 – 3.6]  107 – 97 [107 – 96]  4 EMPLOYEES 5-door AND SOCIETY BMW 320d Touring   5.7 – 5.2 [5.4 – 4.9]  4.1 – 3.8 [4.0 – 3.7]  4.7 – 4.3 [4.5 – 4.1]  123 – 113 [119 – 109]  BMW X3 xDrive 20d   6.3 – 5.8 [5.7 – 5.3]  5.0 – 4.7 [5.1 – 4.7]  5.5 – 5.1 [5.3 – 4.9]  145 – 135 [139 – 129]  5 FUNDAMENTALS Mini One D 3-door   4.0 – 3.9  3.2 – 3.1  3.5 – 3.4  92 – 89  Further key indicators Model   Urban  Extra-urban  Combined  CO² emissions  Average total energy (l/100 km) (l/100 km) (l/100 km) combined (g/km) consumption (kWh/100 km) GRI G4 Content Index  BMW i3   omitted  omitted  − [0.6]  − [13]  − [13.5] Appendix (Range Extender) About this report BMW i3   omitted  omitted  − [0]  − [0]  − [12.9] Independent Practitioner’s Model   Urban  Extra-urban  Combined  CO² emissions  Electricity ­Limited Assurance Report (l/100 km) (l/100 km) (l/100 km) combined (g/km) consumption combined (in addition to fuel Fuel consumption consumption) and CO² ­emissions (kWh/100 km)  Imprint BMW i8   omitted  omitted  – [2.1]  – [49]  – [11.9] BMW X5 xDrive40e   omitted  omitted  – [3.4 – 3.3]  – [78 – 77]  – [15.4 – 15.3] Figures in brackets apply to automatic transmission. Fuel consumption and CO² emissions are dependent on wheel and tyre size. Fuel consumption is determined in accordance with the ECE driving cycle. Valid for vehicles with a European country specification. All engines comply with at least Euro 5 emissions standards. Further information on the official fuel consumption, specific official CO² emissions and power consumption of new passenger vehicles can be found in the “Guideline for fuel consumption, CO² emissions and electric power consumption of new passenger vehicles”, available free of charge from all sales outlets, the Deutsche Automobil Treuhand GmbH (DAT), Hellmuth-Hirth-Straße 1, 73760 Ostfildern – Scharnhauser Park, Germany and at http://www.dat.de/angebote/verlagsprodukte/leitfaden-kraftstoffverbrauch.html. As at March 2016. Further, regularly updated information on the vehicles referred to in this publication can be found at www.bmw.com, www.mini.com and www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com . Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 154 Search We look forward to hearing from you Introduction 1 STRATEGY 2 PRODUCTS Numerous BMW Group employees participated in creating this BMW GROUP AND ­SERVICES ­Sustainable Value Report 2015. We will be happy to answer your Petuelring 130 ­questions and forward them to the relevant departments if needed. 80788 Munich 3 PRODUCTION AND VALUE ­CREATION Telephone: +49 89 382-0 www.bmwgroup.com 4 EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY KAI ZÖBELEIN MORE FROM THE BMW GROUP Sustainability Communications www.bmwgroup-classic.com 5 FUNDAMENTALS Telephone: +49 89 382-211 70 www.bmw-welt.com E-mail: Kai.Zoebelein @ bmwgroup.com Further key indicators SOCIAL MEDIA Facebook: www.facebook.com/BMWGroup GRI G4 Content Index MILENA PIGHI Twitter: www.twitter.com/BMWGroup Corporate citizenship Communications YouTube: www.youtube.com/BMWGroupview Appendix Telephone: +49 89 382-665 63 Google+: www.google.com/+BMWGroup About this report E-mail: Milena.PA.Pighi @ bmwgroup.com THE BMW GROUP BRANDS ON THE INTERNET Independent Practitioner’s www.bmw.com ­Limited Assurance Report www.mini.com Fuel consumption www.rolls-roycemotorcars.com and CO² ­emissions www.bmw-motorrad.com Imprint Back SUSTAINABLE VALUE REPORT 2015 155
