Museum exhibitions_ Exhibition “Escala” Exhibition Itinerant Author’s Auction (Museum of the Vatican, Museum (Esplanade University Cultural “Big Size” Complex of the BUAP, 200 VIP San Pedro, amongst others). (in various shopping centres). guests and Medias). Principal Exhibition “Big Size” (Esplanade University Cultural Complex of the Autonomous University of Puebla, Mexico, 1,000,000 visitors). International Exhibition “Corazoles in the Vatican” (Museum of the Vatican, St. Peter, Rome, Italy, and private meeting with the Pope Benedict XVI). Media & outdoors_ City Vip R Vida y Estilo En Boga Llegaron los Hombres Beta En Movimiento Porsche 911 GT2 RS Qué Chula es Puebla Fototeca Juan Crisóstomo Méndez Vida y Estilo de Brad Pitt No. 37 2010 Ejemplar de cortesía Covers, Interviews and Articles (in magazines and newspapers). Advertising features (in magazines an newspapers). Advertising Campaigns (amazing advertisements). Promotion, supports and prints_ Congratulations in the magazines Intelligent kiosks at squares squares (post, magazines and videos). Filming and Post Production of institutional videos (testimonial and promotional). Printed (Posters, Invitations, Flyers, Brochures, etc). Commemorative Articles_ CATÁLOGO DE SUBASTA 2011 Copies to scale Auction’s catalog Book of the campaign’s memory Special Edition Magazine (3,000 examples of sales in Librerias Gandhi). (40,000 free examples). Earrings Cufflinks Necklaces Conferences, Special Events and interviews_ Interviews in TV Conference on Social Responsibility (national and international (Autonomous University of Puebla). medias). Launch of the campaign with the concert of CAMILA group (at the Esplanade University Cultural Complex of the UAP (14,000 people)) Presentation of the campaign with the concert of Hernaldo Zúñiga (At the Auditorium of the Esplanade University Cultural Complex of the UAP). Exhibition “Échale la mano a México” Show jumping (Horse Riding Centre Haras del Bosque, (WTC Mexico city 100,000 visitors). Puebla, Mexico) . Documentary “Voces de la Filantropia” Interviews on radio (Series of Interviews with the Directors (National channel). Companies who have the best practices of Social Responsibility. DVD inserted in the most Important Newspapers of Mexico: Reforma, El Financiero, El Universal and Mundo Ejecutivo.) Famous artistes News Break at TV (Collaboration with more than 70 painters, (Open TV and Cable TV). sculptors and plastic’s artists). Corazoles at UN_ Corazoles at UN United Nations Private Sector Forum for Africa UN Global Compact leaders summit Architects of a better World 2013 Mr. George Kell Mr. Muhammad Yunus Mr. Ban Ki-Moon Executive Director Nobel Prize Award 2006 UN General Secretary UN Global Compact The Trusteeship Council Launching Business for Peace General Assembly UN HQ UN-GC Moma Museum NY The Corazoles Heart of Peace Corazoles at large scale LEGO at United Nations HQ model of the United Nations’ Headquarters Sign Business For Peace #WESEARCHMANDELAS at UN Global Compact Initiative Social Good Summit NY 2013 Awards and Recognition_ Prize “Corazón de Héroe” Distinctive ESR 2012 (Grupo Voluntario Alemán, “Casa del Sol”). (Socially Responsible Companies, Mexican Center for philantropy). Justy Elyser Tato Headkuarters_ Prize of Joint Responsibility 2011 tato@alkimiagroup.com Sauces #3557 Las Animas (General Secretary of the Government of the State of Puebla). 01 800 838 2567 C.P. 72410 Puebla, México
