CSR Report 2015 1-31-4 Nishiochiai, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 161-8560, Japan Phone +81(3)5996-8000 http://www.nihonkohden.com/ NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Contents and Editorial Policy Contents Top Message Editorial Policy Top Message Contents and Editorial Policy…………………………… 2 Message from Top Management……………………… 3 From 2015 Nihon Kohden will provide stakeholders with “We will promote an annual CSR report detailing the Company’s business Nihon Kohden in the Hospital activities and actions that contribute to the development of a our Strong Growth 2017 and Community……………………………………………… 4 sustainable society. This report will include information from four-year mid-term business plan Overview of Nihon Kohden……………………………… 6 the Nihon Kohden Group Environmental Report up to fiscal and contribute to society while Nihon Kohden’s CSR……………………………………… year 2014 as well as the following. 8 striving to achieve sustainable Details and relationship of the Company’s management development and enhance the philosophy, CHANGE 2020 long-term vision, Strong Special Feature corporate value.” Growth 2017 mid-term business plan, and Sustainable Improving Quality of Care through Our Business……………………………………………… 10 Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan in the context of Nihon Kohden’s CSR activities Special feature stories about the development and initiatives of our “value chain” of BSM-1700 series bedside Society monitors, iNIBP intelligent noninvasive blood pressure Relationship with Customers measurement technology, and the YAWARA CUFF NIBP Improving Safety and Security…………………… 14 cuff as examples of how Nihon Kohden is working to solve Fumio Suzuki Hirokazu Ogino Chairman and CEO President and COO Improving Quality, Accessibility social issues through its business and Efficiency of Healthcare……………………… 16 Initiatives in fiscal year 2014 relating to society, the Relationship with Business Partners environment and corporate governance, plus feedback Ensuring Fair Trade Practices……………………… 18 from Nihon Kohden Group employees Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Enhancing Information Disclosure Reference Guidelines and Shareholder Returns…………………………… 19 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines, 2012 (Japan Ministry of the Environment) Relationship with Employees Achieving a Fulfilling Workplace………………… 20 • G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI) Relationship with Local Community Nihon Kohden’s Contributions Scope of Report 37 companies of the Nihon Kohden Group: Contribution through Our Business Sustainable Development Together to the Community……………………………………… 21 with Stakeholders Nihon Kohden Corporation and 36 consolidated subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2015) Period: Since 1951, Nihon Kohden has strived to contribute to the world by Nihon Kohden and its executive officers and employees must Environment April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015* fighting disease and improving health with advanced technology, comply with the Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct in the course *Including some information from before and after this period Relationship with the Environment as well as create a fulfilling life for employees. This has led to of corporate activities. This guideline together with the Company’s Environmental Philosophy and Policy…………… 22 revolutionary technologies and high quality medical devices. Today, Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan foster management Disclaimer Environmentally Friendly Products……………… 26 This report is not a statement of past or present facts; it Nihon Kohden products are used in healthcare settings around the that places importance on the Company’s stakeholders. contains forward-looking statements including plans and world. In July 2015, Nihon Kohden joined the United Nations Global forecasts made as of the time of publication. Forward-looking Recently, the medical business environment has changed Compact and will work toward the development of a sustainable statements are suppositions or determinations based on significantly, from decreasing birthrate and aging population society by initiatives aimed at the Ten Principles of human rights, Governance available information at the time the statements were made. in developed countries, to increasing global competition and labor, environment and anti-corruption. Corporate Governance Due to changes in conditions, the results of future business corporate governance demands. Nihon Kohden will contribute to sustainable development, give Enhancing Corporate Governance……………… 28 activities and events may differ from these predictions. In response, Nihon Kohden formulated The CHANGE 2020 value to stakeholders and achieve strong growth. Compliance long-term vision and company goals. To achieve this, Nihon NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Promoting and Practicing Compliance………… 29 Publication Date Kohden is implementing its Strong Growth 2017 four-year mid-term October 2015 (next publication: October 2016) Risk Management business plan. Nihon Kohden is working to contribute to society Strengthening Risk Management………………… 30 while achieving sustainable Group development and enhancing its Published by corporate value. Corporate Planning Group, Corporate Planning Department, Third-party Feedback……………………………………… 31 Nihon Kohden Corporation 2 3 Nihon Kohden in the Hospital and Community Nihon Kohden in the Hospital and Community Nihon Kohden in the Hospital and Community Nihon Kohden products can be found in the hospital as well as emergency services, home health care, and AEDs in public places, serving the medical needs of hospitals and communities. Prehospital Testing and Diagnosis Surgery and Treatment ICU and Ward Home Care Defibrillators and monitors for Nihon Kohden technology High-end patient monitors Medical devices in the ICU, Medical devices that can be ambulances help improve emphasizes painless and other medical devices are ward, and nurse station must used by the patient and family the lifesaving rate when every and gentle on the patient essential for surgery and other have high safety and security enable better home healthcare second counts in addition to high accuracy treatment in the hospital measurement Long-term ECG Sleep apnea Defibrillators Monitors Transmitter/ recorders tester Monitors Defibrillators EEGs ECGs Ventilators Monitor AEDs (Automated External Defibrillators) and CPR enable ordinary people to save lives in train stations, schools and other public places NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Physiological Measuring Equipment Patient Monitors Treatment Equipment Other Medical Equipment Sensors are one of Nihon Kohden’s core Patient monitors continually monitor the patient’s Nihon Kohden makes defibrillators for the hospital Nihon Kohden makes high precision hematology technologies. High quality sensors can accurately vital signs such as ECG, temperature, SpO2 (blood and emergency services and AEDs for public analyzers and reagents for laboratory blood detect the faint biological signals from the body. oxygen saturation) and NIBP (noninvasive blood locations can deliver an electrical shock to restore testing, as well as instruments for clinical chemical Nihon Kohden sensor technology is included in our products such pressure). Nihon Kohden provides different monitors for different normal rhythm to the heart. Nihon Kohden also imports the world’s analysis of hemoglobin A1c and C-reactive protein which are used as EEGs, ECGs, EMG and evoked potential devices. Nihon Kohden areas of the hospital, from the sophisticated multiparameter best cardiac pacemakers, ventilators, cochlear implants, and other in diagnosing diabetes. Nihon Kohden also develops laboratory EEGs boast a large worldwide market share. demands of the ICU, CCU, and OR to lower intensity telemetry medical equipment into Japan. products used for basic medical research. monitoring in the ward. 4 5 Overview of Nihon Kohden Overview of Nihon Kohden Overview of Nihon Kohden Nihon Kohden’s core business activities are the development, including home care, nursing, health promotion, and research Financial Highlights (consolidated) manufacture and sale of medical electronic equipment, related related to basic healthcare, through cutting-edge technologies and Sales Operating Income Ordinary Income systems and consumables, and associated maintenance and products. （Hundred millions of yen） （Hundred millions of yen） （Hundred millions of yen） consultation. Our mission is to support all areas of clinical care, 2,000 200 200 189 175 180 180 1,720 172 1,608 159 1,531 1,500 150 150 Company Profile Common Name Nihon Kohden 1,000 100 100 Official Name Nihon Kohden Corporation 500 50 50 Representative Directors Fumio Suzuki, Chairman and CEO Hirokazu Ogino, President and COO 0 0 0 Incorporated August 7, 1951 2013 2014 2015 （Forecast） 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 （Forecast） （Forecast） Capital Stock 7,544 million yen (as of March 31, 2015) Head office Number of Employees Net Income / Net Income per Share Total Assets / Net Assets / Equity Ratio Dividend per Share (consolidated) 4,616 (as of March 31, 2015) Net Income Net Income per Share Total Assets Net Assets Equity Ratio （Hundred millions of yen） （Yen） （Hundred millions of yen） （％） （Yen） Stock Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange First Section 150 500 1,500 1,467 150 80 under the name “Nihon Kohden” 1,309 70 70 123 121 Stock Code: 6849 120 111 400 1,200 120 60 993 90 900 885 300 90 67.6 67.6 40 35 Global Network 60 140.52 137.72 200 600 60 126.83 Medicine has no borders. We pay attention to the medical needs Europe 20 USA 30 100 300 30 and characteristics of each region and strive to develop an Japan operating structure which responds to these needs. In addition to 0 0 0 0 0 Asia 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2013 2014 2015 （Forecast） （Forecast） the parent company, the Nihon Kohden Group currently includes 36 international subsidiaries (as of March 31, 2015). Nihon Kohden *Effective April 1, 2015, Nihon Kohden Corporation split each share of common stock into two shares. The company calculated net income per share on the assumption that the stock split was conducted at the beginning of the previous fiscal year ended March 31, 2014 (FY2013). The dividend forecast for the following period (FY2015) is based on the stock split. products are exported to over 120 countries. Europe Asia Japan Americas 6 companies 8 companies 15 companies 8 companies Long-term Vision Mid-term Business Plan Sales by Product Category 0 Sales by Region (consolidated) (FY2016 ending March 2017) (FY2014 ending March 2015) Physiological Change in Sales in Japan Changes in International Sales Other Measuring （Hundred millions of yen） （Hundred millions of yen） The CHANGE 2020 Consolidated Equipment 1,500 500 sales 182 billion yen 1,200 1,204 1,224 400 383 ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー 327 900 300 600 200 Envisioned corporate status for 2020 Japan 130 billion yen 25.6 % 23.1% 300 100 Lead the world Achieve the highest level Attain the top share 41.1 billion yen 37.1billion yen 0 0 in the development 2013 2014 2013 2014 Sales of quality in applicable of revolutionary global markets breakthrough technology in the world International 52 billion yen 160.8 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Change in International Sales in Major Regions billion yen 18.3 % 33.0% Americas Europe Asia （Hundred millions of yen） （Hundred millions of yen） （Hundred millions of yen） Consolidated 29.3 billion yen 53.0 billion yen 200 164 200 200 Target for the year ending March 2020 operating 20 billion yen 150 131 150 150 income 110 125 Consolidated sales Consolidated operating income Overseas sales ratio 100 100 100 70 74 200 billion yen 25 billion yen 35 % Treatment Patient 50 50 50 ROE 13.5 % Equipment Monitors 0 0 0 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 6 7 Nihon Kohden’s CSR Management Philosophy Nihon Kohden’s CSR Nihon Kohden’s CSR We contribute to the world by fighting disease and improving health with advanced technology, and create a fulfilling life for our employees Nihon Kohden is working on social issues by fighting disease and improving healthcare through its business activities Long-term Vision as a medical device manufacturer and The CHANGE 2020 by contributing to the realization of a ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー sustainable society. Management Philosophy Lead the world in the development Achieve the highest level Attain top share in applicable of revolutionary breakthrough of quality in the world global markets To realize its mission of contributing to the world technology by fighting disease and improving healthcare with advanced technology, and to create a fulfilling life for its employees, Nihon Kohden is working all areas, Mid-term Business Plan Mid-term CSR Plan including products, services, technology, financial Long-term Vision Strong Growth 2017 Sustainable Growth 2017 The CHANGE 2020 standing and quality of its employees, to earn the 1 Pursue the highest level of quality ー The Global Leader of Medical Solutions ー in the world Healthcare Environment Corporate Activities trust of customers and all stakeholders including 2 Strengthen technological development shareholders, business partners and society. Toward capabilities Policy 1 Policy 2 Policy 3 3 Strengthen business expansion Fighting disease and Conserve the global Strengthen the foundation this end, Nihon Kohden has prepared its Strong by region contributing to the environment and make of CSR activities in all areas advancement improvements through of corporate activities Growth 2017 mid-term business plan, under which 4 Achieve further growth in core businesses of healthcare through all corporate activities the Company aims to provide the world’s best quality 5 Develop new businesses products Mid-term Mid-term 6 Consolidate corporate fundamentals and services medical devices and become a leader in the global Business Plan CSR Plan medical device industry with global expansion. Strong Growth Sustainable Growth Basic Principles Priority Issues Priority Issues Priority Issues Improve efficacy The Company also recognizes the importance of 2017 2017 Each and every employee will act autonomously and accessibility Provide environmentally Improve of diagnosis friendly products corporate governance and implement the following principles aimed and treatment its business activities in not only enhancing corporate at realizing the Company’s long-term vision: 1. User Oriented Improve quality Promote energy Respect human rights value but also contributing to the development of a of care throughout conservation and promote appropriate Take all necessary actions for the customer work practices the care cycle and waste reduction sustainable society. Toward this end, the Company 2. Relationships Strengthen relationships with customers Improve safety Promote fair business made its Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan and partners both inside and outside the Company and security practices 3. Global of patients and users which identifies issues in healthcare, environment Enhance global communication skills as well as think and act with a global perspective Improve efficiency Community involvement and corporate activities which the Company needs to 4. Speed of users address, sets targets, and outlines specific activities. Strive to do everything with greater speed With synergy between business activities and Nihon Kohden CSR , Nihon Kohden aims to realize The CHANGE Charter of Conduct Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct 2020 long-term vision through daily operations 1 We fight disease and improve healthcare with advanced technology, and contribute to medical care around the world by providing that enhance corporate value and provide value to high quality products and services with consideration of the environment and safety, and earn the trust of customers and patients. society. 2 We comply with applicable laws, regulations, restrictions and company internal and external rules as well as social norms, and conduct fair and legitimate business activities. 3 While maintaining a sound relationship with politics and government, we engage in fair, transparent and free competition and appropriate transactions. 4 We take a firm stand against anti-social forces, such as organized crime groups, that threaten the order and safety of civil society, and have no relationship with them. In July 2015, Nihon Kohden signed on to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 5 In all aspects of our business activities, we respect the human rights of all people and we do not commit unreasonable discrimination or any act which infringes on the personality and dignity of an individual. United Nations Global Compact. By engaging Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of human rights 6 We communicate with the public extensively as well as shareholders, and disclose corporate information properly and fairly, Human Rights Principle 2: Avoid being complicit in human rights abuses in corporate activities that adhere to the Ten and carry out highly transparent management. Principle 3: Freedom of association and effective recognition of the 7 We are aware of our responsibility as a corporate citizen in the international community, and respect the culture and customs Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in of each country and region, and actively carry out social contribution activities. right to collective bargaining the areas of human rights, labor, environment and Principle 4: Eliminate forced and compulsory labor 8 We are mindful of environmental issues as a global citizen, and address those issues voluntarily and proactively to leave Labor NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labor for our posterity a healthy global environment. anti-corruption, Nihon Kohden seeks the trust of Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 9 We ensure a safe and comfortable working environment and create a fulfilling life for our employees. society and to contribute to a sustainable society. Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental Environment responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies CSR Slogan NIHON KOHDEN – for precious life – Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including This slogan articulates Nihon Kohden’s desire as a medical device manufacturer to contribute Anti-corruption extortion and bribery not only to human life but to all forms of life on earth through its business and CSR activities. 8 9 Special Feature Special Feature Special Feature The Story Behind the Development In 2013, Nihon Kohden developed the BSM-1700 monitor, iNIBP technology, and the YAWARA CUFF NIBP cuff based on a desire to contribute to the medical staff who are giving their all every day to protect the lives of their patients. Since its release, the BSM1700 has received high praise with increasing sales in Japan and other countries. We would like to highlight some development stories from the engineers who are proud to bring Improving Quality of Care the world these technologies. through Our Business BSM-1700 From Concept to Reality Patient monitors are indispensable Transport We began with the resolution to never make compromises for the convenience of the in diagnosis and treatment Monitor maker and to realize smart patient transport and smart data transport. We pursued development on two fronts simultaneously. The first challenge was sophisticated Patient monitors continuously monitor the patient’s ECG, blood functionality including a large, easy to see screen to display the vital signs during pressure and vital signs as an essential tool in diagnosis, treatment and transport, easy to see alarm indicators, and long battery life which eliminates user stress discovering abnormalities. Nihon Kohden develops new technologies during the work flow. The second challenge was making it compact, lightweight and and products to solve the issues faced by medical staff and patients. At every stage from production to sales and after-sales support, we make sturdy. High performance functionality introduces technical issues such as increased thorough efforts to guarantee quality and safety. heat inside the compact body. After a process of iterating design innovations, we finally developed a transport monitor true to the original concept. iNIBP Development from the Patient’s Perspective New NIBP We developed a new way of NIBP cuff measurement from the perspective of the Technology person receiving measurement. The physicians, nurses and patients who tested the Issues in Transport Solutions for Safety and Efficiency iNIBP method were astounded at the difference from conventional method inflation. and Patient Monitoring in the Medical Facility iNIBP Linear Inflation Method We conducted meticulous testing to confirm that the measurement accuracy was as Pressure [mmHg] Conventional inflation good as the conventional method. We also added a function to automatically switch to Target Pressure Lower maximum conventional inflation in circumstances that make it difficult to measure blood pressure Critical patients are often transported from the emergency room to To solve these important issues, Nihon Kohden developed the BSM（180) pressure SYS such as harsh vibration and jarring during transport. This enables the staff to measure the operating room or ICU. Since the patient’s condition can quickly 1700 transport monitor. In addition to functioning as a transport DIA iNIBP blood pressure with the best method for the situation. iNIBP reduces patient stress and change during transport, a transport monitor is used to monitor the monitor, BSM-1700 can also function as an input unit for other inflation Quicker measurement improves work efficiency for the medical staff. patient’s condition without interruption during transport. monitors in the hospital. This revolutionary solution means that the Time (s) A safety issue in transport monitoring is that there is an patient is always connected to one monitor before, during and after interruption in monitoring as well as a task efficiency issue when the transport without any interruption and the medical staff do not need medical staff detach and reattach the patient electrodes from the to connect and disconnect cables when the patient is moved to a transport monitor and monitoring equipment in other rooms in the new room. The patient remains connected to the compact BSMYAWARA More Gentle on the Patient hospital. 1700 monitor and the BSM-1700 is connected to different monitors CUFF Gentle The NIBP cuff with pressure sensor has a long history and an assumption that there Another issue in medical care is improvement of noninvasive in different rooms for seamless monitoring. NIBP Cuff is no more room for improvement in the cuff. By questioning this assumption from the blood pressure monitoring. With conventional noninvasive blood BSM-1700 also includes Nihon Kohden’s revolutionary iNIBP NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 perspective of the patient and medical staff, we were able to develop an innovative new pressure measurement systems, when a sudden fluctuation in blood technology, which can measure the patient’s blood pressure with cuff. In addition to a new inflation method, we used new, more comfortable materials and pressure occurs, the pressure applied by the cuff wrapped around less cuff inflation pressure. It also gives a result more quickly than an inner liner to reduce the bruising that conventional cuffs sometimes cause. We added the patient’s upper arm can easily become too strong or too weak. conventional cuff measurement. The result is less stress on the an anti-blockage tube to prevent obstruction of blood flow in the arm if the cuff pressure This places stress on the patient and can lengthen the time required patient and improved patient safety and security. is not released. We also designed the cuff so the medical staff can easily remove the outer part for cleaning. YAWARA CUFF provides greater comfort, safety and security for for measurement. patients, and easier handling for the medical staff. 10 11 Special Feature Creating Value through Business Activities — Saving Lives Special Feature Special Feature Production and Quality Japan Domestic Marketing International Marketing After Sales Service Improving Quality through Production Contributing to Solving Issues Faced Delivering Medical Solutions Providing Security with the Idea and Inspection in Medical Settings to the World of Preventing Malfunctions We cannot compromise when it comes to production and quality It is our responsibility as a medical device maker to promote The concerns and needs in medical practice are common around Product malfunction can affect the lives of patients. In Japan, control of medical devices which affect the lives of patients. To widespread use of our products to help improve the quality of care. the world so we actively promote BSM-1700 internationally. Outside service personnel are assigned to 68 locations around the country produce the BSM-1700 which packs dozens of technologies into For BSM-1700, we are marketing to a wide range of user segments Japan, there is even more demand for transport monitors and BSMwhere they can be swiftly dispatched to handle maintenance or any a small chassis, we worked with the development team to create a in hospitals and private clinics. Sales have experienced healthy 1700 has quickly gained popularity in emergency and advanced other problem. However, only performing repair after a device has special system to prevent defects during production. growth from the start. medical care settings. Nihon Kohden still has low name recognition broken is not enough for the product to be safely used. Therefore Nihon Kohden employs a cell production system where one Our sales activity goes beyond providing products. Through in some countries but we are working to promote BSM-1700 as we established a Preventive Plan to prevent malfunction in advance individual or a small team is responsible for all processes in one dialogue with customers, we discover their concerns and a solution to improve work efficiency for in-hospital transport in and create the conditions for continuous safe use of our products. product. Workers gain skills and a sense of responsibility. This develop solutions. We convey this feedback to the engineers who emergency and advanced care settings. The timing of parts replacement is determined by repair history leads to improved quality, more sensitivity to small deviations during incorporate it into product development. Because of this feedback In countries where sales are mainly through distributors, we and other factors so parts are replaced at the optimum time before production, and contributes to the discovery of non-conformities at process, BSM-1700 meets the customers’ needs so Nihon Kohden will develop human resources for solution-oriented sales, provide problems occur. This helps maintain all devices in safe operating an early stage. For BSM-1700, production is divided among three sales representatives can recommend it with confidence. distributor training, strengthen after-sales support systems, and condition at all times. people. Stickers with the name of the assembler are affixed inside We will continue promoting the features of BSM-1700 and Nihon develop a framework to respond to local needs. Nihon Kohden is also building the framework where our call each product to clarify the responsibility. Five inspection stations Kohden products and technologies and contribute to healthcare in We also recognize our responsibility to address medical needs centers handle time-sensitive inquiries and provide swift solutions. were established for incoming inspection, in-process inspection Japan with user feedback driven products. in rapidly emerging countries like India and in the Middle East and Swift and sure support can save lives. This thought drives us to and final inspection. QA staff regularly inspect each station and Asia. pursue safety and security for the medical staff and patients. assembly line. Our production mission calls for appropriate The existence of medical devices itself can contribute to utilization of functions. To carry out our responsibilities, production society. We will strive to realize our founding vision to save lives staff work together to maintain and improve quality. around the world through our products and healthcare solutions. Feeling pride in products that save lives Production staff insist on quality Contributing to healthcare development “Face to face” service is our strength around the world “Medical device quality means continued “BSM-1700 incorporates all kinds “Global use of our products supports “We strive to personalize our service, production of a product that is expected of customer feedback. Recognition Nihon Kohden’s vision of saving lives with listen to customer feedback, and to be used safely for a long time. No in the market is still not what I hope medical devices. Despite institutional make improvements. If we can prevent NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 matter how good the design, defectbut I’m motivated to contribute to the and cultural differences, healthcare breakdowns in advance and all free production is the key. We take development of healthcare in Japan professionals around the world share the personnel deliver high quality support, responsibility for the patient’s life with our through the widespread use of our same concerns. I am proud to deliver we can further strengthen the relationship high quality production and inspection.” products.” Nihon Kohden’s unique technologies and of trust we enjoy with our customers.” products to the world. ” Noriko Fukuda Yuta Ikeda Shinichiro Ejima Hitoshi Yamochi Manager, Production Section 1, Sales Promotion Section, Manager, Critical Care Solutions, General Manager, Production Department 1, Sales Promotion Department, Sales & Marketing Department, Business Promotion Department, Nihon Kohden Tomioka Corporation Sales Operations International Operations Customer Service Operations 12 13 Relationship with Customers Communication with Customers International Workshops Improving Safety and Security Communication with customers after their purchase is an important Nihon Kohden holds EEG and EMG workshops for medical interns Society Society part of Nihon Kohden’s quality policy. We have a call center to and lab technicians in developing countries. These teach medical As a maker of medical devices which affect lives, we aim respond to customer inquiries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year equipment related knowledge such as how to attach electrodes, to provide products and services that give the customer whenever there is a question or issue with a Nihon Kohden product, basic recording techniques and how to record clear EEG and safety and security. Relationship with Customers Relationship with Customers system or service. There are telephone hotlines for each product line EMG with minimal noise. Other seminars provide knowledge on and operators are trained in each product to resolve any issue the fluctuations in normal waveforms due to various factors, how to customer may have. distinguish between normal and abnormal waveforms, and how to Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets To incorporate the feedback from customers into product differentiate abnormal waveforms and noise. ● Provide high quality products and service that deliver medical safety and security development and improve services, Nihon Kohden also conducts By providing the information needed to handle medical devices Improve safety and security of patients and users ● Develop new technologies that contribute to medical safety and customer satisfaction surveys in Japan and abroad. appropriately, these workshops contribute to safety and quality of security healthcare while improving customer satisfaction with Nihon Kohden products and services. Quality Policy and Quality Management of the first in the industry to ensure that its management systems Medical devices used in advanced medical care require the highest conform to global standards. This ensures the ability to develop level of quality and safety. Nihon Kohden’s quality policy is “To have and manufacture medical devices with high quality and safety. the customers feel continuous satisfaction with their purchase of Nihon Kohden has received ISO 9001 quality management system Nihon Kohden products.” certification and ISO 13485 certification for the medical devices Our long-term vision for 2020 includes the goal of “achieving sector. Our Reliability Center, which carries out product evaluation, the highest level of quality in the world.” In pursuit of product and has received ISO 17025 for testing and calibration labs. Workshops and Seminars service quality, we set three targets for daily quality improvement Providing healthcare professionals with appropriate information is Seminars for medical staff in Japan Seminars in various countries activities. Support Systems to Ensure Safety important for supporting improvement in the safety of healthcare. Nihon Kohden not only strives to improve the quality and safety of its Nihon Kohden organizes and co-sponsors workshops and seminars ① “Risk Zero” design and production products, but also supports customers in safety management and to disseminate academic information and clinical knowledge ② Achieve a high utilization rate by users promotes medical technology to help ensure safety after delivery of leading to medical safety and appropriate use of medical devices. ③ Achieve excellent usability the product. Nihon Kohden reaches nurses and medical interns by Japan In Japan, Nihon Kohden deploys specialized personnel domestic and international academic seminars on ECG, cardiology To achieve this quality policy and long-term vision, Nihon who have accreditations such as Medical Device Information and other subjects, by vital sign seminars that teach physiological Kohden set Group quality targets and continually strives to ensure Communicators (MDIC)*. We also organize safety workshops for knowledge such as blood pressure, pulse and temperature, and by Electrode attachment training Training with actual devices customer satisfaction and quality in all processes from development users to ensure that they use our products correctly. We held 1,698 ME workshops that teach about medical devices to ensure their safe to production, sales and after-sales service. Nihon Kohden complies workshops in FY2014. use. with the medical device regulations of each country and was one ■ Major Workshops and Seminars in FY2014 ■ ISO Events Teaching the importance 9001 Certificate, ISO 13485 Certificate ■ Quality Management System Topics Region of electrodes (Attendees) President Quality Assessing Committee in ECG monitoring Academic 6 Clinical ECG, “Electrodes are the connection points Chief Quality Officer Quality Control Committee Japan Seminars (800) systems, other between the patient’s body and the device New technologies, that measures the ECG. In monitor and ECG Quality Management Division Vital Signs 6 safety and workshops for medical staff, explanation Seminars (1,600) Japan perioperative vital starts with basic knowledge such as where signs, other and how to place what kind of electrodes. General Manager General Manager General Manager Many workshop participants experienced for of General Manager 480 Monitors, EEGs, of of of Japan Shinichiro Product Manufacturing Service/ Business (16,000) ventilators, other themselves that correct electrode attachment Sakamoto Technology Maintenance Operations ME NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 leads to more precise ECG, alarms and Leader, Training & Development Team, Workshops analysis.” Educational Group 15 Americas, Phoenix Academy Engineering Service Business EEG, EMG, other (Human Resource Development Factories (340) Asia Development Center) Departments Department Operations Quality Quality Quality Quality Management Management Management Management Section Section Section Section Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan ● We promoted initiatives to improve quality based on Group quality ● Continue initiatives to improve quality based on Group quality targets. However, targets were not met for some items. targets *MDIC is an accreditation program established by the Japan Society of Medical Instrumentation (JSMI) to cultivate personnel who can contribute to patient safety and the improvement of healthcare quality. 14 15 Relationship with Customers Unique Measurement Parameters Widespread Adoption of CPR and AED Improving Quality, Accessibility Utilizing its technological capabilities, Nihon Kohden strives to solve When a person goes into cardiac arrest, prompt use of CPR and and Efficiency of Healthcare Society Society the issues faced by medical staff and patients and develop unique AED can save their life. To increase the availability of these lifesaving parameters that lead to better quality and more efficient healthcare. devices and educate as many people as possible about their We aim for higher quality, accessibility and efficiency of healthcare by innovative technology and product use, Nihon Kohden strives to increase the number of public AED development. Relationship with Customers Relationship with Customers ● synECi18 installations and conduct workshops on CPR technique and AED This technology uses the normally measured 12-lead ECG to derive use in Japan and other countries. the 6 additional right side and back leads which are not normally In FY2014, about 7,000 people took part in the workshops Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets measured because of the cumbersome procedure but which are conducted by Nihon Kohden. We also loaned AEDs and support Improve efficacy and Improve quality Improve ● helpful in identifying right side and posterior infarction. synECi18 personnel to major events such as the Tokyo Marathon. In recent accessibility of of care throughout efficiency More access to healthcare in developing countries, PAD* market, etc. diagnosis and treatment the care cycle of users ● Provide solutions that improve work efficiency in medical facilities provides useful 18-lead screening years we have also increased our support at international events. to reveal more information about the A Nihon Kohden AED was used during a marathon in Wuxi, China, heart condition. marking the first case of a life being saved through an AED at a Improving Quality of Care throughout Improving Quality of Life（QOL） marathon in China. the Care Cycle for Patients ● iNIBP Nihon Kohden will continue its work to save precious lives Many developed countries face an aging population and the health Nihon Kohden’s TMU-1100 magnetic This technology detects the pulse during instead of after arm cuff by expanding the installation of AEDs, holding workshops, and care system must respond. In Japan, the Ministry of Health, Labour stimulator alleviates the symptoms of inflation. This allows quicker and more gentle noninvasive blood sponsoring events. and Welfare is developing a comprehensive regional care system overactive bladder in adult female patients pressure measurement with lower cuff pressure. ■ Recent AED Workshops in Japan and strengthening coordination between nursing care, medical care by magnetically stimulating the nerves of the Workshops Participants and prevention to allow the elderly to live in familiar surroundings. pelvic floor region. This new treatment helps ● esCCO FY2010 363 8,439 Nihon Kohden provides solutions that span the entire care cycle patients who don’t respond to conventional This technology provides continuous estimated measurement FY2011 289 5,780 from prevention to testing, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. drug-based treatment or are unable to Magnetic of cardiac output based on the pulse waves obtained from the Stimulator In March 2015, we began a demonstration project for Tomioka complete medication courses due to side TMU-1100 ECG and pulse oximetry. Previously, cardiac output could only be FY2012 349 6,238 City’s SUKOYAKA® elderly monitoring service designed for elderly effects. measured by inserting a catheter into the pulmonary artery. esCCO FY2013 334 5,261 persons living alone. It uses home stations and activity meters is pain-free and stress-free. Sales started in Europe in 2011 and FY2014 390 6,953 in the homes of elderly persons to monitor lifestyle rhythms and Improving Efficiency of Users clinical studies are continuing. Total 1,725 32,671 environmental changes. The ZT-210P Palm View portable receiver/transmitter simplifies the Nihon Kohden is also facilitating healthier lives for the elderly work of the care staff. When the Palm View device carried by the staff by providing evidence-based information such as best exercise moves into proximity of a patient transmitter, it receives the signals programs based on the results of an epidemiological study on the from the transmitter and displays the electrode connection status advancement of health of the elderly conducted by Nakanojo Town and numerical data and waveforms of ECG, heart rate, respiration in Gunma Prefecture. rate, SpO2 and other physiological information on a small screen. Without Palm View, this patient data can only be checked by going ■ Providing Solutions throughout the Entire Care Cycle to the nurse station. Palm View lets the staff check the patient’s vital CPR/AED workshop Recuperation and Promotion of Welcare Projects Lifestyle signs anywhere and simplifies their work. By innovation and utilizing Healthcare and Preventive Care Welfare IT system data, Nihon Kohden Clinics Long-term Chronic Phase Care Care is contributing to reducing the Clinics In-home Rehabilitation Hospital workload of medical staff. Care Facilities Recovery Phase Care We want to raise awareness of the potential of AEDs to save lives Hospital “I run workshops that teach customers and Nihon Kohden Group think will raise awareness of the lifesaving potential. I take pride in Medical Care employees how to use AED and CPR techniques. In fact, there our responsibility and attitude to save as many lives as possible Acute Phase Care Palliative Care Facilities have been news reports of people saving a life after taking a by increasing the number of people who can use AEDs. We will Terminal Phase Care NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 Promoting Regional Medical Cooperation ZT-210P Palm View portable receiver/transmitter Nihon Kohden workshop. I feel that having as many people as continue to train more people.” Akiko Ozeki possible learn that handling an AED is much easier than they Nurse, Instructor, Training & Development Section, AED Sales Department We aim to develop products that focus on the fine details “We had many struggles during development to make this device also heard that it led to early discovery of abnormal changes. I think Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan compact, lightweight and sturdy. After releasing the ZT-210P Palm that if we can give the nurses more leeway in their duties through the View, many medical staff commented on how surprised they were use of devices, they can spend more time with the patients and as ● Approximately 400 AED workshops in Japan and abroad ● Launch SUKOYAKA® elderly monitoring service at its convenience. They can easily check the patient’s vital signs a result, the quality of care will improve. We hope to develop more Aoi Ozaki Section 2, while they are undergoing rehabilitation and other treatment. We future products that focus on these fine details.” ● ZT-210P Palm View won Good Design Award ● Continue AED workshops in Japan and abroad Engineering Department 2, Monitoring Business Operations 16 *Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) is defibrillation performed by an ordinary citizen using an AED. The PAD market includes public facilities, schools and private companies. 17 Relationship with Business Partners Relationship with Shareholders and Investors Enhancing Information Ensuring Fair Trade Practices Disclosure and Shareholder Society Society We aim to achieve fair business practices across the entire Return value chain, including our business partners. Our management is highly transparent through appropriate information disclosure and we strive for stable long-term Relationship with Business Partners Relationship with Shareholders and Investors returns to shareholders. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ● Earnings presentations ● Implement initiatives such as CSR procurement that lead to the Shareholder Returns Policy Nihon Kohden hosts earnings presentations (interim and fullPromote fair business practices promotion of fair business practices Delivering shareholder returns is one of our most important year results) for securities analysts and institutional investors management tasks. Our basic policy is to continually provide a and organizes teleconferences (1st and 3rd quarter) where we stable long-term dividend to shareholders with a target consolidated discuss the Company’s performance and strategy. Videos of the Procurement Policy and Procurement Putting CSR Procurement Standards dividend payout ratio of 30% or more, while securing necessary presentations and materials are posted to our website and available Standards into Practice retained earnings for future growth in areas such as R&D investment, to all shareholders and investors. We practice sound and fair purchasing and have established a To ensure that each and every employee has a correct capital investment, M&A and human resource development. procurement policy and procurement standards to ensure that all understanding and awareness of sound and fair business practices ● Company briefings and events for individual investors activities across the value chain, including at our business partners, and puts the CSR Procurement Standards into practice, we promote Information Disclosure Policy We hold company briefings so individual investors across Japan are sound and fair. We inform our employees and business partners understanding and compliance with the Fair Competition Code, Act The Nihon Kohden Corporate Charter of Conduct requires that can see our management strategy and business operations and of this policy and these standards. against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. as part of we aim for highly transparent management by fair and proper extend their long-term support. We also have booths at investor compliance training provided to all employees. disclosure of corporate information to shareholders and society. relations events for individual investors, so the general public can Nihon Kohden Procurement Policy Further, with the aim of promoting the CSR Procurement We disclose Nihon Kohden Group related information in a timely, see Nihon Kohden’s products. 1 Comply with relevant laws and ordinances and social norms in business Standards across the entire supply chain, Nihon Kohden also asks appropriate, fair and ease-to-understand manner. We seek to transactions. its business partners for their understanding and cooperation deepen understanding and trust from all stakeholders and gain 2 Properly manage and protect confidential information and personal information obtained through business transactions. with the Nihon Kohden CSR Procurement Standards. Business appropriate evaluation of the company. 3 Build relationships of trust. Practice fair, equitable procurement. partners are required to conduct a periodic self-assessment on 4 Practice proper quality, cost and delivery for customer needs. 5 Reduce our impact on the environment and practice procurement according their environment and quality activities and answer a “CSR Activity Shareholder and Investor Engagement to separately stipulated green procurement guidelines (*see page 23). Questionnaire” to confirm awareness and state of compliance with ● General shareholders’ meeting Events for Individual Investors the Nihon Kohden’s CSR Procurement Standards. We hold our general shareholders’ meeting on a date that does not TSE IR Festa 2015 In FY2014 we surveyed applicable business partners and conflict with those of other companies to ensure that shareholders Nihon Kohden CSR Procurement Standards 1 Comply with applicable laws, ordinances, and government circulars such received responses from all those surveyed. can attend. For foreign shareholders, convocation notices are ● Investor relations page as the Companies Act, Anti-Monopoly Act, Act against Delay in Payment prepared in English and posted to our website. Our website publishes key information needed by shareholders and of Subcontract Proceeds, and relevant labor and environmental laws and Main items in the CSR Activity Questionnaire regulations. investors, such as management policy, financial and performance Activities relating to : 2 Comply with relevant import/export laws and regulations and the laws of • Legal compliance and fair business practices countries and regions where we operate. highlights, dividend information and various disclosure documents. • Human rights 3 Do not infringe upon intellectual properties, including patent rights, • Quality Information about the company’s long-term vision, mid-term copyrights, and trademarks, etc. • The environment 4 Do not give or receive inappropriate personal benefits. • Information management business plan, businesses and products is also published. • CSR promotion 5 Do not do business with anti-social persons or groups. 6 Respect the human rights of all people and not discriminate against employees in their benefits or employment. Topics 7 Do not use child labor or forced labor. 8 Comply with safety standards and regulations of all countries and regions. Strive to maintain and enhance quality and build a quality assurance system Nihon Kohden receives award for excellence Nihon Kohden listed in JPX-Nikkei Index 400 that meets our standards to meet customer needs. in Daiwa Investor Relations 2014 Internet IR Awards Nihon Kohden has been listed in the JPX-Nikkei Index 400 since 9 Promote environmentally aware green procurement. Strive to reduce the NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 impact of our products on the environment during their life cycle. Nihon Kohden received an award for excellence in the Daiwa January 2014. This is a share index of “companies that are highly 10 Properly manage and protect confidential information and personal We work to ensure that Investor Relations 2014 Internet IR Awards in November 2014. attractive investments for investors” and meet global investment information obtained through business transactions. CSR activities also extend Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. evaluated and scored the standards, such as efficient capital utilization and management to our business partners. IR sites of all 3,605 publicly-listed companies according to that recognizes investors. its independent standards and selected 141 companies with Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan2017 exceptional IR sites that are actively utilized for information ● CSR Activities Questionnaire for business partners ● Continue to conduct CSR Activity Questionnaire disclosure and engagement. ● Began disclosing information based on Transparency ● Consider actions in response to conflict minerals Guidelines for Medical Device Industry and its Relationship with Medical Institutions and Other Organizations 18 19 Relationship with Employees Relationship with Local Community Achieving a Fulfilling Nihon Kohden’s Contributions Workplace to the Community Society We believe that each employee demonstrating their skills and Society abilities will lead to company growth. Therefore we strive to We strive to be a good corporate citizen respecting culture develop a workplace where diverse human resources can and customs through active contribution to the community. Relationship with Employees Relationship with Local Community flourish. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ● Initiatives for human rights and good working practices, such as use ● Contribute to regional communities through NPOs Respect human rights and promote appropriate working practices Community involvement of diverse human resources and work-life balance ● Donate medical devices for educational institutions Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Work-life Balance Donation of Refurbished Medical Social Contribution by Employees Human Resources When individuals have harmony between their different activities Equipment to Training Schools ● Employee assistance programs To grow as a global company, we must empower the whole such as work, home, and personal development, it creates a Recently, the sophistication of medical equipment has been We support employees in the Japan Overseas Cooperation organization by recognizing the diverse values and ideas of each synergy that enhances all these activities. This also becomes the increasing at the same fast rate as advances in information and Volunteer program and employees’ social contributions both employee and allowing them to fully demonstrate their skills and foundation for creating a vibrant, diverse society. We offer various communication technology (ICT). Training schools for clinical professionally and privately such as work leave to donate bone abilities. We strive to promote diversity with a focus on deriving forms of leave and reduced work schedules so employees can engineers have not kept pace, with some schools still using marrow or participate in volunteer activities. corporate vitality from employee diversity, regardless of gender, work in ways that match their individual lifestyles. We also support equipment two or three generations behind. For safety, Nihon disabilities, nationality or other traits and discovering resources with employees in correspondence courses and certifications that lead Kohden discards or updates a lot of equipment that could be used ● Regional cleanup activities a new perspective. to personal development and subsidize cultural activities to facilitate for teaching purposes after refurbishment. In 2014 we refurbished Nihon Kohden employees volunteer in cleaning activities in various For female employees, we hosted exchange events across the growth of autonomous individuals both professionally and such equipment and donated it to eight schools in Japan and regions. Every summer, Nihon Kohden Tomioka Corporation different industries and business sites so women can discover a personally. To improve communication with employees’ families and Nihon Kohden service engineers also ran a workshop on periodic employees undertake volunteer cleaning activities in the Tomioka sense of achievement and fulfillment in their future careers. We will the community, we host events such as workplace tours, summer inspection to support education that reflects actual work in the Silk Mill world heritage site. Nihon Kohden Minato Kanto Corporation continue efforts to attract diverse human resources and deploy gatherings and baseball tournaments, all of which have been clinical field. employees collect trash over a wide area around the company measures to become a company which is conducive to work and job popular. premises once a month. satisfaction. Donation to Nihon Cross-industry exchange Medical Welfare event for female Factory tour for the Professional Training Cleanup volunteers at the employees families of employees College Tomioka Silk Mill Medical device sales allows men and women to demonstrate their talents equally well Supporting the education of clinical engineers “Some women may avoid medical device sales positions due to female representatives are more welcomed by customers. Work “Thanks to the help of the local sales rep and service staff, we made schools, and some employees reported a great boost of energy from perceived difficulty, but female sales representatives have always schedules that facilitate balance between childcare and work will our first donation of refurbished medical equipment without a hitch. Our something that was different from their daily intense work. We hope to NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 shown talent. In areas like obstetrics, gynecology and pediatrics, enable more women to demonstrate their abilities.” Kumiko Hayashi staff were rewarded by the pure smiles and heartfelt thanks from the continue to actively promote these kinds of initiatives in the future.” Sumito Oyagi Section 2, Academic Business Assistant Manager Department, Planning Section, Nihon Kohden Tokyo Corporation Business Promotion Department, Customer Service Operations Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan ● Introduced elective training courses for female employees ● Increase the percentage of women in management ● Continued supporting new employee volunteer activities in areas ● Expand coordination with NPOs ● Produced a handbook to promote acceptance of disabilities in the ● Expand and enhance programs that support flexible working styles affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake through NPOs ● Launch scholarship program for foreign medical personnel workplace ● Donated refurbished medical equipment to training schools 20 21 Relationship with the Environment Green As part of our efforts to provide eco-conscious products to the market, we promote procurement of parts, Procurement materials and finished products which have a low environmental impact according to the following policy (green Environmental Philosophy procurement). Environment Environment 1. Prioritize purchasing from suppliers conducting ambitious environmental conservation activities while also and Policy excelling in areas that include quality, pricing, delivery times, and services. 2. Prioritize the purchase of toxic substance-free products. We strive to realize our environmental philosophy through Requests to our suppliers our business activities and the actions of our employees. Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment To uphold our green procurement policy, the Nihon Kohden Group asks its suppliers to practice environmental conservation in their business activities and supply products, parts and materials that have a low environmental Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets impact. We also ask them to provide a RoHS Declaration of Conformity and participate in various surveys. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Supplier-side environmental conservation ● Introduce low-carbon, high-efficiency technologies, continue Promote energy conservation and waste reduction improvement, promote energy conservation and contribute to waste We ask all our suppliers to take measures for effective environmental conservation such as establishing an reduction environmental policy, maintaining systems, and implementing education. Supplying low environmental impact products, parts, and materials To manage the chemicals that are used in our procured products, we request the following. Environmental In its business activities and the actions of its employees, Nihon Kohden works towards the conservation and Philosophy (1) Create a quality control system for chemicals used in products qualitative improvement of the earth’s priceless environment so that all people can enjoy a healthy environment. (2) Implement green procurement of parts and materials that reduce toxic substances and have low environmental impact Chemical substance content inspection Environmental Based on its management and environmental philosophy, Nihon Kohden shall carry out this environmental policy. To evaluate the chemical substances in procured goods, we request all our suppliers respond to investigations of Policy 1. Provide environmentally friendly products chemical substances in the goods. We require suppliers to provide certificates of compliance for materials used In carrying out development, manufacturing, marketing, after sales service, and support for electronic medical in RoHS compliant products. devices, we provide environmentally friendly products which conserve energy and resources, and do not use hazardous substances. 2. Promote energy conservation and reduction of waste Environmental Group In all of our business activities, we continue to introduce low-carbon and high-efficiency technologies, and Non-production Sites Management Internal Environmental strive to promote energy conservation, reduce waste through the 3 R’s of reduce/reuse/recycle, reduce CO2 System(EMS) Auditor Ochiai Site emissions, and prevent environmental pollution. President Environmental Manager Tsurugashima 3. Comply with laws and regulations Site Environmental Environmental Management In all business activities, we comply with all laws, regulations, ordinances, and agreements that concern the Committee Administration Unit Fujioka Site environment in Japan and overseas, and carry out our responsibilities to stakeholders as a global company. 4. Promote environmental education Environmental Management Production Sites System Evaluation In regard to environmental issues, Nihon Kohden provides appropriate education and awareness-raising Committee Subcommittee Tomioka Site activities. We also promote education aimed at including environmental improvement activities into our everyday work. Environmental Proposal Kawamoto Site Review Board Established: March 28, 2013 Site Certifications Tomioka factory received ISO 14001 certification in November 2001. Our head office and production unit Environmental Activities Manager Environmental Management Unit were integrated and registered for joint certification in January 2007. Certification renewal inspections finished in January 2010 and January 2013. Our activities span five sites. Ochiai: head office and development Environmental Management Administration Unit unit; Tsurugashima: sales and shipping; Kawamoto: product development and testing: Fujioka: repair and maintenance; Tomioka: manufacturing and shipping. NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 22 23 Relationship with the Environment Goals and Results In its business activities and the actions of its employees, Nihon Kohden works towards the conservation and Input ● Energy Consumption of Environmental qualitative improvement of the earth’s priceless environment so that all people can enjoy a healthy environment. Nihon Kohden Group total energy consumption for FY2014 increased 1.5% over 2013 (-237 kL or 92.3% of our Environment Environment Management target) due to improved performance from temperature management for air conditioning, turning off lights lunch Program break, and upgrading old equipment. Environmental Goals FY2014 Target Result ■ Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) Production Sites Non-production Sites （FL） ’14 1,375 1,475 ’13 1,330 1,479 Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment Product development: 1,366 1,380 Reduced environmental impact ’12 Environmentally friendly by average 5.0% and achieved all 1,226 1,343 products with average 5% less ’11 targets. environmental impact ’10 1,444 1,531 ’09 1,355 1,512 ’08 1,284 1,494 Reduce environmental impact First month defect rate 5% less 13.1% less than FY2013, ’07 1,166 1,494 and prevent pollution than FY2013 a significant achievement. in business activities ’06 1,116 1,424 ’05 1,104 1,239 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 Input（kL） Achieved target with cumulative Repair failure rate 0.25% or less results of 0.22%. Output ● CO2 emissions FY2014 CO2 emissions were 4,741 t-CO2. Per unit of sales, this was 4.79 t-CO2 per 100 million yen, a 0.83% Ongoing energy use reduction to 1% improvement over FY2013 per Met target with 1.0% improvement reduction over FY2013 and a 49.3% reduction over FY2000. reduce carbon footprint unit of energy consumed over FY2013 per unit of sales. ■ CO2 emissions, CO2 emissions per sales unit CO2 emissions CO2 emissions per sales unit （t-CO2） （t-CO2 per 100 million yen） 6,000 -10 Promote Reduce/Reuse/Recycle 9 Failed to meet target with 6.9% 5,000 Contribute to a recycling-oriented and reduce landfill and simple 8 incinerated waste per unit by 0.3% increase over FY2013 per unit of society sales. 7 over FY2013 4,000 6 3,000 5 4 2,000 3 We conduct training to ensure compliance with laws and regulations and promote environmental activities in 2 In-house 1,000 1 Environmental daily activities with full employee participation. 0 0 Awareness ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 （FY） Training Persons Receiving Training Training Details ● Waste emissions Employees Affiliate Companies and Other FY2014 total waste emissions were 572.2 tons. Our recycling rate was 99.6%, meeting our target of at least 99%. At the Tomioka Site, we are working to recover valuable substances from waste and environmental activities are Environmental awareness* becoming business efficiency improvements. ■ Waste emissions and recycling rate Waste emissions Recycling rate 98.1% 98.9% 99.1% 99.1% 99.1% 99.1% 99.6% （%） （t） 94.7% 700 -100 87.2% General education Environmental action plan 90 600 80 500 70 56.0% 60 400 Applicable laws and regulations 50 300 40 200 30 20 Specific job training 100 10 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 0 0 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 （FY） Specialized training Internal auditor training Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan Training and education in ● 1% improvement over FY2013 per unit of energy consumed ● 1% improvement over FY2014 per unit of energy consumed Emergency response training emergency response procedures ● 6.9% increased in landfill and simple incinerated waste per unit ● 0.3% reduction in landfill and simple incinerated waste per unit *Environmental awareness training for employees when entering the company and every even-numbered fiscal year 24 25 Relationship with the Environment ZS-610P/ZS-620P This product uses lead-free solder. It has a waveform display screen Transmitters Environmentally but the size and weight is less than previous models that don’t have Environment Environment a screen. These environmentally friendly products use no harmful Friendly Products substances and production consumes fewer resources. The screen allows checking of the ECG away from the nurse Nihon Kohden works to develop environmentally friendly station. Monitor pause and alarm suspend can be done from the products as part of its efforts to contribute to society. Relationship with the Environment Relationship with the Environment transmitter. Positional information can be sent to a medical telemeter. In addition to small size and light weight, the rounded shape reduces physical and psychological stress of the patient. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ● Provide environment friendly products and services by reducing Provide environmentally friendly products energy consumption and resource usage and eliminating the use of harmful substances BSM-3400 has lower energy consumption and better recyclability Life Scope VS BSM-3400 than previous models. A review of product packaging led to a 30% Bedside Monitor reduction in packaging materials for this environmentally friendly product. Cardiolife This environmentally friendly defibrillator contains no harmful One or two patients’ data is displayed on a 12.1-inch color LCD. TEC-5600 Series substances. Power input reduction of 45% from the previous model Improved arrhythmia detection and fewer false alarms were achieved Defibrillator reduces power consumption. by adding our ec1 arrhythmia analysis algorithm. The optional It is easy to use with speedy operation: 3 step operation, positional information function lets staff monitor the patient location. charging time less than 4s, ECG waveform recovery 3s after It also has an interface with nurse call systems. The optional battery defibrillation, and 3s analysis time in AED mode. Nihon Kohden’s ec1 gives 90 minutes operation. This easy to see, easy to use and reliable arrhythmia analysis is an option. Used with P-700 disposable pads, bedside monitor delivers safety and security to all users. it provides easy ECG checking, better arrhythmia detection rate and fewer false alarms. It has a daily self-test. Test data can be saved in memory or SD card and sent to a PC by Bluetooth®. This product facilitates safety management. Neuropack n1 MEM-8301 uses lead-free solder and contains no harmful MEM-8301 substances. It is significantly smaller and lighter than previous Electromyograph models, allowing battery operation. By reducing resource usage and power consumption, we realized an environmentally friendly EMG. CNS-6101 This product uses lead-free solder and has reduced size and weight. This palm-sized battery-operated unit can be used for house Central Monitor The packaging material weight has also been reduced. It has the calls, in-hospital, or anywhere. It starts quickly and setting is simple. same 24-inch LCD color display of other high-end models but power One-hand operation allows smooth testing. Its unique shape consumption has been reduced 10%. reduces psychological stress. Reliable measurement includes an Its small size with multi-parameters, receiver unit, and wired EMG display, sound and electrostimulation. Surface EMG enables or wireless monitoring fits small spaces in the ICU, CCU or ward. It exercise and rehabilitation monitoring. provides healthcare security with expanded vital sign data saving, post-discharge data saving and a positional information feature. GZ-130P This product contains no harmful substances and uses lead-free Initiatives to provide environmentally friendly products through design Vital Sign Telemeter solder. It is lighter and more compact than conventional transmitters “At the Design Center, we don’t just look at numerical data; we to better healthcare environments, prevent medical errors and with integrated screens and it uses fewer resources, making it also embrace qualitative aspects of eco-consciousness that boost work efficiency. Our products reduce energy consumption NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 cannot be expressed numerically to help customers reduce energy and lead to safe healthcare while reducing physical and mental environmentally friendly. Masashi Sato consumption with easy to use products. Easy to use products lead stress on patients.” Design Section 2, It has arrhythmia detection and the 3.2-inch screen displays Design Center, Strategic Technology Operations waveforms, vital signs, and alarms in monitor mode. It communicates with a central monitor by network or two-way Wi-Fi. Alarm settings Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan and other data can be checked at the patient side. Patient information is sent and received with robust security and reliably. GZ● Average environmental impact reduction rate of 5.0% for all assessed ● Develop environmentally friendly products with an average newly-developed products environmental load 5.0% less than previous products for all newly130P supports work efficiency in the ward, transport or rehabilitation developed products while facilitating safety management. 26 27 Corporate Governance Compliance Enhancing Promoting and Practicing Governance Governance Corporate Governance Compliance Nihon Kohden strives to strengthen its corporate governance We practice fair and legitimate business activities with with the aim of continually enhancing its corporate value. high ethics. Corporate Governance Compliance Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough Improve corporate governance compliance and strengthening risk management Improve corporate governance compliance and strengthening risk management Corporate Governance Framework 2 outside members. Each member attends Board of Directors Compliance Promotion Framework Practicing Compliance A corporate governance structure with sound management and meetings, Management Council meetings and other important The Nihon Kohden Charter of Conduct, Nihon Kohden Code of A Compliance Handbook given to employees contains the rules, efficiency is important. In addition to a framework where directors meetings and comments on deliberations of resolutions. Ethics and Conduct and Compliance Promotion Rules form the approaches, conduct standards and other information that supervise management and make decisions while operating officers The 8-member Internal Auditing Department conducts regular Company’s fundamental approach and rules for compliance. We employees need to understand to ensure daily compliance. To handle business execution, Nihon Kohden appointed outside audits of compliance, business and other matters at the head take measures to ensure that all employees practice thorough continually enhance all employees’ awareness and knowledge directors and outside audit & supervisory board members with a office and subsidiaries, and works with audit & supervisory board compliance in accordance with these rules. Our Compliance of compliance, all employees take part in regular compliance high degree of independence to supervise management. Our Board members to strengthen monitoring. Committee promotes compliance, develops regulations and workshops. We also set up a Compliance Hotline where employees of Directors has 10 corporate directors, 2 of whom are outside systems, and provides operational support to ensure compliance in can anonymously consult or report on matters to the Compliance directors. Its responsibilities are decisions on legally stipulated CSR Promotion Structure business activities. This support includes complying with laws and Committee. Persons who consult or make reports through the hotline matters and important matters in Nihon Kohden Group management To promote CSR, we established a CSR Promotion Committee as a regulations, compliance training and education for employees, and are protected from any unfavorable treatment arising from their as well as supervision of directors’ performance of duties. To ensure board committee involved in Nihon Kohden's overall CSR activities monitoring compliance. The heads of each Group company and consultation or report. that management follows the policy of the Board of Directors, the such as planning, promoting, organizing, educating, and other business division work with and report to the Compliance Committee ■ Compliance Consultation and Reporting Procedure Management Council, consisting of each director and operating activities. This committee is composed of representatives of the in their role as Compliance Administrators. Compliance Committee officer, meets to expedite decision-making and ensure agile Compliance Committee, Quality Control Committee, Environmental execution of operations. Committee and representatives of other operation divisions. This Feedback Feedback The 4-member Audit and Supervisory Board also includes committee sets the CSR annual activity plan to practice CSR through Consultation Consultation and and daily operation. Report Report ■ Corporate Organization and Internal Control System Compliance Hotline Heads of Groups/Divisions General shareholders’ meeting ■ CSR Promotion Committee Organizational Structure （Point of Contact, Legal Department） （Compliance Administrators） Appoint Appoint Appoint Chairperson Corporate Planning Dept. General Mgr. Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors’ meeting Feedback Feedback (including outside members) Audit (including outside directors) Secretariat Consultation Corporate Planning Consultation and and Dept. Report Cooperate Cooperate Representative Director Report A Compliance Handbook is distributed to employees Nihon Kohden Group Employees Management Council Accounting Compliance Quality Control Environmental Domestic Sales Auditor Audit Committee Committee Committee Dept. CSR Promotion Committee Rep Rep Rep Rep Compliance Committee Quality Control Committee We work to enhance workshops and systems to raise awareness of compliance Report Intl Sales Customer Service Technology Production Internal Auditing Department Dept. Dept. Dept. Dept. Environmental Committee Rep Rep Rep Rep “A medical device manufacturer must follow laws and regulations in I want employees to get usable knowledge and raise awareness every aspect of operations from product development to trade. One of compliance through a compliance workshop, violation reporting NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 person’s violation can harm the credibility of the Company as well systems and contact points for consultation.” Mai Hasegawa Internal Audit Operating Officers Purchasing Human Resources as patients’ lives. As the person in charge of compliance training, Legal Group Dept. Dept. Legal Department Business Units / Subsidiaries Rep Rep Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan ● Convened CSR Promotion Committee meetings ● Activities in accordance with Corporate Governance Code ● Ongoing compliance workshops ● Ongoing compliance workshops ● Formulated Sustainable Growth 2017 CSR mid-term plan ● Promotion of measures to strengthen compliance at overseas sites ● Promotion of measures to strengthen compliance at overseas sites 28 29 Risk Management Third-party Feedback Governance Third-party Feedback Overall Hideki Ishida CSR is the responsibility to live up to society’s expectations and contribute Strengthening Professor Emeritus, Tohoku University Governance to social and corporate value. Nihon Kohden’s Charter of Conduct properly Representative, Earth Village Research Risk Management Lab LLC links these aspects. Its guidelines represent the early adoption of large parts of the United Nations Global Compact. Conduct must be in line Devices Act, and Nihon Kohden as well as the Pharmaceuticals and Nihon Kohden strives to make improvements to risk with these guidelines; for example, product development based on the management to ensure it can respond appropriately to supply chain as a whole. Specifically, optimum data should be obtained Medical Devices Agency publish pertinent information on their websites. Risk Management various business risks. from patients in the shortest time with as little discomfort as possible. This system and its information disclosure is an essential element of At the same time, products must be easy to use, lightweight, highly corporate governance and I hope it will continue to be maintained at a high precise, and robust. Moreover, there must be systems and endeavors level. Sustainable Growth 2017 Priority Tasks Sustainable Growth 2017 Targets to continually verify and update various backup systems for maintaining Environment ● Initiatives such as strengthening governance, ensuring thorough product performance from a global perspective. In the vastly different Nihon Kohden is to be commended for efforts to establish quantitative Improve corporate governance compliance and strengthening risk management market environments where the Company’s products are sold, in addition targets for product development, input, output and internal awareness to producing extremely high levels of quality and safety and attaining an raising. The Company has met target values for total energy consumption all-encompassing perspective of the supply chain as a whole, in addition and CO2 emissions per sales unit, and its 99.6% recycling rate is also Approach to Risk Management Disaster Risk Management to proactive efforts to comply with strict regulations and laws concerning laudable. However, I believe the Company’s long-term plans would be and Risk Management Framework We have taken measures to ensure the safety of employees and medical devices in each country, another important perspective is backup better communicated if it clearly specified certain points, namely, how the systems that include guidance for medical professionals and this area products affect the global environment and at what points in the supply Our Risk Management Regulations set forth our basic policy of risk their families in a disaster and ensure unbroken supply as a medical has room for further development. The Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term chain, and the Company’s stance and goals to address them, and the management, types of risk, organization and framework for risk device manufacturer. These include improvements to production relationship with The CHANGE 2020. I look forward to future advancements CSR plan exists in parallel with the Strong Growth 2017 mid-term business management, related rules, and other matters. facilities and production systems, disaster prevention measures in this area, including from the perspective of Lifecycle Assessment*. plan, and while both are incorporated into The CHANGE 2020 long-term The Management Council prescribes matters including risk at business sites, preparation of an initial response manual for vision, unfortunately the vision of Sustainable Growth 2017 for the year Corporate Activities management basic policy for overall Group operations. The Risk disasters, company-wide education and drills, development of an 2020 cannot be adequately deduced from this report. CSR is a linchpin Nihon Kohden’s corporate governance structure includes two outside Management Supervisory Division is tasked with improving and emergency communication and reporting flow, and an emergency of management strategy and one face of the company indicating both its directors, employee education, distribution of Compliance Handbooks, and promoting the overall risk management system of the Nihon Kohden recovery plan for information systems. We also made a Business corporate value and social value. I hope the Company will work to clearly measures to promote employee diversity. Moreover, health advancement Group, together with the Risk Management Divisions for the various Continuity Plan (BCP) for the continued provision of products and define this aspect. initiatives in conjunction with Tomioka City and Nakanojo Town will lay the The Sustainable Growth 2017 mid-term CSR plan is divided into three groundwork for future corporate value and should continue to be pursued. types of risks, which are responsible for ascertaining and analyzing services and rapid recovery after an earthquake. areas, healthcare, environment and corporate activities, on which I would I believe this is an important time for the Company to establish quantitative the risk management status at each operating unit and conducting risk management. Information Risk Management like to comment. targets in regard to issues such as the 6.1% rate of female employees in managerial positions in Japan. Subsidiaries and the head office conduct self-assessment of To protect the personal information and important confidential Healthcare In Closing risk management using check sheets and divisional inspection information of all stakeholders including customers, patients, In this area, many parts overlap with Strong Growth 2017, and as I already CSR can be described as the responsibility to meet the expectations sheets. The assessments confirm the implementation of risk business partners and employees, we have regulations for personal noted, form the perspective of the supply chain, Nihon Kohden’s awareness of society by integrating social issues with business activities. Having management systems and future responses, the results of which are information and IT use which guide our proactive efforts to ensure read this report, I understand that Nihon Kohden is steadily continuing to of its stakeholders from the product design stages, and compliance reported to the Management Council. protection of personal and confidential information, and develop establish such foundations. For further expansion, I believe the Company with world-class management systems is worthy of praise. In particular, an organizational framework for personal information protection, whenever new safety information is obtained, the Marketing Supervisorwill need to disclose its long-term vision, including the disclosure of ■ Risk Management Framework IT utilization, company-wide education, regular inspections and general, Domestic Quality Assurance Manager and Safety Manager negative information and more quantitative evaluation indicators. I look Board of Directors awareness-raising. To enhance information security, we obtained immediately convene a meeting to examine ways to address products that forward to even greater leadership by Nihon Kohden in the development of Representative Director PrivacyMark certification in July 2005 and Information Security have already shipped and determine if product recall or modification is a sustainable future. Management System (ISMS) JIS Q27001 (ISO / IEC 27001) needed. If recall or modification is required, the health threat is categorized Management Council *Lifecycle assessment: a method to clarify and quantitatively and objectively assess the certification in January 2015; the scope includes management as Class I, II or III according to Japan’s Pharmaceuticals and Medical environmental impact of a product at each stage of its lifecycle Implement Validity assessment risk management of management systems and operation of remote service facilities for Nihon Kohden Group and report on status for each risk, etc. system products. Risk Management Supervisory Division Response to the Third-party Feedback Nihon Kohden Corporation We are deeply grateful for Professor Ishida’s valuable feedback. He recognized the Nihon Kohden Group’s framework to alleviate For each risk types obtained NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 NIHON KOHDEN CSR Report 2015 PrivacyMark certification patient burden and improve efficiency in medical facilities, along with the Group to attain high levels of quality and safety in our medical Risk Management Division Related Committees from the Japan Institute for the Promotion of Digital Economy devices. He also expressed hope for the future development of these endeavors and provided valuable assessments and feedback IS 617365 / JIS Q 27001 and Community (JIPDEC). Operating Divisions and Subsidiaries in the areas of healthcare, environment and business activities. He also pointed out that “the vision for 2020 that Sustainable Growth 2017 seeks to attain is not adequately deduced from the report,” and that “disclosure of our long-term vision, including disclosure of negative information and quantitative evaluation Activities in FY2014 FY2015 Action Plan Takashi Seo indicators,” is required. We will treat this feedback and the issues raised as important areas to address and work to strengthen efforts Operating Officer General Manager, ● ● Review BCP and expand scope of development Corporate Planning Formulated Business Continuity Plan (BCP) in this regard. Through the realization of The CHANGE 2020 long-term vision, we aim to provide solutions to social issues in the area of Department ● Information Security Management System (ISMS) certification healthcare and enhance our corporate value. We will also strive to enhance our CSR activities so that Nihon Kohden continues to be a company that values its stakeholders, earns society’s trust and contributes to the development of sustainable society. 30 31
