Contents Corporate Social Responsibility 2015 Review Making digital technology a driver of progress for all At Orange we move forward with the belief that digital technology is a powerful tool for economic and social development. The incredible source of innovation provided by digital technology must be made available to the greatest number of people. The Orange CSR approach is built around this value of shared progress. Encouraging the development of more inclusive, sustainable and collaborative solutions, our approach introduces new opportunities for creating value for society as a whole, as well as for Orange. An integral part of the Group’s strategy, the CSR approach involves all subsidiaries around three enablers of sustainable performance: trusted support of our customers, local support for the economic and social development of each country, and a controlled environmental balance. Based on constructive listening with our stakeholders, and an internal culture which promotes innovation, our corporate citizenship commitment ensures that all of our activities have the same focus: making digital technology a driver of progress for society and all. The table below shows the progress made on the Orange Group objectives set for 2015. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 1 Contents Contents Approach ................................................................................................................................................... 3 Ethics and the fight against corruption.................................................................................................... 3 Stakeholder Dialogue.............................................................................................................................. 4 Raising awareness of CSR among employees ...................................................................................... 7 Orange, a trusted operator ...................................................................................................................... 8 Providing an unmatched customer experience ...................................................................................... 8 Setting the example with our employees .............................................................................................. 15 Setting the example with our suppliers ................................................................................................. 23 Promoting human rights and freedom of expression ............................................................................ 27 Orange in support of social and economic development .................................................................. 29 Combating digital divides ...................................................................................................................... 29 Developing essential and innovative services ...................................................................................... 33 Supporting entrepreneurship ................................................................................................................ 35 Orange, a player in ecological transition ............................................................................................. 38 An ambitious environmental policy ....................................................................................................... 38 Controlling our own impacts ................................................................................................................. 39 Helping our customers reduce their footprint ........................................................................................ 41 Optimise the useful life and recycling of equipment ............................................................................. 43 Preserving biodiversity and rare resources .......................................................................................... 45 Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 2 Contents APPROACH Trust, the environment, economic and social development are major areas of our corporate responsibility. This only makes sense if it meets the requirements of the company and individuals. This is why we build our CSR policy based on a structured and active dialogue with all our stakeholders. Our responsible policy is also supported by clear governance principles which are asserted at the highest levels of the company. This approach was further reinforced this year with the publication of a transparency report on government requests for customer data, and another one on tax payment. Ethics and the fight against corruption Objectives Deadline Progress ETHICS To meet our ambition to “bring the best of digital technology to the largest number of people and increase preference for Orange”, our Group is supported by an ethical approach, focused on a collection of action and behaviour principles which guide its behaviour in order to increase the trust of our employees and customers, its suppliers and shareholders, as well as all of its stakeholders. View the Code of Conduct Review and update 2015 In 2015, the cross-cutting areas under consideration by the procedures concerning our Group for actions relating to the ethical approach mainly activities, areas of business included: and functions to take into  taking aspects of the service relationship policy into account when developing offers and services This account cultural and helps include the ethical aspect in its current form in regulatory changes and marketing projects. This self-evaluation reference is a integrate best practices internal tool, built around three principles: transparent offers, ethical customer interactions, and the implementation of safe and responsible use. It was distributed to subsidiaries in 2014 for adoption and implementation;  the prevention of situations involving conflicts of interest has been examined with reference to the declaration procedures under the regulations of various countries. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION In 2015, Orange reaffirmed its zero tolerance commitment against corruption in a document signed by Stéphane Richard and the entire Executive Committee. This commitment underlines that this prevention is a collective responsibility and each person must take an active role to promote a culture where corruption has no place.  Consolidate, at Group 2015  Integration in 2015 of the risk of corruption in major level, local risks facing the Group assessments of the risk of corruption Analysis of the risk of corruption conducted at division / country level and consolidated at Group level  Pursue the roll-out of anti-corruption e Continued deployment of e-learning in France Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 3 Contents learning in French and versions in English and Spanish have been deployed; kick off deployment in the translations in Flemish, Slovak and Polish are in English progress Stakeholder Dialogue The stakeholder dialogue is the basis of our CSR strategy, which is itself based on a structured and ongoing process of listening. This exchange helps the Group implement projects which are better adapted to the requirements of stakeholders, whilst identifying emerging requirements, weak signals and opportunities for partnerships and co-development. Orange bases its dialogue approach on the principles of the AA1000 standard :  inclusion: identifying stakeholders in the countries in which we are active and gathering their expectations using a broad and representative sample;  materiality: identifying the most tangible/relevant themes both for the company and its ecosystem on a country by country basis;  responsiveness: drafting and implementing appropriate action plans, with short, medium and long-term projects, to meet the needs and concerns of stakeholders. This approach is implemented at a Group level to ensure overall consistency between policies, and at a country level which are as close as possible to local players and issues. Objective Deadline Progress GROUP DIALOGUE Setting up dialogue 2015 The first group dialogue was put into place in November between stakeholders at 2015 on the theme of diversity and equality in the Group level, involving the workplace; this dialogue takes several forms: Executive Committee  local in-person and digital dialogues in seven countries. The first took place in France and Senegal. Other dialogues will take place in 2016 in other countries, particularly in Jordan, Romania, Spain, OBS Russia, OBS India;  at a group level: interviews and panels with internal and external “corporate” stakeholders An interactive dialogue with Group employees will take place on 8 March 2016 on the theme of gender equality in the workplace. The final presentation of the results will take place in June 2016 DIALOGUES BY COUNTRY Organise a dialogue in 2015 Dialogues postponed until 2016. countries where they have not yet taken place (Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia); Renew the dialogue in 2015  Jordan: dialogue conducted in March 2015, the countries where it has identified priorities being education and already taken place, and entrepreneurship support. update CSR action plans  Moldova: postponed, due to electoral context (Jordan, Spain, Moldova).  Spain: postponed Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 4 Contents  Romania: dialogue conducted in June 2015 in partnership with an NGO: 32 face-to-face interviews (21 external, 11 internal) THEMATIC DIALOGUES Women dialogue: 2015  Women and ICT Dialogue: following the dialogue held in 2014 and 2015, an action plan was defined  follow-up to the with a focus on mother and child health; it will be women and ICT integrated into the 2016 marketing plan; dialogue conducted in Niger in December  m-Women Dialogue in Senegal: conducted in March 2014 2015, in Dakar and Saint-Louis, it led to an action plan approved by the Executive Committee and the  Orange Women launch of two projects identified as a priority : dialogue in Senegal; o Women's Digital Entrepreneurship prize (PENF) in November 2015 o contract with Sooretul, platform to connect female farmers and end clients (processing of local products) signed in December 2015. Healthcare Dialogue in 2015 Dialogue conducted in Côte d’Ivoire: February 2015 in Côte d’Ivoire Abidjan and Bouaké, including healthcare professionals, institutions and patients. An action plan was developed, including projects focused on both professionals and the general public (information, prevention, establishing relationships). Internet and Children Internet and Children Dialogue conducted in Senegal in Dialogue November 2015, including parents, pupils and institutions. Identification of major requirements in terms of parental support in the digital world, with parental controls and dedicated courses, in partnership with schools (see § “Helping families use new technologies safely and responsibly”). Dialogue on the silver 2015 To be conducted in 2016 economy in a European country Dialogue on human rights 2015 Active participation in dialogues on human rights, particularly during the following sessions:  UNESCO (March 2015): international multi-party conference to examine the first detailed UNESCO case study on issues relating to the internet  Round table organised by the Global Network Initiative (GNI) and the Centre for Democracy and Technology (CDT) on the regulation of extremist content online (16 October in London)  UN (OHCHR): Forum on human rights and companies (16-18 November 2015 in Geneva) Supplier Dialogue 2 dialogues were held with suppliers, one within the JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation), the other with Orange’s main suppliers. See chapter “Promoting CSR standards in the chain of subcontractors” (page 26) Digital Society Forum: 2015 3 new topics uploaded to the DSF website, with an supporting the development English translation : of the Digital Society Forum  privacy and personal data Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 5 Contents and its expansion  attention and information abundance worldwide:  digital technology and employment  organisation of 3 new This involved the publication of 687 articles and themes 121 videos (see DSF website)  coordination of new workshops (including Coordination of new workshops: 2 outside of France)  15 new workshops in France, with more than 500 participants in attendance  1 workshop in Morocco (Casablanca) with ESCA, the Casablanca Business School  Development of remote participation: 4 connected workshops with over 300 participants in 2015  30 major speakers at workshops Increased visibility  Facebook account (opened in April 2015): 600 fans and 243 publications; Twitter account: 2,628 followers as of late 2015  300 proposals made by participants during 2015 workshops to improve the impact of new technologies on our life Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 6 Contents Raising awareness of CSR among employees Objectives Deadline Progress Further reinforce activities 2015  Launch of training programmes for our functional to raise awareness of CSR schools: among employees o network functions school, with joint presentations (courses leading to formal with CSR and the Technocentre CSR qualifications. Ensure o Presentations at the marketing functions school that CSR is an integral part of all functional training...)  Adaptation to the European educational environment launched in 2014 with the assistance of the KEDGE Business School in several AMEA countries  Launch of a partnership for the development of a Sustainability Literacy Test (Sulitest), a test intended to assess the sustainable development skills of students and businesses. This international test, comparable to a language proficiency certificate, was developed following RIO+20 with the support of the UN in 2012. In 2015, we tested the current version which proved to be poorly adapted for use in a company. A new version adapted to Orange will be put into place in 2016  Throughout the year, and with a special focus at the time of the COP 21, publication of numerous CSR articles on the Group's intranets. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 7 Contents ORANGE, A TRUSTED OPERATOR Our daily lives have become more efficient, quicker and enriched due to the effect of digital technology. However it’s not so easy for some people. As we aren't all experts, it can sometimes be difficult to maintain control of our usage amid incessant digital innovation. Development of positive skills and control of digital technology is vital, however, so that technology can meet the individual or collective needs of its users. Improving this control of digital technology for the largest possible number of people involves helping our customers to protect their personal data and privacy, helping families use new technologies safely and responsibly, respecting the personal data that is entrusted to us, promoting freedom of expression, but also supporting our employees and customers in the development of new skills, or, with our suppliers, constantly improving the supply chain for these technologies... This is why we are working to be a trusted operator in a changing world. Providing an unmatched customer experience REINVENT THE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP As part of Essentials 2020, Orange has given itself the objective providing each person with an unrivalled customer experience by designing digital services that enable them to enjoy and have complete trust in what is essential to them. Our customers are increasingly demanding regarding the quality of services that we are offering them. We are committed to satisfying them, and therefore gaining their loyalty. We are simplifying our offers, limiting the number of contacts and personalising all interactions, whether digital or physical. We constantly improve our customer understanding and provide responses which are as close as possible to their requirements. To do this, we are rolling out an internal transformation programme structured around three priority areas for action and two enablers:  three priority areas for action: evaluating the network and services, digitalisation which helps facilitate the customer relationship and personalise it, simplification, a source of peace of mind for the customer and improved internal efficiency.  a technological enabler: individual understanding of the customer thanks to the deployment of digital customer understanding tools which help personalise the relationship that we have with our customers, the product offers and the services, as well as monitoring the quality of the network provided by Orange.  a human and cultural enabler thanks to the Essential Voices programme which aims to deploy a culture of continuous improvement based on listening to the voice of employees and customers. This programme involves all business lines, markets and Orange countries, 156,000 employees and 70,000 subcontractors and service providers. Objectives Deadline Progress Strategy based on 2015 Our goal: to base all our processes on customer data information with which gives an individual overview of contact and usage  operational history for each of our customers. deployment of  Deployment of Customer Experience Management Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 8 Contents Customer Experience (CEM) in 4 countries: France, Spain, Cameroon, Mali: Management 6 deployments in progress in Poland, Slovakia, (launched in at least 4 Guinea Conakry, Jordan, Tunisia and Senegal: . European countries in CEM helps measure the network quality of service for 2015) each user.  deployment of Customer Interactions  Deployment of Customer Interaction Management, Management in 3 renamed “360° overview” in 2 countries: in France countries to provide a (Business Branches, aimed at professional complete, integrated customers) and Morocco (use in April 2016); several view of interactions projects are in progress, including the most advanced with customers in Cameroon, Niger and France (general public). CIM provides a comprehensive integrated overview (360° overview) of interactions with customers, regardless of the points of contact. Digitalisation 2015 Our goal: through digitalisation, improving customer  Opening of the first satisfaction by providing more flexibility, speed and “Smart Stores” in personalisation in the customer relationship. France, Romania and Europe The Smart Store programme places human beings at the heart of the customer relationship by providing the best of  Further development digital technology. The Smart Store: a new store concept of chat and social offering advice, demonstrations and services, a store media tools ensuring a focused on usages, organised by department, teams are decrease of 4 million multi-purpose, dedicated to advice and support. call to call centres in  Opening of 23 Smart Stores by the end of 2015: 5 in Europe (excluding Romania, 8 in France, 8 in Poland, 1 in Moldova and France) thanks to 1 in Jordan these initiatives An improvement of Orange’s web portals also took place in Europe and AMEA in order to integrate the store location to an e-commerce platform The “Digital Assisted” programme aims to support customers in the use of digital tools by using social networks, mutual assistance communities and chat and click-to-call tools, underlining our desire to promote human digital technology in an increasingly digital world. Several mutual assistance communities and forums are already in place, specifically in France, Spain, Morocco and Tunisia. This has led to a reduction in customer calls:  decrease of 5 million calls to call centres in the European Region (excluding France) including 10% related to chat and social media. This figure rises to 14 million calls when including France, of which 3 million related to chat and social media. Listening to the customer 2015 With the “Essential Voices” programme, our ambition is to and our employees encourage each person to listen to the customer and  Gradual roll-out of employee’s opinions in order to develop the basics of a continuous customer relationship and more relevant and effective improvement methods marketing, contributing to gaining the loyalty of our and coordination of a customers and improving our internal efficiency. community of  Implementation of a continuous improvement experts ambassadors in the network (Lean, 6 Sigma, etc.) to support subsidiaries transformation in countries and divisions: 500 people certified in 2015 in France, Europe, AMEA, OBS and central offices. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 9 Contents  Coordination of a community of continuous improvement ambassadors with a meeting bringing together representatives from all the regions and the creation of a community on the internal social media, Plazza. Simplification of the 2015 Simplification of the customer experience. customer experience Our goals: to improve customer interactions with Orange at  Implementation of all levels: perception and understanding of our offers, use product offer of products and tools, all stages linked to different simplification plans in customer journeys. all countries  Development of endIn 2015: to-end management of  definition of the golden rules of simplicity for all new the major process offers by the Group marketing department areas  acceleration of the “pruning” programme (reduction of offer portfolios), for example, -61% in Spain, -33% in Romania;  extension of the role of customer test centres in designing offers in France, Romania, Poland and Spain, as part of an agile approach focused on customers;  deployment of end-to-end management of the customer journey for major processes (Processes and Governance): o Fibre and convergence in France, Poland and Spain o TV, complaints, retention and payment in Romania, Morocco and Jordan o Orange Money, Flybox and SIM Swap in the AMEA Region COMMUNICATING WITH PEACE OF MIND The rise of ICT and associated uses has diversified the issue of their security. This issue has various forms, and has a major effect on the confidence of users in digital tools. Exponential amounts of data are transmitted every day via operator networks, and users are asking more questions on the integrity and confidentiality of the digital information that they are sharing. We manage the communications and data of 263 million customers right around the world on a daily basis. Our commitments to the protection and confidentiality of private data are transparent and have been enshrined in the Orange Charter on personal data protection published in November 2013. 2014 objectives Deadline Progress Implement the Orange 2014-2016  As part of the “Global reinforcement plan involving the Charter for personal data protection of customer data and sensitive Orange protection in the countries; data”, implementation of various measures, including: o Encryption of leader PCs, implementation of secure messaging (encryption, signature), o Implementation of a specific organisation for personal data protection (see information on the internal guide below), o Inventory of processes including private data and setting of protection rules Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 10 Contents o Effective implementation of all technical measures  Internal publication of the guide, Deployment of the private data protection plan . This document is an operational guiding light written to provide points of reference for implementing the various phases of securing personal data and achieving legal compliance.  Internal publication in January 2016 of the Response Procedure to a security event / incident involving private data. This document lists additional reference points, specific to personal data, to integrate into the existing security event management process.  Distribution of the Charter amongst subsidiaries, particularly during CSR meetings or seminars.  Implementation, within the Purchasing Division, of a programme to ensure correct consideration of security requirements by suppliers and subcontractors (including their possible subcontractors) associated with the sensitivity of our customers’ and employees’ data. After having assessed the criticality of all of these contracts, the objective is to verify the level of supplier maturity in order to carry out additional evaluation audits if needed, to implement corrective actions or even to terminate contracts if suppliers are not at the expected level. For the second consecutive year, 2,500 France and Group Services contracts were re-evaluated. Over 95% of them had a low or moderate criticality, and around fifteen suppliers audits were carried out by Orange Cyberdefense experts. Offer Orange customers 2014-2016 In order to give users the possibility to control, verify and the right to control, verify manage the personal data that they supply to Orange and manage the personal platforms, Orange has developed 2 tools: data they give to Orange  The badge of confidence, an application which allows platforms, and for all a customer using the mobile application on a services managed by smartphone to understand which data is used by Orange, in the form of a these applications and to control usage where allowed dashboard by the application. The badge of confidence is currently being beta tested and will be launched as a priority on Orange applications (Orange and me...). It is also available for free as open source: all application publishers are able to integrate it and will be encouraged to do so.  DataShare, the equivalent to the badge of confidence for the internet of things, gives the user transparency and control over data collected and shared between their connected devices and the Datavenue platform. The customer can therefore choose which data they wish to share. The launch of DataShare is planned between now and summer 2016 Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 11 Contents HELPING FAMILIES USE NEW TECHNOLOGIES SAFELY AND RESPONSIBLY Younger generations are heavy users of the internet and social networks due to the communication and entertainment opportunities that they offer. Whilst the web is a source of opportunities and creativity for young people, parents are concerned about the potential risks and dangers which could arise from increasing exposure to digital content. For operators which allow the distribution of this content, the challenge is to provide parents with adapted protection tools, and to provide children with the resources to benefit from a “better internet”. Orange has made it a priority to support children and teenagers on the internet, and also helps support parents, as awareness and promotion of a safer internet must involve the whole family as educators. This concern led to the creation of the “Better Internet for Kids” (BIK) programme, a collection of tools, offers and support measures which aim to give parents the power to act and offer the best of digital technology to their children. Objectives Deadline Progress Reinforce the 2015 Parental control solutions are offered to our customers for implementation of our entire European area. Uptake has been quite low parental control systems; despite parent awareness campaigns, for example in France with promotion of the new application in sales areas (catalogue, Orange portal, stores). Strengthen parent 2015 Various initiatives have taken place over the past few years awareness initiatives in and continue to operate. Europe; Some examples in 2015:  Poland: launch of a specific online manual for parents about the importance of protecting young people.  France: continued development of the Living with Digital site and the parental manual project  Slovakia: ‐ reworking of the site to make it more attractive to young people; ‐ continuation of free training offered in schools in cooperation with a group of psychologists ‐ financing a parental manual Support the roll-out of 2014-2015 Support for family offers to raise awareness among parents marketing offers and young people about best practice, for example designed for families in  France: reinforcement of the family nature of the Europe Orange Open offer with solutions that bring families together to enjoy secure and entertaining digital experiences thanks to the Family Place application, parental control and the support provided for certain uses  Spain: showing of videos on the Orange Navega Seguro site; participation in a conference held by the Ministry of Telecommunications to present the Privial application intended to demonstrate to young people how to protect their privacy (See also the objective “Strengthening parent awareness initiatives in Europe” above) Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 12 Contents Develop #SuperCoders 2015 #SuperCoders allows young people to discover the ins and workshops in Europe and outs of digital technology for themselves with a fun AMEA for the long term. introduction to computer programming. This places young people in the position of a stakeholder. After the success of the 1st edition in October 2014, the #SuperCoders operation has been expanded in 2015 with the creation of the #SuperCoders Festival, linking 5 countries in Africa (Côte d'Ivoire, Egypt, Mali, Senegal and Tunisia) to 4 countries in Europe which were already active in 2014 (Spain, France, Poland, Romania)  workshops launched in these 9 countries with a common theme for all workshops: code for the planet ;  1,400 children aged between 9 and 14 years old in 60 workshops, male-female equality in all workshops;  390 employees volunteered to host the workshops (mainly in France, but also in Egypt, Mali, Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal) an online training programme for more than 600 volunteers;  A #SuperCoders website with presentation of country initiatives, appreciation of employee commitment and educational resources Develop and stimulate As part of COP21, organisation of a challenge open to boys children's involvement in and girls of any age, to illustrate environmental issues in a Better Internet for Kids fun way (responsible consumption, recycling, biodiversity, (BIK) climate change...); Publication of projects on the dedicated Scratch platform: 47 projects shared by children from France, Spain, Poland, Romania, Egypt and Mali, who made the most of the Scratch kit provided by Orange to express their creativity and their environmental awareness (http://supercoders.orange.com/en/The-results ) On 2 December, presentation of the best projects at an event held at PlacetoB in Paris, an alternative site dedicated to sharing about the challenge of climate change in support of the COP 21 international conference. In addition in Romania, Scoala Altfel , a working session organised in April for children between 10 and 13 years old to learn to make responsible use of the internet and ICTs Assess expectations in 2014-2015 Organisation of a consultation on a better internet for terms of the protection of children conducted in Senegal (Dakar) to understand the children and family offers requirements of the Stakeholders and to identify in the AMEA Region; appropriate solutions. Consultation organised around 7 themes covering the risks and opportunities of the internet for children (accessibility, safe environment, skills, time spent online, links with friends and family, content and services, personal development). The conclusions of these consultations will be used to shape the strategy of Sonatel, a Group subsidiary. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 13 Contents ANSWERING QUESTIONS ABOUT RADIOWAVES The wireless telecommunications equipment that Orange uses and sells, such as mobile telephones, tablets and other connected devices, emit radiowaves, which they need to function properly. Exposure to radiowaves, particularly antennas, raises concerns regarding possible health effects. The scientific community has been working on this topic for over 20 years. To date, no health effect has been discovered. However, whilst waiting for confirmation from ongoing additional studies, particularly regarding children and long-term usage, some health authorities have issued warnings about usage in order to reduce exposure to radiowaves from mobile telephones. Orange proactively participates in the debate about radiowaves and passes on information and recommendations for usage to its stakeholders. These measures revolve around 5 areas:  ensuring total transparency in our communications with the various stakeholders regarding radiowaves and communication technologies using appropriate information materials and discussion channels  contributing to the research effort via the Orange research laboratory (Orange Labs) into exposure levels as part of domestic or international programmes concerning wireless communications  ensuring compliance with local regulations (wherever such regulations exist) or applying international recommendations as appropriate  promoting proper mobile use as defined by the authorities  providing support regarding safety rules for staff working near or on radio antennae Objectives Deadline Progress Roll out training for 2015 2016  Creation of a training kit (“radiowaves for people employees in the AMEA working on antennas and the security perimeter subsidiaries (translation of around antennas”) with the Ecole des métiers the site about radiowaves techniques , aimed at technical teams in the into Arabic, creation of a subsidiaries. training kit for the  Creation of an Orange guide regarding the security personnel who work on or perimeters around antennas for Europe and AMEA near relay antennas). technical teams; presentation of the guide in Spain and Côte d'Ivoire.  Training for technical teams in Côte d’Ivoire on radiowaves and security perimeters started in 2015; training will be continued into 2016  Information days for Orange France occupational doctors on electro-sensitive individuals  Participation in GSMA meetings on the creation of a guide regarding security perimeters, scientific and regulatory monitoring and consideration of possible scenarios of a new regulatory landscape for radiowaves in Europe.  Translation of the radiowaves site into Arabic complete, integration of the Arabic version planned for 2016 Audit subsidiaries on the 2015 audit in Egypt postponed in 2016 application of their radiowaves policy (one country in 2015) Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 14 Contents Setting the example with our employees Building a digital and human employer model is one of the five areas on which the Orange Essentials2020 strategic plan is based, and one of the main challenges, or even the top challenge for Human Resources in the years to come. This goal is based on a high-quality employee experience, the basis of a successful Orange customer experience: giving employees the resources to transform the customer experience. As part of adaptations and changes to the company, the position of the human is vital and the goal of HR is to reconcile financial performance and social quality, which involves adapting organisations, digital transformation and also the internal workplace environment. Orange bases its Human Resources approach on the deployment of a socially responsible model, aiming to become a preferred employer in the countries where it operates. There are three policies which coordinate the policies on this topic: ongoing improvement of social quality, anticipation and support of business transformation and the promotion of diversity in all its forms. RECONCILING BUSINESS AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The Group’s social model is based around a series of commitments to employees, enshrined within a social contract in France and the Orange People Charter, the version distributed in 23 countries worldwide. The relationship between the Group and its employees is focused on 6 commitments:  acting as a responsible employer  providing a diverse range of career paths  promoting methods of work which focus on customer satisfaction  giving managers the freedom they need to lead their teams to success  providing a high-quality working environment  rewarding teams for their individual and collective contributions to Group success Listening to employee opinions on the quality of their working environment and in-depth monitoring of these opinions helps Orange to constantly adapt the guidelines of its social policy. Award 2015 Orange certified as a “Top Employer Global 2016”: Orange received Top Employer Global 2016 certification for the first time on 22 February 2016. This certification recognises the best human resources policies and programmes. 29 Orange countries and territories on 5 continents were involved in the process and made it a success. Objectives Deadline Progress Continue the Group's 2015 To support its development, the Group has implemented commitments in terms of social dialogue meetings covering its whole perimeter at social dialogue by means different levels: that suit the local context  The European Works Council: it includes 28 employee and regular meetings with representatives from 19 countries. In 2015, it met 3 ad hoc committees times(physical meetings), successively in Marseille, (Worldwide Works Council Paris and Rome, in order to provide information and Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 15 Contents European Works consultation on development and acquisition projects Council…) in Europe and OBS zones. The Group’s strategic 2020 plan (Essentials 2020) and its international version were the subject of a detailed presentation.  The Worldwide Works Council: it has 31 members, representing 21 countries (subsidiaries with over 400 employees). It meets once a year on the initiative of the Group Director General. The Worldwide Works Council meeting was held in June 2015. Information focused on the strategic plan, operations and projects in the AMEA region, and the implementation of the worldwide health and safety agreement which was signed on 21 November 2014.  At a local level, employee representatives include representatives from unions, representatives appointed by elected employee forums and also representatives democratically elected directly by employees according to rules defined locally. Pursue the tracking of 2015 The 5th annual international employee survey and the 12th quality of life in the France biannual employee survey took place at the end of workplace through the 2015. These surveys help assess social quality and the periodic reporting of implementation of the Orange People Charter at a Group surveys and combined level as well as its French version, the social contract. national / international These surveys were carried out by the CSA Institute. indicators and inclusion of  France: publication of the results of the 11th employee the results as part of the survey in June 2015 and the 12th in January 2016 bonus scheme for top 93% of employees are proud to work for Orange international managers in (+1%) and 87% would recommend Orange as a good the Group place to work (+1%); 88% are confident that the company will successfully achieve the Essentials2020 goals.  Other countries: fifth annual employee survey at the end of 2015 in 21 AMEA and Europe countries, and in four Orange Business Services zones. The participation rate of 69%, a 3% increase on 2014, reflects the interest shown by employees in this topic, which is based around five themes: o strategy and Corporate Social Responsibility o professional development o quality of life at work and working environment o management o recognition Continue deployment of 2015 Health and safety is a strong aspect of the Group's Human the health and safety policy Resources policy, as demonstrated by the Group’s health and provide support for and safety agreement signed on 21 November 2014. This Group countries agreement covers all Group employees. It is an extension of the agreement signed in 2006, as well as all other projects already in place. The health and safety goals are the same for all but the implementation of a management system (already under way before the signature of the Group agreement) must be adapted to each situation. It has therefore been decided to allow each entity to develop it at its own pace, whilst supporting this development. A Group health and safety management reference standard Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 16 Contents has been developed based on the international OHSAS18001 standard. Every country has the choice of either using the Group policy or the OHSAS18001 Standard. To launch this approach, a self-diagnosis questionnaire allows countries to assess the discrepancy between current and expected behaviour. Personalised support for self-assessment is provided by Group Health & Safety for entities of either more than 1,000 employees or that are at risk. In addition, a health and safety network has been put into place to encourage a coherent global approach with health and safety players, distribute information and support countries to adapt the new health and safety policy and to share best practices. PREPARING THE GROUP'S FUTURE The new technologies market is continuing to develop, its functions are changing and its players must adapt their employment, training and recruitment management policies in a dynamic and ongoing manner. This is why the Group is supporting the professional development of its employees, by providing them with a full range of training. In order to speed up the Group’s digital transformation, a dedicated programme Orange Digital Leadership Inside” was launched at the end of 2013 to raise awareness and train our employees whilst providing the Group within new ways of working adapted to the challenges of digitalisation. In addition, Orange is committed to France's national effort to help young people find work. Awards 2015 Orange won the 7th edition of the Human Capital trophy (prize created by Michael Page and Le Monde seven years ago, which recognises the initiatives and achievements of large Groups in their human resources policies). This prize recognises the consistency of our initiatives to appreciate human capital, as well as the involvement of management in this field, and winning this employee digital transformation prize has proven the effectiveness of our Orange Digital Leadership Inside approach. On 16 October, in Paris, our Digital Academy won the Digital HR prize at the Digital Industries Awards presented by the magazine L'Usine Nouvelle . This prize recognises Orange’s desire to develop the digital culture of 160,000 employees. Objectives Deadline Progress Accelerate internal 2015-2020  Training has always been very important to the Group. digitalisation: raising The number of training hours per employee is 31.5 awareness, training hours. employees and  Orange training is organised by Orange Campus, permeating the Group with dedicated to management of all Group managers, new ways of working business schools, including 17 schools in France, in the fields of sales, technical, marketing, services, Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 17 Contents support functions, 7 in Poland, in the fields of sales, technical, networks and project management, and 4 in Spain in the fields of sales, IS and networks.  2015 was marked by the deployment of the Orange Digital Leadership Inside” programme, a Group programme launched at the end of 2013 in order to boost and support the Group’s internal digital transformation. It is based around 3 complementary areas (raising awareness, training, equipping), with staggered deliverables over time. The Digital Academy has been launched as part of the training programme. It is a common platform for digital knowledge intended for all Group employees. It allows each person to complete the “digital for all” course at their own pace, in addition to training initiatives provided by business schools and the Orange Campus for managers. The Digital Academy has been deployed in 18 countries, in 5 languages (French, English, Arabic, Spanish and Polish). Nearly 100,000 passports and visas have been obtained by over 63% of employees.  As part of the Digital Academy, several types of training have been launched, specifically: o two MOOCs at the end of 2014: “Becoming a web adviser” (13,400 registrations “finisher” rate (people who completed the course); 16%) and “Decoding code” (15,000 registrations “finisher” rate: 12%), o A “Digital usage” COOC ( Corporate online open course ) aimed at employees, on the usage of digital tools for more simplicity and effectiveness on a daily basis o A “Big Data” course (13,300 visitors 6,200 visas) o and other sorts of more targeted training, for a specific audience  In addition, the content of the Digital Society Forum was promoted through a special MOOC called living with digital . A DSF workshop was held within the Innovation, Marketing and Technologies Department (IMT) on the issue of “connected migrants”. The Orange France Executive Committee has followed a beginner’s session in computer programming applied to connected devices, within Simplon.co.  At the same time, a number of pilot programmes were put in place in order to assess the impact of digital technologies on ways of working. For example: o Supporting the development of working from home and working on the move whilst taking into account the impacts on the organisation, management, coordination of remote resources, activity steering, IS and the layout of a working space o Rethinking the contact centre of tomorrow: Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 18 Contents supporting the creation of the contact centre of tomorrow by considering ways of working, organisation of the working space, and use of collaborative tools. New innovative ways of working have been tested o Launch of the Villa Bonne Nouvelle , a coworking space within the “Silicon Sentier” in Paris, hosting Orange teams working on a project with external partners, allowing an exchange of experiences and a similar environment to an incubator. The main goal is to create optimally functioning methods in a digital culture and to understand how this framework enhances social quality and economic performance. o Les étableurs” or digital innovation experts: an operation to test the integration of digital technologies into a classic environment in order to observe the ways in which people work start to merge and overlap 15 employees at a Paris site are transformed into digital coaches for one halfday per week: individual support of employees, group workshops and assistance in improving ways of working by using digital technology Pursue the roll-out of 2013-2015  Sessions held in 22 countries: 7,500 self-assessment Group management quizzes completed guidelines to all managers  Managers trained: 76 sessions, including 20 of managers and teams international: 1,100 leaders trained (including 300 outside of France), 450 manager managers;  HR trained: 68 sessions, including 14 international: 800 people trained (including 160 international) After a wide-scale deployment stage in 2013/2014, awareness and training in the use of the Orange Managerial Reference Materials was integrated into initial training in 2015 (“Becoming a manager”, taking up an HR role involving career development), in fundamental modules used outside of France for all management levels whether together or apart, and in other modules such as “Developing all of my employees”. Committing to France's 2014-2018 Signature in December 2015 of a new inter-generation national effort to help agreement for the 2016-2018 period young people find work This agreement is a merger of three previous agreements on work experience and internships, older workers and the previous 2013 inter-generation agreement. The generation contract has 3 aims: o helping the sustainable integration of young people into permanent employment o keeping older workers in employment o encouraging the passing on of knowledge and skills For this purpose, the agreement sets forth or underlines specific, ambitious measures around five areas:  recruitment of 6,000 permanent workers between now and 2018 in a difficult context in terms of money and competition.  welcoming young people in training: 4,300 work experience candidates working at the company on Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 19 Contents average over three years, recruitment between now and 2018 of 1,800 of these young people amongst 6,000 new permanent contracts in our company, and welcoming at least 2,500 interns each year.  keeping older workers in employment and preparing the end of the career (renewal of existing systems)  passing on knowledge, which is a particular challenge for our company where 30% of employees will retire between now and 2020.  specific measures for parental leave, taking into consideration people who are temporarily away from work to raise a child As part of previous agreements (the 2013 inter-generation agreement and the 2014 work experience and internship agreement), the Group has already met the commitments that it set:  with more than 5,650 current work experience contracts as at 31 December 2015 (initial and further vocational training contracts), equivalent to 5.8% of the total headcount (within the scope of the Group agreement in France)  around 1,160 ex-work experience candidates recruited into permanent jobs in 2015, including 400 as part of the ultra-broadband plan, bringing the total number of permanent employees recruited from among this group in the period 2013-2015 to nearly 1,900, in line with the 3 year target;  furthermore, the Group adds to its initiative to get young people into work by continuing to welcome a significant number of interns each year (2,400 in 2015). PROMOTING DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE Orange makes diversity and equality during recruitment and the professional career an asset for innovation and attractiveness. In every Orange country, initiatives in support of diversity and workplace equality, adapted to the specific local challenges, are put into place with ad hoc monitoring and assessment systems. Workplace equality between men and women is a cross-cutting priority for all Group entities. Certification 2015 The GEEIS certification (Gender Equality European International Standard) which deals with the Group’s workplace equality policy has been renewed. Certification since 2011 of the Orange Group, Orange France, Orange Business Services, Orange Spain, Mobistar Belgium and Orange Business Services in Germany and Italy. In 2015, the newly certified entities are Orange Poland, Orange Luxembourg and Orange Romania. Orange Slovakia and Orange Moldova are currently being assessed. Objectives Deadline Progress Strengthen workplace 2013-2020 The Group policy has 4 pillars: gender equality in all  Wage equality: monitoring by the entire Group. aspects of working life in Specifically for France, a study aiming to identify the Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 20 Contents all Group countries and the “unexplained” wage gap has demonstrated that it is setting up of assessment 0.63%, a very small gap in comparison to a market tools and ad hoc which is 10 times higher (6.3%) monitoring  Access for women to positions of responsibility: o monitoring of talent pools for Leader and Executive networks, succession plans for key positions and mentoring of high-potential women which is being deployed in Europe; o participation of women in internal networks (InnovElles, the Group’s female manager network, all local networks and divisions in France, Niger, Mali and some OBS countries Egypt, UK, Germany, USA, etc.) and external networks to develop their leadership (WIL, PWN, InterElles), controlling their self-censorship and giving them the keys for success.  Feminisation of technical roles: launch of Capital Filles in Romania and extension of the programme in France, strengthening of “shadowing” initiatives with Elles Bougent  Work-life balance: the Workplace Equality Strategic Committee, which controls the deployment of the Group’s Workplace Equality policy, decided to deploy the Work-Life Balance Charter produced by the French Ministry for Women's Rights across the entire Orange group, with the local required adaptations. It has also decided to test the possibility of the “Happy Men” concept outside of France in order to engage men in terms of workplace equality. In various subsidiaries overseas, measures linked to parental leave are more favourable than required by local regulations (implementation of paternity leave in Botswana, full salary for maternity and paternity leave in Romania and Tunisia, additional leave when children are unwell in France and Luxembourg, for example.) As the entire Group policy is subject to evaluation against the Gender Equality European and International Standard, the Group and all the European countries were audited in 2015. All the countries were certified and a roll-out to some of the AMEA countries was carried out in 2015. A Global Stakeholder Dialogue on diversity and workplace equality was kicked off in 2015 in order to identify any necessary changes in the view of the many Group stakeholders. The pilot took place in Senegal in November. (see paragraph “Group Dialogue” page 4) Increase the proportion of 2013-2020 The objective of reaching 35% of women in the Leaders women in management Network was postponed to 2020 to take into account the bodies (2015 objective: low rate of renewal in this group of people. At end 2015, the 35%) ; figure stood at 25%. In order to achieve this goal, the following initiatives were Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 21 Contents put into place:  During the Group’s talent reviews, the proportion of women in management roles and associated pools are presented and we look at the equality and, where appropriate, an initiative contributing to achieving the objective.  A long-term initiative to achieve 35% is the equal recruitment of very young potential talent through the Orange Graduate Program. Increase support for Group 2013-2015  Signature of the OIT commitment charter in October countries and divisions to 2015. Through this charter, Orange commits to help them strengthen local fighting against discrimination and stereotypes, policies in terms of including disabled people in the workplace. diversity and particularly French equal opportunity initiatives have been for the disabled deployed in Romania with Capital Filles and in Morocco with Passeport Avenir . A “Diversity” network was created within AMEA with a “diversity champion”.  in 2015, in France, the employment rate of disabled employees was 5.9%.  Various initiatives have been deployed across the Group, for example the layout of workstations and the information system, employee awareness and coaching meetings, participation in disabled worker recruitment forums. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 22 Contents Setting the example with our suppliers ORANGE, A RESPONSIBLE PURCHASER Sustainable relationship between a company and its suppliers is a real enabler of performance for all. At the heart of this relationship: trust. This is mainly based on compliance, by suppliers and subcontractors, with the principles and rights expected by their customer who should support them in the definition and implementation of the best responsible practices. Acting as a responsible purchaser, for Orange, also involves ensuring that our partners, particularly SMEs, are developing in the best conditions. The major influence that our Group can have on the development of the local financial network is at the centre of our Purchasing policy. Prize 2015 In June 2015, Orange received the “payment terms” prize issued by the Observatoire des Délais de Paiemen t in the “Large companies” section, for its initiatives in support of suppliers in France. Objectives Deadline Progress Continue to reinforce CSR 2014-2016  CSR has been largely deployed within the Group’s in terms of governance and purchasing process, as well as Orange France and the purchasing and supply BuyIn. chain processes  for purchases for all Europe and AMEA subsidiaries, implementation of the CSR reinforcement project. This project has 3 stages; in 2015, the first stage (updating of the CSR clause and raising awareness about CSR amongst all purchasers) has taken place.  Contribution to goals to reduce environmental impacts: o increased consideration of CSR in major Orange projects, such as the selection of the business WEEE sector in France o Refurbishing of Livebox 2 returned to Orange so that they can be used in AMEA: 30,000 Livebox 2 sent to Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal o finalisation in progress with Sagem of the spare parts production project which uses recycled plastic from Livebox cases and digital decoders.  Payment terms: o implementation by Orange in France of a reverse factoring programme offering suppliers advantageous payment terms on their invoices with deadlines reduced to a few days.  Supplier understanding: reinforcement of processes allowing improved supplier understanding, particularly in terms of the active fight against corruption and employee health and safety  Supplier assessment: provision of a web platform to subsidiaries in AMEA and Europe to allow them to assess the performance of their local suppliers with the use of QREDIC (Orange methodology used to assess supplier performance, already largely used for “Group” purchases and purchases in France). In Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 23 Contents 2015, measures were taken in Guinea Conakry, Côte d’Ivoire, Spain, Slovakia, Moldova, Tunisia, Belgium and Romania. Strengthening of buy-in 2014-2016  In France and commitment to CSR o Continuation of CSR workshops started in 2014 to by the purchasing function; allow purchasers in France to better apply CSR principles in their respective purchasing categories: in 2015, 3 workshops helped train 19 people o 8 web conferences organised in France to encourage uptake of CSR commitments by purchasing teams within the purchasing process on themes such as risk management, waste mapping and personal data security. Over 50 participants attended each conference.  Subsidiaries in Europe and AMEA zones: awareness about CSR amongst o all purchasing CSR contacts (1 per subsidiary) o all purchasers in 4 countries (Egypt, Jordan, Cameroon, Madagascar) i.e. a total of 10 people trained in Europe and 60 in AMEA  Organisation of a training session for logistics teams regarding the regulations of cross-border transport and starting e-learning to raise awareness about CSR amongst all staff  For BuyIn, training of 70 people in CSR during 12 sessions, including “support” functions (legal, regulatory) Contribute to local 2014-2016  adapted and protected sector (France): renewal of the development and commitment to spend at least €15 million in employment by purchases per year to this sector. Currently over 440 encouraging participation companies in this sector work with Orange for €16.4 in our tenders for million invoiced at the end of 2015. companies in the disabled  As part of the “Public undertakings charter in support sector and innovative of the emergence and development of innovative SMEs. SMEs” signed in 2012, support for over 200 innovative SMEs, through direct purchases for more than €100 million per year in the group (including 66% in France), and through open innovation programmes and various commitments such as our active contribution to French Tech, or the Alliance pour l’Innovation Ouverte .  Thanks to its expertise in the Chinese market through its OSC subsidiary, Orange has developed a support offer since mid-2014 aimed at innovative SMEs in order to help them in their international development to identify and select Chinese manufacturers which are mature enough to respond to international requirements in terms of costs/quality/deadlines/intellectual property protection/CSR compliance. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 24 Contents PROMOTING CSR STANDARDS IN THE CHAIN OF SUBCONTRACTORS The Group attaches particular importance to ensuring commitment and development of CSR amongst its suppliers and subcontractors, both through the incorporation of CSR criteria in the selection and ranking processes, as well as monitoring of operational practices as part of continuous improvement. Suppliers are therefore regularly assessed on ethical, social and environmental issues. These assessments can be led by the Group, with the assistance of specialised partners as part of collaborative and sector-based organisations. Labels 2015 In France, Orange has received the “responsible supplier relations” label again for the 2016-2018 period. Created in 2012, this State-awarded label distinguishes French companies which have signed the “Responsible supplier relations charter” which proves that they have sustainable and balanced relations with their suppliers. Objectives Deadline Progress Prefer suppliers that meet 2014-2016  Systematic integration of a standard CSR clause, the ethical, social and regularly updated, in any new contract in France. It environmental has been deployed in over 50% of subsidiaries in requirements of tenders by Europe and AMEA and is currently being deployed in improving consideration of other subsidiaries. environmental and social criteria and ensure that  Strengthening of CSR in the supplier selection suppliers implement process in areas at risk such as projects involving the Orange's own CSR treatment of waste and the reconditioning of second requirements hand products Initiatives are also in progress to take into consideration the energy costs of the products that we purchase in more detail as part of our purchase cost analyses.  Encouragement by Orange of its subcontractors to adhere to principles and commitments defined in the “responsible supplier relations” charter which contributes to the implementation of CSR in France. Amongst 1,600 signatories at end 2015, 86 are direct suppliers in France; they represent nearly 21% of our purchases.  Continuation of supplier CSR practices assessment: o 456 suppliers evaluated by the specialised company EcoVadis on behalf of Orange by end 2015 o JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation a telecommunications operator association, working together to control, assess and develop the implementation of CSR principles by their suppliers in the ICT sector) 2015 audit campaign: ‐ 61 audits carried out in 2015 (nearly twice as many audits as 2014), i.e. a total of 209 since 2010. ‐ In 2015, 56% of audits cover rank 2 subcontractors, 28% rank 3 and 16% cover the supplier production site (rank 1). Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 25 Contents ‐ In 2015, we saw a 10% increase in the number of closed CSR issues and the proportion of production sites without CSR problems increased from 39% to 46%.  First edition of the Suppliers CSR Forum held in June on the theme: “Let’s share our CSR commitments together to develop a responsible Supply Chain”. This event welcomed the main suppliers of Orange and BuyIn, as well as other JAC operators. In order to develop this approach further, a webinar was held in December with around twenty suppliers to identify the major problems found during audits and to exchange best practices to solve them.  Implementation of discussions with key suppliers to be aware of their 10 main production sites in order to reinforce transparency in relations. These discussions were followed by corrective action plans, including audits for certain sites. Contribute to the roll-out of 2014-2016 Multi-stakeholder dialogue: 5th forum held on 14 January Joint Audit Cooperation 2016 in Nanjing (China): discussion with industry players (JAC), particularly by (suppliers and subcontractors), NGOs (IPE, ICO), developing multiInstitutions (University of Nanjing, Global Compact), and stakeholder dialogue on other Telecoms Operators on the financial benefits of CSR the JAC Guidelines in and its essential role for sustainable and responsible order to improve their economic growth. meaning and content The debates between stakeholders have helped identify areas of entry for initiatives to be developed for more effective deployment of CSR in the production chain. Improve the traceability of 2014-2016  Inclusion in purchasing contracts (Orange and BuyIn) minerals originating in war for all equipment and products of a clause concerning zones for the products minerals originating in zones of conflict as defined in concerned section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold). Obligation for suppliers to indicate if one of these minerals is used in their products. If this is the case, the supplier must improve traceability of the source of the minerals and transparency amongst its own supply chain;  Integration of questions on resources used into onsite audits as part of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), improving traceability of the source of minerals and transparency within the supplier's supply chain. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 26 Contents Promoting human rights and freedom of expression Respect for human rights is applied at all levels within the company, with employees, suppliers and subcontractors. However companies in the telecommunications and internet sector are faced with new challenges, particularly freedom of expression and the protection of personal data. Orange ensures that these human rights are respected, particularly when using ICT. This is why we are involved within the sector dialogue group “Telecom Industry Dialogue” (TID), of which we are a founding member and co-writer of 10 main principles relating to freedom of expression and privacy in the ICT sector. These constitute a reference diagram for the development and implementation, within the Group, of policies and processes relating to freedom of expression and respect of privacy in the ICT sector. In line with these principles and in order to ensure transparency regarding follow-ups to government requests for customer data, Orange is committed to regularly publishing information on the number of government requests where allowed by local legislation. Objectives Deadline Strengthening the notion of 2015 2018  Deployment of the Industry Dialogue principles respect for human rights within all Group countries, in several forms within the Group and o Ad hoc presentations during CSR contact encouraging buy-in: meetings within Group divisions or subsidiaries  continue to apply the o Greater interaction to help finalise the Group 10 principles of Transparency Report (discussions with internal Industry Dialogue in departments involved in obtaining the necessary all countries where information, and implementing the definition of the Group operates indicators and reporting methods)  continue to evaluate o involvement of Group teams at all subsidiaries, if Group human rights government requests deviate outside of the law. related risk with a o active support of Group teams at subsidiaries to focus on high risk help them modify their processes if changes are countries. made to legislation (state of emergency, etc.)  providing awareness training to Orange  Impact studies employees potentially Updating of the study carried out in 2014 to measure facing negative the impact of human rights in different countries by impacts in an external firm, Verisk Maplecroft, including new collaboration with the 2015 parameters relating to the number of Orange EDH association customers, staff employed and the Orange geographic scope. Orange also participated in the specific assessment carried out by the organisation Ranking Digital Rights on protection of privacy and freedom of expression by telecommunications and content operators. The score we obtained places us amongst the best telecommunications operators.  Employee awareness Participation, within EDH (Companies for Human Rights, an organisation made up of 12 major French companies) in the preparation of specialised elearning: this e-learning was tested in 2015 and will be deployed in 2016. Pursuing and further 2015 2018  Transparency report Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 27 Contents developing activities and For 2015, for the 2nd time, Orange published a partnerships to promote report which summarises requests made by best practices in this field governments in terms of wire-tapping and requisition  Improve transparency (included in the CSR report available at in the majority of Orange.com) Group countries wherever local law  Participation in ID allows and Orange is a member of the Board of Industry governments do not Dialogue that meets every 3 months to discuss best publish information practice and deploy the 10 ID principles for the  Improve the sharing respect of human rights. The year was devoted to a of information and rapprochement with the Global Network Initiative best practices in this (GNI), a multi-stakeholder platform that includes field, particularly by internet operators, NGOs, academics and socially way of the Telecom responsible investors. Industry Dialogue (ID) In 2015  Examine the o Weekly telephone conferences possibility of bringing o Bimonthly participation in a working group on the the Telecom Industry sharing of best practices amongst Dialogue and internet telecommunications operators players closer o In-person meetings with the participation of together via the stakeholders (London, Stockholm, Boulogne) Global Network o Interaction with David Kaye, United Nations Initiative Special Rapporteur on freedom of opinion and expression to define the roles of business and government Our participation in these events and discussions helps provide us with the international means to resist the non-compliant demands made by certain governments  Promotion of best practices during other events: in France, the active participation of Orange, as corapporteur, in the CSR Platform (dependent on the Prime Minister), to develop a national French action plan to apply the United Nations’ guiding principles. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 28 Contents ORANGE IN SUPPORT OF SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Digital technologies are changing the world and contribute to societal development. They are so important that they can be considered a fundamental right. Experience shows how much digital technology, particularly in Africa, can speed up socio-economic and cultural development in a country. However at a global and local level, there are various sources of digital divides. Our role is to support digital talents and to develop local ecosystems by taking advantage of our local position. We would like to create shared value thanks to the source of innovation and employability that digital technology offers. Providing access to the largest number of people, deploying essential digital services adapted to each person’s needs, supporting entrepreneurship and open innovation, particularly as an enabler of social innovation: these are the three areas of our local development initiative. Combating digital divides Even now, there is inequality with digital technologies. Whether geographic, economic, physical or cultural, obstacles exist. As a responsible operator, Orange is committed to fighting against factors which cause exclusion through innovative solutions and investments. We work to ensure that the largest number of people can access services which are now essential in good conditions. COMBATING THE GEOGRAPHIC DIGITAL DIVIDE To combat the geographic digital divide, Orange has invested in extending fixed and mobile network coverage for many years. This commitment was underlined as part of the Essentials2020 strategic plan presented in March 2015, within which Orange committed to deploying 4G networks (mobile broadband) across 95% of its European perimeter and in the majority of AMEA countries, between now and 2018, whilst preparing for 5G. Objectives Deadline Progress  Continue to roll 2013-2015 Contribute to the electrical supply for remote areas, allowing out solar them to access digital technologies and reducing the digital depending on the divide. Various projects have been launched: local situation, in  Group solar sites: the total number is now more than the context of 2,600 sites (2,400 in 2014). These sites help extend the agreements for coverage of the mobile network at sites without an outsourcing base electrical supply which are difficult to access, but in a stations more environmentally-friendly manner: these sites  Improve represent an annual production of over 19GWh of solar broadband energy, allowing annual savings of nearly 34 million litres coverage in Africa of fuel and avoiding around 92,000 tonnes of CO2 by leveraging the emissions. Group’s network of submarine  Launch of the UNI-VERTs Forum with the incubator cables and CIPMEN in NIGER. CIPMEN, in collaboration with terrestrial GiMafoR Engineering and the Energies pour le Monde backbone foundation, wishes to create a framework for reflection Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 29 Contents network; and discussion called UNI-Verts, the main aim of which is to create a sustainable ecosystem which supports the renewable energies sector in Niger.  In November 2015, Orange and ENGIE signed a deal to expand rural electricity grid and optimise power supply to telecoms infrastructure in Africa. These solutions could, for instance, include individual solar kits and small-scale, local electricity networks. The service could then be billed via mobile using Orange Money. The trials will allow the companies to validate the technical solutions, the sales and distribution models, and the economic feasibility of the service before making it available on a larger scale.  Project to build solar farms conducted in Jordan which will help cover all electricity needs of Orange Jordan over time, reducing CO² emissions and controlling energy costs. The first farms will be built in 2016. Broadband service in Africa countries Through major investments in submarine cable networks, Orange underlines its commitment to increase access to the internet in nearly twenty countries where it operates in Africa, whilst continuing to improve the network quality:  commissioning of ACE cable in Benin and the Canary Islands in July 2015; launch of construction of the 2nd phase between Sao Tomé & Principe and Cape Town. At the end of 2015, nearly 12,000km of optical cable had already been deployed and helps link 18 countries: France, Portugal, the Canary Islands (Spain), Mauritania, Senegal, Gambia, Guinea, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon and Sao Tomé & Principe. Two countries without a coastal border, Mali and Niger, are connected with a land extension. Once phase II is complete, ACE will cover a total distance of 17,000km and will allow 25 countries to access broadband internet.  deployment of the SEA-ME-WE 5 (South East Asia-Middle East-Western Europe 5) submarine cable, commissioning is planned in the second half of 2016. 20,000km long, the SEA-ME-WE 5 cable will reinforce the Europe-Asia link by offering additional capabilities. It will link France to Singapore, serving 17 countries: Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Burma, Djibouti, Egypt, United Arab Emirates, France, Indonesia, Italy, Malaysia, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Turkey and Yemen. Deploy 4G in Europe: 2015-2020  In Europe:  France: 100% 3G o fixed high-speed networks (in fibre optic with FTTH) and 4G coverage are deployed in Spain, France, Slovakia and Poland. on high speed At the end of 2015, fibre has 1,882 million customers. train lines and the majority of o 4G networks are deployed in 8 European countries: motorways France, Poland, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg,  outside France: Moldova, Romania, Slovakia. At the end of 2015, 4G deploy 4G has nearly 18 million customers in Europe. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 30 Contents networks across 95% of the  In France: territory o deployment of 4G coverage on the Paris-Lyon highspeed TGV rail line; Orange continues to deploy 4G on other links, including the Paris-Lille high-speed TGV rail line planned for the start of July 2016. o coverage of 11 motorways in 3G+/4G (at 98% for some) o ARCEP, the French telecoms regulatory authority, ranks Orange as the best mobile network in France with 153 criteria out of 210 better than average.  Preparation for deploying 5G as part of French and European research projects and standardization bodies. Deploy 4G in 13 2015-2020  4G network deployed in 4 AMEA countries (Mauritius, Orange countries in the Botswana, Jordan and Morocco). AMEA region  3G/3G+ networks deployed in 19 African and Middle Eastern countries COMBATING THE PHYSICAL DIGITAL DIVIDE In the fight against the digital divide linked to disability or age, we have deployed a “design for all” strategy for many years. It specifically has the aim of adapting our products and services to the needs of these populations, and to design specific products combining innovation, simplicity and ergonomics. Objectives Deadline Progress Continue to develop offers 2014-2015 Products and offers and products to meet the  Marketing of the Claria Vox vocalisation solution, needs of disabled and and continuing to collaborate with the company elderly people, either Claria to provide our blind and partially sighted directly or in partnership customers with an accessible, simple and intuitive with start-ups as part of smartphone solution at the best price, enriched with open innovation specific functionalities (OCCR, colour recognition, etc.) Continue with training and  Development of an “Easy Smartphone for Seniors” digital technology solution which encourage use of tactile interfaces initiatives and major functionalities for Android smartphones for older people, this application will be tested in Developing access to Romania at the start of 2016. offers via digital technology  Catalogue of specific products (2 editions/year) with improvements to web available in France and Spain with 3 e-accessible catalogues and improved formats, in addition to hard copy and CD audio website access version for vision solutions.  Ongoing test for a tablet based home automation Reinforce dialogue with control solution using head movement recognition disabled players and voice control for quadriplegics  Experimentation in 2015/2016 in France of a home care solution with adapted sensors and data analysis which helps family carers to check on older people remotely and to help with their home care. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 31 Contents Training and coaching  In 2015 and 2016, continuation of training activities with an additional strand for calls from the elderly.  The site ”living well with digital” provides information on Orange initiatives which support accessibility; visits to the site have increased since its creation in July 2013 Distribution network  At the end of 2015: 280 “Independence” stores (with expert advisers trained in advising disabled people, adapted furniture, guiding audio terminal, audio induction loop...).  Commercial adapted smartphone promotions for older people.  95% of the Orange France own network store network is accessible to disabled people; work is planned to make the entire own network accessible. Dialogue with disabled and senior players: participation in major disability exhibitions to present independence and innovation offers, dialogue with associations and contribution to the work of the European Commission and standardization bodies. IMPROVING EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ACCESS TO EDUCATION, HEALTHCARE AND CULTURE To fight against factors for exclusion linked to education or culture, we offer awareness and equipment programmes in collaboration with local academic institutions, particularly through the Orange Foundation Objectives Deadline Progress Give young people and 2014-2016 Education is a strong point for all Orange areas of women the keys to the digital operation (internal, business, sponsorship). world through 4 major digital education programmes: the The Orange Foundation has been supporting projects that Solidarity FabLabs, Together encourage learning in all the countries where we are for youth integration, Digital present for many years. And of course we do this through Centres, Digital Schools; our own expertise: digital!  32 Solidarity FabLabs in 2015, in 9 countries (France, Spain, Poland, Slovakia, Tunisia, Egypt, Senegal, Madagascar, Mauritius); these FabLabs are innovative and free learning organisations to train and motivate young people in difficult situations or who have problems at school, preparing them for the roles of tomorrow.  8,000 young people trained in digital technology in France with Solidarity FabLabs and Together for the integration of young people programmes, in particular.  300 Digital Schools in 2015, in 8 countries, to offer Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 32 Contents children in small skills which do not have books or internet access with access to educational content; 40,000 students welcomed at end 2015.  8,000 women trained on digital technology in the 'Maisons Digitales' in France and Africa These Digital Centres aim to give independence back to women though digital training See the programmes and achievements of the Orange Foundation: http://www.fondationorange.com/nosprogrammes Continue the “Orange 2014-2016 Since 2012, the Villages programme links two areas for villages” project: providing action of the Orange Foundation: education and healthcare and education healthcare. Now there are 50 villages, across 9 different infrastructures (water source, countries, from Tunisia to Madagascar, plus Cameroon. In healthcare centre, school) total, nearly 250,000 people benefit from this programme. where essentials are lacking The Village programme aims to improve the daily life of its to allow young boys and girls inhabitants. Each project helps construct infrastructures to have a social life and a required to improve daily life: a healthcare centre, a water future source and a school. Helping people with autism to 2014-2016 Different initiatives: progress with digital,  Equipment of welcome spaces: the Orange supporting research. Foundation has equipped and supported over 300 structures in the use of digital tools  Partnership with CRA (autism resource centre)  creation of one professional exchange network for digital technology use: Digital Autism Network.  Launch of the 1st learning game aimed at carers of people with autism: virtual reality videos presenting real-life situations which can be problematic for people with autism and the people caring for them, and which provides answers. Support access to culture in 2014-2016  Launch of two new on-line training programmes on all its forms Picasso and Louis XIV. Hosted on the Solerni social learning platform, these MOOCs are self-learning journeys with seven stages that are free and open to all.  The Orange Foundation is the 1st sponsor to show operas directly in cinemas. Developing essential and innovative services ICTs can provide solutions in all areas, as long as users are provided with offers adapted to their situation. As part of its global development approach, Orange designs products and services which, in each field, are the best enabler of progress. We have identified several areas for commitment: women, agriculture, healthcare, education, financial services. . Objectives Deadline Developing solutions that 2014-2016 Agriculture in Africa: meet specific needs m-Agri services meet 3 goals:  continue to expand  improve the revenue of farmers (accessing updated Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 33 Contents and increase the prices for crop markets by SMS, USSD or voice density of m-Agri (Interactive Voice Server or call centre), saving and services paying safely via Orange Money,...),  roll out e-health  increase agricultural productivity (weather alerts, services professional directories, etc.).  m-Women: deploy at  reinforce the value chain (collecting and processing least 1 service pilot in field data for statistical purposes, logistical 2015 monitoring of vehicles...). In 2015, m-Agri was deployed in 2 new countries: in Senegal, the mLouma service, and in Egypt, 2 experiments led with the Government. In total, there are 11 services in 6 countries (Niger, Mali, Madagascar, Cote d'Ivoire, Senegal, Egypt) support by the NGO Agrisud to create a guide to provide small family agricultural producers in Africa with the resources and tools to professionalise the family agricultural business, in order to allow the farmer to make the right decisions at the right time, and thanks to adapted and relevant advice and use of ICT. This guide provides the tools required for those who wish to hold the role of adviser: project teams in the field, in Northern and Southern organisations, technical departments and producer organisations. e-Health, i.e. the use of mobile technologies (telephones, laptops, tablets, PDA...) to offer healthcare solutions, either for prevention, medical information or monitoring chronic illnesses. In AMEA, various initiatives have been launched, for example:  the “myhealthline” service: medical advice hotline which answers questions asked by SMS 24 hours a day, completely anonymously, which is very often used for questions about contraception  “myhealthline” is deployed in one country, Cameroon, and is currently being studied for deployment in Côte d’Ivoire and Guinea;  Côte d’Ivoire: partnership signed in December 2015 with UN AIDS to lead a project to fight against HIV Women The m-Women project covers several goals:  increasing access to digital technology to the largest possible number of women, who are currently less connected than men  deploying essential services for their specific needs, for their pregnancy, the health of their children, to avoid unnecessary travel and above all providing them with more security with Orange Money,  and supporting social innovation and female entrepreneurship, knowing that women reinvest 90% of their income into their community. Several services have been launched, for example:  Mali: commercialisation of the Sini Tonon offer, an offer including a savings system giving access to Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 34 Contents health insurance for expectant mothers (6,000 policies for rural users)  Senegal: agreement protocol signed with Sooretul (an e-commerce platform to link female producers and customers)  The Women’s Digital Entrepreneurship Prize, created in 2015 in Senegal Developing solutions for 2014-2016 Launch in France of an offer co-construction approach vulnerable people: in France, with players in the field (Action Tank Entreprises & test offers targeting people Pauvreté, a social landlord in Seine St Denis, Institut Miir, with low income in 9 towns in an insurance expert) to better address the needs of small the Seine Saint Denis populations and to make it easier for them to access Department adapted services by using digital enablers. The potential offer is based on “agile” home insurance which can be extended to other offers to help people to better manage their budget constraints. Supporting entrepreneurship The hyper-connected world allows expansion and collaboration with talents from all areas to be more inventive, effective and therefore more competitive. This dynamic has a name: Open Innovation. Orange uses it on a daily basis with leaders in the digital world, other operators, researchers, entrepreneurs, associations, NGOs, students, start-ups, etc. Thanks to these rich interactions with players in different fields, the ability to innovate can be increased, thus benefiting the largest number of people. This is why Orange is committed to identifying, supporting and promoting digital talents which will change the way that customers live their lives on a daily basis. Our aim is not just to connect our customers to what is essential to them, but also to contribute to the development of a new economy, to make it an enabler of local financial development and to encourage new ways of thinking about industry, agriculture, education, environmental protection... Objectives Deadline Progress Develop partnerships with 2014-2016 Orange endeavours to encourage synergies between players in the third sector players, by creating support and exchange ecosystems by economy and social distributing knowledge as part of open innovation. entrepreneurship and Orange has therefore implemented several organisations, support the development of including: new forms of  Orange Fab, an international network of start-up entrepreneurship accelerators: selected start-ups are offered a mentor  Launch an incubator and support over 3 months (e.g. provision of coand a Simplon school working spaces, training, expert advice, etc.) In some in AMEA countries, they can even benefit from a financial  Reinforce the grant of up to €15,000. partnership with La  Orange Partner and Orange Developer, where Ruche (third sector Orange allows developers across the world to produce distributor) access their networks and key services, providing 20 and support the program interfaces (API) for free, associated to a businesses it hosts support programme personalised to developers.  Incubators, created on a model of co-creation, linking the public sector, the private sector and the community, aiming to create and develop SMEs and Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 35 Contents start-ups. After the launch of 3 incubators in Senegal, Mauritius and Niger, 2 new incubators have been launched:  Legal constitution of the CREATEAM incubator in Mali for an official opening in Q1 2016  Legal constitution of the SABOUTECH incubator in Guinea for an official opening in Q1 2016 However the Simplon school project in Mali has been abandoned. In order to continue to expand the horizons of start-ups, Orange created an international alliance in September 2015, Go Ignite, along with Deutsche Telekom, Singtel and Telefonica. Start-ups with international ambitions can therefore access the resources and markets of these partners, representing a potential of over one billion customers, in addition to the local presence. Orange has also reinforced its partnership with La Ruche, created in 2008 and which was the first co-working space in Paris: after Paris and Bordeaux, launches of La Ruche Marseille and La Ruche Montreuil Orange also supports several companies hosted by La Ruche  HelloAsso: born in La Ruche, it continued to grow, then forged close links with Orange as part of a partnership to launch “Orange Collecte”, the first West Africa crowdfunding website with joint branding.  Partnership with the start-up Claria and HandiCaPZero. By using its expertise, Claria has created a solution to make it easier for people with visual difficulties to use technology. The association HandiCaPZero manages technical support to help the customer use Claria Vox. Orange has coordinated everything: the solution is now available in some “Independence” stores (for disabled people).  Double Sens : listed by Orange group Works Councils for their community travel offers for Group employees  Otosense: a technological and social company which has developed a telephone application for the hardof-hearing which issues sound alerts during emergencies. Also hosted at La Ruche, Otosense is now incubated at Cambridge and has just entered the prestigious Red Herring Top 100 list which celebrates the 100 best start-ups during the year. A technical and partnership collaboration is in place with Orange teams to integrate Otosense technology into Liveboxes to offer audio surveillance offers to Orange customers. Promote entrepreneurship 2015 A major Orange goal is to select and integrate start-ups through awards and into its ecosystem which are most likely to develop new competitions, support the services and products which simplify and enrich our daily best projects lives. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 36 Contents  Launch the 2015 edition of the Orange This is why Orange has hosted the Orange Social Prize for Social Entrepreneurship Prize in Africa since 2011. Entrepreneurship in In 2015, the prize experienced growing success: 17 Africa participating countries, 608 applications received (452 in  Launch the 2015 2014), 117,855 votes as part of the “coup de cœur” prize edition of the Prize for and 22,430 for the 2015 “coup de cœur” project. Social Since 2011, 21 projects have benefited from Orange’s Entrepreneurship in financial support and expertise, 15 out of 16 winners France selected by a jury of experts are still operating and continuing to develop their business. The major winners this year were the start-ups Bassita (Egypt), upOwa (Cameroon) and MyAgro (Mali), the “coup de cœur” prize going to Kezakoo (Morocco). Orange also launched the Social Entrepreneurship Academy contest in France in partnership with La Ruche and the INSEEC research and higher education group. The aim is to support the emergence of local solutions which encourage societal progress. The 8 projects selected from more than one hundred applications benefit from 9 months of support to test and launch their business. Beyond these initiatives, Orange is committed to supporting start-ups as part of structures put into place, like Orange Labs, Orange Fab, incubators, to allow them to develop and implement themselves sustainably. This includes Orange Digital Investment. This structure, created in 2016, combines all of Orange’s investment activity, for a sum of around €300 million:  Fund of funds such as Iris  Orange Digital Ventures, created at the start of 2015, which has a scope of €100M between now and 2020 to finance start-ups in any country with the most ground-breaking digital innovations, able to transform the customer experience thanks to innovative solutions, new technologies or new economic models (maximum amount invested per start-up is €3M). Since its creation, Orange Digital Ventures has already financed seven start-ups.  Corporate development, for example with the investment of €75M in Africa Internet Group In total, 151 start-ups have been supported by different Orange open innovation programmes. Furthermore, Sonatel, Orange’s Senegal subsidiary, participates in the Teranga Capital fund, the first venture capital fund in Senegal. The aim of Teranga Capital is to provide an innovative solution to respond to SME finance requirements, from €75,000 to €300,000. Teranga Capital has been incorporated and will start operations at the start of 2016. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 37 Contents ORANGE, A PLAYER IN ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION Digital technology, an enabler of transformation in all business sectors, also leads to increased use. In this context, Orange endeavours to reduce its own environmental footprint and to help other sectors to reduce theirs. In addition to the implementation of an Environmental Management System covering its entire geographic perimeter, Orange deploys ambitious solutions and action plans to support ecological and environmental transition in the fields of climate change, resource and waste management and the protection of biodiversity. This is why various company business lines are working to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions, to improve the disposal of our equipment and promote their recycling, and to research more eco-responsible solutions for our customers. An ambitious environmental policy Orange is voluntarily committed to reducing its environmental impacts by setting quantified objectives. To achieve them, it is necessary to organise all human and technical measures needed to implement appropriate action plans; this is called an “Environmental Management System” (EMS) which is in place and assessed with the assistance of ISO 14001. Since 2007 we have committed to expanding ISO 14001 certification whilst ensuring that we are transparent about the reality of our progress. Objectives Deadline Progress Enlarge the ISO 14001 2014-2016 Result at end of 2015: 50.47% certified scope across the Orange Group from 50% In 2015, all ISO 14001 certified Group organisations at end 2015 to 60% at end successfully underwent renewal or follow-up audits. 2016. Orange France has significantly extended its certified scope, which now covers 63% of its scope. The Olivier de Serres site which hosts the Group headquarters obtained its ISO 14001 certification in July 2015. The KPI measuring the size of the certified scope compared to all our activities increased by nearly 10% compared to 2014. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 38 Contents Controlling our own impacts In a context where usage is developing rapidly, and data traffic is continuing to increase, reducing electrical consumption is a real challenge for a telephone operator. This is why Orange has committed to do this for several years. Our action plan also affects our technical infrastructure, our buildings and our ways of travelling and ways of working. And we are going further, by making ourselves a player in energy transition. Voluntary and innovative action plans have been launched, and continue to be launched to reduce all sources of direct emissions: networks and information systems, buildings, vehicle fleet and business travel. In order to achieve this objective, Orange enshrined it during COP21: reducing its CO2 emissions by customer use by 50% by 2020 (compared with 2006). As a reminder, Orange set the target in 2008 of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% between 2006 and 2020, as an absolute figure. In order to better understand the consequences of a strong increase in the number of customers and the boom in ICT, the scope of which was not expected in 2006, Orange has implemented an indicator to monitor CO2 emissions per customer. Between 2006 and 2015, Orange reduced its CO² emissions by customer by 25%. Total emissions from scopes 1, 2 and 3 in 2015 was 1,461,742 tonnes of CO² Objectives Deadline Progress NETWORKS AND IT SYSTEMS Networks and IT systems represent nearly 74% of the Group’s CO2 emissions, and 72% of its consumption. A major energy action plan was launched in 2008 to reduce energy consumption linked to their use: Green ITN 2020 Green ITN 2020 2014 France: energy audits were carried out across 13 Programme 2016 major technical sites; areas for improvement were  Continue to deploy listed mainly for 55 air conditioning installations. enablers for energy  AMEA: continuing to deploy solar energy with over savings (Energy 2,600 sites (2,400 in 2014). A project to build solar metering, low farms has also taken place in Jordan which will help consumption cover all electricity needs of Orange Jordan over functionalities for time, reducing CO² emissions and controlling energy devices, etc.) costs. The first farms will be built in 2016.  Carry out studies into  AMEA: the proportion of sites shared with other and develop new operators reached 30% at end 2015. enablers of innovative o Increased cooperation with equipment suppliers energy savings and in order to develop and sell high-energy support the Group efficiency telecoms equipment by 2020: subsidiaries with their announced during COP21, increased joint implementation. developments between Orange and Huawei  Continuing to replace previous generation equipment with equipment that is more energy efficient. Low consumption functionalities are being progressively introduced for network equipment. The deployment of Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 39 Contents smart meters at technical sites has also been pursued with 2,500 new sites equipped in 2015, i.e. a total of 4,600 sites which will allow Orange to optimise its energy consumption.  Continuation of the very significant commitment within international standardisation bodies (ITU, ETSI and CENELEC) to establish standards supporting the energy transformation of telecoms and IT systems infrastructures: assessment of the energy efficiency of mobile networks (ETSI ES 203 228), 400VDC (ETSI EN 300132-3-1 & ITU-T L.1200), control and monitoring interface for equipment (ETSI EE ES 202 336) Data Centres: deploy the 2014-2016 Continued deployment of measuring devices in the Data energy consumption Centres (servers and other equipment) measurement / optimisation systems for equipment across Europe TERTIARY BUILDINGS Buildings represent nearly 19% of the Group’s CO2 emissions, and 21.5% of its consumption. To reduce this energy consumption, it must be measured. Analysis and use of measurement data helps speed up transformation of uses and processes, as well as a reduction in consumption Objectives Deadline Progress in France, 2014-2017  Continued measuring of the consumption of multiple  optimise the fluids in buildings to cover 110 of the biggest mixed and testing of technical tertiary sites (100 sites at end 2014) installations and  Automated detection and correction of defects at 97 sites reduce energy (66 sites at end 2014) consumption while  Implementation of recommendations arising from continuing with performance analysis by Diag Flah (approach helping other measures identify opportunities to improve energy management in a (smart meters, building) carried out on 161 buildings (representing remote meter 562,000m²) reading…)  put in place systems and methods to audit and monitor our maintenance and works service providers In other European 2014-2016 For all other countries in the Europe zone, finalising the countries, deploying deployment of energy consumption measurement tools for energy consumption office and IT equipment. In 2015, the setting up of optimisation measurement and programmes enabled a number of countries to reduce the optimisation tools for IT consumption of this equipment by 30 to 50%. equipment (office These savings were generated thanks to better control over equipment) in all tertiary equipment outside of working hours (on average, 40% of these buildings, and studying equipment were left switched on in the evenings and on the Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 40 Contents the possibility of weekends, this average has now been reduced to 25%). integrating other sources of consumption (air conditioning, lighting, etc.). TRANSPORT AND TRAVEL Travel represents nearly 7% of the Group’s CO2 emissions. Electric vehicles, limiting business travel, promoting collaborative and solidarity transport methods: Orange is exploring innovative technological and human solutions to reduce its emissions. Objectives Deadline Progress  Continue to 2014-2020  Fleet optimisation optimise the fleet o in 2015: increasing reliability of the car-sharing of company cars software before deployment; 300 vehicles equipped by introducing (100 at end 2014) sustainable travel systems (1,700  Electric fleet pooled vehicles by o Around only one hundred vehicles ordered due to the 2017) difficulty and cost of deploying recharging equipment.  Increase the fleet o Deployment of electric vehicle recharging equipment of electric vehicles in Orange buildings. (200 by end 2015, 105 sockets installed and operational at end 2015 around 600 electric or hybrid  Several entities have taken measures to limit the use of vehicles by 2017) individual cars (company transport, carpooling, car  Further encourage sharing, eco-driving training etc.). replacing the use of transport by Several solutions are available to staff in order to reduce using videobusiness travel (such as video-conference, conference calls, conference remote collaborative portals). Various telepresence rooms are facilities instead. available to employees in several countries. Helping our customers reduce their footprint Information and communication technologies (ICT) can play a key role in the fight against climate change with solutions to encourage remote working, paperless procedures and smart building, network and city management. objectives deadline Progress  Developing 2014-2018 Innovative solutions innovative “green” Since 2011, Orange works to develop solutions adapted to solutions, challenges of the smart city through its Smart Cities & particularly in the Territories programme. Its participation developments have fields of the various forms, from a partnership with a regional start-up to sustainable city and develop environmental sensors, to the evaluation of collected Smart Home, by urban data. bringing partners http://www.orange.com/fr/actualites/2015/Smartcities/CarteOrange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 41 Contents together; interactive A few examples  Continue in-house  Flux Vision: observing flows of movements in real time developments for every minute, the Flux Vision solution converts 4 million eco-designed pieces of mobile data. Performance which offers realservices time statistics on how often a geographic area is visited and the travel within it. The data that is collected is anonymised and aggregated, in order to help communities to better understand their habits and fellow citizens, and therefore to better assess the needs of inhabitants in terms of services and infrastructures.  “Ma ville dans ma poche”, a mobile application to facilitate the daily life of urban residents. Using 3G/4G networks it offers the user information about the infrastructure in his or her town In just a few seconds, it is possible to find out transport timetables in real time, to locate yourself on a map and to be guided to a point of interest, or to obtain visit advice depending on your profile  Streetline: in order to make it easier to manage available parking spots, Orange Business Services has joined up with the American company Streetline to offer a smart parking solution. By linking a mobile app with sensors which detect the presence of a car in a parking space, it is possible to guide drivers to the nearest free space. On top of this, it reduces the number of cars driving about and reduces CO2 emissions. Eco-design of services Eco-design for software: Launch at end 2015 of a Group IT Excellence programme to improve the efficiency of IT developments and their operation. Among the routes investigated was the eco-design of software with the objective of rolling out the theme across the Group in 2016/2017. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 42 Contents Optimise the useful life and recycling of equipment Telephones, boxes, cables, employee computers, networks... Various equipment is part of the activity of an operator like Orange. We optimise the use of this equipment in advance, during and after their use, in order to exploit all possibilities and to reduce the impact on our environment. This starts with eco-design, to think about and create sustainable equipment. This is followed by WEEE management, waste electrical and electronic equipment: recycling equipment which can still be used, such as mobile telephones, upgrading materials... Orange makes collection and recycling a key priority, at the heart of its strategy, in order to better take into account and process waste generated by the equipment that the Group designs, markets and operates in an optimal manner. WASTE ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT (WEEE) The issue of recycling WEEE is not just important from an environmental point of view they also contain raw materials which are sometimes rare: gold, gallium, germanium, etc. For Orange, the implementation of recycling approaches is both a regulatory obligation and voluntary approach. All Group subsidiaries are working on the topic, including in Africa and the Middle East, where recycling is less common. These efforts are part of a continuous improvement approach. Objectives Deadline Progress Optimise collection and 2015 France: extension of the working relationship with the ecotreatment for corporate body Ecologic. Obiane and EGT now also use this collective customers by improving arrangement. In total, 310 tonnes have been collected from collection processes in our corporate customers. all regions where Orange Business Internationally, continuing to deploy a collection service with Services has a prepaid packaging for equipment for customers, in Europe and significant presence North America. Continue with work to 2015-2017 The emergence of new, circular business models means improve waste developing recycling, with suitably adapted schemes in management in AMEA countries where formal structures for treating waste do not yet in collaboration with exist. subsidiaries and other The Group has launched several projects in AMEA, in external players. collaboration with external players:  Jordan: signature of a partnership with the Ministry of the Environment in early 2015  Senegal: setting up of e-waste collection at internal sites and points of sale  Niger: reinforcement of cooperation between Orange Niger and ONEN, workshop on the collection of waste from mobiles  Mali: contract put in place to manage network batteries  Madagascar: launch of a management project for obsolete materials and waste with a local specialised partner Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 43 Contents MOBILE COLLECTION, UPGRADING, RESALE AND RECYCLING Objectives Deadline Progress  Develop and 2015-2020  Development and promotion of eco-friendly buy-back and enhance local collection offers in all Europe zone countries. eco-friendly A few examples mobile collection o Romania: the buy-back offer has reached 31%, a or buy-back collection record for the Europe zone. programmes in o In Slovakia, the eco-friendly collection has reached a Europe; record rate of 17%.  Develop offers for  Second-hand mobile offers are developing in France, second hand Poland and Romania. mobiles in Europe Improve the rate of In 2015, the collection rate was 14%, i.e. 1.7 million mobiles collection of mobiles in collected. the distribution This is a 12% increase over 2014. channels that we control to an average of Total number of mobiles collected since 2010: over 8 million. 30% by 2020 in Europe Stimulate new 2014-2020 Mobile buy-back offers have been put into place in Jordan and collection initiatives in Mauritius. AMEA. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 44 Contents Preserving biodiversity and rare resources Because obtaining supplies of rare or critical resources is essential for the components of electronic devices, including those needed to develop communications technologies, Orange actively participates in improving the collective management of the planet's resources and is committed to those who work to protect biodiversity. objectives deadline Progress BIODIVERSITY  Continue the 2014-2017 Impact studies on biodiversity have been carried out. They biodiversity have focused on the deployment of eco-design to reduce impact study the use of resources in the processes. started in 2013 particularly as Partnership with CREA part of the circular  Signature of a 3-year partnership at the start of 2015 with economy the Centre de Recherches sur les Écosystèmes d’Altitude programme run de Chamonix (CREA Chamonix High Altitude by the MacArthur Ecosystems Research Centre). This partnership covers 3 Foundation and areas: conduct activities o A technological partnership: Orange is making its to diminish the high altitude antennas available to the CREA along Group's main with useful data gathering sensors (temperature, impacts in this etc.). This will help the CREA optimise the extent of area; its observation network. o A technical partnership: Orange provides the CREA  Roll out the with technical solutions enabling the implementation biodiversity of new protocols for observing, collecting and protection popularising scientific data. programme in o A human partnership: The men and women of partnership with Orange's technical teams maintain the copper, fibre, CREA on Mont 3G and 4G networks in the Alps on a daily basis. Blanc Orange employee volunteers will contribute in the field to the maintenance of the CREA's 60 climate  Carry out a study stations. At the same time other employees will be in one or two involved in the participatory science programme by countries for collecting data on flora (from locals for instance). specific initiatives: study of the Senegal / Niger: the study of the nature reserve crossing was nature reserve carried out but there were no specific or adaptable results. crossing project The Group is focused on a project to raise awareness of between Senegal climate change amongst the public, as part of objectives set and Niger with a during COP 21. fibre cable. RARE RESOURCES  Carry out the 2014-2017 Within the “rare resources committee” implemented by Orange business in 2014, the representatives of different Group business lines activities have participated in the study of metal criticality in the Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 45 Contents identified by the composition of main products. Recommendations have been Group made for the selection of WEEE processing service providers.  Continue to Different Orange laboratories, particularly the one in Grenoble, remain actively work on product parts lists, life cycle analyses and the involved in possibility of substituting one material with another. research and Orange actively participates in the work of the ITU regulatory bodies (International Telecommunication Union an specialised in this field United Nations institution for information and communication technologies) to develop standards for this field. Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 46 Contents Orange 78, rue Olivier de Serres 75015 Paris 33(0)1 44 44 22 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Department Public Limited Company (SA) with capital of €10,595,541,532 RCS Paris 380 129 866 2015 CSR Report Orange Corporate Social Responsibility / Achievements in 2015 47
