UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATIONS ON PROGRESS REPORT January 2016 Statement of support from the Directors We are proud to be a signatory to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, a member of the Global Compact Network Australia, and to reaffirm our continuing support for the initiative. Republic of Everyone exists to inspire businesses, brands and people to embrace a sustainable future. We’re part sustainability consultancy, part creative agency. Through our consulting we help embed sustainability into the heart of organisations, making doing good, good for business. Through our creativity we promote and engage society in the benefits of a sustainable world. As a business we are committed to creating positive social and environmental outcomes through the work we do, and by supporting our stakeholders in doing the same. This means upholding the highest socio-environmental standards as a business, working with businesses to achieve these standards too, and helping grow the reach and impact of the socio-environmental programs we work on. We’re also proud to say we became a certified B Corp, and also a member of the Shared Value Network here in Australia to promote sustainable business operations and programs. Below are some of our highlights from 2015. Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Everyone is entitled to basic human rights. Republic of Everyone: -­‐ supports the Universal Declaration on Human Rights -­‐ supports a number of non-governmental organisations working to advance human rights -­‐ is committed to maintaining and supporting the health and safety of all employees, contractors and visitors Since we started Republic of Everyone, we have supported a number of non-governmental organisations who are working to advance human rights (UNHCR, Amnesty International, and Asylum Seeker Resource Centre, to name a few). In 2015 we supported Action Aid and National Association of People with HIV Australia in promoting human rights both here in Australia and in other regions of the world. As a business we have embedded Human Rights education into team training and new team-member inductions. We only work with suppliers who uphold Human Rights principles and are also proud to help our business clients adhere to Human Rights standards across their supply chains via organisations like SEDEX. Outcomes: – Code of Conduct developed with a focus on conduct in the office and to the people we work with – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report Labour Principles PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We’re committed to keeping our team happy and ensuring they have a healthy working life. This includes adhering to the UN Global Compact’s Labour Principles in our employment practices, our OH&S policy, and our Health & Wellbeing policy – which includes: o flexible workplace policy o end of journey bicycle facilities and free bicycle servicing o free swimming pool pass o weekly free fresh fruit box In 2015 we supported non-governmental organisations working to advance and protect labour rights, including Australian Manufacturing Workers’ Union, United Voice (VIC), and Australian Services Union. We also worked with our business clients to promote diverse, inclusive and equitable workplaces via the development of new workplace company policies and programs, specific to each business. Outcomes: – Support for gender equality in the workplace, with 58% of full time employees are female – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report Environmental Principles PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Although we’re a small and mainly office-based team with a small environmental footprint, we’re dedicated to creating a sustainable future in how we act and the work we do. We have multiple initiatives to reduce, recycle and reuse, and we use sustainable materials across our operations. We are pleased to again be certified a carbon neutral company. We use 100% Green Power and have a Carbon Neutral Travel Policy. Beyond our own operations, we work with many businesses to reduce their own environmental impacts via policies and multi-stakeholder engagement programs. We also support environmental non-government organisations working to protect, enhance and regenerate nature and natural ecosystems, including MobileMuster, Nature Conservation Council NSW, and WWF’s Save the Reef campaign to protect the Great Barrier Reef. One of our primary projects is ‘202020 Vision’ with Horticulture Innovation Australia. Its mission is to increase urban green space in Australia by 20% by 2020. This project continues to grow in partners and impact (now over 300 partners). In 2015 we helped develop an Urban Forest Strategy, standardising the City of Melbourne’s Urban Forest Policy and helping implement it for Local Government Areas (LGAs) across the country. Over half of Australia’s LGAs have now attended our implementation workshops. Outcomes: – A certified carbon neutral company for the 5th year in a row – 50% of our staff cycle to work – No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report Anti-corruption Principles PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a B-Corp we’re driven by honesty and integrity. It goes without saying that we have a zero-tolerance policy to corruption, bribery and extortion. We also work with corporate clients to adhere to UN Global Compact’s anticorruption policies via the development of company wide leadership and governance policies. Outcomes: -­‐ Certified B-Corp -­‐ No investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to report
