Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Letter from the chairman …… 3 Letter from the CEO …… 7 Key figures of ATRESMEDIA …… 12 Highlights of the year …… 14 ATRESMEDIA …… 29 ATRESMEDIA Televisión …… 69 ATRESMEDIA Radio …… 98 ATRESMEDIA Publicidad …… 109 ATRESMEDIA Digital …… 126 ATRESMEDIA Diversificación …… 135 ATRESMEDIA Cine …… 142 Human resources …… 147 Society …… 167 The environment …… 189 Annexes …… 204 This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. on 24 February 2016. Point of contact for issues concerning the content and process of definition of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report: Atresmedia, Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº13, San Sebastián de los Reyes CP 28703 (Madrid) comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Tel: (+34) 91 623 05 00 / Fax: (+34) 91 654 92 04 José Creuheras Letter from the chairman I am coming to the end of my first year at the helm of Atresmedia with the satisfaction of having beaten the targets we set ourselves at the start of the year. The year has been intense and demanding professionally and full of responsibility, but exciting on a personal level. In 2015 I took up this challenge with determination and humility, and with the confidence of having the best team and the support of the Board of Directors. We are who we One year on, we are in a position to present some extraordinary are because results. over all these José Manuel Lara Bosch, our chairman until last year, said that years we have business success depends on finding the balance between shown ourselves management and innovation. This reflection, with its common to be the most sense, accurate vision and intuition, sums up the key elements capable of of the strategic approach taken by Atresmedia in recent years anticipating, and undoubtedly explains why we are the largest communication innovating group in this country. and, in short, Indeed, the fact that our position in the market is increasingly preparing strong is the result of our ability to adapt to the macroeconomic ourselves for environment, even during the worst moments of the crisis; change ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 4 the creation of new business areas which anticipate change; the constant improvement in our management processes; our innovative spirit and the work of a highly qualified team with which I am very happy. Therefore, 2015 is the result of great work by all of us who are part of this fantastic Organisation and this great work has not just been seen this year, but in all previous years as well. We are who we are because over all these years we have shown ourselves to be the most capable of anticipating, innovating and, in short, preparing ourselves for change. Our magnificent results are also the consequence of a leading, sustainable and profitable model, which has managed to combine commercial demands with audience recognition and is relevant and excellently valued by both viewers and listeners and by advertisers. At our Group, we do many things and we do them all well. Atresmedia Televisión has established its own way of understanding the business. People can no longer doubt that audience and prestige can go hand in hand and that this is not the reserve of public television. If to these attributes we add the enormous commercial appeal of our television offer to the brands, we are looking at a successful and unique formula in the industry. In mid-2015 Atresmedia Radio started a renewal process for its main station, Onda Cero, which will serve as a lever to allow it to continue growing and to reaffirm and update a leading model of radio that is close to its listeners, balanced, participatory and diverse. Being the most profitable radio group in the market for yet another year demonstrates the strength of our approach. Atresmedia Publicidad has ended the year as the largest seller of multimedia advertising in the Spanish market, with 19.3% of the total investment in media, and is considered the best valued TV advertising seller in terms of the quality of the commercial service. Atresmedia Diversificación continues to efficiently explore new sources of income and its contribution to Our magnificent the Group is growing. It is worth mentioning the extraordinary results are the expansion of our international channels, which now exceed 32 consequence million subscribers worldwide. Moreover, Atresmedia Digital of a leading, has closed 2015 as the Internet's leading audiovisual group, a sustainable huge milestone, and Atresmedia Cine has managed to capture and profitable a third of the box office takings for Spanish cinema with its six model, which releases, adding to this success the highest public awards and has managed recognitions. to combine Everyone at Atresmedia knows that our leadership, the leading commercial position we have achieved over recent years, in all the business demands areas in which we operate, goes far beyond simple audience with audience or financial figures. It also lies in our ability to set the agenda, recognition to generate the debates that matter and the conversations in and is relevant the street, and to set the pace. 7d: el debate decisivo is a clear and excellently example of what we are capable of doing as a Group and of the valued by both position of opinion leaders that we have achieved in society. On that night we set an unprecedented television milestone, we viewers and were heavily involved in a unique event with an audience share listeners and by of 48.2% and 9,233,000 viewers, and we took a step forward advertisers ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 5 in our position as a leading news organisation. Every day at Atresmedia we build the story that unites society, a society that is increasingly diverse and that is reflected, like nowhere else, in the commitment to diversity made by our Group. 2015 has also been a year of big celebrations. The commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Antena 3 and Onda Cero, two of the main brands of our Group, is joined by the birthdays of our longest running DTT channels, Neox and Nova, which celebrated more than a decade of success with their second best annual figures. Fundación Atresmedia also celebrated ten years committed to society, education and children. In terms of our competitive environment, after years of instability and uncertainty, a direct consequence of legal and administrative decisions which seriously damaged Atresmedia Televisión (breaking the balance with our major competitor), at the close of 2015 we seem to be entering a new era of greater certainty that should lead to more security for our business. With the negative consequences of those decisions having been limited, we are looking to the future with two new channels, MEGA and Atreseries, whose success has demonstrated our ability to generate brands and, above all, to meet the demands of the viewers. Likewise, the arrival of new operators in the market, as a result of the latest competition for free-to-air TV channels, creates a panorama that should not affect our position. However, the The leadership profound process of change in the industrial model, where the of our company content is as important as its form of distribution, also linked also lies in our to technological developments and, especially, to the constant ability to set changes in the pattern of behaviour in society, requires us to be alert to the entry and evolution of the new players in the the agenda, to audiovisual sector. Our clear and firm commitment to multigenerate the platform communication, focused on the profitable management debates that of content brands, protects us but does not mean that we can matter and the stop reinventing ourselves every day in order to remain in our conversations in current position. the street, and to set the pace. At Atresmedia we are aware that our privileged position in 7d: el debate the market carries with it a responsibility to society. With our multi-platform offer we reach almost 30 million people each decisivo is a day, and thanks to this effort we have a great ability to raise clear example their awareness and mobilise them. For years, Atresmedia's of what we commitment has been to use that potential to positively are capable transform the environment in which the business operates and to of doing as a enhance peoples' well-being. Group and of the position of Through the campaigns that make up Compromiso Atresmedia, opinion leaders in 2015 we have continued to promote new initiatives to reduce the number of road accidents, promote scientific research in our that we have country, protect intellectual property and culture, respect the achieved in environment and encourage healthy lifestyle habits among the society public. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 6 Among the achievements of our initiatives I would like to highlight the approval by the Congress of Deputies of the motion from Ponle Freno for the Government to make road education a mandatory subject in schools, as well as the creation of the State Research Agency driven by Constantes y Vitales and the gold medal awarded to Crea Cultura by Federación de la Propiedad Intelectual (Intellectual Property Federation). In 2015 we have added another concern to these commitments: fighting against gender-based violence, one of the biggest problems in our society. We have also continued to support the work of other non-profit organisations by donating more than €200,000 to their causes and broadcasting their awareness-raising campaigns free of charge, with an equivalent value of more than €6 million. We are aware that the success of Atresmedia depends on its professionals, and to ensure their satisfaction and well-being, in 2015 we have committed to strengthening their training and extending the measures to allow them to enhance their work-life balance. I do not want to waste this opportunity to thank all of the Group's professionals who have enthusiastically taken part in the Corporate Volunteering Programme by donating more than 2,100 hours of their time in 2015 to help out at soup kitchens, accompany the elderly and engage in fun activities with the disabled. All of these commitments have been firmly and wholeheartedly ratified in the new general corporate responsibility policy Through the produced by the Company in response to the new campaigns recommendations in the Good Governance Code from the that make up CNMW (National Securities Market Commission) in this matter. Compromiso This new policy reflects the values that guide the corporate Atresmedia, in responsibility strategy and the cross-cutting nature and solid position that this is acquiring within the Company. 2015 we have continued to Although there is still some way to go I would like to highlight promote new the awards we have received this year on our path to becoming initiatives to a sustainable and responsible company, with Randstad naming reduce the Atresmedia as the most attractive communication company to number of work for, and the “Best Improver Spain” recognition from the road accidents, CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) for Atresmedia's progress in its promote commitment to climate change. scientific 2015 has undoubtedly been a magnificent year, and we close research in our it with the belief that we have done a great job. All of our country, protect business areas have shown that they are capable of dealing intellectual with the challenges we have faced and they have overcome property and these through hard work and talent. We face the future with the culture, respect certainty that we are ready for any challenge; but also with the the environment confidence that our Group, more than any other, is capable of and encourage taking advantage of the many opportunities that lie ahead. healthy lifestyle habits among the public Silvio González Letter from the CEO 2015 has been another good year for Atresmedia. Helped by the economic upturn and despite the challenges that we are In the most constantly facing, once again this year we demonstrated the difficult times strength of our position in the market, the power of our way of we rightly laid understanding the business and our ability to generate value. In the most difficult times we rightly laid some strong foundations some strong that are allowing us, now that the recovery is in evidence, to foundations boost our growth and face the future with optimism. that are allowing us, We have a product that is both recognised and recognisable now that the thanks to its quality and attributes, one that is commercially recovery is attractive and scarce because very few are in a position to offer in evidence, the market a multi-format product that is this broad, powerful to boost our and comprehensive. All of this is part of a global plan based on diversity as a differentiating value, a plan that makes our Group growth and face unique in the sector. This strategic vision is possibly one of the the future with greatest legacies left to us by José Manuel Lara Bosch. optimism ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 8 The success of the merger between Antena 3 and laSexta is undeniable and has shown that our decision was the correct one. The channel has integrated perfectly into our model and has made us better than ever. This can be seen from the response of the industry and audiences, as well as from the profitability ratios. Our Group, in its commitment to diversity, is the one that best reflects what is actually happening in Spanish society. We understand the importance of our role in the system of checks and balances necessary for democratic life. We know that the better and more diverse the information received by the public, the better founded will be their decisions. In times such as those that we are experiencing now, this certainty only becomes stronger. The facts demonstrate that we are right: 2015 was the year in which Atresmedia established itself as the leading source of news for the Spanish people, who turned to us to learn about the major news and election events. 7d: el debate decisivo, broadcast simultaneously by Antena 3 and its international signal, laSexta, Onda Cero and streamed live through Atresplayer, attracted almost 10 million viewers and 48% of the audience. It was the culmination of this strategic focus on diversity and a group initiative of which we can feel very proud. The advertising market has been positive for the second year running, underlining the fact that we are clearly on the path to recovery. As a result of the strong performance of all our business areas and our effective commercial policy, among other factors, the Atresmedia group has managed to take advantage of this improved advertising investment and has increased its net revenue by 9.8%, higher than the overall market growth rate, to stand at €970.2 million. With a management model that seeks efficiency and maximum profitability, the Company's gross operating profit stood at €165.7 million, achieving a sales margin of 17.1%; and the net profit was €99.2 million, double (+112.4%) that achieved in 2014. The success By business area, Atresmedia Televisión has again improved of the merger its position, both qualitatively and quantitatively, which has between led to an increase in net income of 9.2% compared to 2014. Antena 3 and It is important to highlight the excellent work of Atresmedia laSexta is Publicidad in the sale of our advertising spaces. With a customer-oriented approach and following the principles of undeniable and innovation, efficiency and profitability, it has positioned itself as has shown that the largest seller of multimedia advertising space in the Spanish our decision market, with a 19.3% share of the total investment in conventional was the media, and the highest rated in the sector in terms of the quality correct one. of the commercial service. The channel has integrated In 2015, Atresmedia Televisión had an average audience share perfectly into of 26.8% and this figure rose to 27.7% during prime time, the slot with the most viewers, which allowed it to achieve a share our model and of 42.1% of the total investment in television, showing significant has made us annual growth (+0.6%). better than ever ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 9 Antena 3 (91%) and laSexta (56%) were again the channels with the greatest success rates for their new releases, most of them during prime time, the time slot with the higher consumption, where together the two channels were the most viewed in 2015, with 21.9%. This leadership was also extended to the commercial target (24.3%), that most demanded by the advertisers. Antena 3, moreover, was again the leading channel during prime time in the commercial target with 14.9%, and was absolute leader during the afternoon (12.4%) and at weekends (13%). laSexta has continued to grow every month since the merger and achieved its best year so far with a 7.4% audience share, establishing itself as the country's third private channel. It also obtained its best ever prime time figure: 8.5%, which is 2.1% more than its direct competitor. As I have already mentioned, in 2015 Atresmedia Televisión also added two new channels and did so successfully. These are MEGA, which became the themed channel with the strongest start in the history of DTT, with 2.1%, and Atreseries, which is achieving excellent audience figures despite not having complete coverage as the penetration of HD television is still insufficient. These channels are in addition to established brands like Neox and Nova, which have equalled their second best annual figures with 2.6% and 2.4% respectively. 2015 has also been a good year for Atresmedia Radio. Suffice it to say that our Radio Division has had a historic year with its second best profitability rate, obtaining an EBITDA margin of 24.3%. This figure was produced in the context of the renovation of Onda Cero's morning slot. These events have again tested our ability to tackle challenges and, as we have done before, resolve them successfully. If Onda Cero has demonstrated anything during its 25 years, which it has been celebrating recently, it is its strength as a brand and its great ability to overcome problems and continue to grow. Supported by the strength of the Group, taking advantage of the inexhaustible pool of talent that is our Radio product and with the confidence of having the best professionals in the sector, I am convinced that the transition process, which is always the result of any change, will lead, sooner rather than later, to a new momentum and the meeting of the ambitious targets we have set ourselves. In 2015, the channels Atresmedia Radio, Onda Cero, Melodía FM and Europa FM together achieved an average audience of almost five million listeners. As a result of these impressive Atresmedia figures, its position as an opinion leader for listeners and its Radio has good commercial strategy, the Division's net income grew above had a historic the market rate to stand at €89.9 million, representing growth year with its of 10.6%. The gross operating profit amounted to €21.8 million second best (+24.2%), compared to €17.6 million in 2014. profitability The world of multimedia, which I have already mentioned, is rate, obtaining a clear focus for the Group and forms part of our DNA. For a an EBITDA long time now we have seen the reward for this commitment in margin of 24.3% ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 10 our results. The Atresmedia Digital figures led to us closing the The world of year as the Internet's leading audiovisual group, a trend that has multimedia, been confirmed during the first few months of 2016. Atresmedia which I have closed 2015 with more than 10.6 million unique users in already December, according to the figures from comScore. In addition, mentioned, is a with the launch of Flooxer, the new on-line platform for high clear focus for quality short videos, we have taken another step in the group's multi-platform strategy. the Group and forms part of Two years ago we decided to launch the Diversificación Division, our DNA a new business area designed to seek alternative sources of income away from our traditional business, therefore leaving us less exposed to downward cycles in the advertising market. Over these two years, thanks to hard work and a lot of creativity, the Diversificación team has managed to make the most of our licensed products and we have taken a very important step in our internationalisation strategy: through the channels Antena 3, Atreseries and ¡HOLA! TV, we are the European commercial operator with the most subscribed households (32 million) outside our borders. It is also worth mentioning that Atresmedia has managed to secure a very strong position in the Spanish entrepreneurial ecosystem, participating in ten high potential start-ups through the media for equity model. Another of the areas that has experienced most growth is Atresmedia Cine. The Group's Film Division has stood out notably with six productions that represented 29.5% of the total box office takings for Spanish cinema in 2015. Our mission in this business area is clear: to execute, with the utmost efficiency and profitability, the obligation that the Government has imposed on us to invest in Spanish cinema, producing top quality content as a way of attracting audiences. In 2015 we At Atresmedia we have been aware for years that as well as generating value for our shareholders, we also have a duty have set an and responsibility to generate value for society and contribute important positively to its progress. Compromiso Atresmedia is the milestone in our result of this strong conviction and brings together all of the international company's Corporate Responsibility initiatives, among which are strategy: our most famous initiatives such as Ponle Freno, HAZTE ECO, through the Objetivo Bienestar, Crea Cultura and Constantes y Vitales, but channels also the activities of Fundación Atresmedia and the Corporate Antena 3, Volunteering Programme in which our employees take part. Atreseries In 2015 Atresmedia joined the Red de Empresas por una and ¡HOLA! Sociedad Libre de Violencia de Género (Network of Companies TV, we are for a Society Free from Domestic Violence. As part of this the European commitment, together with the Mutua Madrileña Foundation, commercial Antena 3 Noticias launched the Tolerancia Cero initiative to help operator with educate about this serious problem in our society, encourage its the most reporting and raise awareness about it. subscribed Ponle Freno, Constantes y Vitales and Crea Cultura have also households (32 continued recording achievements that represent significant million) outside advances for road safety, scientific research and the protection our borders ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 11 of intellectual property, respectively. Among these I would like to At Atresmedia highlight the approval by the Congress of Deputies of the motion we have been from Ponle Freno for the Government to make road education aware for years a mandatory subject in schools, as well as the creation of the that as well State Research Agency demanded by Constantes y Vitales and as generating the gold medal awarded to Crea Cultura by Federación de la value for our Propiedad Intelectual (Intellectual Property Federation). shareholders, However, 2015 also saw the tenth anniversary of Fundación we also have Atresmedia. Ten years promoting projects that ensure the wella duty and being of children, that encourage educational improvement responsibility to and normalise disability, and that have benefited from the full generate value communication potential of our media organisations and the for society support of our professionals. and contribute positively to These achievements, together with the greater accessibility of our content and platforms, the increase in the factual its progress. offering, the measures to enhance the work-life balance of our Compromiso professionals and the advances made in complying with the Atresmedia Global Compact, reflect the strong commitment of Atresmedia is the result to sustainability. Although we are aware that there is some way of this strong to go, we will continue promoting dialogue with our stakeholders conviction and participating in the major multi-stakeholder corporate responsibility forums in the sector to further integrate CR into the culture of our organization and promote positive change in the society. We are therefore looking at a year that can only be described as excellent for Atresmedia. We close 2015 with the satisfaction of having met the objectives set. Our Group continues to set the pace in the sector with attributes and values that are a benchmark for a society that appreciates what we do and who we are. 2016 will bring new challenges, new goals that will once again test us, but I am convinced that with the Group's hard work, enthusiasm and spirit of innovation and improvement, we will face these and overcome them. Key figures of ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | KEY FIGURES | 13 The following table shows, by way of an executive summary, the main results of Atresmedia grouped into three areas: economic, social and environmental. Economic dimension 2013 2014 2015 Total net income (millions of €) 829.8 883.2 970.2 Gross operating profit (millions of €) 80.2 127.7 165.7 Net profit (millions of €) 46.1 46.8 99.2 Distributed economic value (millions of €) 585.9 635.3 707.1 Financial support received from Public Administrations (millions of €) 1.0 7.4 6.4 Ratio of advertising efficiency (adults) 1.52 1.51 1.54 Ratio of advertising efficiency (individuals) 1.49 1.55 1.58 Number of advertisers 16,877 16,077 16,124 Number of suppliers of goods and services 1,040 1,088 1,164 Number of producers 17 22 30 Average audience share of Atresmedia (%) 28.8 27.7 26.8 Average audience share of Antena 3 Televisión (%) 13.4 13.6 13.4 Average audience share of laSexta (%) 6.0 7.2 7.4 Average audience share of Neox (%) 2.3 2.6 2.6 Average audience share of Nova (%) 2.1 2.5 2.4 Average audience share of MEGA* (%) 0.94 Average audience share of Atreseries** (%) 0.01 Number of listeners of Onda Cero 2,598,000 2,650,000 2,368,000 Number of listeners of Europa FM 2,045,000 2,078,000 1,954,000 Number of unique users of Atresmedia websites (million) 12.0 17.0 22.1 * MEGA has been operating since 1 July 2015. Its average audience share in the second half of the year was 1.95%. ** Atreseries has been operating since 22 December 2015. Social dimension 2013 2014 2015 Hours of children’s programming broadcast 2,347 1,690 1,696 Cumulative hours of subtitling 35,881 27,537 26,055 Number of employees 1,829 1,806 1,917 % of women in the workforce 48.1 49.9 49.5 Investment in training (€) 372,487 348,661 406,055 Hours of training per employee 19 22 26 Hours of corporate volunteering donated to the community 1,429 1,772 2,102 Foundation income contributed by Atresmedia (€) 300,000 300,000 500,000 Donations to NGOs through Atresmedia programmes 656,354 171,809 206,726 Complaints under the Self-regulation Code 0 8 0 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on TV for NLEs** (€) 5,542,630 3,044,000 3,478,976 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on radio for NLEs** (€) 4,697,455 3,494,228 2,543,913 * Non-lucrative Entities (NLEs). Environmental dimension 2013 2014 2015 Consumption of white paper (kg) 26,908 26,844 27,566 Consumption of printer toner and cartridges (kg) 563 534 522 Consumption of fluorescent lights (units) 1,635 976 1,725 Solid urban waste (tonnes) 314 308 305 Gas consumption (m3) 12,517 15,308 13,646 Consumption of heating oil (litres) 458,148 469,696 489,032 Electricity consumption (kWh) 28,276,898 27,399,791 29,276,341 Water consumption (m3) 44,297 56,863 53,755 Direct GHG emissions (equivalent tonnes of CO2 ) 1,465 1,505 1,562 Environmental investment (€) 14,363 89,490 111,481 Highlights of the year Atresmedia Televisión strengthens its television model in a year in which it has made history Atresmedia Televisión has strengthened its model in 2015. Antena 3 (91%) and laSexta (56%) are the channels that enjoyed the biggest successes over the year, a figure that is reflected in the consolidation of the model that is supported by plurality, innovation and quality. The TV division of the Group has obtained 26.8% audience share in 2015, figure that increases up to 27.7% in prime time. In the slot with the highest audience, the programming of its two main channels, Antena 3 and laSexta, enjoyed the best viewing figures (21.9%). These figures have enabled them to achieve a market share in television of 42.1%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 15 According to the Personality Media study, the professionals of Atresmedia Televisión are the most valued of the audio-visual panorama. Jordi Évole, Sandra Sabatés, Arturo Valls, Karlos Arguiñano, Matías Prats, Dani Mateo and Ana Pastor heads the ranking. Furthermore, Antena 3 and laSexta are the most viewed private channels by professionals of the advertising sector and are perceived as the most innovative by the advertising market according to the Best Spanish Drama of 2015 at the the mediaScope research of SCOPEN. Festival de Luchon, and Megan Montaner and El objetivo won two Zapping In addition to this acknowledgement Awards in 2015. These are just some by the audience and advertisers, there of the acknowledgements received by were also numerous awards won by the professionals and programmes of Atresmedia Televisión in 2015. Ondas Atresmedia Televisión. Awards for Tu cara me suena and Vis a vis. FesTVal Critics Award to Allí abajo Atresmedia Televisión was the leader and Al rojo vivo: Especial Elecciones. in information, changing the way of laSexta Noticias 14H, Matías Prats, Jordi holding debates following the success of Évole, the script writers of El intermedio, the historic 7d: el debate decisivo, and Wyoming, El intermedio won awards was the preferred option for the major from the Television Academy. laSexta events of the year (general elections, Columna won the Concha García Campoy main electoral engagements, or the Paris Award. Sin identidad was considered terrorist attacks). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 16 7d: el debate decisivo was an informative Antena 3 was once again the leading event with no precedents and also a channel in the commercial target unique program in terms of audience timeslot with an audience of almost 15% shares: it has been the most viewed (14.9%), 1.1 points above Telecinco and electoral debate in a TV group, with with growth of 0.8 over 2014. It was the 48.2% audience share and 9,233,000 outright leader in the afternoon (12.4%) viewers. The debate was also followed by and weekends (13.0%), and the preferred 300,000 persons through Atresplayer, option among men and viewers from 45 both in the website and in the apps to 54 years of age (14.6%). It remains the (tablets and smartphones). This is the favourite of the upper and upper-middle live program most viewed ever, even class. above Formula 1 and Champions League matches. In 2015 Antena 3 Noticias enjoyed its best year since 2010. Antena 3 Noticias 1 Moreover, in Twitter, this event was the was the news leader in the afternoon most commented TV program, with 2.5 timeslot, both from Monday to Friday million twitts, more than 300,000 unique (14.5%) as well as Monday to Sunday writers that generated an average of (14.7%) and weekends (15%). 12,500 comments per minute. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 17 Allí abajo and Mar de plástico burst Espejo público reached 16.8% and onto the scene in 2015 as the two best enjoyed its third most viewed year debuts of national drama in the last 10 (475,000 followers). This year it has years. Together with Bajo sospecha, Vis a achieved its best ever broadcasts. vis and Velvet they account for the best drama of the year. Once again, La ruleta de la suerte continues its unbeatable form with 17.1% Tu cara me suena revolutionised Friday and more than one million followers. nights and became the most watched and the outright leader with 22.3% and Amar es para siempre record its best 3,220,000 viewers, figures that equal its year with 14.5% and close to 1.7 million best season. viewers, while El secreto de Puente Viejo is the most watched evening series, with El hormiguero 3.0 enjoyed its best year 18% more and 1.8 million followers ever, beating its historic annual maximum and for the first time spearheading its Since the month of September, Antena 3 timeslot with a 2015 average of 14.4% and broadcasts the Champions League, the more than 2.7 million (+1.2 points versus most popular sports championship, 2014). followed by more than 5 million viewers (26.9%). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 18 laSexta closes 2015 with the best and was up 3.3 points on 2013, its audience share of its history, 7.4% (+0.2 inaugural year. points vs 2014), increases the distance with its main competitor, Cuatro, and Al rojo vivo once again beat its viewing consolidates its position as the third record with 700,000 viewers (11.7%). It private channel of the Spanish market. is the leader political talk show of the television offer, and the one with the Since the merger, it continues to grow highest growth vs. 2014 (+1.6 points). every month. El intermedio beat records both with the laSexta Noticias once again enjoyed number of viewers (2,334,000) as well the best year on record with growth of as in share (12.4%), and was the most 0.4 points over 2014. It had an average viewed daily program of the channel. of 10.3% and 1,097,000 viewers, easily beating the figures of Cuatro (7.9% and Salvados was once again one of the 842,000). references of the channel. It continued to be the most viewed programme on All the editions of laSexta Noticias laSexta and is the undisputed leader of reached in 2015 historic levels, beating its timeslot with 14.3% and almost 2.9 the figures of their main competitor. million followers on average. In 2015, the program with the highest audience ever, laSexta noche (10.6% and 1,200,000) was broadcast: “Albert y Pablo: cara a finalised the year as the leading current cara” (5,214,000 spectators and 25.2% affairs programme on Saturday night audience share). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 19 El taquillazo of laSexta improved positions (8% share) and consolidates as the cinema brand of the channel. El objetivo de Ana Pastor also increased its annual historic audience share (9.2%), completes the Group’s entertainment with more than 1.7 million viewers. offer (0.8% audience share in March 2016). Más vale tarde reached its annual historic Neox finalised the year with 2.6% and maximum, 7.1% and more than 700,000 equals its second-best annual figure. In followers on average in 2015, and is commercial target the channel continues currently the most viewed programme in to grow and has become one of the the evening slot. preferred channels on achieving its best ever year, with 3.8%. Zapeando also enjoyed its best year with 7% and more than 860,000 followers. Nova also had its second best-ever year with 2.4%, something that was matched Jugones had its best ever year with a by its commercial target (2.4%). share of 5.2% (+0.6 versus 2014) and more than 650,000 viewers. There have been several major anniversaries during 2015: 25 years of Two new channels have been Antena 3, and 10 of Neox and Nova. To incorporated into Atresmedia in 2015: commemorate these, the three channels MEGA, which accounted for the best broadcast special programmes and — ever TV launch of a themed channel in the case of Antena 3— there was a (2.1%) and in December, the Atreseries huge institutional party presided by the broadcast began, an HD channel that reigning Monarchs of Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 20 Atresmedia Radio renews itself to keep growing In 2015, Onda Cero renewed itself to Income of Atresmedia Radio (+10.6%) continue growing. The recruitment in was above market growth (+8.1%) due April of Carlos Alsina and Juan Ramón to an attractive programming and an Lucas to the new morning show Más de efficient commercial policy. uno, and the presence of David del Cura on the night-time news programme, The joint figures of Onda Cero, Melodía La brújula, in replacement of Alsina, FM and Europa FM achieved almost five reaffirms the model of a varied, close at million followers. Two and a half million hand and participatory radio that defines correspond to Onda Cero. Onda Cero. Onda Cero continues to be the leading Onda Cero celebrated its 25th station with regard to listening minutes anniversary with a renewed commitment per listener, with 153 minutes, ahead of that looks to the future. Ser, Cope and RNE. Atresmedia Radio rounded off a historic 2015: its second-best year in terms of profit with an Ebitda Margin of 24.3%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 21 Más de uno, the new morning Noticias Mediodía, with Elena Gijón, programme of Onda Cero directed closed the year with almost 300,000 and presented by Carlos Alsina and listeners, the second most listened to Juan Ramón Lucas, achieved 1,266,000 news programme on Spanish radio during listeners in the last General Media Study that timeslot. (EGM) of 2015. Sports, magnificently represented by Al Carlos Alsina won an Ondas Award for primer toque, with Héctor Fernández, the Best Radio Presenter. and Radioestadio, with Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada, play a prominent Julia en la onda, with an average of role in Onda Cero, specifically in the early 500,000 listeners in 2015, is the second morning program and on weekends. most listened to programme in the afternoons. Europa FM accounted for almost two million listeners. La brújula, directed by David del Cura, posted almost half a million followers, In just five years, Levántate y Cárdenas while Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel has managed to reach almost 1,100,000 Gemio at the helm, enjoys figures of listeners. around one million listeners on the Saturday show. Melodía FM reached 230,000 listeners, gradually increasing the audience with a far more contemporary offer. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 22 the edia, at , C E O of Atresm mmit 2015. onzález S u Silvio G Business ment & Manage Customer focus, innovation, efficacy and profitability, the fundamental focal points of Atresmedia Publicidad Atresmedia Publicidad is the largest ‘wake-up pieces’ that are intelligently sales house of multimedia advertising on modelled throughout the advertising the Spanish market, with a share of 19.3% block. of the total investment in conventional media. Atresmedia Publicidad and Tres14 Research compiled the ROI-MAP which Atresmedia Publicidad is the top-ranked shows that TV needs to form part of all TV advertising seller in terms of quality planning to generate awareness. of commercial service, compliance with agreements and advertising efficiency, In 2015 Atresmedia Eventos organised according to the results of the SCOPEN the Management & Business Summit, mediaScope study. the first major gathering of worldwide executives and leaders such as Ram Atresmedia Publicidad was chosen Charam, Jose Manuel Durao Barroso or by Yahoo! to market its wide range Bill Richardson among others. of Premium display offers, native advertising and segmented advertising Madrid Premiere Week, organised by in Spain. Atresmedia Eventos, featured a weeklong series of premieres, masterclasses, With Be Neuro, Be Effectiv, Atresmedia conferences and screening of short films. improves the advertising efficiency with ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 23 Atresmedia close 2015 as the leading audio-visual group on Internet The set of Atresmedia websites has its highest level in March with over five reached 22 million unique monthly users, million users. 21% up on the previous year, closing the year as the leader communication group The online video platform Atresplayer in Internet. has managed to exceed five million users per month during 2015, 22% more than In November 2015, Atresmedia Digital the previous year. launched Flooxer, the showcase for digital talent, a platform of creators The introduction of Atresmedia contents with most talent and projection, which on the international stage has led in January 2016 consolidated its success Atresplayer to multiply subscriptions exceeding the December figures by +81%, fivefold. and it has managed to attract more than 770,000 unique users. The set of vertical channels of Atresmedia managed to achieve 42% Almost nine million unique users per more audience share than in 2014, month have visited antena3.com in 2015, contributing more than 4.2 million 10% more than in 2014. monthly users to the group, accounting for 22% of its audience. The Antena 3 news website has been a fundamental pillar of digital growth The Atresmedia multichannel has for Atresmedia. It exceeded the superb doubled the play figures of 2014, figures achieved in 2014 by 19%, reaching exceeding one million views. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 24 Atresmedia Diversificación, expansion as a strategy Atresmedia Cine: The three international channels of the box office and Atresmedia —Antena 3 Internacional, critical success ¡HOLA! TV and Atreseries Internacional— exceeded 32 million subscriber Atresmedia Cine premiered six films in households worldwide, representing 2015, representing 29.5% of box office a 34% increase on the previous year. takings for Spanish cinema. All of them Atresmedia is the European commercial are included in the TOP25. operator with the most subscribed households outside our borders. Four “Goya” Awards for El desconocido (best sound and best editing) and Antena 3 Internacional has reinforced Palmeras en la nieve (best art direction its presence in Latin America, USA and and best original song). Europe, by attracting new audiences and consolidating its distribution. The film produced by Atresmedia Cine with the highest box office takings was At the year-end, the Atresmedia Perdiendo el norte with over 10 million portfolio totals 10 investees under the euros. Media for Equity model, including some of the most promising Spanish start-ups. Premiered in December 2015, Palmeras en la nieve has achieved so far box office The record label Atresmúsica was takings of 17 million euros and has been launched to exploit soundtracks from seen by more than 2.6 million viewers. films and TV series produced by Atresmedia and music associated to major sporting events. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 25 Corporate Atresmedia is the best Responsibility communications company to work for, according to Randstad The efforts made in management of Economic-corporate dimension its human resources has meant that Atresmedia has once again been Atresmedia follows the acknowledged by the Randsted Employer Corporate Social Responsibility Branding report as the best company recommendations of the CNMV’s to work for in the audio-visual sector Code of Good Governance and and the sixth nationwide, ahead of approves its new General Corporate multinationals of renowned prestige. Responsibility Policy In line with the Group’s commitment The Atresmedia group has joined the to Corporate Responsibility and Red de Empresas por una Sociedad aware of growing external demand Libre de Violencia de Género for transparency from companies with (Corporate Network for a Society regard to the mechanisms that ensure Free from Gender Violence) responsible and committed conduct with regard to sustainability, in 2015 Atresmedia has joined the Red de Atresmedia decided to incorporate the Empresas por una Sociedad Libre de CSR recommendations of the CNMV’s Violencia de Género (Corporate Network Code of Good Governance into its for a Society Free from Gender Violence) Corporate Responsibility strategy. by signing a collaboration agreement with the Ministry of Health, Social Services As a consequence, the Atresmedia Board and Equality, through which the Group of Directors has approved a new General undertakes to raise awareness, both at Policy of Corporate Responsibility which the company and outside the business, responds to the new requirements of with regard to this problem. the document and which endows the Organisation with a formal tool to Media partner of the Sustainable continue making progress in the effective Brands event integration of Corporate Responsibility. Atresmedia was a media partner of Sustainable Brands Barcelona, The Group renews its presence the international meeting on brand on the FTSE 4 Good Ibex sustainability that took place in Barcelona sustainability index in April 2015. The event, which was held Since 2009, Atresmedia has featured on for the first time in Spain, aims to raise the FTSE 4 Good Ibex sustainability index, awareness about the problems and the which incorporates socially responsible opportunities of social and environmental companies. In 2015 it obtained a score of challenges and the search for joint 4.3/5. solutions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 26 ia, ed e re sm o th . At ce t ueyo of a g er no R gel P a na Fre , Án l M nle erro era Po i G en VII de H e rate th erta o u rp rom P Co s f ión rez, eed dac c Pé pro Fun cia e f a tri r th tor o P ove irec s D nd ha Social dimension In addition, to disseminate the work of different not-for-profit enterprises and The Group subtitles 88% of its raise society’s awareness about what programming, 13% more than legally they do, Atresmedia has provided free required advertising space on TV and radio to The subtitled programming of the NGOs for a value of 6,022,293 euros. Atresmedia channels has reached 88.3%, representing 13% more than legally 20,000 runners took part in the VII required. Of particular note in 2015 Carrera Ponle Freno in Madrid was the special efforts by Atresmedia to extend the supply of live subtitled 20,000 runners took part in the VII programming to almost 100% in the Carrera Ponle Freno, the largest social commercial timeslot and all current affairs action driven by Atresmedia, with the specials. collaboration of its strategic partner AXA. Ponle Freno has become one of the most popular races in Spain. The Group donates around 200,000 euros to social causes and provides For the seventh year running, Ponle free space for NGO advertising Freno gives all of the money raised campaigns worth more than six from the race to projects and actions to million euros support victims of traffic accidents, as it Atresmedia, through its CR entertainment has done in the previous six events. On programmes and initiatives, has donated this occasion the money was raised for close to 200,000 euros to different the clinical research project into cellular NGOs such as Acción contra el Hambre therapy for neurological disability of the (Action against Hunger) or Food Banks. Puerta del Hierro-Majadahonda University Of particular note was the donation of Hospital, spearheaded by Doctor 100,000 euros to the Centro Nacional de Vaquero. Investigaciones Oncológicas (National Cancer Research Centre). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 27 media, Officer of Atres Chief Executive the Intellectual ' Silvio González, de Or o’ fro m the Companies dalla Atresmedia joins receives the ‘Me Cultura initiativ e. free of ion for the Crea Network for a so cie ty Property Federat violence. gender-based was broadly disseminated using the Group’s communication media. More than Ponle Freno has helped ensure 80,000 people supported the petition by that the Lower House of Deputies signing. We hope that this organisation is asking the Government for road guarantees the progress of science in safety to be a mandatory subject Spain through efficient, transparent and matter in schools politically independent management. The major challenge of 2015 for Ponle Freno was to promote the inclusion Antena 3 Noticias is campaigning for of road safety as a mandatory subject Tolerancia Cero (Zero Tolerance) in matter in schools. This was achieved by gender-based violence together with increasing its dissemination through the the Mutua Madrileña Foundation broadcast of TV spots, radio slots and content on websites and social networks. Coinciding with the International As a result of media dissemination, on Day against Gender-based Violence, 27 May the Lower House of Deputies in 2015 Antena 3 Noticias and the unanimously approved a proposal to Mutua Madrileña Foundation set up include this on the school syllabus. the Tolerancia Cero (Zero Tolerance) initiative, targeted at raising awareness, encouraging violence to be reported and El Estirón became Objetivo using education to help eradicate this blot Bienestar Junior on society. Atresmedia has thrown itself El Estirón, the Corporate Responsibility into providing coverage of the campaign campaign of Atresmedia to promote through its communications media. healthy lifestyle habits among children, changed its name in 2015 to Objetivo Crea Cultura, galardonada por Bienestar Junior. With this integration as Crea Cultura, awarded the “Medalla part of the Objetivo Bienestar Corporate de Oro” from the Federation of Responsibility programme, the project Intellectual Property takes on a much broader dimension in both dissemination and scope. The Federation for the Protection of Intellectual Property has acknowledged the work carried out by Atresmedia Constantes y Vitales turns the for the defence of intellectual property, creation of the State Research driven through the Crea Cultura Agency into reality movement, from which several initiatives Constantes y Vitales, the CR campaign have been launched, including the of laSexta and the AXA Foundation Crea Cultura spot and the creation of a means that the State Research Agency is group of experts to teach respect and now a reality. To achieve this, we set up protection of intellectual property at a campaign to collect signatures which schools. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 28 Atre s proje media ct o vo f the lunteer NGO s on Fundación Atresmedia: 10 years of Ces th al, in e educa tion working with children and disability Peru . al In 2015 the Fundación Atresmedia celebrated 10 years of channelling the social action of the Group and promoting projects aimed at protecting children Environmental dimension and normalising the position of people Atresmedia, rated as the Best with disabilities. The history of the Improver in the Carbon Disclosure organisation dates back to 25th November Project (CDP) 2015, for its progress in 2005 when, for the first time in Spain, the commitment to climate change a communications group —at that time known as the Antena 3 Group— created As recognition for its improved a foundation and made all of its resources environmental commitment, Atresmedia available to help the most vulnerable has been acknowledged in the Best people. Improver Spain category as the Spanish company that has most improved in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Atresmedia and FAD (Drug Addition 2015 report, an independent not-forAid Foundation) sign a collaboration profit organisation that contains the agreement with the presence of Her largest worldwide database of corporate Majesty Queen Sofía information on climate change. The Atresmedia and the Fundación de Group achieved a final score of 93C, up Ayuda con la Drogadicción (FAD Drug 35 points with regard to its 2014 result. Addition Aid Foundation) have signed a collaboration agreement that commits The Group renews its partnerships the Group to work on spreading the drug with Ecoembes, Greenpeace and consumption awareness campaigns that WWF, through the HAZTE ECO FAD has been carrying out since 1989. campaign HAZTE ECO is the Atresmedia initiative Atresmedia, media partner of the that seeks to protect and defend the benchmark voluntary international environment. In 2015 it once again event Give and Gain Day 2015, collaborated in the Greenpeace organised by Forética ‘Save the Artic’ campaign, and in the Atresmedia was the media partner of the environmental defence initiatives ‘Earth Give and Gain Day 2015, organised by Hour’ and ‘#NotOneDegreeMore’ of the Forética as part of International Voluntary WWF. It is also continued with its work to Week. The purpose of the event is to raise awareness about and disseminate encourage corporate volunteer work recycling, with the collaboration of as a key tool in the investment in the Ecoembes, and on the risk of summer community strategy of businesses. fires. ATRESMEDIA Mission, Vision, Values Mission: Broadcast of varied, innovative thought and respecting the democratic and high quality news and entertainment and cultural values of society. programmes that respond to our • Long-term vision: We work to create stakeholders in order to win their trust a corporate project that is the leader and thereby ensure the leadership in the audio-visual industry and position and sustainability of the Group. endeavours to move closer to the future by creating it. Vision: To be the leading multimedia • Innovation: We promote the creation communications group with a valuable of new ideas, products, services and and positive contribution to the society in practices that provide value to the which we operate. Company and society. • Leadership: We motivate and Values: communicate with our collaborators to encourage their development and • Commitment: We strive to make that of the organisation, transmitting a valuable contribution to society, energy and inspiring confidence and a creating social awareness campaigns desire to help the company achieve its that resolve problems and generate a business objectives. positive change. • Teamwork: We promote a culture • Quality: We work on continuously based on establishing relationships improving our activities, developing of trust and respect between the excellent products in both form and employees and the Company. content, aimed at meeting the needs We develop their autonomy and and expectations of our audiences. participation in decision-making, based • Creativity: We encourage the creative on the principles of delegation and development of employees, promoting responsibility. artistic freedom and freedom of ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 30 Financial results 2015 has been a year of growth consolidation that commenced in the last quarter of 2013. Atresmedia is already the leading Spanish communications group and the reference for all kinds of news events. Due to the excellent evolution of all of its media and supports, the Company has increased its Revenue, its EBITDA, and its Net Profit in 2015. This has been helped by the fact that the advertising environment this year has once again been positive. In conventional media, the advertising market reached 5,016.7 million euros, up 7.5% on the previous year, according to Infoadex. • Net Revenue reached 970.2 million euros (compared to 883.2 in 2014), which represents an increase of 9.8%. • The EBITDA was 165.7 million euros, achieving a margin over sales of 17.1% compared to the 14.5% of 2014. • Net Profit climbed up to 99.2 million euros, 112% more than in 2014. • The Distributed Economic Value was 707.1 million euros. Atresmedia Televisión The television division of Atresmedia has notably increased its revenue. Despite having two fewer channels than its competitors in the first six months of the year and one channel less from 1 July following the launch of the MEGA channel, the company has been able to compile a varied and competitive TV offer, incorporating into its grid some very attractive contents that have generated appreciable audience levels. In December, the schedule was reinforced with the launch of the Atreseries channel, which in its brief existence has already recorded more than half a point of audience share. Thus the financial results of this division increased in 2015: • Net Revenue was 857.4 million euros, compared to 785.3 of the previous year, up 9.2%. • EBITDA totalled 133.5 million euros, representing a margin over sales of 15.6% and growth of 29.1% versus 2014. Atresmedia Radio In radio, Atresmedia has obtained some outstanding results. The changes introduced at Onda Cero in April, to mark its 25th anniversary, as well as the incorporation of a new generation of professionals, has strengthened what was already an attractive radio offer from the Group, and 2016 has been the second-best year in its history. Income was above market growth (8.1%) due to an attractive, balanced and varied programming that has been able to win the confidence of both the public as well as advertisers. • Net Revenue was 89.9 million euros, compared to 81.2 of the previous year, up 10.6%. • EBITDA amounted to 21.8 million euros, compared to 17.6 million in 2014. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 31 Shareholder structure at 24/02/16 (%) Planeta De Agostini RTL / UFA 41.70 18.65 Imagina / Mediapro Treasury shares Other 3.61 0.35 35.69 There have been no significant changes in the shareholder structure this year. Shareholder Structure Grupo Planeta De Agostini: 41.70% This is the result of the strategic Grupo Planeta leads the publishing alliance between Grupo Planeta and De market in Spain and Latin America, it is in Agostini. Its objective is to strengthen its second position in France and is among leadership in the publishing world, in new the top eight in the world. It has more sectors of the economy and, especially, in than 100 publishing companies that cover the area of audio-visual media. all the literary genres, and a catalogue of more than 15,000 Spanish and foreign Grupo Planeta: is the largest familyauthors, both classic and contemporary. owned Spanish publishing and communications group providing a Internationally, Grupo Planeta extends wide range of services in the areas of its vocation through a strong rooting in culture, information and audio-visual Europe and Latin America. The group entertainment. Since the foundation of is present in 25 Spanish, Portuguese Editorial Planeta in Barcelona in 1949, and French speaking countries, which the Group, currently chaired by José represents a universe of more than 800 Creuheras, has combined a solid business million people. background with a great capacity for innovation and a clear multinational vocation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 32 Grupo De Agostini: Multinational Italian group operating in different industrial sectors (publishing, gaming, media and communications) and in the financial market. RTL Group: De Agostini Editore has a presence in 18.65% 30 countries, largely in the collectables and mail order segments. Through IGT With 57 television channels and 31 radio it operates as the leading company in stations in 12 countries, it is the European the international market for gaming and leader in the entertainment market. The lotteries, and in the market for derived company, which has its headquarters in services and technologies. Luxembourg, has interests in radio and television stations in Germany, France, De Agostini Communications participates Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Spain, in the sector for the production of Hungary, Croatia and Southeast Asia. content for media organisations through its stake in the Banijay Group — together It is also one of the main producers of with the partners Vivendi and Stephane content for television offering talent Courbit (Zodiak Media), present in 60 shows, game shows, dramas and soap countries—, and in the broadcasting of operas. content through Atresmedia, controlled jointly with its Spanish partner Planeta. Television: RTL Group is the largest television company in Europe. Each day, DeA Capital is present in the alternative millions of viewers across the continent investment sector, both with direct and watch something on an indirect private equity investments and with RTL channel, such as RTL in Germany, M6 controlling stakes in alternative asset in France, RTL 4 in Holland and RTL-TVI management platforms. The group also in Belgium. The multinational also has has a total holding of 1.7% in Assicurazioni interests, although to a lesser extent, in Generali. markets such as Hungary (RTL Klub, RTL ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 33 II, plus six cable channels), Croatia (RTL the major shareholder in one of the Televizija, RTL 2 and RTL Kockica), and online advertising sales programming in Spain through Atresmedia. In August companies, SpotX. 2013, RTL and CBS Studios International announced a Joint Venture, RTL CBS Bertelsmann has been the majority Asia Entertainment Network, to launch shareholder of RTL since July 2001. The two pay-TV channels in Southeast Asia: RTL shares are listed on the Frankfurt, RTL CBS Entertainment HD and RTL CBS Brussels and Luxembourg stock markets. Extreme HD. Contents: FremantleMedia, the content Imagina Media Audiovisual: production division at RTL, is one of the 3.61% largest international producers outside the United States. Active in 29 countries, Imagina occupies a leading European each year it produces more than 10,000 position in multimedia content and hours of programming. It is also one of a unique position in integration of the most important managers of audioaudio-visual contents, production visual rights in the world, with more and distribution. With almost 4,500 than 20,000 hours sold in a total of 200 professionals, turnover of 1.509 billion countries. euros and offices in 30 cities on four continents, it provides technical and Radio: RTL radio stations reach millions innovative solutions to create and of people each day. The leading brands transmit any audiovisual product. in radio are RTL in France; and it also has interests in Germany (104.6 RTL Supplier of technical services for the and Antenne Bayern); Belgium (Bel audio-visual industry, it is the producer RTL and Radio Contact), Spain (Onda and distributor of audiovisual contents, Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM) and manager and distributor of sporting Luxembourg (RTL Radio Lëtzebuerg). events, film producer and producer of interactive contents, and it also Digital: RTL has become the European supplies postproduction services. leader in online video among the top five Technical engineering, broadcasting global operators, thanks to on demand services, marketing and communication and catch up video platforms. It also consultancy and advertising production, has a Multichannel Network as well as as well as the design and production Broadband TV, StyleHaul and Divimove. of thematic channels also form a fundamental part of the activities of Furthermore, Freemantel Media is the Imagina. The personnel and technical largest independent TV production means of Imagina are at the cutting edge partner of YouTube, with more than 215 of innovation in the European audiovisual channels and 20 million subscribers. sphere and the Group accumulates The group registered a total of 105 in-depth experience in the marketing of billion videos watched in 2015. RTL is audiovisual rights. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 34 G4-17 Atresmedia Companies: subsidiaries and associates (at 24/02/2016) Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. Antena 3 Multimedia, S.L.U., 100% Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U., 100% Atres Advertising, S.L.U., 100% Atres Hub Factory, S.L., 50% Atresmedia Cine, S.L.U., 100% Atresmedia Foto, S.L., 90% Atresmedia Música, S.L.U., 100% I3 Televisión, S.L., 50% Cordina Planet, S.L.U., 100% Hola Televisión América, S.L., 50% Flooxplay, S.L.U., 100% Hola TV Latam, S.L., 75% Hola TV US, Llc., 100% Guadiana Producciones, S.A.U., 100% Uniprex, S.A.U., 100% Música Aparte, S.A.U., 100% Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de Canarias, S.A.U., 100% Canal Media Radio, S.A.U., 100% Lemac Gestión, S.L., 16.67% Mitjans de Cataluña, S.L., 16.666% Uniprex Televisión, S.L.U., 100% Uniprex Valencia TV. S.L.U., 100% Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Andalucía, S.L., 74% ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 35 Management Structure Corporate Organisation Atresmedia Televisión of Atresmedia General Manager Chief Executive Officer Mr. Javier Bardají Hernando Mr. Silvio González Moreno Antena 3 Noticias Corporate General Manager Ms. Patricia Pérez González General Manager Ms. Gloria Lomana García Chief Financial Officer Mr. Antonio Manso Marcos Atresmedia Radio Legal Advice Manager General Manager Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fernández de Mr. Ramón Osorio de Rebellón Heredia Atresmedia Publicidad Regulatory and Institutional Relationships General Manager General Manager Ms. Carmen Rodríguez Martín Mr. Eduardo Olano Codesido Audit and Process Control Manager Atresmedia Digital Mr. Fernando Costi Pérez General Manager Director of Communication Mr. José Manuel González Pacheco Mr. Ignacio Mata Maeso Atresmedia Diversificación Director of Strategy Mr. Arturo Larraínzar Garijo General Manager Mr. Javier Nuche Sanz Atresmedia Cine Chairman Mr. Mikel Lejarza Ortiz Fundación Atresmedia General Manager Ms. Carmen Bieger Morales ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 36 Stock market In this context, the forecasts for forthcoming years is still good. The latest situation in 2015 and panel of experts published by FUNCAS outlook in March 2016, expects that GDP would accelerate 2.7% this year, as a result, among other items, of the fall in oil In 2015, the Spanish stock market prices, which will increase the disposable experienced a dramatic fall, specially in income of households and, therefore, comparison with the healthy performance consumption. There is also a favourable of the economy. The Ibex 35 dropped effect of reducing personal income tax, 7.2%, closing the year at 9,544.2 points. which will leave more money available The rest of the European markets for the domestic economies, as well as a have had a mixed performance, but drop in unemployment. According to this without any of the most important ones same source, household consumption is experiencing a fall such as the Spanish set to rise 3.3% in 2016. index. In the US market, the markets also revealed mixed performances. Other organisations, such as the Government, the Bank of Spain and the 2015 maintained the path of economic IMF, are also optimistic and believe that recovery that began in 2014. The Spanish 2016 will end with above a 2% increase economy as a whole grew 3.2% over the in economic activity in Spain (3.0%, 2.7% year, 0.8 points up on the previous year. and 2.5% respectively ). It is interesting to see how national The advertising market grew in 2015. The demand contributed 3.4 points to GDP growth in the first part of the year was growth, whilst net foreign demand bigger than the one in the second, so that detracted 0.2 points. Household analysts made a downward adjustment to consumption increased 3.2%. their forecasts for the year as a whole, as the slower rate of growth was confirmed. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 37 According to Infoadex, the total At 31 December 2015, the share capital of advertising market grew by 7.5% in Atresmedia Corporación was 169.3 million 2015 compared to 2014, closing at euros, represented by 225,732,800 shares 5,016.7 million euros. Moreover, the TV with a nominal value of 0.75 euros. advertising market reached 2,011.3 million euros, which is 6.4% higher than in 2014. 2015 Value figures For 2016, and at the date of closing this Share Capital at year end (thousands of 169,299.6 report, the consensus of analysts expects euros) a TV advertising market that reaches Number of shares at year end 225,732,800 2,128 million euros, which will represent a Capitalisation at year-end 2,221.21 growth of 5.8%. (millions of euros) Price at 31/12 (euros/share) 9.84 Maximum (euros/share) 15.67 Minimum (euros/share) 9.65 Atresmedia Average Weighted Price (euros/share) Average trading volume (shares) 13.11 899,610 shares and Average trading volume its share capital 11,792.9 (thousands of euros) Source: Six Telecours Atresmedia shares closed 2015 at €9.84, 15.46% below the level seen in 2014. Television broadcasters in Europe have had mixed results, with an average performance of + 4.3%. Shareholder and investor services It is difficult to give a single explanation on the reason for such a sharp fall in the Both the Investor Relations (IR) share price, when the climate as a whole Department and the Shareholders’ Office has been very favourable. Companies are responsible for disseminating the associated to the advertising market most important news and reporting on are cyclical, and highly sensitive to developments in the market and the movements of the same. For this reason financial outlook. they suffer sharp falls and rises based on the evolution of investment in media. TV During 2015, the Investor Relations advertising grew more in the first part Department had an intense activity. It of 2015 (+10%), and less in the second took part in more than 30 conferences part (+3%). The share price rose 34.6% and roadshows in different cities until July, which was its high for the around Europe and the US and directly year (€15.67), and from that moment, addressed almost 450 investors and while lower rates of growth were being analysts. In total, around 800 contacts confirmed, the share price began to fall, were established with the financial closing the year at € 9.84/share. community throughout the year.    169.3 million euros of 9.84 euros per share 2,221.21 million euros of share capital capitalisation ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 38 To provide easy access to quick and clear information, the corporate website Department has responded to questions atresmediacorporacion.com has a related to cost structure, the expectations specific section where important events, at Atresmedia Radio following the financial results and other news items of changes to its schedule, and on the interest are published. Company’s position in the digital world. Investors can contact the organisation by email at ir@atresmedia.com, while non-institutional investors are provided with another email address: oficinadelaccionista@atresmedia.com. Strategy and business model The Investors Relations Department’s close ties with the financial community Atresmedia is the largest enables it to obtain information about communications group in Spain, the its doubts and concerns. Throughout leader in the television and radio markets, 2015 the Department has been with a growing presence in the digital answering a great many questions market (Internet). All of these media related to the Company and the supports are commercialised through its market. The shareholder’s interest has sales organisation Atresmedia Publicidad. basically focused on the evolution of Furthermore, and with the objective of the advertising market in 2015 (and taking part in non advertising related the outlook for 2016), on those sectors businesses, Atresmedia Diversificación where advertisers have invested most has been created to include to those in each quarter, on how the arrival of businesses whose revenues do not new channels could affect the market, depend directly on the advertising and the competition. Furthermore, the market. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 39 Atresmedia Televisión is the main After several years of major falls in division, the driving force of the Group: it advertising investment (50% from 2007 generates 88% of the Group’s income. to 2013), the market has started to grow again. According to Infoadex, since 2013 At the beginning of 2015 Atresmedia the TV advertising market has recovered owned four free-to-air channels: 18%. Antena 3, laSexta, Neox and Nova. At the close of 2015, it has six free-to-air In spite of the cyclical nature of this channels, each with a very well-defined market, Atresmedia works daily to profile and leader among its target optimise its revenue. Its sales team audience. analyses each campaign, each customer and each programme to establish the On 1 July, it introduced MEGA, a new most suitable commercial strategy. This, channel targeted at an adult male coupled with attractive programming, audience, which replaced the pay tv has led Atresmedia Televisión to obtain channel leased from Mediapro, GolT. Since a market share of television advertising its inception, this channel began to attract of 42.%, making it a reference television exceptional audience levels: it closed 2015 company in the Spanish market. with an average in the second half of the year (the period during which it has been Consequently, the audience levels operational) of 1.95% and has been the have also been excellent. Atresmedia thematic channel with the best launch in Televisión , through its different channels, the history of TV. has the objective to entertain and inform, but always from a standpoint of diversity Moreover, in December, and as a result and quality of its programmes. As a of the process through which the consequence, once again this year it has Government granted new television gained the recognition of the public, licences in free-to-air, Atresmedia was who entrust their leisure and informative awarded a new channel: Atreseries, an needs to the offer available on the HD channel that rounds off the Group’s channels of Atresmedia. The Atresmedia entertainment offer. Televisión channels as a whole, closed 2015 with an audience share of 26.8%. The best brand image Atresmedia Radio generates 9.3% of the Group’s income, and is the third-largest In this way, and with six channels with radio player in Spain in terms of listeners. very well defined profiles and targets, It counts on three very different stations Atresmedia Televisión is currently whose objective is to reach out to the a brand that enjoys the best sector largest number of listeners to inform image, with differentiated, high-quality, and entertain them, yet always with a varied and diverse programming which philosophy of diligence and variety. The respects the viewer and tries to offer last General Media Study (EGM) wave them the best product, in both news and published in December, reveals the entertainment. success of this formula. Atresmedia radio stations obtained an overall audience of The television business is subject to more than 4.5 million listeners each day. cyclical income, strongly linked to the performance of the advertising market.    88.4% percentage that Atresmedia Televisión 3rd largest radio broadcaster in 4.5 million listeners contributes to the Group’s income Spain in terms of listeners each day ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 40 This division has three areas in which to deploy its strategy: websites and verticals, long form videos and short form videos. Websites and verticals Websites and verticals have experienced strong growth in 2015 and have reached of 22 million unique visitors a month, 21% up on the previous year. Websites, in particular the news sites, of both Onda Cero has tackled 2015 with a Antena 3 and laSexta, are the driving revamp, which has led it to carry out force behind this growth. The quality of changes with the programme presenters, content, and major coverage of the most scheduling and collaborators. New times important events have turned the sites lie ahead, full of illusion and projects, yet into an news benchmark for Internet always maintaining the pillars that define users. the station: versatility and veracity. This year, the radio websites have Europa FM is the third-largest music undergone a sweeping change in their radio station in Spain and is a well known design: New apps have been created for and recognised brand to many listeners mobile phones, meaning that browsing on looking for both contemporary and past these kinds of devices is up by 55%. music. It reaches almost two million listeners. Once again this year, its flagship Another flagship product of Atresmedia programme is Levántante y Cárdenas, Digital is Atresplayer. This is the Group’s with which thousands of younger Platform that pools together all content listeners start the day. from the different channels, with highquality, available for all mobile devices Melodía FM completes the Group’s radio and for connected televisions. The offer. It was relaunched in 2014, and its Atresplayer allows both live television target audience is a little more mature as well as time-shifted TV. Moreover, than that of Europa FM. Since its launch, there is free access to the content of it has enjoyed uninterrupted growth of current seasons or a monthly subscription listeners month after month. payment for the remainder. For the purpose of defining strategies The online video platform of Atresmedia and exploiting online contents, has managed to exceed 5 million users Atresmedia Digital was launched some a month during 2015, up 22% on the years ago. This is one of the Group’s areas previous year. The sports content with biggest growth, and has positioned broadcast, together with the splendid the Company as leader in the online performance of the Atresmedia own world. content have made this the best year ever ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 41 for Atresplayer. And let us not forget 7d: creation of a new record label, Atresmedia el debate decisivo, which became the Música) and Media for Equity to boost event of the year, not only as it was the involvement in the capital of emerging most viewed on TV in 2015, but also on companies in exchange for advertising, in Atresplayer, where it managed to attract line with the current international trend a live audience of 300.000 viewers, developed by major players in the media representing an historic record for the sector. platform. The Atresmedia Cine division is the As regards short form videos, there has Group’s film producer. Each year it also been a turnabout in the strategy, produces or takes part in the production which has converted Atrestube and of feature films to comply with the Flooxer two references in the digital General Audio-visual Act which obliges world. Atrestube is the Atresmedia television companies to invest part of their channel on YouTube, with 30 channels revenue in the film industry. Atresmedia, and more than 2.4 million subscribers. In through Atresmedia Cine, has turned 2015, more than 140 million clips a month an obligation into an opportunity, and were viewed. currently has launched more than 100 titles. In 2015 it co-produced six feature However, the commitment of Atresmedia films, all included in the top 25 films this year, with regard to the short premiered over the year, and its revenue video, has been Flooxer. This is a native represented 29.5% of all Spanish cinema digital site that concentrates the most box office takings. in-demand video contents and the creators most followed online. Its aim is to combine an entire range of formats Powerful sales force on a single platform, with a selection of contents and very easy to use. Atresmedia has a professional and powerful sales force. Atresmedia The Atresmedia Diversificación division Publicidad is the largest seller of was created as part of Atresmedia’s multimedia advertising on the Spanish desire to grow. This brings together market, with a share of 19.3% of the businesses that are not directly linked total investment in conventional media. to traditional advertising and allows This division sells the advertising of all them to create complementary revenue the group’s supports, offering solutions streams. Under its umbrella, Atresmedia to its customers on all media types. Its Diversificación integrates the areas of strategy revolves around four key areas: New Business (interactive formats with customer focus, innovation, efficiency the audience), International Expansion and profitability. Under these premises, (Antena 3 Internacional, ¡HOLA! TV and advertisers looking to get the best return Atreseries, channels that reach more on their investment find that Atresmedia than 32 million households beyond our offers them the required media for their borders), Project Incubator (Tualbum. campaigns to reach their target audiences es), Music Publishing (catalogue and within an optimum time and at an optimal exploitation of music rights, as well as the price. Atresmedia creates, generates, manages, distribute and sells contents on all possible platforms, positioning itself as the largest communications group in Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 42 The corporate governance system of Atresmedia Atresmedia has a set of bodies, control mechanisms and internal regulations that comprise its Corporate Governance System. Its objective is to be transparent and efficient in directing and running the organisation, which generates value for shareholders and other stakeholders. 2015 has been a crucial year and one of major advances in issues of corporate governance. System of corporate governance Delegated Committee Appointments and Remuneration Committee Bodies General Meeting of Board of Directors Shareholders Audit and Control Committee Regulatory Compliance Committee Corporate Enterprises Act, Securities Market Act, Good Governance Code for Listed External regulations Companies, SCIFF, etc. Rules Internal regulations Bylaws, regulations, code of conduct, corporate policies, internal protocols. SAP-GRC system, enquries and complaints channel, regulatory system Control Tools Risk management for conduct in issues of the securities market, etc. mechanisms and control model Compliance and crime prevention model Many of the initiatives that commenced in 2013, with the creation —through the Agreement of the Council of Ministers— of the Committee of Experts in Corporate Governance, have come to fruition this year: • In the first months of 2015, companies incorporated into their internal regulations the reforms introduced through Law 31/2014, of 3 December, which serves to amend, following the proposals of the aforementioned Committee of Experts, the Corporate Enterprises Act for improved corporate governance. • Through a Resolution of the Board of the CNMV of 18 February 2015, the new Good Governance Code for Listed Companies was approved, also drawn up with the support and advice of the aforementioned Committee of Experts. This Code incorporates specific Recommendations on corporate social responsibility that hitherto had been excluded from the application scope of previous Good Governance Codes. This represents a major advance in driving the commitment of companies, who need to review the monitoring of these recommendations under the “comply” or “explain” principle. It has also legally reinforced: the annual corporate governance report needs to set out the level to which corporate governance recommendations are followed or, if applicable, give an explanation as to why these recommendations are not followed. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 43 Composition of the Board and its Committees *Composition at 31 December 2015 Board of Directors Mr. José Creuheras Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Silvio González Mr. Josep María Mr. Mauricio Margenat Vice-Chairman Moreno Benet Ferrán Casals Aldama Chairman Chief Executive Officer Member Member Ms. Aurora Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Ms. Patricia Mr. Elmar Heggen Catà Sala Member Entrecanales Franco Estany Puig Member Member Member Member Mr. José Manuel Lara Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Ms. Margarita González García Member Fdez. de Heredia Martín del Río Member Secretary Vice-Secretary Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Vice-Chairman: Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Chief Executive Officer: Mr. Silvio González Moreno Members: Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán, on behalf of IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Ms. Aurora Catà Sala Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Ms. Patricia Estany Puig Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. José Manuel Lara García Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fdez. de Heredia Vice-Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 44 Executive Committee Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Margenat Chief Executive Officer: Mr. Silvio González Moreno Members: Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Marco Drago Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fernández de Heredia Audit and Control Committee Chairwoman: Ms. Aurora Catà Sala Vice-Chairman: Mr. Elmar Heggen Members: Mr. Josep María Benet Ferrán, on behalf of IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Mr. José Manuel Lara García Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Martín del Río Appointments and Remuneration Committee Chairwoman: Ms. Patricia Estany Puig Vice-Chairman: Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Members: Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama Ms. Aurora Catà Sala Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fernández de Heredia Type of directors Executive directors Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Silvio González Moreno Proprietary directors Mr. Josep Mª Benet Ferrán, on behalf of IMAGINA MEDIA AUDIOVISUAL, S.L. (IMAGINA, S.L. y MEDIAPRO CONTENIDOS, S.L.) Mr. Mauricio Casals Aldama (GRUPO PLANETADE AGOSTINI, S.L.) Mr. José Creuheras Margenat (GRUPO PLANETADE AGOSTINI, S.L. Mr. Marco Drago (GRUPO PLANETADE AGOSTINI, S.L.) Mr. Elmar Heggen (UFA FILM UND FERNSEH GMBH) Mr. José Manuel Lara García (GRUPO PLANETADE AGOSTINI, S.L.) Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost (UFA FILM UND FERNSEH Gmbh) Independent directors Ms. Aurora Catà Sala Ms. María Entrecanales Franco Ms. Patricia Estany Puig ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 45 The Board of Directors of Atresmedia acknowledges the singular nature that comprises 13 board members and there is can occur in the shareholding structure currently a vacancy that has not yet been of these companies. Whenever this covered through the system of co-option singularity exists, it is considered to be a set out under law. Consequently, the next relevant aspect in itself, which justifies an General Meeting of Shareholders will need adjusted model for optimum collegiate to decide whether to remove or to cover administration of the affected Company. the aforementioned vacancy. According to that Code, for cases such as that of Atresmedia it is considered The structure of the Board of Directors that the number of independent directors and the proportion by which the different should represent at least one third of all types of directors are represented directors as a desirable objective and one responds above all to the make-up of that adapts to the best practices of good the Company’s shareholding structure, corporate governance. with a major concentration of ownership of economic and voting rights held Lastly, the Appointments and by major shareholders and a smaller Remuneration Committee has set itself presence of minority shareholders on the medium-term target of gradually the governing bodies, with a proportion adjusting the representation of women on that is less than that of large companies the Board of Directors, as shown in the listed on the securities markets. Thus, Directors Selection Policy, approved by even before the stock market float of the Board of Directors in 2015. Based on Atresmedia, its major shareholder, Grupo this Policy, the Committee has decided Planeta De Agostini, holds a stable and that the future composition of the Board ongoing significant position, which has shall adapt to the provisions set out in always been higher than 40% of the this regard in the aforementioned Good share capital. This interest, coupled Governance Code. Consequently, the with the holding of another two major number of female board members should shareholders, UFA FILM and IMAGINA, be at least 30% of all members of the jointly exceeds 60% of the share capital Board of Directors by 2020. On the date of Atresmedia. All proprietary directors of approving this report, the number (who also account for the majority of female board members already of the Board of Directors) have been represents 25% of the Board overall. appointed at the request of shareholders with stakes that represent more than 3% On the corporate website of the capital and in a number that is atresmediacorporacion.com the equivalent to their respective stake in the content of which has been reviewed shareholding structure of the Company. and completed in 2015 to adapt it to Circular 3/2015, of 23 June, from the For these purposes, it should also be National Securities Market Commission, remembered that the Good Governance on technical and legal specifications and Code of Listed Companies expressly information that must be shown on the ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 46 websites of listed companies and savings All of the Group’s businesses and banks that issue securities accepted for activities are covered by this risk and trading on official secondary securities control management model, and markets, contains all of the relevant since it is a Group corporate system, information on corporate governance of management and responsibility for it Atresmedia: Information on its governing falls to the Board of Directors with the bodies and members, the shareholding support of the functions entrusted to the structure, annual corporate governance Audit Committee and with participation reports (ACGR) and remuneration of and coordination of the Internal Audit and directors (ARDR), financial reports, etc. Process Control Department. In addition to the risks that affect the company as a whole, there are some specific risk Internal regulations of that only affects certain units within the Atresmedia organisation. All of the rules that make up the Corporate Governance System of Objectives Atresmedia: Articles of Association, Internal Corporate Governance The main objectives of the Atresmedia Regulations (Regulations of the Board Risk and Control Management System are of Directors, Regulations of the General as follows: Meeting of Shareholders, Internal Regulations on Issues concerning the • Consistency and uniformity, Securities Market and the Code of ensuring uniformity in the definition, Conduct) and the Corporate Policies identification and measurement of are available on the corporate website risks in all of the Group’s businesses. atresmediacorporacion.com, in the • Internal control environment, through section Shareholders and Investors / updating the existing controls and Corporate Governance. continuously measuring their degree of effectiveness. The internal protocols and procedures • Assessment and continuous of Atresmedia group are available to all improvement of the model through employees through the intranet. tools and indicators that facilitate evaluation, identifying new potential risks and introducing the controls necessary for those risks. • Policies, standards and procedures Control and for action as a form of communication Management of Risks and management tool for the business areas of the Group’s different divisions, assigning the instructions and Several years ago Atresmedia guidelines on internal behaviour. implemented a Risk and Control • Compliance with the rules and Management System that can identify, regulations, given that it must evaluate and mitigate any potential risks ensure constant compliance with all through implementing specific controls regulations and legislation applicable and action plans. to all of the Group’s businesses. In order to continuously improve the process, this model is reviewed and updated regularly depending on the evolution of the Group’s businesses, the materialisation of risks, new regulations and the evolution of the organisation itself. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 47 Responsibilities The main responsibilities related to the Risk and Control Management System are summarised in the following section: Business units and corporate Responsible for the controls, evaluation and supervision. units Compliance with regulations: external and internal (policies, standards and procedures). Responsible for most of the financial controls and the Internal Control System for Financial Reporting (ICFR). Finance department Compliance with policies and standards related to budgets, accounts and financial statements, and financial reporting. Legal affairs department/board Responsible for most of the compliance and Corporate Governance controls. secretary The body that monitors the Group’s regulatory compliance. Regulatory compliance Responsible for monitoring the Code of Conduct, the Enquiries and Complaints Channel committee (RCC) and the Internal Regulations in issues of the securities market. Responsible for the introduction and monitoring of the Group’s Criminal Compliance Criminal compliance manager Model. Coordinates and administers the Risk and Control Management System. Designs policies Internal audit and procedures and identifies new controls. Test controls and reports to the Audit and Control Committee. The Audit and Control Committee is of controls that mitigate the risks responsible for supervising the system’s and the development of action plans operation and reporting to the Board and, on the other, the environment in of Directors so that the action plans or which it acts. In turn, an assessment new measures to be implemented can be is conducted of the effectiveness and approved or amended, as appropriate. design of the controls implemented in order to introduce new ones or mitigate any impact. The risks are Key components of the Risk and regularly reassessed in order to check Control Management Model that their control is effective. • Regulatory compliance: Atresmedia The Risk and Control Management has established a regulatory System at Grupo Atresmedia has various compliance model that ensures key components: compliance with all the regulations, both those specific to the sectors in • Definition of the objectives: New which it operates as well as generic objectives for the Group for each of its ones that may affect it due to being business units are revised and set each a listed company or just generally year, along with the acceptable level of (labour, tax, environmental, etc.). There risk given the Group’s global strategy are also a series of internal policies and the identified internal and external and protocols that are equally binding events. for the areas and businesses affected • Internal control environment: An by them. The System supervises this assessment of the model is regularly compliance through specific controls. conducted in order to verify, on the • Processes: In order to be able to one hand, how staff at the company identify the risks that impact to a perceive the risks, the establishment greater extent on one business process ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 48 or another, the existing controls and Internal control tools the improvement needs, a detailed processes map has been developed The Atresmedia Risk Management System where the Group’s risks and controls has various tools that improve internal are linked to each process. control and facilitate management: • Organisation: Risks and controls have been defined that affect the whole • SAP GRC System: This is a Corporate of the Atresmedia group; as well as System related to its SAP transactional risks and controls that only affect system and allows the company to certain organisational units within the structure, order and document the Group. Those responsible for each monitoring of all of the Group’s Risks organisational unit monitor the risks and establish workflows that speed up and controls associated with their and order the flows of information in organisation. the risk and control system. In addition, the effectiveness and design of the model can be continuously assessed Risks and opportunities within the same tool. • Internal Control System for the The main risks and opportunities preparation and issuance of Financial identified for the Atresmedia Group are Reporting (ICFR): Group Atresmedia summarised below: in its commitment to providing reliable, comprehensive, accurate and RISKS consistent information to investors and the markets, has implemented Worldwide economic uncertainty. Impact on the economy in Spain. an Internal Control System relating to the process for the issuance and Evolution of the profile of the traditional media viewer to an aging public. Change in the consumption patterns of publication of Financial Reporting young persons towards traditional media. (ICFR) which ensures the reliability of Audience fragmentation. the financial information issued. Regulatory uncertaintes in the digital environment. • Procedures and Protocols. • Internal Code of Conduct in matters Threat of new competing operators with major resources: Movistar +, Netflix, HBO, Amazon, Apple, relating to the Securities Markets. Vodafone. • Other IT control tools: – Purchase management system. OPPORTUNITIES – Contracting proposal management Expectations of favourable evolution of the advertising system. market. – Quality System. Increase of TV consumption and contents through • Code of Conduct: Its objective is different complementary platforms (TV, Internet, to establish the policies, principles, Mobility, etc.). objectives and values that should Greater importance of brands to attract audience and guide behaviour within Atresmedia advertisers. Brand generation capability. and in its relationships with third Development of international business. New business parties and society, creating a culture development opportunities. and structure of responsible action Growing importance of technology. Capability of using the best technological media for business development. that is shared, accepted and respected by everyone to whom it applies. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 49 The Code of Conduct forms part of • Regulatory Compliance Committee the Atresmedia Good Governance and (RCC): This is a collegiate body, which Corporate Responsibility policies. The answers to the Audit and Control Regulatory Compliance Committee Committee and has its own powers is responsible for directing and of initiative and control. It is the body supervising all matters relating to its responsible for interpretation and effective compliance, as well as the application of the Company’s Code obligation to adopt and implement the of Conduct and for establishing the measures required for the necessary measures targeted at compliance with coordination of the Code with other this Code and other rules, in particular regulatory and procedural elements of those targeted at the prevention of corporate governance. criminal offences. • Head of Criminal Compliance: The person responsible for providing the necessary advice to managers and directors of Atresmedia when making decisions that could have The Code of Conduct mainly criminal consequences. They are regulates the following aspects: also responsible for the operational – Regulatory compliance and respect coordination of the measures for ethical values. necessary to apply the Code of – Relationship with and between Conduct and execute the decisions employees. adopted by the RCC. Finally, they are – Respect between people. responsible for implementing a crime – Professional development, equal prevention policy within Atresmedia. opportunities and nondiscrimination. – Teamwork, collaboration and dedication. – The health and safety of people. – The processing of information. – Use and protection of assets. Most significant – Corruption and bribery. advances in 2015 – Money laundering and irregularities in payment. Aware that the good governance and – Respecting free competition. corporate responsibility of businesses are – Conflict of interest and loyalty to essential for their good reputation, public Atresmedia. acknowledgement and valuation by the – Relationships with customers, financial markets, in 2015 the Board of contractors and suppliers. Directors and Senior Management of – Corporate image and reputation. Atresmedia have continued the process – Respect for the environment. that started some years ago with – Social commitment. regard to constant improvement of its Corporate Governance System. In 2015, the Board of Directors of Atresmedia and its Ordinary General • Complaints channel: This allows all Meeting of Shareholders adopted the employees to communicate, simply resolutions to modify the Company and confidentially, anything that Bylaws and all of their Regulations constitutes inappropriate conduct or for the purpose of adapting them to actions in light of the Code of Conduct legislative reform and including many or any other applicable regulation. of the recommendations of the new In 2015 there were no enquiries or Code. In 2016, the resolutions required to complaints. adapt them to the modifications referred to in the previous section will need to ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 50 be adopted, as these were introduced governance has consolidated the growing through Law 22/2015, of 20 July, on importance of the Audit and Control Accounts Auditing. Committee, whose powers, specialisation, responsibility and level of autonomy have Moreover, in 2015 Atresmedia has been progressively reinforced through all successfully completed the standards of regulatory changes. its Corporate Governance System with the approval by its Board of Directors In 2015 the Corporate Enterprises Act of corporate policies concerning those was once again reformed through: (i) issues reserved to this body: Final provision one of Law 9/2015, of 25 May, on urgent measures of insolvency • Corporate governance policy matters; and (ii) Law 22/2015, of 20 • Director selection policy July, on Accounts Auditing whereby in • Corporate tax policy 2016 Atresmedia will adapt its internal • Communication with shareholders and regulations to these changes. The overall investors policy purpose of said changes is to consolidate • Corporate responsibility policy and reinforce the independence of this Audit Committee, endowing it with These policies systematically and all powers required to guarantee the formally set out the set of principles, efficacy of its qualified and independent action criteria and methodologies that intervention in the corporate governance Atresmedia was already applying and all of the listed company, in which it plays an those targeted at achieving a system of essential role, with the full backing of the corporate governance that is consistent Company’s Board of Directors. and efficient for the promotion of corporate interest, with this understood The new regulation also reinforces as the common interest of Atresmedia the intervention and responsibility of and its stakeholders, as well as for the the Audit Committee in the process creation of shared value. of selecting the outsourced accounts auditor to protect the interests of the As regards the governing bodies of listed company and all those that work and companies, we should point out that the collaborate at the company, favouring regulatory evolution in issues of corporate ethical and responsible behaviour, both ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 51 individually as well as collective. It also conclusions are that the Atresmedia reinforces the role of the Committee model complies with the requirements in the supervision and control of other that the criminal prevention model possible additional services that the should have, likewise updating the auditor provides to the Company, with criminal risks map of the Atresmedia the limits and the prohibitions set out in group and assessing whether the the regulations on accounts auditing. controls implemented are appropriate for the criminal risks and offences Consequently, the Audit Committee is applicable to the Group’s activities. legally configured as an independent • A new Director of Regulatory and specialised collegiate body that Compliance has been appointed, who contributes to the activity of the Board shall head the Regulatory Compliance of Directors, with its full backing, and Committee and who is an independent which has full powers of initiative and and external professional, with greater supervision for everything concerning the power to take decisions and actions, accounts auditing of the Company given that it is a position unconnected (both internal and external) the to the Group’s organisational introduction and efficacy of internal structure. The person that the Board control measures and the risk of Directives has appointed for this management systems, all of which are position is Pedro Ramón y Cajal, who integrated into the corporate governance has been a director of Atresmedia and system of Atresmedia. has an in-depth legal background, as well as proven experience. In 2015 Atresmedia has reinforced its • A new Head of Criminal Compliance Internal Control and Risks System and, has been appointed by the Board of within this, the Regulatory Compliance Directors, Fernando Costi, Direct of and Criminal Prevention Model, so Internal Audit and Process Control. that these are efficient in identifying, • The Regulatory Compliance preventing and managing risks of all Committee (RCC) Regulations kinds and, particularly criminal risks, by have been approved, setting out its introducing the controls necessary: functions, as well as its members and method of operating. • We have verified that the Regulatory • The complaints channel has been Compliance and Criminal Prevention extended, and now also allows Model adapts to the regulatory enquiries to be made, thus improving requirements, especially criminal its preventive and training capability liability of artificial persons and new for all workers that need to have a types of crimes. The result of this secure and reliable criterion with analysis confirms that the Model regard to these matters. The RCC has works properly and is in line with the also approved a specific procedure necessities of Atresmedia group, as that regulates the performance of this well as having the necessary capability channel. During 2015 this channel did and flexibility to adapt itself in the not receive any complaints or enquiries future to new needs (whether business • Access to all information concerning or legal) and to improve its quality and Regulatory Compliance and Control efficacy. has been improved for all workers and In this regard, the regulatory collaborators of the Atresmedia group. compliance and criminal prevention A specific section has been enabled on model has been reviewed by an the intranet of the Atresmedia group independent third party, updating specifically dedicated to Regulatory the initial diagnosis of the model that Compliance and Control, containing was undertaken in 2011. The main full and updated information on the ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 52 Corporate Governance system, Internal – Compliance by the Fundación Rules and Policies and Procedures Atresmedia with the obligations that apply, as well as the mechanisms arising from the Prevention of introduced for the proper performance Money Laundering and Terrorist of this, methods of access and use. Financing Act. • The following internal Protocols and – What to do in the event of Procedures have been approved: Transactions with Special Tax – Acceptance and handover of gifts. Importance. – What to do in the event of Breach • The implementation of the SAPGRC of the Regulatory Compliance and system has been extended to the Crime Prevention System. entire Organisation and incorporated – Disciplinary System of the into the normal working processes Regulatory Compliance and Crime of the areas responsible for the Prevention Model. performance of controls. – Risks related to use of Audio-Visual • Appropriate training has been given Material without Rights. in handling of the SAPGRC System – Action of the Committee for to all workers affected by the new risk Compliance with the General Audiocontrol and management systems and Visual Communication Act with who are responsible for the integrated regard to advertising. controls. – Analysis and Approval of RelatedParty Transactions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 53 Corporate Responsibility 1. To achieve a profitable and sustainable long-term business model.  2. To transmit the corporate policies and values to the entire value Our chain. vision 3. To listen and respond to stakeholders. CR Scorecard 2013 2014 2015 Economic sustainability Income (millions of €) 829.8 883.23 970.2  Distributed economic value (millions of €) 585.9 635.3 707.05  Financial aid received from governments (thousands of €) 1.0 7.4 6.4  Human resources % of women in the workforce 48.1 49.9 49.55 = Permanent contracts 81 81 78.04  Turnover index 1.85 3.16 2.66  Hours of training per employee 19.10 22 26.2  Investment in training (€) 372,487 348,661 406,055  Accident severity index 0.1 0.12 0.06  Society Income provided by Atresmedia to the Fundación Atresmedia (€) 300,000 300,000 500,000  Free campaigns for NGOs and non-profit organisations (€) 10,240,085 6,538,228 6,022,293 = Volunteering hours 1,429 1,722 2,102  Funds contributed to NGOs through Atresmedia programmes (€) 656,354 171,809 206,726  % of programming subtitled 76% 85% 88.30%  Environment Electricity consumption (kW / employee) 15,460 15,171 15,272  Water consumption (m / employee) 3 24.2 31.5 28  Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2 eq / employee) 0.8 0.83 0.81  Environmental investment (€) 14,363 89,490 111,481  Atresmedia understands Corporate positive contribution to the progress of Responsibility (CR) as the creation of society, and generates trust and support a business model which, in addition to among its main stakeholders: audience, contributing value to the company and employees, advertisers, shareholders, ensuring the necessary profitability investors, suppliers and society as a and competitiveness, also provides whole. an active, worthy, recognisable and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 54 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 This conception of CR has resulted in a The actions adopted to comply strategy the main objective of which is with these commitments and the to comply positively with the following achievements obtained are detailed commitments: throughout this Corporate Responsibility Report. 1. Produce and broadcast responsible news and entertainment that is accessible for all society. Corporate Responsibility 2. Promote high quality, honest and Management System ethical advertising. 3. Support employees as the company’s Atresmedia has established a Corporate main value. Responsibility Management System with 4. Contribute to the progress and a twin purpose: development of society. 5. Minimise the environmental impact and 1. To ensure that all business processes raise awareness in society about caring follow the policies and values set out for the environment. by the Group in issues of CR. 6. Strengthen Corporate Governance. 2. To give a proper and efficient response 7. Transmit the corporate policies and to the needs and expectations of all values throughout the value chain. stakeholders. 8. Establish transparent relations with stakeholders. Stakeholders CSR Committee Advertisers Expectations Audiences Mission, Vision, Values Shareholders Corporate Policies Employees Code of Conduct Suppliers CSR Scorecard Impacts Regulators Society CR Objectives Competitors NB: Atresmedia understands stakeholders as all those persons, organisations or institutions that affect or who are affected by the Group’s decisions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 55 mmittee. sponsibility Co Atresmedia Corporate Re Me mbers of the G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 This system is structured around an One of the main communication Internal CR Committee that meets tools is the Corporate Responsibility regularly and which is responsible for Report which is published annually and ensuring compliance with the corporate contains the most relevant data and policies, ensuring the transversal nature of issues for the Company. The 2015 CR Corporate Responsibility at the Company Report been compiled in accordance and introducing and monitoring the with the current reporting trends and objectives on social and environmental demands, so that, firstly, it complies issues. with the latest G4 version of the guide for preparation of reports issued by To improve the response to needs and the International reference enterprise expectations of the main stakeholders of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as Atresmedia is one of the main principles well as the GRI sectoral supplement of of this management system. The Group communication media; and secondly, has therefore established several specific gradually includes (and in greater depth) communications channels that guarantee the contents recommended through ongoing and open dialogue. These include the international framework for the different corporate email addresses, preparation of Integrated Reports created newsletters for customers and audiences, by the International Integrated Reporting the launch of surveys, organising face-toCouncil (IIRC). face focus groups, qualitative studies and many social networking profiles. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 56 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Stakeholder Communication channel Advertiser’s Office Advertisers Monthly e-newsletter from Atresmedia Publicidad Membership of sector associations Websites Social network profiles Periscope Audiences Telephone helpdesk for the audience Teletext Discussion groups, surveys and panels with experts Membership of sector associations E-mail: responsabilidadcorporativa@antena3.es Corporate Responsibility section on the website of Atresmedia Fundación Atresmedia Society Ponle Freno, Contantes y Vitales, Crea Cultura Plataform Virtual press office Press releases through the Communications Department and press conferences Focus Groups Electronic communications Notice boards Corporate intranet Employees “Compartir el éxito” (Share the success) meetings MD3 Internal Magazine Channel for filing complaints concerning breach of the Code of Conduct Focus Groups Participation on forums and events Competitors Membership of sector associations such as UTECA (Commercial Television Union), IMPULSA and ACT and Regulatory (Association of Commercial Television in Europe) organisations Participation on meetings with the Administration Regular meetings between the purchasing department and suppliers Suppliers Electronic communications Conferences, meetings and roadshows given by the Investor Relations Department Shareholder’s Office Corporate website: www.atresmedia.com Shareholders Annual Corporate Governance reports Environmental information through the CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT ESG information through the rating agencies For further information on Atresmedia corporate policies: http://www.atresmediacorporacion.com/responsabilidadcorporativa/politicas-corporativas/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 57 G4-18 Aligned with the Corporate Responsibility recommendations of the new Good Governance Code from the CNMV In line with the Group’s commitment to Corporate Responsibility and aware of growing external demand for transparency from businesses concerning mechanisms that ensure responsible and committed conduct with regard to sustainability, in 2015, Atresmedia decided to incorporate the CSR recommendations of the CNMV’s Code of Good Governance into its Corporate Responsibility strategy. As a consequence, Atresmedia has drafted a new General Policy of Corporate Responsibility which responds to the new requirements of the document and which endows the Organisation with a formal tool to continue making progress in the effective integration of Corporate Responsibility. The content of this new General Corporate Responsibility Policy is the result of the evolution experienced in this field at Atresmedia since the first steps were taken in 2004, and it is structured in five parts: a. The description of the Atresmedia CR focus. b. The objective of the policies and commitments of the Group in CR matters. c. The values and principles applied in each of the objectives in order to achieve them. d. The mechanisms of supervision, control and application of the policy. e. The interpretation, approval and dissemination of the policy. The Policy was supervised by the Audit and Control Committee and approved by the Board of Directors in October 2015. For further information on Corporate Responsibility: http:// www.atresmediacorporacion.com/a3document/2010/12/27/ DOCUMENTS/00009/00009.pdf In 2015, the Active dialogue with stakeholders CR Committee of Atresmedia For the purpose of identifying the most important economic, conducted a new social and environmental aspects for its stakeholders, materiality study Atresmedia regularly carries out studies where their which delved representatives can freely express their concerns and interests. further into the prioritisation of In 2014, Atresmedia conducted a survey among more than 3,000 relevant aspects representatives of the main stakeholders of the Group, receiving for stakeholders 274 responses. As a complement to this survey, in 2015 the company performed follow-up work, in which the CR Committee of Atresmedia has delved further into the prioritisation of each aspect. This new study has identified aspects such as “quality of content”, “social action” and “protection of minors” as aspects with a very high priority for the Group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 58 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 The matters identified were already among the areas included in the Group’s Corporate Responsibility strategy, but in keeping with the results produced from the study these will be further strengthened in future action plans. Matrix of important aspects Very low Low Average High Very high 11 13 1 Very high 3 2 10 17 7 4 High 12 Impact for Atresmedia 9 8 Average 15 6 5 16 Low 14 Very low Importance for Stakeholders Important aspects for stakeholders Priority General aspect Specific aspect 1. Quality of the content Dissemination of contents HIGH 2. Protection of minors Social action 3. Social action campaigns 4. Responsible advertising Advertising management 5. Quality of the advertising services 6. Independence between advertisers and content 7. Satisfaction of advertisers Dissemination of contents 8. Editorial independence l AVERAGE 9. Freedom of expression Economic management 10. Strategic areas and objectives 11. Transparency Corporate governance 12. Control mechanisms Internal organisation 13. Human capital development 14. Shareholder composition Economic management 15. Cost management LOW 16. Governing bodies Corporate governance 17. Regulatory compliance ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 59 Outstanding actions in 2015 The Group renews its presence on the FTSE 4 Good Ibex sustainability index, where it has had a presence since 2009. This index incorporates companies that are socially responsible, and the Group obtained a score of 4.3/5. Active participation on the CR committee of the Asociación Española para la Calidad (Spanish Atresmedia, best communications media in the 2015 Association for Quality) and on the Media CSR Reporta Report Forum Atresmedia has improved its score by 2.6 points in Atresmedia takes part on the main forums used as the 2015 Reporta Report, up to 70.3 points, placing a meeting place to debate and share best practices it in the segment of companies with ‘high quality’ in Corporate Responsibility. One of these is the CR reporting. This score ranks the Group as the ‘best Committee of the Asociación Española de la Calidad communications media’ and second in the consumer (Spanish Association for Quality), where Atresmedia services sector. takes part with other organisations to improve the According to the document, in 2014 the Company integration of CR into business strategy. provided proper access to financial reporting, business The Group also takes part on the Media Corporate setting and evolution and improved on the previous Social Responsibility Forum (Media CSR Forum), a year with regard to its strategic approach and dealing forum that specialises in CR and which comprises the with several aspects such as CR strategy or relations largest international communication companies. The with stakeholders. purpose is to share good practices and improve the Further information in the Reporta Report at http:// application of CR in the sector. www.deva.es/reporta2015/Informe_Reporta_2015. pdf. Optimising the collection of information from Stakeholders Since May 2015, a procedure has been put in place to optimise the collection of email information created at Atresmedia to give a direct response to its Stakeholders: responsabilidad.corporativa@ atresmedia.com. The new procedure incorporates a preliminary classification of each communication and monitors the response. In 2015, 162 emails were dealt with, of which 28% concerned issues of Corporate Responsibility, 14% were complaints about content and 13% related to Atresmedia, media partner of the biggest business technical incidents. and sustainability meeting Atresmedia was media partner of Sustainable Brands® Barcelona, the largest worldwide meeting on brand sustainability that took place in Barcelona in April 2015. The event took place for the first time in Spain and the objective was to contribute to raising awareness about the problems and opportunities of social and environmental challenges and the search for joint solutions. Sustainable Brands® is a global community with more than 500,000 specialists from innovative brands and businesses. Further information on Sustainable Brands http:// In 2015 Atresmedia joined the Network of events.sustainablebrands.com/sb16bcn/es/inicio/ Companies for a Society Free from Gender Violence, by signing a collaboration agreement with the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, through which the Group has undertaken to externally and internally raise awareness about this issue. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 60 Global Compact Principles Area Scope Atresmedia Actions Support and respect Atresmedia incorporates undertakings into its Corporate the protection of Policies and Deontological Codes that guarantee compliance Principal 1 internationally with Human Rights, both internally and with its suppliers. proclaimed human rights Atresmedia launches awareness campaigns to guarantee the rights of women and to campaign against gender violence. Human Rights Do not be complicit in Atresmedia encourages and protects intellectual property Principal 2 rights through the “Crea Cultura” initiative. human rights abuses The Fundación Atresmedia works to protect children’s rights through its projects. Uphold the freedom of association and the Principal 3 effective recognition of the right to collective Atresmedia has prevailing collective bargaining agreements bargaining that guarantee the conditions of association and collective Elimination of all bargaining, and dignified working conditions that forbid forced Principal 4 forms of forced and labour, child labour and discrimination. Labour compulsory labour Effective abolition of Principal 5 child labour Atresmedia internally applies an Equality Plan and has Elimination of introduced actions to encourage integration. discrimination in respect Principal 6 of employment and Atresmedia has a Human Resources policy that ensures no occupation discrimination in the recruitment processes. Support a precautionary approach to Atresmedia has a Environmental Management System that Principio 7 environmental reduces its impacts. challenges Atresmedia spearheads environmental awareness campaigns such as HAZTE ECO and has partnership agreements with Undertake initiatives leading enterprises in environmental care: Ecoembes, to promote greater Principal 8 Greenpeace and WWF. Environment environmental responsibility Atresmedia includes an environmentally friendly clause in its contract with suppliers. Encourage the development Atresmedia applies “Buy green” criteria with suppliers of Principal 9 and diffusion of technological equipment. environmentally friendly technologies Businesses should work against corruption in Atresmedia has a Risk Management System that includes Principal 10 Anti-corruption all its forms, including specific actions to prevent and avoid all forms of corruption. extortion and bribery Since 2008 Atresmedia has been a member of the of the Spanish Network of the UN Global Compact, thus declaring its commitment to the 10 principles concerning respect for human rights, labour, the environment and the fight against corruption. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 61 ura ult e. re a C itte C mm the s Co of t e rs xper m b E Me Active contribution to the defence of the audio-visual sector Atresmedia participates actively on the main forums and associations of the audio-visual sector from which, using a philosophy of an open attitude and dialogue, it contributes to the development of public policies that are positive for the sector and which defend its interests. Sectoral forums to which Atresmedia belongs UTECA Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asociadas (Commercial Television Union) ACT Association of Commercial Television in Europe Consejo Asesor de Telecomunicaciones y para la Sociedad de la Información CATSI (Advisory Board for Telecommunications and for the Information Society) Asociación Española de Radiodifusión Comercial (Spanish Association of AERC Commercial Broadcasting) ACR Asociación Catalana de Radio (Catalan Radio Association) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 62 Throughout 2015, Atresmedia has worked actively to oversee an optimal legislative framework and an environment that favours development of the audio-visual sector. Among the relevant issues in which the Group has been involved, we can highlight the following: In 2015, Atresmedia obtained a licence to broadcast a new HD television channel and was the first licensee of a public bidding procedure to commence broadcasting, making the Atreseries channel Promotion of HD available to viewers. television Atresmedia Televisión promotes the implementation and development of high definition television, offering the public the programming of its major channels in this technology. Like the other TV networks, the Atresmedia group is against the obligatory nature of the Supporting Spanish “investment fee” to finance the production of films. The industry argues that its own activity cinema already strengthens the country’s film industry, without needing to impose this exclusive tax for this economic activity. Atresmedia has always understood that public television should obtain its credibility and strength through offering a public service and not from selling commercial space, making television for the public and not for the advertisers. Therefore, it firmly supports Law 8/2009 regarding the funding Public television of the RTVE Corporation, which prohibits it from obtaining income from broadcasting commercial funding communications. Atresmedia Televisión is working, both individually and through UTECA, to achieve a true streamlining of the public television sector as a whole. Throughout 2015, Atresmedia actively worked, inside the Group and through UTECA and AERC, Reforms relating on the public consultation processes for preparing the Methodology Order to determine the to the collective general tariffs of the management enterprises. This was published in the Official State Journal on management of 4 December and in practice entailed the actual coming-into-force of the Intellectual Property Law intellectual property with regard to the application of objective, fair and appropriate criteria for setting prices that those rights enterprises can demand for the use of the rights they manage. Atresmedia Televisión has been participating, both directly as well as through UTECA, to ensure rocess of releasing that during the process of releasing radio-electric spectrum to provide greater capacity to spectrum for the broadband, and on its completion, the public can continue enjoying the current television offer digital dividend through their DTT receivers. Crea Cultura Atresmedia has launched Crea Cultura, a movement that was created to defend and recognise the value of intellectual property and raise awareness about the consequences associated with its violation. The initiative is designed with a long-term view and seeks to generate meeting and discussion opportunities that could help to find solutions through dialogue. Antena 3 Noticias, laSexta Noticias and Onda Cero have been the main promoters of Crea Cultura with the broadcast of spots such as ‘Nada es gratis. Siempre hay alguien que lo paga’ (‘Nothing is free. Someone always has to pay’). Crea Cultura is online at http://creacultura.atresmedia.com, a specialised blog, and also a profile on Facebook and Twitter where, in addition to disseminating, it encourages participation using the #creacultura hashtag. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 63 QUALITY capitalised Atresmedia strives to attain the very highest levels of quality. To this end, it currently applies a continuous improvement cycle as part of its Quality Management System, in accordance with the following process: Introduction of improvements Identification and to the process: control of incidents lessons learned Evaluation of the Continuous analysis efficiency of the of the causes actions Identification of corrective and improvement actions The Quality Committee is responsible for analysing the detected incidents, classifying them according to the area responsible, assessing their follow-up and reporting them to the management team to try and resolve them. Actions for improvement undertaken in 2015 During 2015, the company extended the Group’s Quality System to the radio broadcasting processes. This has entailed a very thorough identification of incidents, as it involves all areas, and the take-up of an approach targeted at introducing plans for improvements. In addition, this year we have developed other actions associated to the Television Quality Systems, including the following: • Constitution of an Audio-Visual Communication Law Committee for the purpose of analysing and ensuring compliance by the Group with regard to the broadcasting of advertising, self-promotions and the areas of Corporate Responsibility and the Fundación Atresmedia. An action protocol for this Committee has also been prepared. • Training for all those persons of the organisation involved in the advertising broadcasting process with regard to the mandatory obligations and requirements set out in the Ley General de Comunicación Audiovisual (Audio-Visual Communication Law). • Improvements to the processes of rebroadcasting programme. • Improvements to the continuity systems, targeted at optimising control of advertising broadcasting on secondary channels. • Introduction of a new system for editing news (introduced in 2015 to LaSexta Noticias) to improve the news production and editing process. • Intensification of the control over possible typographic, lexical or grammatical errors through a range of supervisory measures. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 64 Thanks to the efficiency of this Quality Management System and the improvement plans implemented, the incidents recorded in the processes of production, recording and broadcasting of content have maintained a downward trend for several years. In 2015, incidents Atresmedia Group. Evolution of the number of Television incidents fell by 40%, down from 45 the 300 286 296 previous year to 27 250 200 172 150 98 100 65 45 50 27 09 10 11 12* 13 14** 15 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 Ave Ave Ave Ave Ave Ave Ave (*) From October 2012, laSexta channel incidents have been incorporated. (**) From May 2014 the Nitro, laSexta3 and Xplora ceased to be broadcast. As regards the Multimedia Quality System, the incidents on all platforms has increased 2%, while the values of the previous year remain unchanged, a year during which there was a drastic reduction of incidents. This been achieved thanks to the improvements introduced into the work processes of the area, including the following: • Improvements in the existing infrastructure against denial of service (DOS) attacks. • Increase in the number of servers, which has enabled all streams to be ingested simultaneously on two servers. • Improvements in the CDN service, redistributing the broadcast through different suppliers and providing better quality of service to the user. • Changes to the video adserver, which has enabled us to speed up multimedia advertising management, optimise spaces and improve the transcoding of content. Atresmedia Group. Evolution of the number of Digital incidents 100 97 80 60 52 53 40 20 13* 14 15 rag e 20 rag e 20 rag e 20 Ave Ave Ave (*) From October 2013, the Atresplayer platform incidents have been incorporated. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 65 Sustainability in the value chain Atresmedia understands that responsible management is only possible with the involvement of all stakeholders and, more specifically, those that make up its value chain: suppliers, audience and advertisers. Consequently, Atresmedia insists that its suppliers share the Group’s mission, vision and values, and involves them in the common aim of improving sustainability and the quality of the entire value chain: from creation of the product through to the provision of different audio-visual services to advertisers and audiences. Production and Definition of Reception and purchase of Programming Distribution R&D product sales Rights • Generation of • Selection and • Alignment of • Atresmedia • Monitoring of Ideas procurement of contents to Channels audiences • Incorporation producers the Códigos de • Web, Social • Mechanisms for of Atresmedia • Acquisition of autorregulación Networks listening to and values to the broadcasting de contenidos y • Smart tv interactivity with content rights publicidad (Self• Smart phone the audience • Responsible TV • Transparent regulation codes • Investment in • Sale of model process of of contents and accessibility on broadcasting • Customers’ adjudication advertising) all platforms rights expectations • Corporate • Strict • Parental control • Innovation and (audience and responsibility in classification of tools quality in the advertisers) contracts with contents by ages advertising sales suppliers service Atresmedia distinguishes between two types of supplier: • Producers and distributors who supply contents of drama, news, information and entertainment. • Other suppliers of goods and services. Producers and distributors The External Production Department of Atresmedia is responsible for the relationship with distributors and for managing the acquisition of broadcasting rights for those products that are not exclusively produced for Atresmedia Televisión, such as feature films, tv-movies, documentaries or entertainment programmes. Elsewhere, the Production Department is responsible for the selection and management of economic and operational relationships with the producers responsible for producing ad hoc content for Atresmedia. In both cases, the contents and format selected must comply with strict requirements that guarantee their contribution to the Group’s responsible and quality TV model. The suppliers chosen also have to sign a corporate responsibility clause that guarantees their commitment to the principles of corporate responsibility promoted by Atresmedia and which encourage the application of measures that respect human rights, care for the environment and accessibility to and diversity of contents. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 66 Corporate Responsibility Clause in procurement with Suppliers Equality Values included in the Atresmedia Accessibility of and nonSustainability corporate policies content discrimination In line with the company’s increased activity in 2015, the number of collaborating producers has increased significantly, up 36% on 2014. 80% of these are national producers. Number of producers that have Number of producers that have collaborated with Atresmedia TV and collaborated with Atresmedia TV on the programmes produced drama series and series produced 17 47 22 43 30 48 7 9 13 10 8 12 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Producers Programmes Producers Series 80% of the Number of distributors of Number of external adjudication producers with Atresmedia TV proposals generated by Atresmedia TV which Atresmedia contracts 47 43 48 47 43 48 are national producers 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 67 In 2015, the External Production Department generated 158 purchase proposals, which accounts for 15% less than in 2014 as a consequence of a decrease in channels through the closure of Xplora, Nitro and laSexta3, despite the launch in 2015 of MEGA and Atreseries. Of the total number of purchase proposals, 50% corresponded to national distributors and 50% to foreign distributors. In all cases, the acquisition of broadcasting rights are processed through an internal system of approvals, which guarantees the transparency of the process and provides in-house disclosure of the procurement conditions to the finance, legal advice, programming and internal audit areas. Other suppliers of products and services Atresmedia has established a unique contracting procedure that applies equally to all suppliers of products and services, and which must guarantee compliance with the following requirements: Transparency Contracting Legal compliance Technical quality procedures Sustainability These criteria are assessed as part of an exhaustive supplier selection process that encompasses technical and economic requirements, as well as aspects that are extremely important for Atresmedia such as social and environmental criteria. The entire process is internally audited to ensure transparency and reliability in the contracting. Supplier selection process Minimum Valuation of the Environmental Social technical quality financial offer responsibility of Responsibility criterion Any purchases the suppliers Clause Necessary in order of more than This requires The signing of to be able to value €50,000 are suppliers to take a Corporate the financial offer. approved by action to minimise Responsibility a Purchasing the environmental clause. Committee. impact of their activities and to implement green ‘purchasing criteria’. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA | 68 In strict accordance with this methodology, during 2015 the new “News Editing System” was awarded. This is a major project of great importance for Atresmedia that required special attention. In 2015, spending on goods and services increased by more than 15%, up to 65.13 million euros. 90% of this spending was carried out with national suppliers. Spending on purchases Spending on (Millions of euros) goods and services has 42,2 50 65.13 increased by more than 15% in 2015 2013 2014 2015 More than 90% Geographic distribution of purchase expenses of the spending (Percentage) on goods and services was Autonomous Community carried out with of Madrid Catalonia national suppliers 76.7 13.0 Other communities Other countries 4.3 6.0 ATRESMEDIA Televisión Leadership of a plural and quality model Atresmedia Televisión has strengthened its TV model even further in a year in which it has made history for various reasons. It is the success of a way of envisioning TV, how to mix a varied, quality and innovative grid in its six channels that enjoy a differentiated personality but with a common objective: to offer the best entertainment and accurate information with the highest quality. Magnificent audience figures have been achieved in all of its channels in this way. Atresmedia Televisión registered in 2015 an average audience share of 26.8%, reaching during prime time 27.7%, and achieving market share of 42.1% (+0.6 points). This and other reasons are why it is the TV of reference in Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 70 “7d: el debate To innovate is to take risks, and in the case of Atresmedia decisivo” was the Televisión, innovation is a winning constant. Antena 3, with most viewed in 91%, and laSexta, with 56%, where the channels with greatest a TV group with success rates in their premieres. It was also the information 48.2% of share leader changing how debates are organised and executed and 9,233,000 with the success of the historic 7d: el debate decisivo and was viewers the preferred option during major events of the year (general elections, main electoral events, or the Paris terrorist attacks). Definitively, 2015 was the year in which Atresmedia, through Antena 3, laSexta and Onda Cero became an informative reference for Spanish citizens. Fiction series made inhouse are notable for their magnificent acceptance, Allí abajo, Vis a vis, Mar de plástico, Bajo sospecha or Velvet, and in terms of entertainment Tu cara me suena, El hormiguero 3.0, El intermedio, Constructor a la fuga or Zapeando. The prime time grids of its two main channels, Antena 3 and laSexta, emerged as the most viewed (21.9%) compared to Telecinco and Cuatro (21.6%) and were also the best option both on a general level and during the highly desired commercial target. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 71 Antena 3, which celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2015, became once again the leading channel during prime time in terms of commercial target with almost 15% (14.9%) and growth of 0.8 points compared to 2014 The combination of entertainment, fiction, information and movies played a decisive role, making it a success. Atresmedia’s thematic offer also recorded very notable results. After the switch off Antena 3, which celebrated its 25th in May 2014 with the disappearance of anniversary in 2015, became once again Xplora, Nitro and laSexta3, MEGA and the leading channel during prime time in Atreseries were launched this year. MEGA terms of commercial target with almost recorded the best historic premiere of a 15% (14.9%), 1.1% above Telecinco and a TDT channel and closed its first month growth rate of 0.8 compared to 2014. It with 2.1%, and Atreseries debuted with was the absolute leader in afternoons a prominent 0.5% share despite the HD (12.4%) and weekends (13.0%) and the receiver limitations (technology in which preferred option among men and viewers it broadcasts) and not have full coverage. aged 45 to 54 (14.6%). It remained favourite among upper and middle The veteran Neox and Nova celebrated classes. their first 10 years in November. Two highly consolidated brands: Neox (2.6%) Furthermore, laSexta achieved the best and Nova (2.4%) recorded their second year of its history (7.4%), surpassing best results in their history. Cuatro (7.2%) for the third consecutive year. It also obtained its best results ever In addition Neox achieved its best year in during prime time: 8.5%, 2.1 points above commercial target (3.8%) and Nova was its direct competitor. the most viewed female channel (3.1%). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 72 Antena 3 and laSexta, leaders in commercial target during prime time; the most sought by Antena 3 (91%) and laSexta advertisers (56%) repeat as channels of greatest success indices in their The varied combination of entertainment, premieres fiction, information and movies offered by the group during the highest In addition to offering the preferred consumption segment has revealed itself grid by viewers during the segment again as the preferred by viewers. The of greatest commercial interest, prime prime time grid of Antena 3 and laSexta time, Antena 3 and laSexta were again (21.9%) emerged as the most viewed in the channels with the greatest success the market ahead of Telecinco and Cuatro indexes in their premieres. Ten of the 11 (21.6%). Its hegemony in the commercial new programs of Antena 3 surpassed the target was even more firm: reaching a average of the channel. notable 24.2%, 2.3 points more than the leading Mediaset channels (21.9%). In addition, the fiction portfolio was extended with the arrival of Allí abajo, Furthermore, Atresmedia Televisión was Mar de plástico, Bajo sospecha and Vis a the prime time leader during the fourth vis. Algo que celebrar bade farewell with quarter both in total individuals (29.6%) an audience share above the average and among viewers of greatest interest of the channel and the foreign Forever for advertisers (34.1%). and The Flash also achieved excellent results in the summer. But Antena 3 not only renewed its fiction brands; it also successfully added new entertainment products: Pekín Express, Casados a primera vista and En tierra hostil. Furthermore, laSexta widened its grid during 2015 with the series Refugiados and Extant, as well as the programs El precio de los alimentos and Constructor a la fuga. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 73 Spectators chose Antena 3 and laSexta for news and Atresmedia Televisión writes history with 7d: el debate decisivo: laSexta Noticias Atresmedia Televisión lived a historic year in the news field. (10.3%) achieved It was the media of reference to follow major events, such as once again its general elections, where it became the preferred option, the best year: all its Paris attacks, or the Rajoy-Sánchez face-to-face of the TV editions reached Academy. Of all them, the 7 December debate stood apart, maximum which hosted the four main political leaders. 7d: el debate levels: growing decisivo was the most viewed in a TV group since 2008 with a 0.4 points and 48.2% share and 9,233,000 viewers becoming the most viewed exceeded those of of the year until then. Cuatro (7.9%) for the fourth year in The Antena 3 and laSexta news programs continued to harvest a row highly positive results. Antena 3 Noticias 1 was the leading table talk edition, from Monday to Friday (14.5%) and during weekends (15.0%). Antena 3 Noticias 2, from Monday to Friday, grew 0.6 points compared to 2014 with a 12% share and almost 1.7 million followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 74 Moreover, laSexta Noticias (10.3%) points and recovered leadership from achieved again its best year: all its Cuatro, with 10% and over 900,000 editions achieved maximum figures: followers; and the second increased 0.5 growing 0.4 points and exceeding points with 7.2% and 870,000 followers. those of Cuatro (7.9%) for its fourth consecutive year, la Sexta Noticias But the analysis of current affairs is not 14h, with Helena Resano, was the most limited to news programs at Antena 3. followed with 13.2% and almost 1.4 million; Espejo público, led by Susanna Griso, while laSexta Noticias 20h, with Cristina registered a 16.8% share and over Saavedra at the helm, also achieved its 470,000 viewers. It achieved its best annual maximum with 9.7% (+0.4 vs. audience share figure last 9th January 2014) and more than a million followers. with 23.5% and in terms of viewers on 18th Cristina Villanueva set double record November, with an audience of 798,000 on weekends: the first edition grew 0.7 persons. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 75 laSexta also consolidated its current Evenings during weekends are also a affairs portfolio. Al rojo vivo, with Antonio field for current affairs at laSexta. It García Ferreras and Más vale tarde, with consolidated the tandem laSexta columna Mamen Mendizábal, achieved their best (7.8% and 1,289,000) and Equipo de annual figures: 11.7% and 684,000 viewers investigación (7.2% and 1,252,000), and and 7.1% and 705,000 respectively. on Saturdays laSexta noche positioned itself as the leading current affairs programme with a new record (10.6% and 1,194,000). On Sundays, El objetivo de Ana Pastor also grew and achieved record figures with 9.2% and 1,715,000. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 76 Atresmedia series, success continues Fiction at Antena 3 revalidated its dominant position in the market, becoming synonymous with quality and audience success. Velvet continued to lead during its new seasons with 19.2% and 3.4 million viewers, and Sin identidad ended its second season with a 14.4% and almost 2.5 million followers on average. the channel. It started in February before over 4.2 million viewers and hooked over But undoubtedly it is the fiction 3.7 million followers and 19.7% in share catalogue of the channel that continues during its first season. to be renewed by adding new products with great success. They all won over the The thriller genre included more success: favour of the audience and exceeded the Mar de plástico premiered in September channel's average in 2015. Allí abajo broke as another of the most viewed fiction the moulds and beat records: its premiere premieres in the last 10 years. After that, it became the most viewed of a series in became the absolute audience leader and 10 years, with over 6.3 million followers ended with over 3.7 million followers and and 32.4% it is simultaneous broadcast in a 21.4% share. In addition, Vis a vis delved Antena 3, laSexta, Neox and Nova. The for the first time into the prison thriller series was leader in all its episodes and and was one of the most acclaimed concluded with an average of over 4.2 series by the critics and audience after million followers and a 22.4% share. Bajo conquering over 3.5 million followers and sospecha was another of the new success a 19.9% share. Its female cast won the titles and was the second most viewed of Ondas Award. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 77 In addition, Algo que celebrar was Great results with foreign fiction broadcast in 2015; a family comedy that ended as the leader in its segment with The success of Atresmedia in fiction is an average 14.2% share and over 2.5 not limited to in-house production. The million followers. external fiction titles also achieved great audience results. Forever and The Flash Fiction also enjoyed magnificent results ended has leaders in their segment in in the table talk and afternoon segments. Antena 3 with over 1.6 million viewers and The tandem Amar es para siempre and 15.0% and 14.6% share, respectively. El secreto de Puente Viejo revolutionised the afternoon grid in January 2013. Amar laSexta offered the final season of The es para siempre completed its best year Mentalist, which was the most followed with 14.5% and almost 1.7 million viewers fiction series of the channel and one of and El secreto de Puente Viejo was the the most watched foreign series in the most viewed series in the afternoon with market with almost 1.8 million viewers and 18% and 1.8 million viewers; since then it 8.8% share. In addition, it broadcast new has not stopped gaining the sympathy of chapters of the veteran Bones, another of the audience. its banners of the genre, and premiered The Glades. But undoubtedly its main Furthermore, laSexta recovered fiction contribution in foreign fiction was the in its own grid with Refugiados. The premiere of Extant with Halle Berry. The simultaneous broadcast of its first science fiction series debuted with a chapter in Antena 3, laSexta, Neox and notable 14.9% on its first day and ended Nova attracted almost 4.4 viewers and a with an average exceeding 1.3 million 24.9% share. followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 78 Antena 3 is Movie containers, leaders responsible for the most watched El peliculón and Multicine of Antena 3, and El taquillazo of movies in 2015. laSexta, continued as the three most consolidated movie brands Six of the ten in the market. El peliculón (15.4% and 2,401,000) and Multicine most watched (14.9% and 1,812,000) were absolute leaders in their segment movies have been yet another year. El peliculón erected itself again as the movie broadcast in this container with greatest share, ahead of La película de la semana channel of La1 (13.5%). Movies started the year with great results in Antena 3. The premiere of Karate Kid attracted 6,031,000 viewers (34.5%) and became the most watched movie of the channel since 1994, and the most viewed in the year in a single channel. In fact, Antena 3 is responsible for the most watched movies in 2015. Six of the ten most watched movies have been broadcast by this channel. Furthermore, El taquillazo of laSexta achieved positive results once again. It ended with 8.0% and 1,345,000 and Untraceable (14.4% and 2,742,000) as its most watched title of the year The most varied entertainment portfolio Other major achievements in 2015 were, on one hand, the consolidation of the veteran entertainment portfolio and, on the other, the successful premiere of new products. El hormiguero 3.0 set a new record by once again achieving the best year of its history and emerging as the absolute leader of its segment with an average 14.4% and more than 2.7 million viewers (1.2 more than in 2014). Also in 2015, it registered the most viewed broadcast in its history with over 4.1 million viewers 16 November and the best share with 21.7% it is broadcast on 3 November with Pablo Iglesias. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 79 En Tierra Hostil arrived as audience leader with its revealing documentary on coltan exploitations in El Congo (16.3% One of the most notable changes in 2015 and 3,217,000) and concluded with an was the change of Tu cara me suena to average of 14.1% share and almost 2.3 Fridays. The program, also a complete million viewers. It peaked with its visit success internationally and winner this to the hermetic North Korea, which year of the Ondas Award to the best attracted the attention of almost 3.6 entertainment program, revolutionised million viewers (20.9%). Friday nights and led the segment from the start. With 22.3% of audience and With Casados a primera vista Antena 3 3,220,000, achieved its best season's rate. entered the dating genre with good results. It closed with 15.3% and almost 2.7 In addition, Top Chef repeated positive million viewers and renewed for another results in its third season and concluded season. Risto Mejide joined the portfolio as leader among the private offer with a of channel faces with Al rincón, where he 14.1% share and over 2.1 million viewers. carries out intimate interviews to various relevant celebrities. It averaged 9.3% New products were added to the grid in during its two seasons. 2015 which introduced Antena 3 to new genres and reinforced its commitment to In addition, Antena 3 delved into the attract new audiences. En Tierra Hostil, adventure and travel reality world with Casados a primera vista, Al rincón and Pekín Express led by Cristina Pedroche. Pekín Express successfully renewed the The voyage concluded with almost two portfolio and consolidated the diversity of million followers and an average 13.6% the Group. share, leader in its final with 14.9%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 80 In addition to the success during prime time of veteran and new products, Antena 3 continues to shine with its entertainment offers during day time. La ruleta de la suerte continued yet another year unbeaten in its segment with over and almost 2.9 million viewers. It rewrote a million loyal viewers and 17.1% share. history with the face to face between Furthermore, Karlos Arguiñano en tu Albert Rivera and Pablo Iglesias, absolute cocina improved its registers and closed leader in its segment and most watched its best year with a 15.1% and almost broadcast of the channel in 2015 with 600,000 spectators. 5,214,000 viewers and 25.2%. The afternoon continued to be a territory El intermedio, another of the flagships of of competitions with the effective block the channel, surpassed again its annual consisting of ¡Ahora caigo! and Boom. record with 12.4% share and over 2.3 The program led by Arturo Valls, which million followers. The ironic vision of introduced changes to its mechanics at current affairs by Gran Wyoming and year end, closed 2015 with 14.9% and over Sandra Sabatés reached this year the 1.4 million viewers (+0.3 compared to most viewed broadcast of its trajectory 2014). The game show of Juanra Bonet with almost 3.3 million followers and the achieved 12.9% (0.4 more than in 2014) best share (17.6%). and almost 1.5 million viewers. Zapeando also achieved highly positive laSexta, moreover, maintained the good results. Its funny entertainment formula results of its emblematic programs such led by Frank Blanco singled it out during as Salvados, El intermedio, Zapeando, the table talk segment with 7.0% and Pesadilla en la cocina, El jefe infiltrado, El over 860,000 followers, surpassing club de la comedia and introduced new its followers in 2014 by 0.6 points. It offers such as Constructor a la fuga and celebrated its 500 programs in the best El precio de los alimentos. way possible, with record: 9.4% and 1,196,000 viewers. Salvados makes history again Pesadilla en la cocina and El jefe infiltrado continued to progress with Salvados was once again the most good results. The program led by Alberto viewed program of the channel and Chicote concluded the year with 11.0% leader in its segment with a 14.3% share and almost 2 million viewers, and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 81 El jefe infiltrado with 10.2% and 1.9 million phase, improving on the results of the followers. This genre also added a new previous year obtained by La1 (4,981,000) successful program: Constructor a la and positioning itself among the most fuga, which premiered as one of the most viewed. The Real Madrid-Paris Saint watched entertainment programs in the Germain match attracted almost 6.6 history of the channel (2,482,000 and million viewers to Antena 3 and became 13.1%) and closed its five programs with a the most watched match of the season notable 9.7% and over 1.8 million viewers broadcast by a single channel and in the group phase match of greatest interest Another of the most emblematic for two years. programs is El club de la comedia, which added Alexandra Jiménez and presenter Formula 1 closed its cycle in Atresmedia and concluded the season with a 7.3% with a 19.7% share and almost 2 million and over one million loyal viewers. viewers in 2015. The Copa del Rey (King's Cup) obtained 11% and 2,324,000, where In addition, laSexta broadcast a new the most watched game in a group's season of Policías (7.3% and 1,165,000) channel was the first leg of the round and premiered a similar format, of sixteen in Antena 3 with a 14.8% Comandancias. It ended the year with and almost 3 million viewers. laSexta 6.5%. broadcast the second division League, which again improved its audience with 5.1% and 644,000, +0.4 points compared The Champions is played in to 2014. Atresmedia Televisión laSexta continued to stand out in sports Atresmedia Televisión also broadcast analysis. Jugones, with Josep Pedrerol, several top level sports events. The grew again and again recorded its best Champions was televised in 2015-16 by annual figure with 5.2% and 650,000 the group, averaging 26.9% and viewers (0.6 more compared to 2014). over 5 million viewers during the groups ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 82 Two consolidated thematic channels and two new ones of In addition it increased its spectrum great success again and gained diversity, especially on weekends, where it grew to 2.0% 2015 was also a year of milestones (0.3 more than in 2014). In addition, in in theme channels. Neox and Nova 2015 Nova registered the most viewed celebrated 10 years in full form and program of its history with the final two new channels emerged: MEGA and chapter of Pasión de gavilanes: more Atreseries. The two debuted with great than one million spectators and 6.4% audience results. share on 20 March. Neox (2.6%) maintained its 2014 MEGA was born in July and enjoyed result and repeated its second best the best launch of a themed channel annual results. It continued to stand in history: 2.1% in its first month of life out especially among young audiences combining factual spaces with adult (7.0%) and reached its maximum in the fiction and sports. It ended the year with commercial target (3.8%). Its afternoon an average of 1.9% (in the second half of portfolio based on US sitcoms continued the year) and has already turned into a to build its backbone and achieved powerful brand with its own identity. El positive results. In fact, it positioned chiringuito de jugones, leading sports itself as the leading theme channel in the talk program with Josep Pedrerol and afternoon among viewers between 13 and his team is one of its emblems and, with 54 years (5.2%) and in the commercial an average of 3.8% and over 200,000 target (5.3%). But it also achieved good viewers, it was the first themed option on performance with movies. Its container several occasions. Neox y acción was the leader among the Furthermore, the channel also offered the theme portfolio with 3.0%. In addition, summaries of Champions matches, which its brand for the younger audience, Neox attracted 400,000 followers and a 2.5% Kidz surpassed channels exclusively for share. children such as Disney Channel (10.5%) and Clan (11.6%) among children between Atreseries was the last to arrive. It started 10 and 12 years old (12.2%). on 22 December. Despite the limited HD coverage and that it is not possible to be Nova (2.4%) became the leading seen on all TV sets, its series and movie female themed channel yet another portfolio achieved 0.7% in its third week. year. It surpassed again its immediate The premiere of the film Pancho, el perro competitor, Divinity (2.3%) and remained millonario, on its first day was the most as the favourite afternoon themed option watched program with 157,000 viewers (3.1%) with its soap opera portfolio. and 0.8% share. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 83 A year to celebrate During this In 2015, several important anniversaries have coincided: 25 years quarter of a of Antena 3 and 10 of Neox and Nova. To celebrate, the three century, Antena 3 channels prepared special programs and celebrated —in the case has accompanied of Antena 3— a major institutional party headed by the Royal the Spanish Highnesses, the Kings of Spain. society each day informing, Antena 3 hosted last 29 January 2015 over 800 guests in an entertaining, institutional act that gathered the greatest celebrities from the dazzling, and administration society and culture of our country, as well as always offering numerous professionals from the audio-visual industry. plurality During this quarter of a century, Antena 3 has accompanied the Spanish society each day informing, entertaining, dazzling, and always offering plurality , stated King Felipe VI at the start of the party organised in Madrid. A day later, Antena 3 broadcasted the gala 25 años emocionando, hosting the most representative faces of the channel, over one hundred historic guests, performances and emblematic moments in the history of Antena 3. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 84 Innovative and committed TV The vision of Atresmedia Televisión is to broadcast a diverse,  innovative and high quality mix of information and entertainment. Our The following principles are considered in both the creation and vision production and the broadcast of content: 1. To ensure the quality and interest of the content. 2. To respond to social concerns. 3. To protect the most vulnerable audiences, especially children. 4. To promote accessibility to audiovisual content. 5. To bring the media closer to society. For a responsible TV Atresmedia assumes the responsibility of offering quality content that are accessible and reflect the various realities, environments and voices that comprise society, and that respond to the needs and expectations of the audience. Therefore, it has made a commitment to its own TV model based on quality, diversity of genres, plurality, innovation and commitment. Content control mechanisms Atresmedia Televisión carries out a content selection and control process that guarantees that every program complies with the values, ethics codes and policies of the Group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 85 G4-26, G4-27 This process entails various mechanisms, internal and external: Internal Mechanisms Contents committee The Committee ensures the application of the Group's values in all the process of creation of content, from the very beginning until the end, when the content is broadcasted. Atresmedia Code of Conduct General description of the policies, principles, objectives and values of Atresmedia. This code makes these values explicit and visible, and unifies and reinforces the identity, visibility and standards of conduct of the Group. Ethical code of news services The news services at Antena 3 and laSexta have professional ethical codes that ensure a rigorous and high quality news service committed to the ethical and Corporate Responsibility principles. Principles of the Code of Conduct Principles of the Code of Conduct for news broadcasts for news broadcasts • Reference framework: The Constitution and legal • Reference framework: Declaration of Human framework derived thereof. Rights and Spanish Constitution. • Respect for the dignity of persons. • Give voice to organisations and groups • Language a visual resources of the news carefuly that fight for the less favoured and against treated and supervised. inequality and injustices. • Principle of separation of activities of all journalists to • NGOs and new social movements as the basic avoid possible conflicts of interest. pillar when informing. • Clear and explicit separation of information and • Equality, solidarity, social harmony, peace, publicity. freedom and knowledge. • Inequivocal differentiation of news content from those that represent an interpretation or critical comment. • Prohibition to accept gifts. • Legal principle of presumption of inocence. • Extreme rigour when minors are involved. • Viewer involvement through social networks. External Mechanisms Atresmedia uses several methods to measure and to communicate with the audience, in order to adecquate its contents to the demands of the viewers. Qualitative research • Atresmedia Televisión continued its research work in collaboration with the sector’s prestigious institutes, in order to complement the audience data supplied by Kantar Media and therefore learn about preferences. • During 2015, 91 discussion groups were held which has resulted in the valuations of 728 people. This effort enables Atresmedia to be aware of the interests of the viewers as well as the current trends and, as a result, produce better television. • Social networks have become a tool to listen to the audience, and they help the company to complement audiences studies and the information provided by focus groups. • This year, international benchmarking projects have been made in order to get information about audiovidual tendencies around the world. Communication with the audience • Atresmedia has a web site and has set up a call centre to deal with any possiblequeries. In 2015 more than 30.000 calls have been attended. • The commitment to the social networks has led Atresmedia Televisión to use a measurement tool, Instar Social, created by KantarMedia, which offers official data about television-related comments on twitter. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 86 The viewers of Atresmedia highly appraise the Corporate Responsibility actions led by the Group. According to various investigations, Ponle Freno is perceived as the most veteran of campaigns; HAZTE ECO has raised the awareness of the youngest audience; Objetivo Bienestar is highly appreciated for its work in schools; and Constantes y Vitales is considered the most novel and original action. The Atresmedia channels, preferred by viewers According to the latest Personality Media study, citizens prefer the TV channels of the Atresmedia group, which repeat as the channels with the best image. Antena 3 and laSexta are the preferred by consumers (17% and 18%), the most entertaining (26% and 26%) and of greatest quality (24% and 23%). In addition, it is considered to have the most varied grid (27% and 22%) and the best news programs (23% and 24%). For further information on Personality Media: http://www. personalitymedia.es/sitio/index.php/noticias/notas-de-prensa/ item/137cadenas-de-television-para-los-espectadores.html ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 87 io m ed a. e r an Int Gh El s in d p an cam A e EL gee th refu for to g ain HCR ta N we h U e ts wit g els do trav e an ap Z Social content Atresmedia proposes a TV model that works as a social loudspeaker and positioning current affairs on different social problems in the media agenda. Furthermore, it has made a commitment towards entertainment with space for solidarity actions. The program Raise awareness and inform on social problems laSexta Columna Atresmedia Televisión, by selecting its content, is aware of its has been awarded public information potential, hence, in addition to providing in the first edition citizens with the necessary information so they can build their of the 'Concha own and founded opinion, also seeks to raise their awareness on García Campoy' certain social affairs. To achieve this, both Antena 3 and laSexta awards, of the have spaces that contribute to generate a critical sense in the TV Academy for audience: its documentary 'I+D: Indignación • Some of the programs broadcast in 2015, include the más destierro', documentary Los antivacunas, produced by Equipo recognising its de investigación, which exposed what a world without public information vaccines would be like and what these meant to humanity. work Also relevant was the program dedicated to fighting against chauvinism by El objetivo, which was broadcast on International Women's Day; or the program prior to general elections of Espejo público, which examined the problems faced by Spanish citizens abroad in order to exercise their right to vote. Furthermore, El intermedio travelled with ACNUR to Ghana to raise awareness of the harsh reality about refugee camps and, a year after the awareness campaign on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALE), the program Zapeando reminded the audience that this cause continues to need help. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 88 siaín, chez A es. Á n g el Sán rp ris osé ente , and J tween both Atre s media e n t b e of em airman nership agre ice-ch rt io C a rlotti, V D, sign a pa Mauriz irman of FA Cha • News programs also contribute to this committed publicising. Antena 3 Noticias launched a fundraising campaign for the Red Cross to help refugees. Thanks to the solidarity of thousands of people the campaing raised more than one million euros. Besides the space A fondo of Antena 3 Noticias researches the most fiery current matters. Of the documentaries broadcast in 2015, two stand out on gender violence, which approached the matter from the 016 calls perspective and the restraining orders requested by many women. It is also worth highlighting the documentary on the 3,500 Syrians that applied for asylum in Spain during the first half of the year. In addition to social dramas, scientific subjects have been analysed such as space garbage and the dangers it entails. • The series of Atresmedia also include in their stories different social awareness subjects. A clear example is the series Sin identidad, which covers the normalisation and integration of people with disabilities, or Amar es para siempre, which delves into the fight against gender violence, for which it was recognised by the Women's Area of the Ubeda City Hall for its serious and impeccable work . Furthermore, in 2015, Atresmedia and the Fundación de Ayuda con la Drogadicción (FAD Drug Addition Aid Foundation) have signed a collaboration agreement that commits the Group to work on publicising the drug consumption awareness campaigns that FAD has been carrying out since 1989. In addition, the program laSexta Columna has been awarded in the first edition of the 'Concha García Campoy' awards, of the TV Academy for its documentary 'I+D: indignación más destierro , recognising the awareness activities carried out by this program. Celebration of Women's Day in Nova Nova joined, on 8 March, the celebration of the Internal Day for Women's Right and International Peace. The Atresmedia channel kicked off a TV and social media campaign, to raise the awareness of its viewers on this importance of this day and to invoice viewers and users to congratulate women every day of the year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 89 Solidarity specials Atresmedia has In 2015, the various TV channels of Atresmedia have broadcast distributed 16 several solidarity spaces that have echoed the Corporate tonnes of food to Responsibility campaigns of Atresmedia and its Foundation, the most needed as well as the work of non-profit organisations it has helped to families of our collect funds and raise awareness on their causes: country through the • Coinciding with the 25th anniversary of Antena 3, the Federación channel kicked off a solidarity auction that ended with the Española de collection of over 8,000 Euros converted into eight tonnes of los Bancos food that, together with the other eight tonnes provided by de Alimentos Atresmedia, were donated to Federación Española de Bancos (Spanish de Alimentos (Spanish Federation of Food Banks). Federation of • El club de la comedia had a special program on Christmas Food Banks) eve in favour of the NGO Acción Contra el Hambre and its activities to eradicate the neglect situations that threaten the life of many worldwide. • La ruleta de la suerte celebrated the Día del Maestro (Teacher's day) with a special program together with Fundación Atresmedia, which aimed to pay a tribute to teachers. The money collected was invested in different solidarity projects. • Boom! dedicated a special End of year solidarity program to Fundación Educo to support its scholarship dining program in Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 90 s. e Red Cros funds for th ch to raise Classic Mat ch Corazón arity football mat s pa rt in the ch laSexta take In 2015, • ¡Ahora caigo! made a solidarity special in cooperation Atresmedia with Fundación Isabel Gemio in favour of researching donated 206,726 neuromuscular illnesses, especially in children. Euros to different • laSexta, through its spaces laSexta Noticias, Más vale tarde social projects or Zapeando, launched the campaign #CadaPasoEsVital; through its social action that converted exercise kilometres achieved by entertainment citizens into funds for cancer research. Thanks to the citizen and current affairs cooperation action, Atresmedia donated 100,000 Euros to programs Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncológicas (CNIO National Centre for Oncological Research). In 2015, the Atresmedia Group donated a total of 206,726 Euros to different social projects through its entertainment and current affairs programs laSexta works with Corazón Classic Match 2015 In 2015, laSexta worked with the solidary football Corazón Classic Match, organised by Fundación Real Madrid on behalf of the Red Cross. In addition to retransmitting the match, the channel carried out a funds collection campaign that included the viewing of a specific spot and special mentions and interviews through its daily current affairs programs Zapeando, Jugones and Más vale tarde. All funds obtained were destined to the 20,000 children in the Red Cross program “Promoción del Éxito Escolar” (Promotion of School Success), aimed at reducing absenteeism and school failure indices in children in danger of exclusion. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 91 Protection of infancy Atresmedia establishes strict control on the classification and broadcasting of its content and commercial communication during children hours. In 2015, the Group worked on reinforcing the quality family content and providing spaces suitable for parents and children at home. Quality TV for the youngest In 2015, Neox Atresmedia Televisión continued its firm commitment for quality Kidz broadcast content for the youngest, with more premieres and innovative a total of 1,696 fiction through its channel Neox Kidz, which in 2015 broadcast a hours of programs total 1,696 hours of programs dedicated to children audiences. dedicated to In 2015, the channel premiered Mutant Busters, first children children audiences animation project of Atresmedia Televisión with Planeta Junior; European leader in family entertainment content, the Spanish toy manufacturer Famosa and the Kotoc firm. This production was followed by Cómo entrenar a tu dragón, the new deliverables of Alvin and the chipmunks and Super 4. The children's portal neoxkidz.com, created in 2014, offered a selection of the best content of the channel, in addition to online games. The objective of Atresmedia with this portal is to offer a fun and educational environment for children based on four concepts: entertainment, education, browsing safety and usability. For the youngest, with ages between 0 and 4 years, there is a baby environment with content adapted to those ages including educational videos, stories, songs and cartoons. In addition, during 2015, the Antena 3 Televisión games La ruleta de la suerte, Boom! and Ahora caigo have made several special editions for children. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 92 Control and self-regulation on content and childhood Atresmedia Televisión has subscribed to the Código de Autorregulación sobre Contenidos Televisivos e Infancia (Code of Self-Regulation on TV Content and Childhood) since 2005. It is a sectorial code of conduct, voluntarily applicable to any subscribing companies, that veils to protect minors in TV content. Moreover, Atresmedia is part of its Comisión Mixta de Seguimiento (Joint Follow-up Commission) in charge of ensuring its proper application. After several months of work and permanent cooperation at the core of the bodies in the Code with audio-visual authorities of the Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y Competencia (National Commission of Markets and Competition), Atresmedia subscribed the updated text of the Code modifying the content rating system by age group, as well as the criteria to determine such ratings. This change seeks greater objectiveness and automation in applying the Code and, especially, facilitates parental control for responsible adults. In 2015, the During 2015, the Comité de Autorregulación (Self-Regulation Atresmedia Group Committee) has not accepted any claim of those presented has not breached due to broadcasts in Atresmedia channels. After the number the Código de of claims raised in 2014, Atresmedia has made an effort to Autorregulación comply with the new interpretation of the rule derived from sobre Contenidos the assumption by the Comisión Nacional de los Mercados Televisivos e y la Competencia (National Commission of Markets and Infancia (Code of Competition) of its sanctioning responsibility on this matter. Self-Regulation on TV Content and Claims Código Autorregulación (SelfChildhood). Reguation Code) accepted by the committee 2 0 8 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, two claims from viewers were registered for broadcasts considered inconvenient, both linked to broadcasting images in Antena 3 news programs on the Charlie Hebdo magazine attacks, without previously warning about their harshness. Although news programs are not rated by age, the Code demands that viewers be clearly warned in the event of broadcasting extremely harsh content or that may hurt their sensitivity. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 93 More accessible In 2015, Once of the commitments of Atresmedia with society is to Atresmedia has guarantee equal rights and opportunities. Hence the reason to audio described facilitate access to audio-visual content to everyone, regardless 910.4 hours of of their hearing or visual capacity, is a priority for the Group. programs and signed 717.5 In this line, yet another year, Atresmedia has met all hours, surpassing requirements in terms of accessibility established in the Ley the requirements General de la Comunicación Audio-visual (General Audivisual made by Communications Act), often surpassing them with initiatives and the Law by voluntary actions and using the audiodescription, signing and 89% and 49%, subtitling tools. respectively In 2015, we should highlight the special effort made by Atresmedia to extend the live subtitling program portfolio, reaching almost 100% of the commercial segment and all specials derived from current affairs. Hence, the following spaces have been subtitled: Noticias 6.15, Espejo público, Al rojo vivo, El intermedio, Zapeando, Más vale tarde, laSexta columna, El objetivo, El chiringuito de jugones, sports and weather information and all news casts of Atresmedia and laSexta. Subtitled programs of Atresmedia channels reached 88.3%, which represents 13% more than what is legally required. In order to reach these results, Atresmedia has continued to innovate on this matter and kicked off many projects that increase and improve the accessibility of its broadcasts. These include the following: • Signing in the Atresplayer platform of the four-way debate held for the general elections, the Rajoy-Sánchez debate and the specials made for the regional, municipal and general elections ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 94 • Involvement in the 'Indicadores' (Indicators) workgroup of the TV Subtitling and Audiodescription Services convened by the Real Patronato sobre Discapacity (Royal Disability Society) in cooperation with Centro Español de Subtitulado y Audiodescripción (Spanish Subtitling and Audiodescription Centre) in order to establish subtitling and audiodescription quality indicators as required by users of accessible services. • Cooperation in the 'EU Brigde' project; European initiative focused on research and development of voice technology systems applied to live subtitling. • Contribution of subtitled content for broadcasting with accessibility in the Atresplayer online content platform. • Quarterly information to the Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y Competencia (CNMC National Commission of Markets and Competition) of all accessibility data on TV, to control legal obligations. Numbers of hours Number of hours audiodescribed of signed programs Number of subtitled hours 804.5 1,466.6 1,200 910.4 435.4 658.3 735.5 717.5 29,940.0 35,881.0 27,537.5 26,054.8 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Publicity subtitled has increased by Subtitled hours % of titling 50% compared to Channel 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2014, going from 10.1 h to 15.2 h 5,060.4 5,353.1 5,420.8 79.4 85.0 86.9 4,587.8 4,943.2 5,326.6 73.9 81.6 85.7 5,138.2 5,651.0 5,844.0 80.2 86.3 88.2 4,722.2 5,390.8 5,747.6 72.7 84.0 91.0 5,279.3 1,886.3 71.8 80.7 4,846.6 1,820.8 70.0 78.4 6,247.1 2,492.3 80.4 95.1 3,494.4 88.5 221.4 90.0 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 95 Also the new channels of the family Atresmedia, MEGA and Atreseries, have made a commitment to accessibility and positioned from the start at the top of the most accessible channels of the Group. In both cases, the obligations have increased considerably in terms of accessibility and positioned percentage-wise above the channels Antena 3, laSexta and Neox. In 2015, Atresmedia has continued to work with its advertisers to drive subtitling of commercial communications, which have increased by 50% compared to 2014, going from 10.1 hours to 15.2. Atresmedia leads audiodescription services for visually impaired persons Antena 3 and laSexta, the two general content channels of Atresmedia, rank first in the audiodescription services portfolio, facilitating TV access for the visually impaired, according to the 2014 DVB-T subtitling and audiodescription monitoring report, published in 2015 by the Comité Español de Representatives de Personas con Discapacidad (CERMI Spanish Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities). This survey details the notable increase in the evolution of audiodescription in both stations. As a consequence of the conclusions offered by this report, the most significant points and improvements have been identified in order to be tackled in the following years. For this, a workgroup has been created in coordination with the Centro Español de Subtitulado y Audiodescripción (CESyA Spanish Subtitling and Audiodescription Centre) in which Atresmedia and Fundación Atresmedia play an active role. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 96 W i ed nner itio s o n o f th f P e fi ro ft Ma yect h ña o na . . ras a me in dc n eh itio . r sb h ed ana ou f t a ñ h e fi to M 24 th s of oyec er Pr inn of W worked during the year to generate a specific app for mobiles, a memes portal, the creation of a unique user and the Education of critical audiences drafting of social network style guides for Group programs. Their reward: Atresmedia, aware of the influence of winning students have carried out trainee the media among the public opinion, activities in Atresmedia. invests in the education of future media professionals to be competent and Cameras in laSexta capable of promoting quality projects that are free, independent and plural. In Atresmedia Digital has created a section addition, it opens its doors to society to discover what really happens in TV. 24 in order to promote education on the hours behind cameras is the title of this operation of the media. web section in www.laSexta.com, where users can discover curiosities of programs In this sense and in order to continue and everything that occurs during the taking steps in the knowledge of the production of TV content. sector by society, Atresmedia develops the following activities: Some of the first documentaries produced by the team of Atresmedia Digital are the 24 hours after the cameras Fifth edition of Proyecto Mañana of El intermedio and Zapeando. (Tomorrow Project) Students of the Social Science and Communication Faculty of Universidad de Vigo have won the fifth edition of the 2015 Proyecto Mañana, which is driven by the Atresmedia Group in order to obtain innovative ideas to improve the service rendered by the media. The students ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 97 Visit to Atres m edia H eadq uarte rs. Radio -cara van o f Onda Cero. The magic of radio comes to Hospital de Basurto Children admitted in Hospital Universitario de Basurto (Basurto Radio on wheels University Hospital) were able to discover the magic of radio thanks to Fundación For the 25th anniversary of Onda Cero, Atresmedia and the program of Onda professionals of the radio in Castilla y Cero Bizkaia en la Onda, and thanks León have initiated a commemorative to the help of Roberto Forcen, Gorka campaign sobre ruedas (on wheels), Acitores and Isabel Molina. which consists in travelling through the Community with a radio-caravan from The purpose of these radio workshops, which they produce local and regional which are alternated in the more than spaces for Onda Cero, giving users the 140 hospitals that Fundación Atresmedia opportunity to see how a radio program currently works with, is to contribute to a is made. more enriching relation between minors and the media and to make the stay of More than 2,500 persons know the children in hospitals more agreeable. day-to-day of Atresmedia In 2015, more than 2,500 persons distributed in 106 groups (schools, universities, associations and advertisers) have been able to visit the facilities of Atresmedia and see live what is the day-to-day of the Group. As a novelty and to celebrate the 25th Anniversary of Antena 3, open door days were held for the families of Group employees. ATRESMEDIA Radio Renovation to continue growing Renovation is the word that best defines the reality of Atresmedia Radio and in particular of Onda Cero during 2015. The changes introduced in the grid of the station in April, coinciding with the celebration of its 25th anniversary, have meant a new commitment towards innovation and proximity to audiences. This way, the channel has closed as the second best year of its history in terms of profitability. This translates into an innovative program mindful of new habits that are emerging in the 21st Century Spanish society. Onda Cero faces this new phase from the solvency backed by an excellent brand image, based on credibility, product quality and proximity to listeners. Onda Cero conforms, together with Antena 3 and laSexta the leading portfolio in the audio-visual sector ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 99 Onda Cero The strength and solidity of the three radio products of obtained the Atresmedia Radio —Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM— best profitability can be seen reflected in the Estudio General de Medios (General indices per Media Study) dated December 2015, where the sum of the three listener in 2015 channels was very close to five million followers. With a total and the best audience of 2,368,000 listeners, Onda Cero is the second most business results of listened general radio content station in Spain. Europa FM, which its history adds almost two million —1,954,000—, ranks third among musical radios. And Melodía FM adds 230,000 listeners, gradually increasing the audience with a more recent portfolio. These results must be considered and placed in the framework of a series of changes that have emerged in the radio market considering the greatest implementation of online media offer. Onda Cero, aware of these transformations, has intensified in the last year the involvement of listeners through social networks, while not ignoring the balance and moderation of its editorial line. The station achieved, as in prior years, the best profitability indexes per listener in 2015 and one of the best business results of its history. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 100 Onda Cero: the most modern radio Onda Cero is the The changes introduced in the program of Onda Cero in 2015, only generalistic after the departure of Carlos Herrera, have helped to renew a radio that grid that had remained practically unchanged since 2004-2005. includes extended The new arrivals in April of Carlos Alsina and Juan Ramón Lucas regional and local to the new morning program Más de uno and the presence disconnects in its of David del Cura in the night news broadcast La brújula, programs, and substituting Alsina have not entailed a break with the plural, dedicates most close and participative radio model that defines Onda Cero. The time to news from voices have been renewed, but the identity signs of the station each autonomous continue to be very similar. In addition, professionals entrusted community and with driving this new era are professionals trained in the office city and studios of Onda Cero. At street level In 2015, the radio moved some figures, adapting them to new social demands. The teams have been strengthened and renewed, but insisting on those clearly recognisable objectives of a friendly, open and entertaining radio, avoiding confrontation and agitation. The station has continued to promote and strength its commitment to information that is close to listeners. The microphones of Onda Cero have continued at street level, while others abandoned it. In fact, it is the only major radio station that includes extended regional and local disconnects in its programs, and dedicates most time to news from each autonomous community and city ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 101 “Más de uno”, the For the almost two and a half million listeners that have tuned morning magazine into Onda Cero each day during 2015, the voices of Carlos Alsina, of Onda Cero led Juan Ramón Lucas, Julia Otero, Héctor Fernández, Isabel Gemio, and presented Esther Eiros, Javier Ares or Javier Ruiz Taboada are guarantees by Carlos Alsina of trust and credibility. They have the responsibility as mediators and Juan Ramón and spokespersons for a renewed grid, with room for different Lucas, had in the opinions and sensitivities found in modern Spanish society. last wave of the Estudio General Más de uno de Medios 2015 (2015 General Más de uno, the new morning magazine at Onda Cero driven Media Survey), and presented by Carlos Alsina (6:00 to 10:00) and Juan 1,266,000 Ramón Lucas (10:00 to 12:20), obtained in the last wave of the listeners Estudio General de Medios 2015 (2015 General Media Survey), when the program had only been on the air for a few months, 1,266,000 listeners. Carlos Alsina, who Luis del Olmo defined in the late nineties as the white hope of Spanish radio , and Juan Ramón Lucas, backed by a brilliant professional trajectory, both in radio and TV, are a firm proposal for the future and in charge of driving a new way of doing radio in the morning and appropriately interpreting the new consumer trends emerging in Spanish society. The morning magazine added qualified collaborators to its new trajectory, such as Rubén Amón, David Jiménez, Francisco Marhuenda, José Antonio Marina, Goyo Jiménez or Dani de la Cámara. Valued professionals that have become part of a great team, with names such as Fernando Ónega, Carlos Rodríguez ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 102 Braun, Pilar Cernuda or Pepe Oneto. Up to 10 in the morning, with Carlos Alsina, the content are defined by current news and their analysis, while in the following segment, that of Juan Ramón Lucas, focuses on social matters, involving listeners and humour. Julia en la onda and so on and so forth “Julia en la onda”, Julia en la onda, with Julia Otero, is the second most listened with an average to program in the afternoon, despite its duration being one of 500,000 hour less than the competition. It has consolidated above the listeners in 2015 half million listeners throughout 2015 specifically an average is the second of 516,000 -, with content defined by current affairs and the most listened to involvement of loyal listeners that are actively involved in its program in the development through social networks. The collaborator team afternoon of the program has been improved in its ninth season with the inclusions of Rosa Díez, Juan Manuel de Prada and Noelia Adánez, extending the range of voices in El gabinete; one of the emblematic spaces of the program Julia en la onda. La brújula, driven and presented by David del Cura since 31 August 2015, is listened to by almost half a million followers, while Te doy mi palabra, with Isabel Gemio at the helm, has about one million listeners on Saturdays and is close to that figure on Sundays. Sports, magnificently represented by Al primer toque, with Héctor Fernández, and Radioestadio, with Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada, play a prominent role in Onda Cero, specifically in the early morning program and on weekends. The station broadcasts live all major sporting events and Al primer toque, with almost 250,000 followers, benefits for the interpretation and analysis from the experience and seniority of Santiago Segurola or Ángel Cappa in its commentator staff. Furthermore, Radioestadio combines each weekend hundreds of thousands of listeners in what could be qualified as the major sporting marathon of the radio. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 103 For Gente viajera, 2015 was a special year due to its 25th anniversary. Esther Eiros and her team have travelled more than ever and taken the program to Milan and Jerusalem, in addition to vising numerous corners, landscapes and scenarios of Spanish geography. The many special editions of Gente viajera in the last season, its presence in FITUR and the recognition received for its silver wedding anniversary are the best demonstration that we are listening to the most important travel program in Spanish radio. “La brújula”, Timely and rigorous information registers almost half a million One of the fundamental pillars of the Onda Cero grid is, followers, while undoubtedly, the news section. The microphones are always Te doy mi open to transmitting any relevant news, even if it requires palabra , with altering regular programs, without waiting for hour bulletins or Isabel Gemio at the corresponding news spaces. the helm, has about one million Some of the objectives of Noticias mediodia, and in particular of listeners in the La brújula, are offering listeners the keys to current affairs and Saturday edition analyse the most important information produced in Spain and world. In the news section led and presented by Elena Gijón it collects and organises the news generating at that time, with a space dedicated to confidential information, El bisturí, signed by Pilar Cernuda. Noticias mediodía closed the year with 270,000 listeners, being the second most listened news section in Spanish radio during that time slot. In the new phase of La brújula, which started in late August, David del Cura reviews the most important news of the day, which is then analysed by the participants depending on their various appreciations and sensitivities. It is a program for all, away from sectarianism and focusing on current affairs as its primary axis , announced Del Cura during the presentation of the season. The most important aspect of these four hours of radio, which accumulate an audience of around half a million listeners, is to ensure that citizens can end their day being properly informed. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 104 Some of the novelties of La brújula, after David del Cura joined, are the incorporation of journalists Raúl del Pozo, Pablo Sebastián, Emilia Landaluce, Carlos Alsina himself travelled to the Alberto Artero, Carmen Morodo, Ana I. border between Austria and Hungary Martín or Javier Cancho. in late August to transmit the drama of refugees to the audience, and the again The news services of Onda Cero, to Paris a few hours after the attack on headed by Julián Cabrera, have 13 November. The special envoys of Onda tested in 2015 its capacity to react Cero also reported from the French Alps and solvency to face, with its regular on the Germanwings tragedy. rigour and professionalism, some of the major challenges presented today. In terms of sports, the station was up The autonomic and municipal elections to the task when informing fans of on 24 May, the Catalan elections on 27 Barcelona's football success (Champions September and the general elections that winner, League and Copa del Rey took place on 20 December have been (King's Cup)) and the success of Real three decisive events that Onda Cero has Madrid's basketball team, European responded to with an important rollout champions, League champions and Cup of material and human resources. Carlos champion. The various final matches were Alsina took charge, on the other part, retransmitted in several other editions of directing and presenting the special of Radioestadio. The same occurred programs, with interviews, valuations and with the exciting MotoGP race in which analysis of results during the electoral Valentino Rossi and Jorge Lorenzo fought night of these three convocations. for the world title. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 105 The great feeling of musical radio “Levántate Europa FM continues to be one of the most notable references y Cárdenas” in Spanish music radio. With almost two million listeners, that managed to make it the third most listened to theme radio in Spain in 2015, congregate has surpassed Cadena 100 for the fourth year in a row and almost one million its next objective is to be the second place currently held by one hundred Cadena Dial. The station also reinforced some of its content and listeners in only added new communicators such as Wally López. five years Among the good results of Europa FM, the program Levántate y Cárdenas plays a prominent role; a morning show that is fun, entertaining and with a careful musical selection. The space led and presented by Javier Cárdenas has managed to congregate almost one million one hundred thousand listeners in only five years, being the second most listened morning show in its time slow last year. Melodía FM, the third product of Atresmedia Radio, offers an interesting contribution to the group, through an offer that has consolidated itself since the re-launch of the station in January 2014. Using the morning show Lo mejor que te puede pasar as a reference and starting point, with Nuria Roca and Juan del Val, Melodía FM offers listeners a selection of the best music from the 80s and 90s. A repertoire that encompasses different musical genres aimed at an adult and contemporary audience. Songs that arouse emotions and stay in the memory of many of us. Siente la buena música (feel good music) is the message that best defines the intentions and philosophy of Melodía FM. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 106 G4-26, G4-27 Radio with a service vocation The Atresmedia Radio stations want to be differentiated for their high social commitment and vocation to provide a service for citizens. This responsibility translates into transmitting content of social interest and tackles problems that affect listeners, raising awareness and proposing solutions based on values such as truth, diversity and freedom. With this objective, Atresmedia Radio leads and takes part in several initiatives and social campaigns around the following lines of action: Fostering the training of new professionals Support to social Dissemination of social initiatives nature contents Transmitting content of social nature Atresmedia integrates in its radio program, sections and content that respond to the main concerns of society and that focus from a positive and decisive point of view, in order to help listeners gain a critical opinion and find real solutions. Main areas of social interest and the programs that cover them • Change.org of ‘Julia en la onda’ • Levántate y Cárdenas Social action • La brújula • Ponte a prueba • Territorio Gallego of ‘Julia en la onda’ Environment • Rosa de los vientos • Cultureta • Gente viajera Culture • Movie and theatre agenda in Onda Cero news programs • Literature and poetry, and scientific content sections of 'Te doy mi palabra' • En buenas manos Healthcare • Objetivo bienestar section of 'Te doy mi palabra' • Psychological support section of 'Te doy mi palabra' Animal wellbeing • Como el perro y el gato The “Fin de For the second year in a row, the Fin de semana solidario was Semana Solidario” put on antenna; an initiative driven by Isabel Gemio within the (Solidarity scope of her program Te doy mi palabra, with the support of Weekend) of Onda Cero, aimed at getting funds for research of rare and Atresmedia Radio minority illnesses. The program collected almost 250,000 Euros collected 250,000 and, above all, it helped to raise awareness about these illnesses Euros and send a support message to affected parties, through the multiple stories and testimonies of persons that were obtained. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 107 Ond a Ce ro R a dio M aste rs. In 2015 Atresmedia Radio has broadcast Rad io w over 21,000 seconds orks hop with of publicity spots at no hosp italis ed c cost in support on NGO hildr en. valued at €2,543,913 • Transmission of over 21,000 seconds Support for social initiatives of publicity spots at no cost in support of social initiatives driven by non-profit The involvement in social initiatives both organisations such as FAD, X Solidaria own and those driven by non-profit or Fundación Desarrollo y Asistencia, organisations, is one of the identity signs representing over 2.5 million Euros. of all stations of Atresmedia Radio. In 2015, this commitment worked out in the following actions: Training of new professionals • Support for the main Corporate During 2015, the Group radios have been Responsibility campaigns of the Group, especially active in their commitment to such as Ponle Freno, HAZTE ECO, train new professionals: Objetivo Bienestar and Crea Cultura, transmitting road safety, environment • The second year of the Máster de and healthy life habit messages, Radio Onda Cero (Onda Cero Radio among others. Masters) was initiated in cooperation • Cooperation as media partner of with Universidad de Nebrija, involving the initiative Comparte y recicla by professionals from the Group radios of Fundación Crecer Jugando. all departments, from management to • Transmission through interviews editors. 17 students joined this edition; and sections in programs and news four more than the first year. sections of initiatives that are initiated • Furthermore, both Onda Cero by Fundación Atresmedia, such as and Europa FM and Melodía FM the initiative Juntos por la educación, have worked on the design and the Día del niño hospitalizado or the development of Cuentos por la integración campaign. • the 2015 edition of the Pro Project, • Drive corporate volunteering with Fundación Atresmedia and cooperating as media partner of Universidad Rey Juan Carlos. volunteering reference events in Spain: Within the scope of this initiative, the IX edition of Día Solidario de las the Especialista Universitario en Empresas (Corporate Solidarity Day) Contenidos y Production de Radio together with Cooperation International (University Specialist in Content and ONG and Semana International del Radio Production) course was held, Voluntariado (International Volunteering aimed at students with disabilities; Week) Give and Gain Day 2015 it was a success and a gratifying together with Forética. experience for everyone involved. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 108 Distinctions received in 2015 In recognition to work and effort made, several professionals and programs of Atresmedia Radio have received several awards and distinctions throughout 2015: Juan Manuel Gonzalo Award from the Academia de la Radio (Radio Academy) for the 'Radioestadio' program Antena de Oro Award with Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz Taboada, as the 'Mejor of Federación de programa deportivo' (Best sports program). Asociaciones de Radio y Television de España (Gold Antenna Award from the Spanish Radio Silver Medal by Centro de and TV Associations Luis del Olmo Award Iniciativas Turísticas de Federation) to Javier from the Radio Academy Teruel (Centre for Tourist Cárdenas, director and for the space Los Initiatives of Teruel) to presenter of 'Levántate y Fósforos, of the program Onda Cero for its 25th Cárdenas'. 'Herrera en la Onda'. anniversary. Delantal del Oro (Gold Award for the best travel Universidad Antonio de 2015 Ondas Award to Apron) Award to Esther program on radio in 2015 Nebrija Award for 'Gente Carlos Alsina as best radio Eiros, granted by the for 'Gente viajera', granted viajera', as 'Best tourism presenter for his work in gastronomy brand by Comunicación Turística information program'. 'La Brújula'. Sabores de Castellón. RV Edipress. Denominación Award Originating from Castilla Special award to 'Onda Sociedad Civil Award La Mancha for the Solidarity’, program of 2015 to Carlos Herrera for program 'Más de Uno', led Onda Cero Cantabria his defence of freedom. and presented by Carlos granted by the Alsina and Juan Ramón Fundación La Caixa. Lucas for their solidarity. Onda Cero rewards solidarity Onda Cero and the Barcelona Zona Franca Consortium handed the Ciudad Solidaria Awards, which after several years recognise the social work of entities in the fields of solidarity, childhood, education and social reinsertion in the city of Barcelona. This year, the winning entity was Fundació dòncología Infantil Enriqueta Villavecchia, with a runner up for Associació Catalana de Personas amb Malaties Neuromusculares (ASEM Catalonia). ATRESMEDIA Publicidad Focus on customers, innovation and maximum profitability Atresmedia Publicidad is the largest sales house of multimedia advertising on the Spanish market, with a share of 19.3% of the total investment in conventional media. This division sells the advertising of all the Group’s supports, offering multimedia solutions to all its clients. The most important event of the year was undoubtedly the celebration of the 25th anniversary of Antena 3. Atresmedia Publicidad has taken the claim “25 years full of emotions” as far and wide as possible, working with all the stakeholders in the advertising market: audiences, content, institutions, companies and, of course, advertisers. In 2015 Atresmedia also added two more channels to its offering: in July it began broadcasting the men's channel MEGA. And in December another channel, Atreseries, joined the Group after Atresmedia won a licence in October through the tender held by the Government. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 110 Atresmedia Atresmedia Televisión also acquired the rights to broadcast the Publicidad was UEFA Champions League free-to-air for the seasons 2015/16, chosen by Yahoo! 2016/17 and 2017/18. to market its wide range of products Moreover, Onda Cero remains the second most listened to radio in Spain station following the departure of Carlos Herrera, and Europa FM has been established as third in the ranking of music stations. These figures confirm the strength of the different offerings from Atresmedia Radio and, in the case of Onda Cero, it is worth mentioning the extensive changes made to the programming in order to adapt it to developments in society and consumption. In the online arena, Atresmedia Publicidad was chosen by Yahoo! to market its wide range of Premium display, native ad and audience ad products in Spain. The collaboration between these two major brands has allowed advertisers to benefit from an online product that is high value from both a qualitative and a quantitative perspective. According to the latest data from November 2015 provided by Comscore, the online Atresmedia and Yahoo! product achieved coverage of 71%. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 111 Atresmedia Publicidad also began to market Guiainfantil.com. This strengthens its commercial offer for the mass consumption sector in the family target and in the children's sector, which originally began with the portal neoxkidz.com. Yet again this year, a focus on customers, innovation, efficiency and profitability are the four key areas for Atresmedia Publicidad. Atresmedia Customer focus Publicidad continues to In 2015, Atresmedia Publicidad continued its focus on service maintain its and maintained the formulas it launched in 2014, such as the service vocation, Advertisers' Office, whose function is to address and resolve as seen from any incidents or complaints made by customers involving the Advertisers' professionals from any area of the company (Legal Advice, Office, whose Internal Auditing, Communication, and Corporate Responsibility). function is to deal with and resolve Another formula is the Spot de Oro (Golden Spot), which was any customer created in order to recognise the most effective advertisements incidents or on the Atresmedia channels. In this way, Atresmedia Publicidad complaints broadcasts the most viewed advert free of charge on its channels, accompanied by a banner showing the number of television viewers it has had. A variant of the Spot de Oro is the MVP Spot. Viewers choose the best advertisement of the month from all those broadcast on the Atresmedia channels, doing so through the website lapubliquemegusta.com. The one with the most votes for that month becomes the MVP Spot and is broadcast free of charge on all Atresmedia Televisión channels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 112 nd cero a o Ron in c h e fs Pac gee camp . e fu e ll e d by th m p ain re e o U NHCR v e A itte ney tra erna, to th ish comm e jour S n r y a b out th Jalis de la ith the Spa a t ment rnalis ther w l docu he jou hana, toge Socia Díaz, and t G S u s i Innovation: the success of the ranging from fashion to food and new formulas for the brands including tourism, knowledge and culture, among many other aspects. Atresmedia Publicidad continues innovating with new formats, such as Ikea has also signed up to branded the Next Coming from Seguros Pelayo. content. In this case on laSexta with La The insurance company launched escuela de decoración, a programme an innovative and original campaign teaching people how to decorate. This based on a series of special initiatives branded content works thanks to the at Atresmedia, with a special focus on human factor, as it involves people who prime time on Antena 3 and laSexta. need to change their lives. This aspect The campaign, which was carried out in is transferred to the qualities that the conjunction with Ymedia, took advantage consumer perceives for the brand. La of the parallels between Pelayo and escuela de decoración is understood as Atresmedia, a great brand which insures a trans-media project that places a lot of people's lives and a great media group importance on its website and the social which brings emotion to people's lives . networks. It has a section where those interested in the subject can register and Branded content also has a great find courses and tutorials. reception at Atresmedia. La red naranja: cambian las reglas is a 30 minute Another branded content initiative programme which hears from people supported by Atresmedia is that for who have decided to take control of UNHCR. laSexta released Mano a mano: their lives, break with the established mi última comida, a social documentary and create new ways of doing business, about the journey travelled by the chefs consuming and living. It is a collaborative Paco Roncero and Susi Díaz, and the guide, supported by ING DIRECT, which journalist Jalis de la Serna, to the Ampain suggests new ways to save, easily and refugee camp in Ghana, together with the quickly. The aim is to offer ideas which Spanish committee of UNHCR. are practical and available to everyone, ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 113 For another year, Atresmedia Publicidad sponsored the third edition of the Neox Fan Awards, the Fanta branded content that allows the audience to vote for Mission Impossible is another of the their favourite artists or programmes. brands that decided to focus on the Fanta once again showed its faith in this productions of Atresmedia to promote innovative and novel initiative on Neox, a the release in cinemas of its latest film. channel with which it shares values such Two well-known faces from the channel, as fun, modernity, non-conformism and Frank Blanco and Anna Simón, were interactivity. chosen and a fake trailer was used to make it seem as if they were involved in In the internet area, in 2015 Atresmedia the plot of the film. Publicidad launched #XtremeCities, a window for the digital branded content, For the second year running Atresmedia with the participation of Atresmedia and supported the CINERGÍA Initiative from the Desperados brand from HEINEKEN Gas Natural Fenosa. This new project España. #XtremeCities is a short video brings together cinema and energy. The format that can be viewed, with bi-weekly companies renewed their agreement to releases, on the digital platforms of broadcast and transmit the importance of Atresmedia and on the Antena 3 Youtube the rational use of energy and therefore channel. contribute to the sustainability of the energy sources of our country and caring for the environment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 114 Atresmedia, together with Carat España, chose Tumblr to carry out a To mark the 125th anniversary of Mahou, Fanta campaign. Tumblr, a Yahoo! social the programme from Carlos Alsina and network, is an ideal platform for brands Juan Ramón Lucas, Más de uno, travelled that want to focus on branded content, to the headquarters of Mahou San Miguel accessing an audience that is extremely on 18 November. The programme involved passionate and linked to the original asking listeners about the moments they content. Fanta launched a Sponsored Day had celebrated by drinking beer. with some exceptional results, achieving engagement ratios of over 7% and overall Fernando Ónega also became the face results much higher than the average for and voice of the new Conservas Cuca other markets. campaign in Más de uno from Onda Cero. The mentions of the campaign on the In terms of radio initiatives, in February radio were made with Carlos Alsina and Herrera en la onda travelled to the Fernando Ónega as opinion leaders. Ford factory in Almussafes, Valencia, to coincide with the visit being made by During November, on Europa FM, Verti the President and Chief Executive Officer Seguros promoted the NEUMAN concert of Ford, Mark Fields. The initiative was in Madrid, a commercial indie-rock music completed with a promotion broadcast group. The insurance company Verti over the four days prior to this event as invited its customers to enjoy the music a way of publicising it. On the same day of the indie-rock group on Saturday 28 as the programme, Herrera en la onda November at the La Riviera hall in Madrid. broadcast a mention at 8:30am and Its latest albums feature the songs Turnit another at the end of the programme, as and Tell you, which are the soundtracks well as at the start of the interviews with for the spots for the Ponle Freno fun-run the Ford executives. and the book from Objetivo Bienestar, both projects of the Atresmedia group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 115 Carrefour has Demonstrable effectiveness been one of the first advertisers In keeping with previous years, Atresmedia Publicidad continued to use the new offering the best service to advertisers, carrying out research Atresmedia in the area of advertising effectiveness. The best example formats which from this year was the proposal to improve the effectiveness guarantee of the block named Be Neuro, Be Effective , which was also improved recall winner of the Mejor Ponencia (Best Presentation) award from and increased Aedemo TV. Atresmedia carried out various neuroscience impact studies in collaboration with the Brain House Institute, the only Spanish institute that predicts human behaviour by integrating neuroscience, big data and artificial intelligence. As a result of these studies, new variables were obtained which have allowed it to come closer to the spectators/consumers through short pieces (4 seconds), called wake-up call pieces , which are intelligently positioned throughout the advertising block. Atresmedia Carrefour, together with Starcom Mediavest Group, was one Publicidad and of the first advertisers to launch the new Atresmedia formats Tres14 Research that ensure better recall and improved impact, according to the developed neuroscience studies undertaken by the chain. the ROIMAP study which For the second consecutive year, Atresmedia Publicidad demonstrates and Tres14 Research carried out the ROIMAP study (ROI of that television multimedia campaigns) which once again demonstrated that must be present television must be present in all plans if the aim is to generate in any plan if the an optimal recognition scenario, and it is also the most aim is to generate profitable and effective media source in terms of brand recall. Its recognition conclusions confirmed that advertising investment in television is the most effective. In fact, not having this media source in the planning represents a loss of recognition of 58%. The study also established the ideal investment share of each media source to maximise recognition. Television is identified as the main media source with a minimum share of 63%, two points higher than in the first edition of the study. With this investment share, television is capable of generating 76% brand recognition, and is the media source with the highest ROI (121). In June, Atresmedia Publicidad carried out a study to explain that advertising investment in television is a key factor when it comes to achieving brand recognition. The study demonstrated the direct correlation between the increase or decrease in GRP and the recognition obtained by brands. According to another study by Atresmedia Publicidad and Kantar Worldpanel, it was shown that the brands committed to television advertising obtain a better result in terms of sales and a positive ROI. The role of television is essential to help brands grow sustainably, even in a difficult economic environment. There has also been a study of the actual purchasing behaviour of 10 large consumer brands ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 116 The role of television is essential to help brands grow sustainably, even in a difficult economic environment. There has also been a study of the actual purchasing behaviour of 10 large consumer brands who increased their advertising investment during 2014. Their performance was compared with that of two comparable control groups from the same market, one formed by advertisers who had reduced their investment and another with those who had not carried out any advertising campaigns on television during 2014. The 10 brands were representative across all the mass consumption categories, but specifically in food, beverages, personal care and cleaning. Those committed to increasing their television advertising managed to increase their market share by 1.6%. It was demonstrated that advertising contributed an average of 6.4% of sales for the top 10 television brands and also that the greater the investment in television, the better the performance obtained. The average ROI in television obtained by these 10 brands is €2.1 (€1.1 profit for every euro invested in advertising). Profitability: the driving force of the company Profitability continued to be one of the driving forces of the Atresmedia group in 2015. The synergies between the different media it markets continued to be responsible for the positive evolution of the company. More than half of the advertising investment on the Atresmedia television channels is accounted for by tri-support advertisers, or in other words, customers who are present on all the Atresmedia supports. This segment of “multimedia” advertisers also constitutes 50% of advertising revenue in the internet channel, as well as 48% of turnover in radio. 51.4% trimedi TV 50.2% trimedi Online 47.5% trimedi Radio In 2015, advertising investment “returned” to television for the third consecutive year, its share compared to the other conventional media outlets remaining almost unchanged. The evolution compared to the level seen last year was 6.4%. This trend is the result of an improvement in the macroeconomic variables, but it is undeniably strengthened thanks to the efforts to contain prices that Atresmedia began a couple of years ago, a strategy that seems to have finally been followed by the other major market players. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 117 ector, orate Dir eral Corp 2015. ri ci a Pérez, Gen ol to the MABS Pat P au G as welcomes ATRESMEDIA EVENTOS New ideas in conferences, sport and festivals Atresmedia Atresmedia Eventos wanted to take a step forward and generate Eventos organised new business opportunities and it did this by adding the running in 2015 the of conferences to its existing business areas involving the Management & organisation of sports and music events. Business Summit, the first major The key example in 2015 was the Management & Business gathering of Summit, the first major gathering of international executives and international leaders organised by Atresmedia. This event came about from executives and the clear need for Spanish executives and entrepreneurs to have leaders access to specialised training workshops run by international experts in the areas of economics, business management, innovation, marketing and human resources, among others. Over two days, in sessions led by Atresmedia, figures of the stature of Gordon Brown, Durão Barroso and Pau Gasol, among others, shared their knowledge on different areas of management and business, gained through their professional and personal experiences. In short, they provided exclusive and innovative content, capable of inspiring those holding positions of responsibility in companies. The first edition was a success, with more than 1,200 attendees, 800 networking connections, 100 ideas to apply in businesses to improve productivity, a trending topic during the two days of the forum and more than 6 million hits on Twitter. Within this same area, and to coincide with the celebration of World Heart Day, Atresmedia Eventos organised the 1er Congreso de los Corazones Contentos (1st Happy Hearts Conference) promoted by Puleva. Emilio Duró, Paco Roncero and Toni Nadal were the experts responsible for sharing their knowledge to lay the foundations for leading a healthy life para llevar una vida saludable. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 118 Passion for sport After seven years Running continues winning over fans and this is why Atresmedia of breaking Eventos keeps organising large events based around this sport in attendance various Spanish cities. records in Madrid, the Ponle Freno After seven years of breaking attendance records in Madrid, the Fun-Run jumped Ponle Freno Fun-Run jumped to the Canary Islands. The first to the Canary edition, organised in Tenerife, managed to position itself as the Islands. The first island's biggest event with more than 2,000 runners. edition, organised in Tenerife, Rexona Street Run, the first 10km race circuit approved by the managed to Real Federación Española de Atletismo (Royal Spanish Athletics position itself Federation) was held for the second time. Seville, Oviedo, as the island's Valladolid, Madrid, Espluges (Barcelona), Palma de Mallorca, biggest event Albacete and Valencia were the eight cities to host this sporting with more than event, in which more than 15,000 runners took part. 2,000 runners As a new commitment, in 2015 Atresmedia Eventos was the co-promoter of the Seville Marathon, the best known such event in Spain and one of the five best marathons in the country. For the second consecutive year, Atresmedia Eventos, together with the Proactiv group, brought the only live WWE wrestling show to Spain. The show visited Madrid and Barcelona and was a complete sell out each time with more than 20,000 spectators. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 119 Large concerts and festivals Madrid Première For another year, large concerts and festivals represented a very Week saw a attractive line of business for the company. With more than week of film 10,000 people and a performance from Thirty Seconds to Mars premières, master as headliners, the Neox Rocks festival became established in its classes, talks and second edition not only for its success with the public but also screenings of for the great support received by commercial brands such as short films Ecovidrio, Oxford, Monster, Beefeater, Randstad and Hawkers. Following its second edition, the Barcelona Beach Festival has not only claimed its place in the music scene of the Catalonian capital, but has also already become a key EDM (Electronic Dance Music) event with the best DJ's in the world. In the last edition, 30,000 people attended the festival to listen to artists of the stature of Hardwell, David Guetta, Axwell & Ingrosso and Martin Garrix, among many others. Atresmedia Eventos is also committed to emerging music groups, for example IZAL, a pop/rock music group from Madrid. After playing several cities across Spain to great acclaim, they ended their tour by filling the Palacio de los Deportes and seeing 'sold out' written across their posters. The visit from Juan Luis Guerra to Madrid and Barcelona as part of his international tour was also supported by the company to mark the celebration of its 25th anniversary. Both events achieved great success at the box office: all the tickets were sold out two months before the concert in Madrid. Finally, another of the group's main activities focused on the world of cinema and the hosting of major premières. For another year, Madrid Première Week was a great triumph, and included the new feature of MadridCortoFest. The festival saw a week of film premières, master classes, talks, screenings of short films and an exhibition about the film Palmeras en la nieve at Escuela TAI in Madrid. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 120 G4-26, G4-27 Leaders in advertising innovation: however, wherever and whenever you want 1. To promote transparency, effectiveness and innovation in  commercial communications. Our 2. To enhance the industry's self-regulation. vision 3. To improve the effectiveness of the quality controls. 4. To encourage social commitment from the advertisers. In figures 2013 2014 2015 No. of legal consultations 153 139 150 No. of copy advices 677 772 876 No. of violations 16 7 14 Fines due to television advertising (in Euros) 780,233 0 565,976 Fines for advertising on all other media (in Euros) 1,000 0 0 Value of free NGO spots (in Euros) 5,542,630 3,044,000 3,478,976 Value of free NGO radio spots (in Euros) 4,697,455 3,494,228 2,543,913 Atresmedia Publicidad promotes an This working philosophy is implemented advertising communication model based through a strong commitment to on respect and customer service which advertising self-regulation, in order sets itself apart through innovation, to establish an ethical framework for quality and responsibility to the listeners, responsible and accurate communication. television viewers, agencies and media centres. Under these premises, in 2015 work was carried out on different initiatives With this objective, since its creation and processes that seek to reaffirm this Atresmedia Publicidad has followed innovative leadership. some solid ethical working principles based on the responsible management Innovation, of advertising communication and research and marketing management, as can be seen effectiveness from its Responsible Advertising Policy. ResponsiThese principles, which go beyond mere Social ble and high Self-regulation compliance with the law, are based on commitment quality advertising the firm commitment to ensure that the advertising content reflects the essential Quality control values of accuracy, honesty and respect for human rights. Further information on Responsible Advertising Policy http:// www.atresmediacorporacion.com/a3document/2010/12/27/ DOCUMENTS/00007/00007.pdf ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 121 In 2015, Atresmedia broadcast more than 17,000 seconds of In collaboration with Tres14 Research, in free television spots, valued 2015 Atresmedia Publicidad worked on at €3,478,380, and more than two new projects: 21,000 seconds of free radio advertisements valued at more • The Second Study on multimedia than €2,543,913 Advertising Efficiency, which measures the effectiveness and profitability of the different media when generating Commitment to transparent advertising recognition. marketing • The development of online software which helps simulate the optimal Within the framework of the agreement media combination given the reached with Kantar World Panel to advertising investment. learn more about the behaviour of consumers in relation to television, three Atresmedia participated in the different studies have been carried out development of the effective frequency on television planning that allows for the on television econometric model search for product purchaser targets. (MEFE TV), which helps explain These studies have shown the great brand recognition and can even make benefits obtained with these types of predictions about the performance initiatives. of the campaigns depending on the characteristics and distribution of The Marcas TOP (TOP Brands) study contact. During 2015, 32 advertisers were was also carried out with Kantar World subject to this analysis. Panel. This analysed the financial impact of television campaigns in terms of the Cross-media studies were undertaken increase in sales in the mass consumption which established the perfect media sector. The results show that brands complementarity between the web and placing greater trust in television obtain mobility environments and traditional better sales results. television, given the new forms of audiovisual consumption. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 122 Award for the Be neuro, Be effective study The Be neuro, be effective study, presented by Marta Rojo, director of audience research at Atresmedia Publicidad and Antonio Ruiz, co-founder and executive director of the Brain House Institute, was awarded Best Presentation at the 31st AEDEMO TV Seminar, held in Seville in February. The research reveals how to maximise the attention and recall of the advertising block, thanks to neuro-scientific techniques. Its conclusions have allowed different pieces to be created which, positioned strategically in the advertising break on all the channels in the Atresmedia group, increase the level of recall. Strong commitment to the self-regulation of the sector In line with its commitment to responsible advertising and audiovisual content, Atresmedia goes beyond strict compliance with the laws governing the matter and actively promotes self-regulation in this field within the sector. For this reason, Atresmedia has voluntarily signed up to various self-regulation codes which ensure ethical advertising and the protection of the rights of citizens, especially those of children, beyond strict compliance with the Law. Atresmedia Televisión is also an active member and part of the founding group of Autorregulación de la Comunicación Comercial (Association for the Self-Regulation of Commercial Communication, Autocontrol), through which it works to improve compliance with the advertising and competition regulations, as well as to extend the guarantees of the advertisers, the television chains and, especially, the consumers. Self-regulation codes signed by Atresmedia and the date from which they are valid Código de Conducta sobre Comunicaciones Comerciales de las Actividades del Juego/ Code of Conduct over the Commercial Communications of Gambling Activities (2012) Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Código de Autorregulación Código de Autorregulación Alimentos Dirigida a Menores, Prevención de la Publicidad Infantil de Publicitaria de Cerveceros de la Obesidad y la Salud (PAOS)/ SelfJuguetes /Self-Regulation de España/Advertising SelfRegulation Code for the Advertising of Food Code for the Advertising of Regulation Code for Brewers Aimed at Minors, Preventing Obesity and Health Children's Toys (modified in in Spain (2009) (2010) 2010) Código de Autorregulación de la Federación Española Código de Autorregulación Código de Autorregulación de Bebidas Espirituosas / del Vino/Wine Self-Regulation SMS/SMS Self-Regulation Self-Regulation Code for the Code (2009) Code (2009) Spanish Spirits Federation (FEBE) (2006) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 123 Atresmedia Publicidad works to offer suitable advertising for all audiences, especially protecting the younger audience. Therefore, yet again this year, the Group has voluntarily chosen to extend the enhanced protection schedule on laSexta and Neox, the channel on which the children's programming slot Neox Kidz is broadcast. Moreover, on the children's vertical space Neox Kidz, the advertisers have a multi-platform environment with specific content for children aged between 0 and 11, in which their adverts can be inserted without the risk of exposing them to unsuitable advertising messages. Atres Cobertura schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8 am to 9 am and 5 pm to 8 pm Weekend From 9 am to 12 noon Atres Afinidad schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8 am to 10 am and 5 pm to 8 pm Weekend From 9 am to 12 noon Neox schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8 am to 10 am and 5 pm to 8 pm Weekend From 9 am to 3pm More effective quality control In 2015, 13% All Atresmedia advertising content is subject to strict controls more legal prior to its broadcast, which ensures compliance with the law consultations and the self-regulation codes. This control is carried out through were made to a triple filter applied by the broadcasting department, the Autocontrol than advertising area and Autocontrol. In 2015, 150 legal consultations in 2014 in order and 876 copy advice requests were made to Autocontrol to to prevent the prevent the broadcast of adverts that could violate the selfbroadcasting regulation codes. of adverts that could violate the Three time controls have also been established, and daily and self-regulation weekly monitoring reports are produced to ensure that the controls advertising content is broadcast during the suitable time slot and that the maximum permitted times are not exceeded. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 124 Moreover, there is a Quality Control In order to continue improving the quality Committee made up of managers from controls, in 2016 it plans to implement the areas of content, broadcasting, a new commercial management system internal auditing, production and which will include a common container marketing. It meets regularly to detect of advertising times. This new system any incidents that have occurred and incorporates technical improvements is responsible for assessing these and which offer greater speed and flexibility undertaking the actions necessary in data processing. It also adapts better to resolve them and improve the to the special features of each media procedures. segment (television, radio, and internet) and their management characteristics. In 2015 the Committee of the General Audiovisual Communication Law was While Atresmedia strives to create also created. Its main objective is to controls that ensure compliance with analyse and ensure compliance with the General Audiovisual Communication this Law by the Atresmedia Group, in Law, in 2015 five cases were recorded of matters referring to the broadcasting breaches of the advertising broadcasting of any space that is not considered time limits, banners and the number of a programme (advertising, selfadvertising breaks during a programme, promotions, and disclosure of the which led to penalties amounting to actions of Corporate Responsibility and €565,976. Fundación Atresmedia, among others). The Committee's rulings are binding for all areas. 2013 2014 2015 No. of cases 10 3 5 No. of violations 16 7 14 2013 2014 2015 Fines due to violations in television 780,233 0 565,976 advertising (in Euros) Fines due to violations in advertising 1,000 0 0 through other media sources (in Euros) Total 781,233 0 565,976 Encouraging social commitment in the advertisers Atresmedia is strongly committed to society and promotes the participation of its advertisers in the Group's Corporate Responsibility actions and campaigns which are most relevant given their CSR strategies and corporate values. Highlighted below are the most noteworthy initiatives undertaken in 2015: ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 125 Atresmedia Initiatives Objetivo Bienestar • Puleva organised the 'Corazones contentos (Happy Hearts)' meeting in which, through various presentations, awareness was raised about the importance of looking after your heart. • Clínica Baviera developed the ‘Objetivo Bienestar’ campaign to increase public awareness about the problem of presbyopia. • The Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (Spanish Association Against Cancer, AECC) provided information about colon cancer, its prevention and guidelines for action. Ponle Freno • The AXA Foundation continued its collaboration in this initiative by researching and providing information about the causes of accidents and their prevention, through the Ponle Freno/AXA Study Centre.. Constantes y Vitales • The AXA Foundation continued its collaboration with this campaign in order to promote high quality medical research and health prevention. In 2015 the 'Constantes y Vitales' awards for biomedical research and health prevention were created. Hazte Eco • In 2015 Ecoembes renewed its collaboration partnership with Atresmedia to promote recycling in our country. Juntos por la Educación • The Mapfre Foundation, together with Fundación Atresmedia, launched the Descubre la FP initiative in order to promote and publicise Professional Training in Spain. • Santillana and Samsung launched the ‘Grandes Profes, Grandes Iniciativas’ awards to promote educational excellence, recognising and sharing inspiring and innovatory projects carried out in educational centres. Tolerancia Cero • The Mutua Madrileña Foundation launched, together with Antena 3 Noticias and coinciding with the celebration of International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, the 'Tolerencia cero' campaign to help raise awareness about this problem, encourage reporting and raising awareness through educating society. It is also worth mentioning that in 2015, and in order to publicise the work of different nonprofit organisations and raise awareness in society about different problems, Atresmedia provided NGOs with free advertising spaces on television and radio for a value of €6,022,293. Highlights among the organisations and projects benefiting from this support are the following: Organisation Campaign Fundación Policía Nacional (National Police Foundation) Denuncia Violencia de Género (Reporting Domestic Violence) Fundación Desarrollo y Asistencia Contra la Soledad de las personas mayores (Development and Assistance Foundation) (Against Loneliness in the Elderly ) Fundación Down España World Down’s Syndrome Day (Spanish Down Syndrome Foundation) Marca doble X Solidaria para la Renta Plataforma ONG’s (NGO's Platform) (Mark double X Solidarity in Income) Juegaterapia Sensibilización Oncología Infantil (Children's Oncology Awareness) FAD Lucha contra la Drogadicción (Fight against Drug Addiction) Fundación Amigos de los Mayores International Day of Older Persons (Friends of the Elderly Foundation) UNHCR Refugee Aid Lucha contra la Violencia de Género Fundación Integra (Integra Foundation) (Fight against Domestic Violence) Fundación Isabel Gemio (Isabel Gemio Foundation) Sensibilización Enfermedades Raras (Awareness of Rare Diseases) ATRESMEDIA Digital Also a success in digital communication Flooxer is the Throughout 2015, the set of Atresmedia sites broke the 20 perfect showcase million unique monthly users barrier, 21% up on the previous year. for the brands. The quality of the Atresmedia content, the excellent coverage Its formats of the major news events, as well as the effective management allow them to of the social networks and ongoing commitment to the vertical be integrated portals were key factors in achieving these figures. naturally, increasing These figures led to Atresmedia climbing five places in the multiengagement with platform ranking of ComScore, rising from 17th position in 2014 the users to 12th position in 2015, even reaching the top 10 for the most visited in Spain in some months. Almost nine million unique monthly users visited antena3.com in 2015, 10% more than in 2014. The portal has exceeded its record high audience on two occasions during the year, achieving its best figure in March with 11.2 million users. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 127 The news, programme and drama portals keep growing The Antena 3 The spectacular performance of the Antena 3 news portal in News portal 2015 was a key factor in its growth. It managed to exceed the has been a key strong figures achieved in 2014 by 19%, reaching its best figure factor in the in March with more than five million users. The comprehensive digital growth of coverage of the year's major news stories, such as the general Atresmedia. and regional elections, as well as the intense activity created It exceeded the around 7d: el debate decisivo, were recognised by the users, strong figures who chose the Antena 3 portal to follow the up to the minute achieved in 2014 news. by 19%, reaching its best figure in The drama and programming portals were also of great help in March with more the growth of the Antena 3 website. The releases of new series, than five million such as Allí abajo, Bajo sospecha and Vis a vis; the commitment users to new programming formats such as Casados a primera vista and En tierra hostil, not forgetting the consolidation of content such as El hormiguero 3.0 and Velvet, attracted a significant volume of new users to the portal. Added to this is the creation of the websites of the new channels the group launched in 2015: MEGA and Atreseries. The work performed in handling the Atresmedia community on the social networks was also an essential factor in achieving these figures. The contribution of the social networks to the Antena 3 website increased by 12 points compared to 2014. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 128 laSexta.com beats its record with four millions If 2014 was a great year for the laSexta website, 2015 was even better. In May, the coverage and following of the regional elections led laSexta.com to achieve its record performance, exceeding four million unique users. The continued success of its most popular programmes such as Salvados, Al rojo vivo and Zapeando, as well as the incorporation of new formats such as Constructor a la fuga and Refugiados was also an important factor in the growth of the laSexta website. The radio websites, unstoppable with their new design The Onda Cero If television has managed to excel, the radio stations were not website managed going to do anything less. The websites of Onda Cero and to grow by 1.5% Europa FM also achieved some good audience figures this compared to year. The first managed to grow by 1.5% compared to 2014 and 2014, and reached reached one million unique monthly users in 2015. In March it one million unique also achieved its best ever figure, exceeding 1.2 million users. monthly users Moreover, Europa FM, following a stunning performance in 2014, managed to maintain these figures in 2015 with a monthly average of 1.2 million unique users. One of the reasons for the success of both sites in 2015 was their redesign. Aware of the unstoppable growth of internet consumption from mobile devices, both websites were upgraded in 2015 to improve access for users through their smartphones and tablets, as well as adding a more modern design and better usability when browsing the content. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 129 Atresplayer exceeds five million monthly users Atresplayer In 2015, Atresplayer managed to exceed its main competitor by managed to 13%, setting a record 44% distance between it and the rest and exceed 5 million being the leader for eight consecutive months. The Atresmedia monthly users online video platform managed to exceed five million monthly in 2015, 22% users throughout 2015, 22% more than in the previous year. The more than in the acquisition of the Champions League matches and the strong previous year performance of the Atresmedia content made Atresplayer's best ever year possible, not forgetting 7d: el debate decisivo, which became the event of the year, for being not only the most viewed programme on television in 2015 but also the most viewed on Atresplayer, where it managed to attract more than 300 thousand live viewers, a figure that ensured that 7th December was its best ever following. In addition, the improvements made to the platform, such as its website being adapted for mobile devices and the improvements to the application (which achieved seven million downloads), have led to a notable increase in access from mobile devices. Another significant milestone was the integration of Nubeox which, with the incorporation of more than 750 films and all of Atresmedia's content, led Atresplayer to become one of the most competitive content platforms on the Spanish market. But that's not all. In 2015 Atresplayer strengthened its presence in Smart TV by incorporating its application into LG Smart TV, a support which adds to the other devices on which the platform is already available: PC, tablet, smartphone, video games consoles and access from Chromecast; as well as the major operating systems: iOS, Android, Windows 8 and Windows Phone. In addition, the opening of Atresmedia content internationally allowed Atresplayer to multiply the number of subscriptions obtained in 2015, compared to the previous year, by five. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 130 José Manue l González Pa General Man checo, ager of Atre congratulat smedia Digi ed for reachi tal, subscribers. ng one milli on The best managed community Added to all of this is the effective management of more than 3.2 million users of the Atresmedia database. To improve the relationship it had with them to date, informing them about Atresmedia products and releases, in 2015 it added a survey and opinion system which allows us to maintain an active conversation with the users, and therefore improve the services we offer to them. The vertical portals grow and beat records Atresmedia Digital Taken together, the Atresmedia vertical portals exceeded the never ceases in audience obtained in 2014 by 42%, and contributed more than its commitment 4.2 million monthly users to the group, representing 22% of its to vertical audience. portals and in 2015 it increased Atresmedia Digital never ceases in its commitment to vertical its family with portals and in 2015 it increased its family with another two another two themed sites: Liopardo and Centímetros Cúbicos. themed sites: Liopardo and In June, the digital area of Atresmedia launched Liopardo, a Centímetros humour site which during its first month managed to occupy Cúbicos the top spot in its category in the multi-platform ranking from comScore. Another big event was the incorporation of Guía Infantil to the group of Atresmedia websites. Guiainfantil.com is a portal offering content aimed mainly at parents. Guiainfantil.com is also a leading site internationally and occupies the top spots in the Family & Parenting category from comScore. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 131 MCN Youtube supera el millón de visionados The Atresmedia The Atresmedia multi-channel achieved big milestones this Multi-channel year: it doubled the reproduction data from 2014, exceeding achieved major one million views throughout the year; in October, Antena 3 milestones: it exceeded one million subscribers to its channel, being the first doubled the and only channel in Spain to achieve this; and the group's family reproduction of channels on Youtube has doubled the figure seen in 2014, data from 2014, accumulating more than 2.5 million subscribers. exceeding one million views Since Antena 3 created its Youtube channel in 2007 (the first private TV channel in Europe to do so), its commitment to content diversification has not stopped, and in 2015 it added another three channels to its Youtube multi-channel. Flooxer, the best content on a single platform Continuing with the commitment to innovation that defines the digital division of Atresmedia, in November 2015 it launched Flooxer, a new digital content platform. This is a digital native site which combines the most popular videos with the most followed creators on the Internet. The exponential growth of the viewing of videos on the internet and the sheer number of them circulating on the Internet without any type of filter led to the idea of creating a platform that brings together the short videos of Atresmedia on a platform where the work of the most talented creators in the cloud can be enjoyed in an orderly and select fashion. In addition to the fantastic offer of content there is a player which enables videos to be viewed in 4K and a responsive design for a better experience from mobile devices, offering greater speed and manageability. Flooxer is also the perfect showcase for the brands. Its formats allow them to be integrated naturally, increasing engagement with the users. Flooxer brings together the stars of the Internet in a safe and open environment where the brands find the best content, with production adapted to the language and form of consumption on the Internet. More than 2,000 videos, 200 different formats and around 90 creators now fill this website. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 132 Social networks, proximity generates loyalty The record figures for 2015 were also achieved thanks to the Atresmedia social networks. This year has seen the figure of one million followers on Twitter being exceeded for the Antena 3 and Antena 3 Noticias accounts, as well as half a million in that for laSexta. On this social network, the radio stations have also doubled their number of followers compared to 2014. Radio, complete renovation 7d: el debate decisivo was the most Constant adaptation to new technologies talked about televised broadcast in 2015 is in the DNA of Atresmedia Digital. with more than 2.5 million comments, Therefore, in 2015 it completely renovated and it also accounted for the most social the websites of Onda Cero and Europa authors with more than three hundred FM, whose most important improvement thousand, more than for Eurovision. was its adaptation to responsive browsing for a better user experience. Both have But as well as improving its performance also been given a modern look and better each year, Atresmedia continues to manageability, facilitating access to all the be committed to finding new ways of content. bringing television to the viewers. That is why Antena 3 Noticias has become This improvement also includes the the first news channel in Spain to use applications for mobile devices, available Periscope, a tool which allows users in both Apple Store and Play Store, to see the preview and live news, and to listen to the stations live, including interact with the broadcast in real time. the local ones, anywhere and with the The Antena 3 Noticias Periscope account option to share the content on the social currently has more than two million networks. followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 133 G4-26, G4-27 Multimedia at the service of everyone The new initiative In 2015, Atresmedia Digital continued its commitment to a Crea Cultura strategy that allows it to increase the quality of the content already has more and services offered to its users, and to improve accessibility to than 14,000 these and protect children through the development of parental followers on control tools. Twitter As with the entertainment programmes, drama series and news programmes from Atresmedia, all of the Group's Corporate Responsibility campaigns are present on the social networks, as well as on specific websites with information linked to the different initiatives. In 2015 the portal of the new Tolerancia Cero corporate responsibility campaign was added to this already significant multimedia presence. This is aimed at combating domestic violence and its design and development required us to be particularly careful about browsing privacy and the contact numbers to direct victims to the help centres. TWITTER FOLLOWERS FACEBOOK FOLLOWERS 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 HAZTE ECO 4,967 5,156 5,780 5,381 5,932 7,778 Ponle Freno 12,093 16,300 19,117 240,651 280,623 267,703 Constantes y Vitales – – 2,183 – – 6,712 Crea Cultura – – 14,338 – – 720 Fundación Atresmedia – – 14,632 – – 4,182 Objetivo Bienestar Junior 7,641 7,904 7,932 6,288 6,782 6,792 Tolerancia Cero – – 239 – – 268 Data from 29 January 2015. Quality of the multimedia services Highlights among the measures adopted by Atresmedia Digital to ensure the quality of the multimedia services are the following: • Implementation of new advances in the quality control system launched in 2014, thanks to which the number of recorded incidents has been significantly reduced and action and contingency plans have been established. • Strengthening of the team of community managers who serve the community, responsible for the new services and profiles of the websites of the television and radio programmes and series. • Extension of the operating hours of web writers and community managers with a considerable improvement in the direct response and interaction with the followers, and dealing with their queries, advice, recommendations, etc. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 134 G4-26, G4-27 Increasing the accessibility of web portals The Atresmedia Atresmedia Digital's vision is to ensure that anyone with some group has more sort of disability can access the information on its websites. To than 32 million do this it continues adding content and technology which allow fans and followers it to fulfil this objective and in 2015 it launched the following through the social initiatives: networks • A more than 10% increase in the content with subtitles on the Atresplayer platform through the dual language and subtitling system. Among these are American series such as The Big Bang Theory, 2 broke girls and Person of interest which are now fully broadcast with subtitles. • The electoral debates of general interest held in 2015 were subtitled and signed in real time, which was recognised and valued by disability organisations. • Start of the redesign process for all of the Group's sites to adapt them to mobile browsing. To do this it opted for the responsive solution, which during 2015 was implemented in the websites of neoxkidz, Onda Cero and Europa FM, as well as on the new verticals (Liopardo and Centímetros Cúbicos). Following this line, Atresmedia Digital has committed itself to adapting to the double A rating (AA) of the W3C accessibility standard in 2016. It will also continue the responsive redesign process which will be extended to all of the Group's online elements and which will incorporate new accessibility measures, in order to achieve websites which are easier to browse and with less cognitive load. Helping parents Atresmedia Digital wants to help parents to educate their children and protect them when using the internet. Atresmedia and Guiainfantil.com have signed an agreement to boost its content aimed at parents. In this way, thanks to this portal Atresmedia Digital has strengthened its commitment to high quality content for all the family. It is an online magazine in Spanish aimed at parents, and a worldwide leader with more than nine million unique monthly users (OJD data). All the information, both written and in audiovisual format, not only has the support of Guiainfantil.com but has also been signed off by renowned specialists in the sector. The new content offering of Atresmedia Digital covers a wide variety of themes and sections, ranging from Pregnancy, Babies, Health, Food, Education, Leisure and a long list of resources to help parents to care for and educate their children. Parental control measures have remained on the neoxkidz website. www.neoxkidz.com/parental-control.html ATRESMEDIA Diversificación The expansion strategy The general Diversification department is responsible for all of Atresmedia's activity involving business models that do not relate to advertising but that nevertheless have a high growth potential. Atresmedia Diversificación is divided into four broad areas: Internacional (International), which is made up of three channels already present in more than 32 million homes throughout the world; Media for Equity, to take shareholdings in emerging companies in exchange for advertising campaigns; Nuevos Negocios (New Businesses), which covers different activities such as the use of late night slots, licences and merchandising, competitions, online gaming and e-commerce projects, such as Tualbum.es; Gestión de Derechos Musicales (Management of Music Rights), from music publishing and from the exploitation of phonographic rights, the highlight in this area being the launch of the record label, Atresmúsica, in 2015. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 136 Internacional Area: more than 32 million households signed up around the world The international The three international channels of the Atresmedia group — area of Antena 3 Internacional, ¡HOLA! TV and Atreseries Internacional— Atresmedia ended have managed to exceed the figure of 32 million subscriptions the year on one of worldwide, which represents a 34% increase compared to last the famous Times year. Square screens, the most sought Atreseries, the youngest of the three channels, broadcasting since after advertising 2014, has experienced rapid growth thanks to signing agreements space in the with DIRECTV Latam and USA, Movistar TV, Liberty Puerto Rico world where more and Cable Onda Panamá. Atreseries, the only 100% series channel than 450 million in Spanish, also released some of the Group's most successful visitors pass by productions, including Algo que celebrar, Sin identidad, Bajo each year sospecha, Vis a vis and Allí abajo, which has led to a sustainable audience growth. Antena 3 Internacional has strengthened its presence in Latin America, the U.S. and Europe by adding new audiences and consolidation its distribution. With a very stable schedule, based on news and entertainment, Antena 3 Internacional is today a leading source of news and an essential channel in the schedules of pay television operators in Spanish speaking countries. Two of Atresmedia's international channels —Antena 3 and Atreseries— started the year with big new developments. The group's veteran channel, Antena 3 Internacional, began broadcasting in HD quality throughout Latin America. The U.S. audience was already receiving the channel in high definition. Moreover, ¡HOLA! TV, the result of the agreement between Atresmedia and the magazine ¡HOLA!, has grown in countries like Mexico and Colombia thanks to working with large operators such as Televisa/IZZI and Movistar TV, continuing its uninterrupted expansion since its launch in September 2013. ¡HOLA! TV has increased its hours of original production to over 550 a year, with nine self-produced programmes. The international area of Atresmedia ended a great year on one of the legendary screens in New York’s Times Square, the most sought after advertising space in the world where more than 450 million visitors pass by each year. Atresmedia has therefore become the first Spanish communication group present in the iconic New York square. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 137 Media for Equity: an established model At year end, Media for Equity is an innovative investment model through Atresmedia's which Atresmedia takes minority shareholdings in start-ups with portfolio a high growth capacity in exchange for advertising. amounted to ten investee Following its launch in 2014, the model has become established companies, and has gained importance. More than 200 projects have highlights among been analysed, which demonstrates the scope for this type of which are some of transaction and the value of television as the perfect media the highest profile outlet for launching internet companies. Spanish start-ups At year end, Atresmedia's portfolio contains ten investee companies, highlights among which are some of the highest profile Spanish start-ups, such as Wallapop, the geo-localised mobile application for the purchase and sale of second hand items; Promofarma, a showcase for non-prescription pharmacy products and a leader in its sector; and Fintonic, an application for self-managing personal finances. Likewise, during 2015 two significant events occurred which gave the final boost to the model. Firstly the first sale of one of our investees occurred, obtaining a very impressive return on the investment. And secondly, various companies from our portfolio became paid advertisers of the Group, therefore fulfilling the strategic and financial objectives set. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 138 New businesses, new opportunities to the launch of a jewellery collection for Christmas 2015. The Nuevos Negocios area commercially manages the chain's brands and looks Together with the Planeta Group, various for business opportunities in activity publishing launches have taken place and segments away from advertising. The others have continued to be developed, development of New Businesses includes such as Objetivo bienestar. The new book different lines of operation: by Karlos Arguiñano, A mi manera was also released. Licences and Merchandising The portal misterentradas.com, was Following the good performance of the strengthened within the ticket market product launched last year with ONCE, in through an agreement with Ticketmaster, the final quarter of 2015 a new product a leading company in the sector. This under the El hormiguero brand was has allowed it to offer new and better launched in the market. The initial sales events, with exclusive pre-sales and the figures guarantee that this initiative will application of a global business model continue. based, in many cases, on revenue sharing. Top chef has significantly increased its Throughout 2015, new products were market presence, with new products launched in the children's slot of Neox and an increase in revenue of over 60% Kidz. A good example is the Mutant compared to last year. Busters series, the first children's animation project from Atresmedia TV, One of the most important initiatives together with Famosa, Planeta Junior this year was the creation and sale and Kotoc. In this case the Group has of the Velvet, Lady Velvet perfume. not only carried out the production and Incorporated into the plot of the series broadcasting, but has also shared in the to generate recognition, its success led profits. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 139 Currently the early morning content programming is stable and adapted to each channel, formed mainly by instrumentals, telesale programmes and On-line gaming also online gaming. As a result of the regulation of on-line gaming in Spain in 2011, Atresmedia has In this final area, the agreement with launched the first roulette, bingo, sports Pokerstars to broadcast the tournaments betting and slots programmes in Spain. sponsored by the company in Europe and the Caribbean has been renewed for In 2015 the Group reorganised its activity another year. in this area to move to a simpler, more efficient model, based on operating During 2015, Atresmedia Diversificación through a third-party structure, the also continued to be the main media British multinational company specialised partner of 888, the other major online in online gaming, Gamesys Limited. As a gaming operator in Spain, whose Casino, result, the offer has been concentrated Betting and Poker programmes have into just one site, canalbingo.es, with a been shown in the early morning slots on broad offer of more than 50 bingo, casino laSexta. and slots games. For both, Atresmedia makes different contributions in the areas of production, Early morning content advertising, content promotion, planning This business areas makes profit from and optimisation. time slots that are not appealing for conventional advertising. It therefore aims to obtain additional profit through the broadcasting of specific formats that generate income without incurring a cost for the chain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 140 Teletext Although there is a single teletext service for all of the Group's channels in terms of the content and organisation of the information, independently commercially managed are: the portfolio of commercial spaces on Antena 3, Nova and MEGA on one hand, and those of laSexta and Neox on the other. In this way, the performance is optimised. Despite its technological limitations, viewers continue to use teletext extensively, which makes it a suitable advertising format for direct response advertising, such as insurance or loan companies, as well as for companies who provide leisure and entertainment services through 806 numbers. Tualbum.es Tualbum.es has Atresmedia's commitment to renovation has also been reflected updated its in the business of Tualbum.es, the digital photography portal, website to adapt where users can download free software used to design their it to the needs of own personalised albums. internet users and the demands of In addition to continuing with its commitment to advertising e-commerce communication as a way of capturing new customers, throughout 2015 its website was upgraded to adapt it to the needs of internet users and the demands of e-commerce. So, the new Tualbum.es website —launched in October— is suitable for mobile devices (telephone and tablet) and has a more modern design, to create a positive purchasing experience. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 141 Managing music rights by prestigious musicians from this country. Its catalogue expansion offers The purpose of the Group's music some very positive results year after year. publishers is to produce and contract with their creators the original songs included Record label: Atresmúsica in the programmes on Atresmedia TV, such as those used in the news, series, During 2015 Atresmedia's record label films and promotions. In this way, rights was launched. This is called Atresmúsica are generated that are paid for through and its mission is to market and manage the management bodies. In addition, this its own phonographic rights, as well is the area that exploits the early morning as market, in a joint venture with other timeslot broadcasting music items such labels, its repertoire in physical or digital as video clips and self-produced concerts, format. and these works belong to the publisher. It also exploits the rights to the During 2015, the spotlight was focused on soundtracks from films, series and theme managing the copyrights generated from tunes produced for Atresmedia. the music in the Atresmedia group series sold abroad. In just a few months Atresmúsica has managed to position two artists in the In this context, agreements have top 10 best-selling song list. It has also been signed with rights management developed the official theme tune for companies to represent the Publisher in Champions Total and, during December, the rest of the world and therefore be it launched the new hit from Pablo able to maximise the revenue coming Alborán included in the soundtrack of from other countries. A special mention the Atresmedia Cine film Palmeras en la goes to the operation in Italy, where the nieve. Atresmedia group's series are enjoying great success and whose music belongs to Among other projects, in 2016 the the Publisher soundtrack of El secreto de Puente Viejo was launched with a song sung by Ana The musical production in the Irradia Belén, in Spanish and Italian. library continues to grow and it now has more than 2,000 original titles composed ATRESMEDIA Cine Box office success and critical acclaim Only 17 Spanish Throughout 2015 Atresmedia Cine produced a total of six films earned more feature films which, together with the films released at the end than €1 million in of 2014 and still showing in cinemas this year, had box office takings, of which takings of €32 million, which represents 29.5% of the total box Atresmedia was office takings for Spanish cinema. involved in eight The figures for its film productions keep it in the top spots of the ranking for the cinema industry in Spain, since all of the year's releases were among the 25 with the highest takings, and four of them were in the top ten. During 2015, only 17 Spanish films earned more than €1 million in takings, of which Atresmedia was involved in eight, TVE was involved in six and Telecinco Cinema was involved in three. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 143 Rkg Title Takings at 31/12 % of Spanish 3 Perdiendo el norte 10,308,784.87 9.3% 5 Ahora o nunca 8,394,243.75 7.6% 6 Palmeras en la nieve 4,642,704.82 4.2% 7 Desconocido, El 2,957,984.93 2.7% 13 In the heart of the sea 1,811,692.53 1.6% 14 Isla mínima, La 1,618,699.02 1.5% 16 Club de los Incomprendidos, El 1,185,614.18 1.1% 17 Exodus: Gods and Kings 1,029,133.91 0.9% 21 Cómo sobrevivir a una despedida 767,979.42 0.7% 113 Torrente 5: Misión Eurovegas 3,877.13 0.0% 140 Pancho: el perro millonario 1,205.76 0.0% 153 Pájaros de papel 634.08 0.0% 173 Futbolín / Metegol 185.20 0.0% 177 Planet 51 153.50 0.0% 189 Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica 63.00 0.0% 32,722,956.10 29.5% Films released in 2015 28,883,390.32 26.1% Atresmedia Cine is In March 2015, the comedy Perdiendo el norte, directed by committed to new Nacho García Velilla, managed to beat the success of his two talent, providing previous films, Fuera de carta and Que se mueran los feos, with new directors with more than one and a half million viewers and ten million euros opportunities in at the box office. The film has been adapted into a series for their films Atresmedia, Buscando el norte, for release in 2016. Ahora o nunca, a romantic comedy, directed by María Ripoll and starring Dani Rovira and María Valverde, achieved more than eight million euros in revenue at the box office. The film was premièred internationally at the Festival des films du Monde, in Montreal. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 144 Atresmedia Cine Atresmedia Cine is committed to new talent, providing new also took part directors with opportunities in their early films. Como sobrevivir in international a una despedida was the film début of the award-winning short super-productions film maker Manuela Burló Moreno, starring the Goya award such as In the heart winner, Natalia de Molina, and a cast of promising young actors of the sea, directed from Spanish cinema. The film was premièred at the Festival de by Ron Howard cine español in Malaga. and starring Chris Hemsworth El desconocido is also the first film by Daniel de la Torre. It opened the Venice Days section of the 72nd edition of the Mostra Internazionale D’Arte in Venice and was presented at the Festival de Cine Internacional in San Sebastián with a magnificent reception from critics and the public. Starring the award winners Luis Tosar, Javier Gutiérrez, Goya Toledo and Elvira Mínguez, the film has received various nominations. Among the awards are: best new director and best editing, granted by the Círculo de Escritores Cinematográficos (Cinema Writers Circle, CEC) and two Goya awards for best sound and best editing. Atresmedia Cine also took part in international superproductions such as In the heart of the sea, directed by Ron Howard and starring Chris Hemsworth. It was premièred in Spain during the Madrid Première Week. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 145 “Palmeras en la Palmeras en la nieve, directed by Fernando González Molina, is nieve” has earned an adaptation of the novel by Luz Gabás published by Temas more than €15 de Hoy (Planeta Publishing). The film stars Mario Casas, Adriana million and has Ugarte and Berta Vázquez and was one of the most eagerly been seen by anticipated Spanish films of 2015. In 2016 it has continued its more than 2.5 commercial success and after seven weeks in cinemas it has million cinema earned more than €15 million and has been seen by more than goers 2.5 million cinema goers. Nominated for five Goya awards, it walked off with the awards for best song composed by Pablo Alborán and Lucas Vidal, and best art direction for Antón Laguna. It was selected by the public as one of the best films of 2015 and won the 2016 Fotogramas de Plata award and the award for best actor for Mario Casas. La isla mínima continued its success in 2015, being released in various countries. Seen by more than 150,000 cinema goers in France, it continues its international tour through various countries, such as Australia, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the United Kingdom, among others. In Belgium and Luxembourg the film achieved takings of €120,000 and more than 17,000 viewers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 146 Koblic, an Argentinian co-production, directed by Sebastián Boresnztein, director of Un cuento chino. It stars Ricardo Darín, Inma Cuesta and Óscar Martínez. Releases in 2016 Que Dios nos perdone, the third film by Atresmedia Cine continues its Rodrigo Sorogoyen, starring Antonio de commitment to a variety of genres, la Torre and Roberto Álamo. relying on directors with significant experience and giving an opportunity to Contratiempo, the second feature film of new talent. Among the various films that Oriol Paulo following his successful début will be released in 2016 are comedies, with “El cuerpo”. Starring Mario Casas, family films, thrillers and dramas: Bárbara Lennie, José Coronado and Ana Wagener. Tenemos que hablar, from the director of “El otro lado de la cama” and “Días de El hombre de las mil caras, the next film fútbol”, David Serrano, and starring Hugo by Alberto Rodríguez following “La isla Silva and Michelle Jener. El pregón, from mínima”. It is inspired by the novel by Dani de La Orden, with Berto Romero, Manuel Cerdán, Paesa, based on the life Andreu Buenafuente and Belén Cuesta. of the Spanish secret agent Francisco Cuerpo de élite: misión palomares, from Paesa, and his decisive role in the escape the new director Joaquín Mazón, with and subsequent surrender of the former a cast full of familiar faces such as Miki head of the Civil Guard, Luis Roldán. Esparbé, María León, Jordi Sánchez and Eduard Fernández, José Coronado, Carlos Areces. Villaviciosa, the latest Marta Etura and Carlos Santos are the project from Nacho García Velilla and his stars of this film which will be released in fourth comedy. September 2016. Bad dogs, an animated film, directed by The drama Rumbos, by Manuela Burló Alberto Rodríguez, who has already been Moreno, which has an ensemble cast animator and director of series such as including: Karra Elejalde, Carmen Machi, “Pocoyo”. Zipi y Zape y la isla del capitán, Pilar López de Ayala and Ernesto Alterio, directed by Oskar Santos and with the among others and Toro by Kike Maillo. participation of Elena Anaya, is the second part of “Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica”. Human resources Proud of the team 1. To ensure that the employees of Atresmedia feel proud to work at  the Group. Our 2. To promote equality, diversity and a work-life balance. vision 3. To train people and encourage their professional development. 4. To offer high quality employment. 5. To promote corporate volunteering. 6. To ensure the health and safety of employees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 148 In figures 2013 2014 2015 No. of employees 1,829 1,806 1,917 Average length of service (years) 11.8 12.3 12.3 % permanent contracts 81.0 81.2 78.0 Voluntary turnover 1.8 3.2 2.7 % of workforce in the union 86.0 84.5 85.5 % of women in the workforce 48.1 49.9 49.5 Women as % of new joiners 55.7 62.4 54.4 Training hours/employee 19.1 22.0 26.2 Investment in training (Euros) 372,487 348,661 406,055 Work placements offered 355 669 340 Volunteering hours 1,429 1,772 2,102 Accident frequency rate 2.3 3.0 2.3 Accident severity index 0.1 0.1 0.1 Fulfilling the challenges set for 2015 In 2015, practically all of the improvement commitments made within the company in the area of Human Resources have been met, as can be seen from the following table: 2015 Commitment Level of fulfilment Comments Staff with potential in the Launch of the Gestión del Talento  different areas and companies have been Talent Management Programme. 100% assessed. All the steps have been taken to design the  project, with just its launch in the first quarter of Launch of Atresmedia Formación 75% 2016 remaining. A new initiative has been launched: in-company training. The first edition has been successfully Preparation for the launch of the second  completed and the second is now under edition of the Masters in Audiovisual 100% way, which will have two David Feduchy Company Management. scholarships for people with disabilities. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 149 The most attractive company in the audiovisual sector For the third During 2015, work has been carried out on a priority target: to consecutive year, strengthen the pride of belonging to a team in a company with Atresmedia has a 25 year history . been recognised as the most The effort made in managing human resources has led to attractive Atresmedia being recognised once again in the Employer company to Branding Report from Randstad as the most attractive work for in the company to work for in the audiovisual sector, and the sixth audiovisual sector, most attractive in the whole country, ahead of multinationals and the sixth best of renowned prestige. 65.53% of participants in the study in the whole expressed their desire to work at Atresmedia, very positively country, according valuing factors such as a pleasant working environment and to Randstad an interesting job . Atresmedia's workforce increased by 111 employees in 2015, to reach 1,917 people, of which 78.04% have a permanent contract. This figure, together with a low voluntary turnover rate of 2.66%, results in a workforce with a high stability rate. Further information on Randstad “Employer Branding Report” www.randstad.es/contenidos/Randstadaward/Informe-Randstad-Award-2015.pdf 78% of Permanent contracts Turnover contracts at (%) (%) Atresmedia are permanent 81 81 78 1.85 3.16 2.66 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 150 Number of employees per company 552 435 335 294 5 9 55 17 86 116 11 2 Uniprex Atresmedia Advertising A3 Nubeox Fundación I3TV TDT Uniprex Eventos A3 A3 Films Noticias Canarias TV Multimedia The majority of the employees, 51.27%, are young, aged between 30 and 45; but they also possess a high degree of experience, with an average length of service of 12.27 years. Distribution of the workforce by age range 20 29 30 45 46 60 > 60 204 983 704 26 Geographically, the majority of the workforce work in the Community of Madrid (70.11%), followed at some distance by Andalusia (5.58%), Catalonia (3.76%) and the Valencian Community (3.76%). However, Atresmedia is present in all autonomous communities. Moreover, the organisation allows transfers between its centres at the request of the employees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 151 Main areas of action Atresmedia manages its human resources following a policy whose main objective is the personal and professional growth of its staff. During 2015, this priority focus on staff has translated into specific programmes to improve equality and the work-life balance, professional development and safety in the workplace. • Professional development • Health and safety • Equality and work-life balance Equality and work-life balance • Training • Custom training • Risk assessments • Promoting talent • Health monitoring Professional • Training leaders in the Health and safety • Coordination of company development audiovisual industry OHS activities • Internal communications • Corporate volunteering Further information on Atresmedia Human Resources Policy www.atresmediacorporacion.com/a3document/2010/12/27/ DOCUMENTS/00006/00006.pdf ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 152 Equality and work-life balance Equality plan Equality represents one of the basic principles underlying the Atresmedia Human Resources Policy. The company has an Equality Plan, approved in 2014, which establishes four basic objectives: • Ensuring equality of treatment and opportunity. • Improving the work-life balance. • Preventing workplace harassment. • Protecting maternity leave. The Equality Plan has its own Committee which meets regularly and is responsible for ensuring that it is implemented correctly. Within this Committee, existing measures are reviewed and new actions to promote equality are approved Measures for enhancing equality • Flexibility of up to 30 minutes in the timetable at the start and end of the working day. Work flexibility • Reduction of meal times with a minimum of 45 minutes. • Continuous workday on Fridays. • Feasibility study for a tele-working system. • Extension of maternity leave beyond that established by the current regulations, up to 17 weeks. Supporting Maternity • Expansion by 3 additional days of nursing leave if complete workdays Leave have been accumulated. • Approval of a maternity and nursing guide. Professional • Courses will be offered that can optimise work performance and Equality development refresh and improve the professional capability of the employees. plan • Approval of a protocol for preventing sexual harassment that will create a working environment that is respectful of fundamental rights and ensures they are protected. Equality and gender • Reduction of the workday for victims of domestic violence by court violence ruling and with young children in their care of up to one hour a day, without a proportional reduction of their salary, over a twelve month period. • Pay advances where the employee may have financial and family needs that are special, extraordinary, justified and urgent. Solidarity • Expansion of paid leave due to the death or serious illness of relatives who are next of kin, spouse or domestic partner registered in the official registry, of up to three days (five if travel is required). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 153 During 2015, the implementation of these measures led to very positive results for both the employees and the company, which is contributing to consolidating a culture aimed at promoting a worklife balance in the organisation. Work on other new projects has also continued, among which one notable initiative is a pilot tele-working plan that has already been launched in two specific areas of the company for people who work at weekends. In 2016 a possible extension of the Plan to new areas of the organisation will be studied. Promoting integration Atresmedia is strongly committed to integration and nondiscrimination as a fundamental part of its business strategy. For this reason, in 2015 Atresmedia signed a collaboration agreement with Fundación Integra (Integra Foundation) in order to support and promote the employability of women who have been victims of domestic violence. As part of this agreement, during 2015 the Group awarded two scholarships for internships at the Company. Moreover, the Group has created two David Feduchy scholarships, in memory of a professional from Atresmedia who recently died, which aim to promote and assist the participation of people with disabilities in the second edition of the Masters in Audiovisual Company Management organised by Atresmedia and the EAE Business School. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 154 In order to introduce new improvements to this integration plan, Atresmedia has participated in the Companies and social inclusion: facilitators and barriers report, whose objective is to analyse large organisations using the Bequal model in order to identify the facilitating factors and barriers that have an impact on the process of inclusion for people with disabilities. The result of this report will allow the company's strengths and areas for improvement to be determined, in order to launch new initiatives that promote integration and diversity at Atresmedia. 2015 distribution of workforce by professional 2015 percentage distribution (%) of the workforce category and gender by professional category and gender 24 122 175 77 99 156 669 595 16.44 83.56 69.44 30.56 38.82 61.18 52.93 47.07 Administration Management Other Technicians Administration Management Other Technicians Men Women Men Women The strong commitment of Atresmedia to equality translates into a workforce where 49.55% of the staff are women and the integration into the team of 37 people with some type of disability. 124 women joined Atresmedia in 2015, which represents more than 54% of new joiners. Atresmedia has joined Red de Empresas por una Sociedad Libre de Violencia de Género (the Network of Companies for a Society Free from Domestic Violence) through the signing of a collaboration agreement with the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. As a result of this the Group undertakes to raise awareness about this problem externally and internally.    49.5% percentage of women 37 people with some 124 women joined in the workforce type of disability Atresmedia in 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 155 Social benefits The employees of Atresmedia have a programme of social benefits that help improve the quality and stability of employment and promote a good work-life balance. Benefit Content Beneficiaries Life insurance All employees have a personal life insurance policy. All employees Medical insurance Management staff have free health insurance. All management staff Support for temporary In the event of an employee's temporary disability, the company All employees disability supplements the benefit to make it up to 100% of the salary. Flexible remuneration Antena 3 offers a remuneration plan to its managers that 12 employees in 2015 plan includes a leased car and specific training. Annual Social Fund which is traditionally spent on school grants Employees signed up to the Social Fund and dental insurance. Broadcasting Agreement Wage bonus for transport needs caused by a change of Employees signed up to the Transport bonus workplace. Broadcasting Agreement Employees of Atresmedia also have another series of special advantages: Special advantages Content Beneficiarios Atresmedia has agreements established with different external companies, thanks to which the employees can enjoy products and services with advantages: special rates for services Special advantages in relating to health and well-being, special conditions for training purchasing products and Todos los empleados programmes (agreement with ESIC), use of the sports facilities services (the Dehesa Boyal de San Sebastián de los Reyes municipal sports centre) and discounts on the purchases of books, travel and restaurants, among others. The employees of Atresmedia have the option to bring their Special advantages in the children to filming, attend their favourite programmes as an Todos los empleados Group's activities audience member and obtain tickets to the previews of the productions of the Group. The Atresmedia central office has a company canteen for all Company canteen employees. The company funds 58% of the cost of the food. Todos los empleados Employees who work away from home are given food vouchers. Parking at the workplace The company's facilities have free parking for employees. Todos los empleados ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 156 Atres me in “Au dia emplo diovis y ual Co ees comple mpan te the y Man agem Masters ent”. Professional development Atresmedia makes a special effort to promote the development of its employees, both personally and professionally, offering high quality training and proper talent management within the organisation. Custom training In 2015, the Every year a specific Training Plan is prepared, tailored to the investment in needs of each job and person. training plans was €406,055, In 2015, 383 courses were offered on various topics (72 of which which represents were new), including a strong focus on languages and new a 16% increase technologies. Training was given, both face-to-face and through compared to 2014 e-learning, to a total of 1,175 employees. Investment in training Average training hours (euros) by professional category 372,487 348,661 406,055 36 70 60 11 15 23 11 17 19 17 19 17 2013 2014 2015 Directors Technicians Administration Other 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 157 Training hours by course theme 240 564 10,077 504 3,882 200 1,480 3,502 2,174 3,022 13,817 995 515 3,583 3,358 0 3,252 4,913 2,151 12,899 7,229 6,641 383 630 216 0 224 Communication Skills Languages Technologies New Health and Editorial policies CR and Other technologies safety and content sustainability 2013 2014 2015 The investment in training has amounted to a total of 406,055 euros, representing an increase of 16% compared to 2014 and increased by 19% the average time of training per employee, which has passed 26.2 in 2015. A special mention should be made of the Masters in Audiovisual Company Management designed by the EAE Business School and Atresmedia, launched in March 2014 through a collaboration agreement between the two organisations, in which 180 professionals and directors from Atresmedia have taken part, finishing their training in November. In 2016 Atresmedia will convene the second edition of this masters in order to provide its employees with the necessary knowledge about internal television, radio and Internet processes. Promotion of internal talent The internal talent and professional development of employees within the company is a key feature of staff management at Atresmedia. For this reason, the Group continues working on a specific Talent Management programme, whose objective is to stimulate internal promotion within the organisation, identifying and promoting “breeding grounds for professionals” without the need to resort to external recruitment and selection processes. During 2015 the professionals from the different areas and companies who will participate in the programme were identified and assessed. They account for 2% of the workforce and the second phase of the project will begin in 2016 with specific actions for each of the jobs identified.    383 courses were offered 406,055 Euros invested 26.2 hours of training on various topics in employees' training per employee ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 158 G4-26, G4-27 Improving the working environment In 2015 Atresmedia carried out a working environment study on middle managers and directors, in which very good results were once again obtained with an average positive response rate of 85%. This result shows a two percent improvement compared to the last study carried out in 2013. Participation in the study was 88% and, again, the highest rated factor was the company's image. The worst rated factor was pay, although satisfaction with this aspect has increased by 5% compared to the last study. The remaining factors received a high rating overall, with minor variations compared to the last survey. These results reflect a positive evolution in the organisation's working environment and the ongoing efforts of Atresmedia to ensure an optimal working environment for its employees. Working environment study Strengths Areas for improvement The company's external credibility and its external Lack of balance in the time devoted to personal image as 'best work environment in the industry'. and professional life. Satisfaction with how and how much it is possible Fringe benefits. to contribute to the company's enterprise. evel of commitment, the feeling of belonging to the Pay equity, both internal and external. Group and relations with co-workers. Following the analysis of the results, the HR Department has defined a plan of action for 2016 which includes a set of measures aimed at improving communication, remuneration, training and the work-life balance, in order to improve the working environment and increase the motivation of its staff. Leaders in audiovisual training Atresmedia In 2015 Atresmedia continued its Internship programme, which offered 340 offers interested students the chance to obtain real experience places for its that enriches their training and helps them enter the world of Internship work. programme In this edition, 340 places were offered (164 in summer and 176 during the academic year) which were taken up by students from the WT (professional module of Workplace Training), Proyecto Pro (a Fundación Atresmedia initiative regarding the employment of young people with a disability in the media industry), graduates and post-graduate students. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 159 G4-26, G4-27 In 2015 Atresmedia continued supporting the Primer Empleo (First Job) Programme, from the Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (Press Association of Madrid). This is an initiative offering recent journalism graduates the chance to work at companies in the Group. With its participation in this programme, Atresmedia aims to promote the employment of professionals in the sector and benefit from this, at an especially complicated moment for the profession. Atresmedia wants to become a leader in audiovisual and radio training in Spain and, with this objective in mind, in 2015 it worked on the new Atresmedia Formación project, aimed at recent graduates and professionals from the sector who want to update or refresh their knowledge. The project will lay the foundations for a new leading nationwide training model, with a catalogue of more than 400 courses covering all types of content such as computing, commercial techniques or personal skills. Moreover, several professionals from Atresmedia take part as lecturers on masters and post-graduate degrees in the audiovisual industry, including: • Antena 3 Masters in Television Journalism from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. • Antena 3 University Masters in Digital Journalism from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. • Antena 3 Masters in Audiovisual Business Management from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. • Onda Cero Masters in Radio from the Universidad Antonio de Nebrija. • Masters in Journalism and Digital Communication from the EAE Business School and Atresmedia. • Masters in Communications Business Management from the EAE Business School and Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 160 . D3 in eM g az ma it al e dig rat r po Co Internal communication Good internal communication is essential for successfully completing projects, so the Group has various channels through which it provides ongoing reporting of the performance and milestones of the organisation and any other aspect of interest to employees. Highlights among the different communication channels are the following: Welcome Corporate MASD3 digital Compartir el manual Intranet magazine éxito (Sharing Includes Main point of A monthly multisuccess) information of information for device magazine An initiative interest for all company with information based on the new staff. employees. of interest to all presentation employees in the of successful Atresmedia group. projects led by professionals from the Group. In 2015 Atresmedia began a process to improve its corporate Intranet, and to do so it requested the help of the employees in order to identify their needs and expectations with regard to this communication tool. Ten focus groups were held, in which 100 professionals took part, representing all areas of the company. The new corporate Intranet is expected to be launched in 2016. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 161 Atresmed ia vo lunteers in the educat ional projec t run by th e NGO Ces al. Boosting corporate volunteering Since 2005, Atresmedia has had a Programa de Voluntariado Corporativo (Corporate Volunteering Programme) whose main objectives are: • To contribute to the development of society by offering it the professional skills of its employees. • To channel the charitable spirit of the Group's professionals. • To promote the values of commitment, solidarity and teamwork. • To make society aware of the importance of volunteering, through content in programmes and news bulletins and with specific campaigns using the Group's media organisations. Atresmedia is a member of the Voluntare network, an international organisation whose mission is to promote corporate volunteering programmes through dialogue, the development of new action initiatives and the creation of new formats among stakeholders. In 2015, Atresmedia also organised, together with the NGO Cooperación Internacional (International Corporation), the 9th edition of Día Solidario de las Empresas (Company Solidarity Day) and was media partner for the International Volunteering Week “Give and Gain Day 2015”, organised by Forética. Both events aim to promote corporate volunteering as a key tool for the investment in the community strategies of businesses, and have been publicised through the Group's media organisations. For the second consecutive year, and coinciding with International Volunteering Day, Atresmedia broadcast the “Activa tu Voluntad” (Activate Your Good Will) awareness raising spot on all its channels. This is an initiative that encourages society to become involved in volunteering work, and it also involves Cooperación Internacional, Forética, the HazloPosible Foundation and Plataforma de Voluntariado de España (Spanish Volunteering Platform). In 2015 Atresmedia offered 16 volunteering activities, which helped 13 different social organisations and involved 99 volunteers who donated 2,102 hours of their time. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 162 teers Atresmedia volun Profes at the Grandes Volunteering activities Atresmedia volunteers ación event run by Fund Atresmedia. 12 11 16 93 123 99 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 In 2015 Volunteering hours Investment in Euros Atresmedia offered 16 1,429 1,772 2,102 9,657 15,408 15,864 volunteering activities, which helped 13 different social organisations and involved 99 volunteers who donated 2,102 hours of their time 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 163 Among others, the Atresmedia volunteers have participated in the following projects: Día Solidario de las Empresas Supporting the Santa María Josefa (Company Solidarity Day) soup kitchen Atresmedia, together with the NGO Once again this year, Atresmedia Cooperación Internacional, organised volunteers have collaborated with the the 9th edition of Día Solidario de las Santa María Josefa de Vallecas soup Empresas which was simultaneously kitchen in Madrid. For three days, the held in 10 Spanish cities for the first employees helped to prepare the food, time. Around 1,000 volunteers from serve it and clean up. Their contribution 44 companies took part in different allowed food to be served to more than Volunteering for the Menudos social projects run by 65 non-profit 700 people every day. Atresmedia has Corazones Foundation organisations, benefiting different also donated €1,000 for the running of groups at risk of social exclusion such the soup kitchen From 12th to 29th of July, two as people with a disability or those without a home, the elderly, sick children Atresmedia volunteers took part in or those in the process of inclusion. 19 a summer camp for children aged employees from Atresmedia took part between 7 and 14 with congenital heart in this initiative, spending time with the disease. elderly, renovating homes or making calendars with disabled people. 'Operation Kilo' viviendas o elaborando calendarios con for the Food Bank personas con discapacidad. Volunteers from Atresmedia helped the Te invito a cenar (I invite you to Food Bank in its 2015 campaigns, both raising awareness among hypermarket dinner), charity Christmas dinner customers about the importance International volunteering: of contributing to these initiatives 16 volunteers from the Group have taken and sorting the food donated. In Un maestro, una vida part, as kitchen staff or waiters, in the December Atresmedia also organised (One teacher, one life) 'Te invito a cenar” project, an initiative an Operation Kilo at the Company's promoted by various social associations facilities, in which the Group's volunteers Four Atresmedia volunteers travelled that work with groups suffering social helped to collect and sort the donations to Atalaya, Peru for three weeks in exclusion. This consisted of inviting from the employees. The campaign August on behalf of the NGO Cesal to more than 800 disadvantaged people managed to collect more than 600 kilos participate in the 'One teacher, one life' to dinner on Christmas Day. Atresmedia of food. project, aimed at promoting education also sponsored one of the guest tables. for the indigenous people of the Amazon rainforest. The volunteers told of their experience in the Peru Express Comparte y Recicla blog http://blogs.antena3.com/peru(Share and Recycle) express/ Four Atresmedia volunteers formed part of the “Comparte y Recicla” charity initiative, whose main objective is to ensure that children from families in a situation of social exclusion can have a toy next Christmas. In total they received more than 5,000 toys. Further information on “Activa tu voluntad” initiative on www.atresmediacorporacion.com/responsabilidad-corporativa/ voluntariado-corporativo/activa-tu-voluntad/ Further information on Atresmedia Corporate Volunteering Programme www.Atresmediacorporacion.com/responsabilidadcorporativa/voluntariado-corporativo ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 164 A safe and healthy working environment The Group's Atresmedia has an Occupational Health and Safety System main objective aimed at ensuring the health and safety of all its employees. The is to ensure Group's main objective is to ensure the awareness, training and the awareness, active involvement of its employees, in order to guarantee their training and active own welfare. involvement of its employees, During 2015, the Group's companies with employee in order to representatives held quarterly meetings of the Health and Safety guarantee their Committees, which reviewed aspects such as the accident rates, own welfare the training given to employees and the risk assessments carried out throughout the year. They also discussed the different proposals made by the Prevention Delegates, mainly in relation to the development of a protocol for pregnant employees and cooperation to ensure the implementation of preventative measures during new decoration projects or building work of a certain scale at Atresmedia facilities. In 2015 various initiatives were launched which managed to improve the safety rates: The Atresmedia Joint Risk Prevention Service trained a total of 1,054 new employees on work Training place safety. This training was provided in-person and tailored to each worker. At the national level, the risk assessments for all UNIPREX SAU broadcast sites were reviewed Risk assessments and updated. A total of 99 broadcast sites were reviewed. The average number of visits handled by the Medical Service was 273 per month. There were 3,271 visits, 122 emergencies and health education for 1,458 Health monitoring workers. Of the visits, 74% involved employees of grupo Atresmedia. The remaining 26% involved outside companies (production companies and contractors). The Atresmedia Joint Risk Prevention Service held 34 coordination meetings with the main contractors Coordination of company that perform ongoing work at the San Sebastián OHS activities de los Reyes work site. In addition, the PCAE (Business Activities Coordination Program) tool was implemented to facilitate coordination.    1,054 employees trained on 1,458 34 coordination meetings work place safety workers have received with the main health education contractors ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 165 Accident rates The initiatives launched led to a positive result in 2015. The frequency and severity rates have been reduced as a result of the decrease in accidents without leave. No serious, very serious or fatal accidents have been recorded and there have also been no professional illnesses. Moreover, absenteeism rates have also decreased. Severity rate (SR) Frequency rate (FR) 0.09 0.06 0.12 0.12 0.22 0.02 0.06 0.09 0.06 2.19 2.84 1.58 2.77 3.88 1.66 2.35 2.63 2.07 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Overall Women Men Overall Women Men Number of accidents with leave 5 3 7 3 5 4 2013 2014 2015 Women Men ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 166 Absenteeism rate due to common illness Work absenteeism rate 1.58 1.81 1.38 2.07 2.55 1.59 2.04 2.80 1.29 1.67 1.87 1.47 2.24 2.78 1.69 2.11 2.89 1.35 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Overall Women Men Overall Women Men 2016 challenges Atresmedia has established the following objectives for the coming year: Development of the Atresmedia Formación training project. Development of the second edition of the Masters in Audiovisual Company Management. Automation of the Human Resources (HR) administration processes. Negotiation of the new Collective Broadcasting Agreement. Adaptation of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System to the OHSAS 18001 standard. Holding of the First Road Safety Week for employees of the Atresmedia group. Society G4-27 Helping to make social progress 1. To use the broadcasting strength of the Atresmedia media  channels to help society. Our 2. To promote and achieve positive and tangible changes that vision contribute to the progress of society through long-term initiatives. 3. To ensure the well-being and education of children and young people through Fundación Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 168 G4-27 Atresmedia has taken on the commitment to use its media organisations to help society and actively contribute to its progress through the launch of initiatives that relate to the main social concerns. This commitment is contained in the Social Commitment policy and in the new General Corporate Responsibility Policy, and translates into three lines of action: the creation and broadcasting of its own long-term initiatives that promote positive and tangible social changes, collaboration with NGOs and support for the most vulnerable groups -infants, young people and the disabledby Fundación Atresmedia. • Ponle Freno • Objetivo Bienestar • Hazte Eco • Constantes y Vitales • Tolerancia Cero • Crea Cultura Corporate Responsibility • Comparte y Recicla initiatives initiative (shares and recycles) • Hazte Voluntario Collaboration • Children's hospital care with NGOs Fundación (be Volunteer!) • Pro Project and nonprofit Atresmedia • Corazón Classic Match • Together for education (Red Cross) organizations • Banco de alimentos (Food Banks). In 2015 Atresmedia allocated more than 50 hours of advertising space to the Group's different corporate responsibility initiatives. Number of spots on television Total time Promos laSexta Promos % 2015 A3 promos DTTV Total Seconds Minutes Hours Coverage GRP’s OTS Ponle Freno 958 580 1,720 3,258 73,680 1,228 20.5 93.7 3,359.5 35.9 Objetivo 1,380 810 2,190 45,540 759 12.7 89.7 3,681.6 41.0 Bienestar Constantes y 1,078 426 1,504 33,120 552 9.2 83.4 1,101.6 13.2 Vitales Hazte Eco 488 711 1,199 26,340 439 7.3 83.2 917.0 11.0 Corazón Classic 95 95 1,440 24 0.4 33.5 81.6 2.4 Match Comparte y 178 178 3,720 62 1.0 16.6 40.9 2.5 Recicla Tolerancia Cero 38 36 74 2,400 40 0.7 51.6 165.8 3.2 Hazte Voluntario 30 30 46 106 2,880 48 0.8 48.1 141.9 3.0 Fundación 379 473 838 1,690 36,960 616 10.3 89.9 1,539.3 17.1 Atresmedia ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 169 Ponle Freno: road education Highlights Campaign for Ponle Freno Fun mandatory Runs (Madrid, Ponle Freno-Axa 7th edition of school education Vitoria and Road Safety the Ponle Freno 3.0 Road Safety on road safety Tenerife) Study Centre awards Conferences Since its creation, Ponle Freno has aimed to reduce the number of accidents on Spanish roads and, therefore, save lives. In 2015 the initiative focused its efforts on road safety education, through educational days, road safety studies, the giving of awards and the organisation of popular activities, which have been widely supported by the public. One of the main achievements was the approval in the Congress of Deputies of a motion to make road education a mandatory subject in schools. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 170 The slight fall in road accidents in Spain recorded during 2015 reaffirms both the work carried out by the campaign and the need for it to continue. According to the data included in the 2015 Road Safety Balance Sheet from the Directorate General of Traffic, there were 1,018 fatal accidents in which 1,126 people died. Compared to the previous year, the number of deaths has fallen by 1% (-6) and hospitalised injuries by 2% (-105). Change in the number of deaths on Spanish roads 1,484 1,301 1,132 1,126 1,134 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: DGT 2015 Road Safety Balance Sheet . Fulfilling the Ponle Freno 2015 challenges Level of fulfilment Comments Comentarios On 27 May, the Congress of Deputies approved  a motion urging the Government to implement Promote road education in schools. 100% the Ponle Freno initiative to make road education a mandatory subject in schools. Ponle Freno, together with the Axa Foundation and in collaboration with the University of Valencia, has prepared a study analysing Publish a study about awareness and  accidents involving cyclists from 2008 to 2013. training for cyclists. 50% The document will be released in 2016 together with the results from another report on the training of this group. In recent years cycling has become a major player in mobility for cities. The Ponle Freno website contains educational material on road safety, developed by experts, and this can be downloaded free of Expand the educational content on road  charge. The purpose of this documentation is to safety on the Ponle Freno website. 100% support the work of teachers who, although not experts in the subject, want to incorporate it into their classes. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 171 Initiatives launched as part of Ponle Freno in 2015 Training campaign on safe driving To coincide with the mass-movement of people at the start of the summer holidays, Ponle Freno launched a safe driving training campaign on its website. Through a test, drivers could find out, in a simple and educational way, what systems are built into new vehicle models to improve the safety of their occupants. Along with this test came the broadcasting of seven training videos with useful advice on how to deal with risky situations on the road. 7th edition of the Ponle Freno awards The 7th edition of the Ponle Freno awards once again recognised the people, actions, organisations and public bodies that actively collaborate in improving road safety in our country. The Senate was once again the location for the ceremony to give out these awards, which have become a symbol of the involvement of Atresmedia in public life. 2015 Winners Ciudadano Ponle Freno Award: 40 volunteers from ASPAYM (Association of People with Spinal Cord Injuries and Major Physical Disabilities). AXA Award for innovation in Road Safety: Air-bag Ponle Freno Fun-Run: 1st edition in Tenerife, 2nd in for pedestrians from Volvo. Vitoria and 7th in Madrid Ponle Freno Junior Award: Road Safety Infant School from Cabra City Council (Cordoba). The Ponle Freno fun-runs have Mejor Acción de Seguridad Vial Ponle Freno Award: become an unmissable event for Free courses from the CEA Foundation for traffic More than sport lovers in accident victims who are scared to drive again. 20,000 runners the cities in which they are took part in held. In 2015 Madrid hosted the 7th Ponle the 7th edition of the event, Freno fun-run in which 20,000 runners took in Madrid. This part. In Vitoria, for the second year, for the consecutive year, more than first time, the 1,000 people came when invited sporting event by Ponle Freno to run for road has reached the safety. Finally, in 2015 the Ponle Canary Islands. Freno fun-run reached Tenerife for the first time, with a high degree of participation Mandatory school road education campaign The big challenge for Ponle Freno in 2015 was to promote the inclusion of road safety education as a mandatory subject in schools. To achieve this, debate on this issue was stimulated through the broadcasting of a television spot and radio adverts and content was placed on the website and social networks. As a result of the media coverage, on 27th May the Congress of the Deputies unanimously approved a motion to include this subject on the school curriculum. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 172 3.0 Road Education in Schools Conferences In September 2015, Ponle Freno brought together Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-Axa de Seguridad representatives from the four main political parties Vial (Ponle Freno-Axa Road Safety Study Centre) (PP, PSOE, Ciudadanos and Podemos) and the Public Prosecutor responsible for Road Safety at its 3.0 In 2015 the Ponle Freno-Axa Road Conferences to debate the situation of road safety According to the Safety Study Centre continued education and accidents involving children in Spain study published its research work into preventing and Europe. by Ponle Frenoaccidents with the publication of Axa, drivers various studies, among which we under 21 years can mention a report that relating old with vehicles the driver's age and the vehicle's which are more age to the probability of having than 12 years old an accident. The study concludes have a higher that drivers between 18 and 21 probability of years old with cars more than 12 having a traffic years old are the most likely to accident. have a traffic accident. Ponle Freno objectives for 2016 1. The promotion of road education in schools will continue to be one of the campaign's main objectives. 2. Raising awareness about distraction as one of the main causes of road accidents. 3. Carry out more research into accidents involving cyclists with a study on raising awareness and training this group. Further information on Ponle Freno http://www.antena3.com/ponlefreno/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 173 Objetivo Bienestar: committed to healthy living Highlights 4th edition of El Estirón  3rd edition of De Marcha with 1st Objetivo Objetivo Bienestar the Coles Activos Objetivo Bienestar Bienestar Junior awards Junior Conference Objetivo Bienestar is Atresmedia's campaign that seeks to make society aware of the benefits of healthy living, based on having a strong body and mind and a healthy environment. Healthy Body Mind Environment lifestyle The increase in child obesity globally led Objetivo Bienestar to make the fight against this public health problem one of its main challenges in 2015. Globally, around 20% of the world's population is classified as overweight. The initiative has a version aimed at children, Objetivo Bienestar Junior (formerly El Estirón), which aims to promote sport and healthy eating habits among children, in order to reduce the high obesity rates existing for this group. Fulfilling the Objetivo Bienestar 2015 challenges Level of fulfilment Comments Comentarios The collaboration between Objetivo Bienestar and the government continued over the entire year. For 2016, the expectation is that a new To reinforce collaboration with the  agreement will be signed to continue launching government in promoting healthy habits 50% joint awareness actions in order to promote healthy eating habits among children and their families. Once again the holding of the Coles Activos awards was a success. It equalled the To increase the number of schools  record participation from the previous year with participating in the Coles Activos awards. 100% more than 100 candidate projects received. Their quality has also increased. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 174 Initiatives undertaken as part of Objetivo Bienestar in 2015 El Estirón became Objetivo Bienestar Junior In March 2015, El Estirón, El Estirón is the Atresmedia Corporate now Objetivo Responsibility campaign to Bienestar Junior. promote healthy living among children, became Objetivo Bienestar Junior. Since then, its name has changed but its identity has remained the same and it has become an initiative within the Objetivo Bienestar Corporate Responsibility 3rd edition of the Coles Activos awards campaign. With this merger, the El Estirón project takes on a broader role and gains a higher profile, Objetivo Bienestar Junior held the 3rd edition of the thanks to the synergy with the media resources and Coles Activos awards. The awards seek to recognise representatives of Objetivo Bienestar. the schools that encourage children to think about how to grow up healthy, through initiatives and projects filled with originality and fun. Almost 100 schools across Spain participated in this new edition and there is more interest among the educational community each year. Winners: Best initiative in nutrition: Maestro Manuel Aparcero School in Chipiona (Cadiz). Best initiative in physical activity: Kolbe International School in Villanueva de la Cañada (Madrid). Best creative initiative: San GregorioNuestra Señora de la Compasión School in Aguilar de Campoo 4th edition of De Marcha with Objetivo Bienestar (Palencia). Junior Best global initiative: Madres Concepcionistas School in Madrid. For the 4th consecutive year, Atresmedia, through Objetivo Bienestar Junior, held its De Marcha event at the Warner Park in Madrid, a large-scale family event with two goals: health and fun. Hundreds of families took part in this 2.3 km walk designed for children where the aim was to highlight the importance of physical exercise to children and promote ideas to help them grow up healthy. Broadcasting of content on healthy living habits on Atresmedia and Nova 1st Objetivo Bienestar Conference The strength of the Objetivo Bienestar campaign lies In May, the 1st Objetivo Bienestar Conference took mainly in the broadcasting, through its own spaces, place at the WorldTrade Centre in Barcelona. The of advice that helps society to adopt healthy living event was attended by writers and broadcasters of habits. For this, in addition to the television spots the status of Elsa Punset, Walter Riso, Risto Mejide, broadcast daily on Atresmedia, the campaign has Rafael Santandreu, Jandro, Mónica Esgueva, Ramiro its own weekly sections in the Espejo público and Tu Calle, Javier Iriondo, Edurne Pasabán, Gaspar tiempo programmes, as well as a programme on Nova Hernández, Enrique Rojas and Pedro García Aguado, which is aimed at both adults and children. who emphasised the key points for achieving good mental health. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 175 ards Junior aw ia. ienestar f th e O bjetivo B fro m A tresmed o utives Winners with exec together Objetivo Bienestar objectives for 2016 1. Holding the 4th edition of the Coles Activos awards with increased participation. 2. Continuing to raise awareness through broadcasting content relating to mental health, nutrition and physical activity through different media options: television spots, sections in Espejo público and Tu tiempo from Atresmedia and its own programme on Nova, as well as content on the website and social networks. Starting to run the radio campaign (Onda Cero). 3. Holding the 2nd edition of the Objetivo Bienestar Conference. Further information on Objetivo Bienestar http://www. objetivobienestar.com/A3/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 176 Constantes y Vitales: research and prevention Highlights 1st edition of the Creation of the State Campaigns on #CadaPasoEsVital Constantes y Vitales Research Agency medical prevention Campaign awards In 2014, laSexta and the AXA Foundation jointly launched the Constantes y Vitales initiative, whose objective is to support scientific research and medical prevention through awareness raising campaigns and actions that lead to progress in these fields. During 2015, Constantes y Vitales has been consolidated and has launched many actions aimed at promoting high quality medical research. Fulfilling the Constantes y Vitales 2015 challenges Level of fulfilment Comments Comentarios Constantes y Vitales successfully held the first edition of its awards, created in order Creation of the Constantes y Vitales  to highlight, support and strengthen the awards for biomedical research and health 100% research work of Spanish scientists in the field prevention. of biomedicine, as well as health prevention campaigns. Constantes y Vitales carried out important Broadcasting of prevention advice about medical prevention awareness raising work  illnesses with the greatest impact on by broadcasting spots on television and radio 100% health. offering advice on cardiovascular health and preventing breast cancer. Constantes y Vitales objectives for 2016 1. Promoting a Pact for Science. 2. Awareness campaign on the installation of defibrillators to prevent sudden death. 3. Prevention campaign for the early detection of colon cancer. Further information on Constantes y Vitales http://www.lasexta. com/constantes-vitales/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 177 Initiatives launched as part of Constantes y Vitales in 2015 Campañas de sensibilización en prevención médica During 2015, Constantes y In 2015, Vitales has carried out important Constantes y awareness raising work in the Vitales field of medical prevention has raised through holding 3.0 Conferences awareness about on cardiovascular health and how to prevent sport. The meeting, moderated cardiovascular by Doctor Bartolomé Beltrán, was disease and attended by renowned experts in First major achievement: the creation of the State the field such as Doctors Josep breast cancer. Research Agency Brugada, Antonio López Farré and Fernando Arribas, who gave Constantes y Vitales was created tips and advice on practising sport correctly and More than with the aim of launching without endangering health. In tandem with World 80,000 people specific actions to promote Breast Cancer Day, spots offering advice on how to signed the advances in the medical and prevent this disease were also broadcast on television. campaign's scientific field. During 2015, the petition to initiative met this objective with create the the launch of its first big cause: State Research requesting the creation of the Agency. State Research Agency. For this, a signature collection campaign was launched which involved different broadcasting channels such as a television spot, mentions on programmes and content on the website and social networks going viral. More than 80,000 people supported the call by signing and now the State Research Agency is a reality. This body is expected to guarantee progress in science in our country through effective, transparent and politically independent management. #CadaPasoEsVital Campaign In its eagerness to contribute in a The kilometres concrete and tangible way to the of 6,000 world of research in Spain, in 2015 people have Constantes y Vitales launched an been turned into original campaign to raise funds €100,000 for a research project. donated to Through the #CadaPasoEsVital research initiative, LaSexta, together with against cancer. the Axa Foundation, invited the public to donate the kilometres 1st edition of the Constantes y Vitales awards for covered whilst exercising biomedical research and health prevention through the iwopi.org platform, to be converted into money for research against cancer. More than 6,000 In 2015, Constantes y Vitales held the first edition people donated their kilometres, which translated of its awards, created with the aim of highlighting, into a direct donation of €100,000 to the project on supporting and strengthening the research work of metastasis from the research group of the young Spanish scientists in the field of biomedicine, as well scientist Héctor Peinado from the Centro Nacional de as health prevention campaigns.. Investigaciones Oncológicas (Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, CNIO). In 2015, Constantes y Vitales held the first edition of its awards, created with the aim of highlighting, supporting and strengthening the research work of Spanish scientists in the field of biomedicine, as well as health prevention campaigns. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 178 W inn ers of Z inc Sh ow er 15 . Crea Cultura: the value of intellectual property Highlights Collaboration Agreement with New Forums Crea Cultura Experts TalentsUnited and Debates Crea Cultura Blog Committee The Crea Cultura movement was created community of artistic talent, to raise in 2014 in order to defend and recognise awareness about the value of creating the value of intellectual property and intellectual property and the importance raise awareness about the consequences of defending it. Within the framework of of failing to respect it. this agreement Crea Cultura took part in the event on creativity, entrepreneurship During 2015 Crea Cultura continued and technology, Zinc Shower 15, in which generating opportunities to come 13 innovative projects were selected to together and debate this problem. It also receive different awards and honourable produced content on intellectual property mentions. through the Crea Cultura blog and launched new initiatives to make progress On 26th April, Crea Cultura and find solutions. commemorated World Intellectual Property Day with the launch of the Among these was the signing of a campaign's third spot, created for the collaboration agreement between Crea occasion. Cultura and Talents United, an on-line ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 179 Organisation and participation in forums and debates Crea Cultura Experts Committee Pública 2015: Crea Cultura took part in the international cultural management meeting Pública 2015 saw the start of the Crea Cultura Experts 2015, organised by Mario Tascón, who presented the Committee meetings, aimed at finding the best way to campaign, and Mikel Lejarza, chairman of Atresmedia instil in children the value of cultural creation and the Cine, who took part in the section Un Café con… (A defence of intellectual property. Coffee with...) The Committee is made up of a multidisciplinary International Spanish Forum: Crea Cultura took group of prestigious professionals: Alfonso González, part in the first International Spanish Forum with an Chairman of Asociación Educación Abierta (Open activity that combined cultures from different times, Education Association); José de la Peña, ex-director literature and video games. of Education y Conocimiento en Red de Fundación Crea Cultura – Bertelsmann Forum: In 2015 a new Telefónica (Education and Knowledge in the Atresmedia Crea Cultura Forum took place, in Telefónica Network Foundation); Tíscar Lara, Vicecollaboration with Bertelsmann, which addressed the Dean at EOI; Joaquín Rodríguez, Manager of Punto topic of new business models for music in the digital Neutro; Luis González, Director of Casa del Lector; age. The meeting was Rosalía Lloret, Director of Institutional Relations at attended by the musicians Jean-Michel Jarre, Oriol the Online Publishers Association Europe; Francisco Bonet and Xuso Jones, and was moderated by the Ruiz, Director of Public Policies at Google; María Jesús journalist Vicente Vallés. Magro, Director of the Pons Foundation; José Manuel Madrid Book Fair: As part of Madrid Book Fair, Crea Pérez, representative of UNESCO; Antonio Lafuente, Cultura organised a debate about literary adaptations researcher from CSIC; Sonia García, General Secretary for television and film. of Anpe; Javier Palazón, Director of the magazine Educación 3.0; Héctor Sanz, Chairman of the Youth Council; Carlos Magro, consultant in education and ICT; Marta G. Franco, journalist and hacktivist; Carlos Güervós, Deputy Director General for Intellectual Property; and Carlos Flores, Director of Aula Planeta; as well as a representative from the Official College of Psychologists. Crea Cultura Blog During 2015, Crea Cultura continued with the activity on its blog, on which it publishes its own articles about intellectual property each week. Professionals take part and give their opinion on different aspects of this multifaceted debate. The writer Juan Gómez-Jurado; Javier Gayoso, The Crea Cultura campaign was recognised in 2015 director of Spotify in Spain; editor Claudio López by Federación de Gremios de Editores (Federation Lamadrid; journalist Mario Tascón; film-maker Nicolás of Publishers' Guilds) with the Liber Award and Alcalá; lawyer Sergio Carrasco; journalist Carmela Ríos; by Federación para la Protección de la Propiedad and lawyer Natalia Marcos, among many others, have Intelectual (Federation for the Protection of contributed their arguments to the debate. Intellectual Property, FAP) which granted Atresmedia its Gold Medal for this movement Further information on Crea Cultura http://creacultura.atresmedia.com/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 180 Tolerancia Cero: zero tolerance for abuse, the power of working together In 2015, to coincide with the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, Antena 3 Noticias and the Mutua Madrileña Foundation launched the Tolerancia cero initiative, aimed at raising awareness about domestic violence, encouraging women to report it and using education to address this social problem. Antena 3 provided coverage for the campaign through its media organisations. It broadcast television spots, radio adverts on all of its stations and the initiative also appeared on all of the Group's websites and social media. Through its factual programmes, Antena 3 also used all its power of communication to raise awareness among the population, broadcasting pieces and reports relating to the problem of domestic violence. The campaign's essential features were to encourage the victims or those around them to report incidents, to draw attention to situations of sexist control among younger people, connecting with adolescents for this, and to raise awareness about the damage that these patterns of violence cause to children. Prevention Encouraging Rejection of abuse among young complaints people The importance of this initiative is clear when we look at figures such as the number of calls received during 2015 by the telephone number 016, for victims of abuse, which is the highest since 2008. During 2015, Tolerancia cero had a strong on-line presence through a specific website aimed at both the general public with breaking news, reports, spots, campaigns, etc. and the victims of domestic violence with different guidelines for action, protection and the detection of abuse. The initiative also has a profile on Twitter, @ToleranciaCero, and Facebook, facebook.com/ToleranciaCeroA3/ as an essential part of active listening. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 181 Number of calls to 016 74,951 68,541 67,696 70,679 55,810 58,274 68,651 81,992 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Initiatives launched within the Atresmedia Commitment to fight against domestic violence Employment of women victims of domestic violence Atresmedia has signed a collaboration agreement with Fundación Integra to promote the employment in the Group of women who are victims of domestic violence, and has increased the awareness of its employees through its corporate volunteering programme. It has also supported the awareness raising actions of the Ministry of Health by giving out badges displaying the message “016 Hay Salida” (016 There is a Way Out) to its employees and visits on Society awareness campaigns 25th November, as a sign of support for the victims of domestic violence. The Atresmedia Group has broadcast, free of charge, the awareness campaigns of organisations fighting against domestic violence such as Fundación Integra, which promotes the employability of women who suffer from this problem, and the National Police Foundation, which asks victims and those around them to report abuse so that the 1,400 specialised agents can help them. The series Amar es para siempre has been praised by Úbeda City Council for its handling of the issue of domestic violence. The council has praised its serious and impeccable work and has recognised the way in which it has treated the issue, not using clichés, very well documented . For more information http://www.antena3.com/noticias/tolerancia-cero/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 182 Co m pa rt e y Re c ic la ca m pa ig n. Comparte y Recicla: making thousands of children happy The Comparte y Recicla campaign, organised by the Crecer Jugando Foundation, with the collaboration of Neox Kidz, aims to give new life to unwanted toys by passing them on to other children, In 2015 the initiative's second thanks to the collaboration of toy collection campaign was the families. It is a social initiative launched. Through its website with a triple positive impact: www.comparteyrecicla.com, interested promoting solidarity, caring for families were able to see all the toy the environment and integrating collection points, the delivery times people with disabilities. and the results of last year's initiative. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 183 Comparte y Recicla counted on the Atresmedia group as one of its collaborators. Through the programme Neox Kidz, broadcast on its children's channel Neox, and the radio station Onda Cero, it contributed to raising awareness about the campaign broadcasting television spots and advertisements. The three vectors of Comparte y Recicla Those toys which were not in optimum condition for reuse were sent for recycling, with the collaboration of the Ecotic Foundation, which was responsible for separating the pieces of each toy for reprocessing into new materials. The Ilade Special Work Site, RECYCLING Plan Internacional received supported by the Despertar the toys collected and Association in Castalla distributed by the SEUR (Alicante) to promote Foundation and made it workforce integration INTEGRATION SOLIDARITY possible for other boys for the disabled, was and girls to play with them responsible for separating through its childhood the toys received, allocating support projects in them for a second life or developing countries. recycling. Toys collected in 2015 Distribution of the toys donated (Percentage) 10,243 7,228 6,444 Donated Recycled 67.41 32.59 In 2015, Comparte y Recicla managed to collect 46 tonnes Spain Nicaragua Benin of toys (Plan (Mensajeros Internacional) de la Paz) Further information on Comparte y Recicla http://www. antena3.com/especiales/noticias/ciencia/hazte-eco/noticias/ edicion-comparte-recicla-campana-solidaria-recogidajuguetes_2015061900100.html ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 184 ia. n Atresmed m Fundació The team fro Fundación Atresmedia: 10 years of working with children and disability Highlights Creation of the Preparation of the Día Nacional del Report on the Campaign on the Niño Hospitalizado employment situation importance of the Strategic Plan (National Hospitalised of young people with involvement of 2015-2017 Child Day) disabilities society in education In 2015 the Fundación Atresmedia celebrated 10 years of channelling the social action of the Group and promoting projects aimed at protecting children and normalising the position of people with disabilities. The history of the organisation dates back to 25th November 2005 when, for the first time in Spain, a communications group —at that time known as the Antena 3 Group— created a foundation and made all of its resources available to help the most vulnerable people. Over this decade, Fundación Atresmedia's priority was to run projects aimed at ensuring the well-being of children and young people and raising awareness about their rights, needs and interests. The working plan has covered a wide range of initiatives, from ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 185 campaigns to defend the most basic rights of children or creating the first television channel especially designed for hospitalised children, to projects relating to the employment of young people with disabilities and educational improvement. MISSION To serve children and young people in situations of special need and create currents of opinion regarding their concerns, needs and interests, with the support of the capabilities and resources of grupo Atresmedia, VISION To become the Spanish foundation with the greatest capacity for social mobilization and to achieve real change in issues affecting children and young adults. VALUES Transparency, Positivity, Commitment, Empathy and Efficiency. In 2015 Fundación Atresmedia prepared a new Strategic Plan for 2015-2017 in which it set out the action areas for the coming years, as well as the objectives for each of these areas, the expected impact and the actions to carry out in order to achieve the established goals. This Strategic Plan is designed to create a greater impact and scope for each area of action, so they have been concentrated into three essential elements: Normalising disability Humanisation of Educational children's hospitals improvement Fulfilling the Fundación Atresmedia 2015 challenges Challenges Level of fulfilment Comments Assess the impact of each of the projects  Indicators have been established for each launched by following the methodologies used 100% project. by the service sector. Preparation of a new Master Plan, based on the results provided by measuring the  impact of the different projects and on the 100% current needs of society. Run at least three initiatives to boost  educational improvement. 100% ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 186 Initiatives implemented by Fundación Atresmedia in 2015 The Hospital Assistance Programme reaches the whole of Spain Proyecto PRO: normalising disability The Hospital Assistance With the overall objective of contributing to Hospital Programme, created in 2006 normalising disability in the sector and in society as a entertainment with the objective of making a whole, different initiatives have been developed: activities stay in hospital more pleasant have also been for children and their families, Training and employment: Proyecto PRO carried out in has since 2015 been aimed at Proyecto PRO is the first school for disabled people more than 155 promoting the humanisation which gives specific, high quality centres across of children's hospitals in the training for jobs in the audiovisual sector, and whose Spain, reaching following way: main objective is to help them gain employment in more than • Providing information tailored this sector. 170,000 children. to the children admitted to In 2015 the “University specialist in radio content and hospitals across Spain, in order to production” course was given, with the collaboration alleviate the stress that may be of Rey Juan Carlos University in Madrid and renowned caused by their illness and hospitalisation. radio professionals. • Offering entertaining content to the children admitted to hospitals and trying to generate Raising awareness positive memories about their hospitalisation. Moreover, Fundación Atresmedia promoted the • Promoting mechanisms that improve the holding of two awareness conferences with employees humanisation of children's hospitals, aimed at both from the Group and another with screenwriters, which hospitals (managers and health professionals) and brought together more than 90 attendees, in order to: society as a whole. • Raise awareness among professionals in the During 2015, as part of the Programme, various audiovisual sector in order to encourage the hospital entertainment initiatives were implemented employment of disabled people by companies in at more than 155 centres across Spain. These included the sector. celebrity visits to hospitals, radio workshops, actions • Enhance normalisation, using the power of the to promote reading, drawing competitions, etc., as media, through disabled people appearing in well as specific activities and assignments to support audiovisual content. hospital classrooms (Aulaplaneta tool, donation of an application to exercise the memory, donation of digital Other initiatives implemented whiteboards, supply of arts and craft materials and Report on the employment of young people with running model workshops relating to children's rights). disabilities, accompanied by a television and radio Moreover, the FAN3 Channel, the first television campaign in collaboration with the Randstad channel designed for hospitalised children, was made Foundation. available to children in 108 hospitals across Spain. It is a unique channel combining entertaining content series, cartoons with educational pieces relating to health which provide information for children in their own language, and in a fun and friendly way. Other initiatives launched were the co-organisation of the Jornadas de Humanización Hospitalaria (Hospital Humanisation Conferences) and the Hospital Optimista Awards, with a good participation rate (more than 130 candidates). It should be noted that in 2015, Fundación Atresmedia succeeded in launching Día Nacional del Niño Hospitalizado (National Hospitalised Child Day) (13th May) and secured the support of the main organisations working with children in hospitals and the staff at the hospitals to carry out a joint action to institutionalise this day and make the public more aware of the consequences that hospitalisation may have on children. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 187 Juntos por la Educación (educational improvement) In January, one of Fundación Atresmedia's most popular initiatives took place: the ¡Grandes Profes! Fundación Atresmedia pays event, aimed at strengthening the image of teachers ¡Grandes special attention to education, and providing practical tools for every day classroom Profes! brought aware that it is one of the issues use. At the 2015 meeting, speakers of renowned together more that most concerns the public prestige from different areas of knowledge, such as than and believing in its importance Elsa Punset, Mario Alonso Puig and María Garaña, 1,500 teachers in in constructing a fairer, more shared their experiences with the more than 1,500 person and committed and better prepared teachers attending and the further 2,000 following via 2,000 through society. streaming. streaming, and As a result, the Juntos por la Moreover, during 2015 Fundación Atresmedia was a trending Educación project promotes implemented a new initiative created with the aim of topic on Twitter initiatives whose objective is promoting Professional Training in Spain. The project's to contribute to educational specific website, descubrelafp.org — with more than improvement and involve society 100,000 visits in six months—, includes explanatory in this, generating a current of opinion that leads to graphics about the different training options and real social changes. To achieve this it relies on three videos starring teachers who explain the content of areas of action: their courses and students who tell us their reasons • Recognising good teachers, inspiring them and for taking Professional Training. The site also offers providing them with new techniques and tools which a free course, run by Elsa Punset, on social skills and can be added to those they already use each day. emotional intellegence: “Rutas para la vida y el trabajo” • Promoting Professional Training by raising (Routes for life and work) and an orientation guide awareness of the many options offered and developed by the Official College of Psychologists. encouraging students to enrol in the different Finally, Fundación Atresmedia recognises the good training courses. educational practices of teachers and education • Involving society through raising awareness about centres through the Grandes profes, Grandes the importance of the public’s role in educational iniciativas awards. The application period for this year’s matters, as an agent for change to achieve the awards opened in October and closes in April 2016 necessary improvements The Fundación Transparency in funding Atresmedia, comes top in the For Fundación Atresmedia, transparency is one of the values transparency that shapes its identity. Therefore, it is no coincidence that it ranking produced comes top in the transparency ranking produced in the 2014 in the 2014 Construir Confianza (Build Trust) report, prepared each year by Construir the Fundación Compromiso y Transparencia (Commitment and Confianza report, Transparency Foundation). prepared by the Fundación Financial information on the resources held by the Fundación, Compromiso y as well as the documentation from the audit of its accounts and Transparencia its governing agreements and standards can be found on the website http://fundacion.atresmedia.com. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | SOCIETY | 188 Fundación Atresmedia is working to use principles, standards and procedures that ensure that the organisation's management is carried out on a fair and non-discriminatory basis, for both the possible participants and their beneficiaries. 2013 2014 2015 Atresmedia resources (Euros) 300,000 300,000 500,000 Donations (Euros) 502,382 573,000 133,344 Subsidies (Euros) 30,036 10,000 0 Other income (Euros) 420,000 725,194 731,028 Total revenue (Euros) 1,252,418 1,198,194 1,364,372 2016 Fundación Atresmedia Objectives 1. Extend the Asistencia Hospitalaria (Hospital Assistance) Programme to more centres. 2. Develop disability awareness initiatives for professionals in the audiovisual sector. 3. Promote the involvement of society in educational matters. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 189 The environment The vision of Atresmedia is to contribute to sustainable development  through measures that minimise the environmental impact of its Our activities and promote respect for the environment. This vision vision translates into the following lines of action: 1. Improving energy efficiency. 2. The responsible management of resources. 3. Reducing the generation of waste. 4. Raising awareness in society about the need to care for the environment by making use of the broadcasting power of Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 190 In figures 2013 2014 2015 Energy consumption Gas 12,517 m3 15,308 m3 13,646 m3 Electricity 28,276,898 kW 27,399,791 kW 29,276,341 kW Heating oil 458,148 L 469,696 L 489,032 L Consumption of resources Water 44,297 m3 56,863 m3 53,755 m3 Paper 5,425,000 units (26,908 kg) 5,412,000 units (26,844 kg) 5,557,500 units (27,566 kg) Toner 703 units (563 kg) 667 units (534 kg) 652 units (522 kg) Emissions Direct scope 1 1,465 t 1,505 t 1,562 t Indirect scope 2 6,969 t 4,384 t 3,513 t Employee transportation 757 t 635 t 715 t scope 3 Non-hazardous waste Paper and cardboard 68 t 66 t 64 t Debris 66 m 3 126 m 3 114 m3 SUW 314 t 308 t 305 t Hazardous waste Televisions 57 units 62 units 78 units Fluorescent lights 1,635 units 976 units 1,725 units Environmental investment 14,363 € 89,490 € 111,481 € CDP Rating 60D 58D 93C ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 191 Fulfilment of environmental commitments In 2015 Atresmedia established some annual commitments for environmental improvement whose degree of fulfilment is shown below: 2015 Commitment Level of fulfilment Comments Conduct a study to continue implementing  The second phase of the project has been LED lighting technology in other company 100% successfully completed. buildings. Reduce the volume of Solid Urban Waste  It has been reduced by 1.08%. (SUW) by 1% compared to 2014. 100% Reduce the consumption of toner  It has been reduced by 2.25%. cartridges by 2% compared to 2014. 100% Reduce the volume of paper and  cardboard destined for recycling by 2% It has been reduced by 3.02%. 100% compared to 2014. Conduct an economic-financial analysis of  the application of the conclusions from the Analysis carried out. 100% energy efficiency study. In addition to the dissemination work on recycling through the HAZTE ECO Through HAZTE ECO, continue to programme on Neox, there. has been raise awareness about the importance  a monthly piece on recycling in the of recycling by using new means of 100% Naturaleza en la onda section from the communication. journalist José Luis Gallego, a regular collaborator in the programme Julia en la onda on Onda Cero.    13,646 cubic metres 29,276,341 kW of 53,755 cubic metres of gas electricity of water    27,566 kilograms of 489,032 litres of 652 units of toner paper heating oil ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 192 Areas for action in 2015 Atresmedia has an Environmental Management Policy which it applies to all its activities with a dual objective: ensuring strict compliance with environmental legislation and decisively contributing to achieving a more sustainable society. This Atresmedia commitment to sustainable development translates on the one hand into actions that improve the sustainability of its own activity and on the other into awareness raising initiatives aimed at all of society, giving the environment its own space in the content across the Group's media organisations. nage ment Policy Environmental Ma Social awarenessResource use and Energy efficiency Efficient facilities raising with optimization improvement design environmentally friendly content Compliance with Increase in environmental Emissions control Supplier control recycling regulations Good Increase in Reduction of Reduction in environmental measures to greenhouse gas consumption and communication combat climate emissions waste generation practices change Sustainability HAZTE ECO: • Save the Arctic campaign with Greenpeace • Energy efficiency • Earth Hour with WWF • Reducing waste and GHG gases • Awareness campaign on recycling with • Responsible use of resources ECOEMBES • Waste minimization • Fire prevention campaign with WWF • Awareness campaign on climate change with WWF Environmental awareness Further information on Atresmedia environmental policy http://www.atresmediacorporacion.com/a3document/2010/12/27/ DOCUMENTS/00005/00005.pdf ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 193 Sustainable contribution It has successfully Energy Efficiency completed the second phase In its desire to improve energy efficiency in its facilities, in 2015 of the project to Atresmedia launched new initiatives aimed at reducing its replace traditional consumption: bulbs with LED technology with • Following on from the project to replace florescent lights with an annual saving LED technology launched in 2013, in 2015 it implemented of 310,000 kW/h another phase to change the lights in four new buildings of the main facilities in San Sebastián de los Reyes, representing an annual saving of 310,000 kW/h. • Another noteworthy measure was the replacement of one of the coolers with another more efficient one, which involves an estimated annual saving of 55,000 kW/h, a 26.18% reduction compared to the old equipment. These two initiatives, along with others, have contributed to an overall improvement in energy efficiency. However, the total consumption of electricity and oil increased slightly in 2015 as a result of the increased coverage and the production of special factual programmes relating to the news, particularly the Municipal, Regional and General elections held in 2015. Distribution of electricity consumption (%) Electricity consumption (kW) Branch in Onda Cero 28,276,898 27,399,791 29,276,341 S.S. de los Reyes Branch 65 31 Atresmedia TV Branch 4 2013 2014 2015 Note 1. 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. The consumption of electricity in 2015 was equivalent to 105,394.83 GJ. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 194 Heating Oil Consumption (L) Gas Consumption (m3) 458,148 469,696 489,032 12,517 15,308 13,646 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Note 2. In 2015 the energy consumption Note 3. In 2015 the energy consumption corresponding to heating oil was equivalent to corresponding to gas was equivalent to 523.82 GJ 18,741.75 GJ. Data from the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Heating oil: toe (tonne of oil equivalent) = 1,181 Source: Gas Natural Fenosa litres // 1.12 toe is equal to 13,020 kW/h (Source: IDAE (Institute for the Diversification and Saving of Energy)) // 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. With regard to the consumption of gas, this has fallen by 10.85% compared to 2014 as a result of improvements in management and the replacement of equipment in the Atresmedia kitchens, replacing this with more efficient models. Consumption of transportation petrol (L) Consumption of transportation diesel (L) 15,612 16,802 14,352 45,132 46,330 51,155 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Note 4. The energy consumption corresponding Note 5. The energy consumption corresponding to transportation petrol in 2015 was equivalent to to transportation diesel in 2015 was equivalent to 465.70 GJ. 1,812.73 GJ. Automotive petrol: toe = 1,290 litres // 1.10 toe is Automotive diesel: toe = 1,181 litres // 1.12 toe = equal to 12,790 kW/h (Source: IDAE) // 1kW/h = 13,020 kW/h (Source: IDAE) // 1kW/h = 0.0036 GJ. 0.0036 GJ. Note 6. 100% non-renewable diesel, 100% non-renewable petrol, 100% non-renewable gas, electricity 28.2% non-renewable and 71.8% renewable (latest energy mix provided by Iberdrola). Note 7. Conversion factors table A7.1 GHG inventory report published by MAGRAMA from IDAE. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 195 Petrol consumption has in turn fallen by 14.59% due to the greater use of vehicles equipped with a diesel engine, which has caused an increase in the consumption of this fuel by 10.41% compared to 2015. Atresmedia has a fleet of 64 mobile units (49 with a diesel engine and 15 with a petrol engine). Energy efficiency has returned to being the seventh art thanks to Atresmedia and Gas Natural Fenosa, with the second edition in 2015 of Cinergía, a new project which brings together the cinema and energy. Both companies renewed their agreement to broadcast and transmit the importance of the rational use of energy through the cinema, and therefore contribute to the sustainability of the energy sources of our country and to caring for the environment. With this alliance, the audiovisual group assumes the commitment to broadcast on its channels the four short films produced by Gas Natural Fenosa and signed off by prestigious directors, which were produced as part of this initiative. The short films were released at the most important film festivals in Spain and each story relates to an aspect of energy efficiency. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 196 Reducing the emission of greenhouse gases (GHG) As part of the Atresmedia sustainability strategy, specific initiatives have been run in the Group's facilities aimed at reducing the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and optimising their control. Therefore, in 2015 controls on emissions of CO2, NOX, SOX and CO from the boilers were strengthened, and preventative maintenance work was carried out on climate control equipment. There is also an ongoing commitment to using less contaminating means of transport, such as train travel, for the domestic journeys made by its employees. Direct GHG emissions scope 1 (t) 1,465 1,505 1,562 2.103 2.736 1.580 0.592 0.560 0.170 0.122 0.162 0.053 Note 8. Since 2007, the direct emission figures shown in this report have been extracted from the values obtained by Entidades de Inspección y Control Reglamentario (Inspection and Regulatory Control Organisations, ENICRE) for the time the boiler inspections were carried out. From this report, the calculation of direct emissions is made by applying the conversion factors from IDAE of the Ministry of Industry, and the CO2 emission factors from the GHG Inventory Report of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment. The following table sets out the values of direct CO2 emissions calculated with both methods. CO2 (t) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emissions by 1,712.04 1,604.04 1,211.27 1,481.47 1,195.13 1,373.35 1,465.16 1,505.08 1,561.94 consumption Emissions 5,800.91 4,405.91 4,341.77 2,119.29 2,700.31 1,535.95 2,463.59 3,281.78 1,964.99 by ENICRE Note 9. The emissions data is obtained using the final energy conversion factors published by IDAE (for diesel and automotive petrol), and the emission factors published in the GHG Inventory Report in table A7.1 (for natural gas and diesel) and in table A8.2 (for automotive petrol). Note 10. The data on direct CO2, NOX, SOX and CO emissions refer to the work centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. CO2 NOX SOX CO 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 197 Breakdown of direct CO2 emissions (t) 1,368.15 29.33 32.13 132.33 Heating Natural Automotive Automotive oil gas petrol diesel Indirect emissions scope 2 (t CO2) Indirect emissions scope 3 (t CO2) 6,786 4,384 3,513 758 635 715 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Note 11. The reduction of indirect emissions from electricity consumption is due to changes in the data provided by Iberdrola on the source of the electricity supplied to Atresmedia (change in the energy mix). In 2015 the electricity consumed by the Group was more environmentally friendly, falling from 0.16 kg of CO2 for each kW/h consumed in 2014 to 0.12 kg of CO2 for each kW/h consumed in 2015, which represents a reduction of 25% in the content of CO2. Note 12. To obtain the data on indirect emissions from electricity consumption, the annual information provided by Iberdrola was used, referring to the source of the electricity supplied and the electric consumption produced. The energy supplied is 71.8% renewable and 28.2% non-renewable. Note 13. To obtain the data on emissions from air travel, the website www.carbon-calculator.org.uk was used. Due to the increased presence of Atresmedia at international fairs, as well as its greater coverage outside Spain due to sporting events such as the Champions League and news coverage of events such as the terrorist attacks, international travel increased by 22.75% compared to 2014 (215 journeys). This caused CO2 emissions from the air travel of employees to increase by 12.53% compared to 2014. Moreover, it should be noted that there was a 7.73% reduction in the number of domestic air journeys (221) due to the 9.58% increase in train journeys. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 198 Climate change: risks and opportunities for Atresmedia Compliance with Law 34/2007 regarding air quality and protection of the Air contamination atmosphere; and Law 2/2002 regarding environmental assessment of the Community of Madrid. Atresmedia is governed by the General Law on Audiovisual Communication. It Other applicable legislation is a member of Autocontrol and complies with that established in its Code of Risks Conduct (Advertising Regulation). Physical risks Extreme weather events, mainly floods, fires and storms. Atresmedia is committed to retaining a positive reputation. However, in the Reputation event of a natural disaster which damages the telecommunications network it would be difficult to restore the service, with a high impact on its reputation. Atresmedia has extensive experience in managing and reducing its overall Mandatory reporting of emissions emissions into the atmosphere, so it can implement any changes in the legislation that governs it. An increase in the average temperature would lead to a reduction in the Variations in the average consumption of diesel and electricity due to it being warmer in autumn and temperature Opportunities winter. The Group is aware of the large number of people influenced by the media, and considers it an opportunity to encourage consumers to act in an Changes in consumer behaviour environmentally friendly way. Specific content is developed for this (responsible consumption, climate change, etc.). The Group's participation in environmental issues leads to Atresmedia’s stakeholders seeing it as a committed, leading organisation in raising Reputation awareness about climate change. This is important as it may translate into an increase in sales and investment. Atresmedia is recognised for strengthening its environmental commitment Atresmedia has been distinguished in the ‘Best Improver Spain’ category for being the Spanish company that has improved most in the climate change report Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 2015 , an independent non-profit organisation which has the largest global database of corporate information on climate change. As a result, the Group holds a leading position in this year's edition due to achieving a final rating of 93C, which represents an improvement of +35 points compared to its result in 2014, the best experienced by a Spanish company according to this specialised index measuring the strategy of large companies in climate change issues. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 199 Responsible use of resources In 2015 Atresmedia is committed to the responsible use of resources, Atresmedia has aware of the importance of rationalising consumption to reduce reduced its water the environmental impact. consumption by 5.46% As a result, Atresmedia applies measures which improve efficiency in the use of resources, from the purchasing process to the end of the life cycle, for example with the application of ‘buying green’ criteria when selecting products. Toner consumption (cartridges) Paper consumption (sheets) 703 667 652 5,425,000 5,412,000 5,557,000 Note 14. The data on white paper and toner consumption in 2014 refer to the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Used paper represents a total of 27,565 kg and recycled paper 14,010 kg. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 200 100% of the toner cartridges used In 2015 water consumption, which comes are sent for recycling. In 2015 it entirely from the public network, fell successfully met the target of reducing by 5.46% due to its good use and an the consumption of toner cartridges, improvement in control at the facilities. achieving a reduction of 2.25%. With regard to paper consumption, it recorded a slight 2.68% increase, mainly due to the increase in reporting activity. 50.78% of the paper used during the year was recycled. Water Consumption (m3) Distribution of water consumption (%) 44,297 56,863 53,755 Branch in S.S. de los Reyes 86 Onda Cero Branch Atresmedia TV Branch 2013 2014 2015 13 1 Minimising waste Atresmedia believes it is a priority to reduce to a minimum the amount of waste generated, as well as to carry out good waste management, encouraging the re-use of materials as much as possible and recycling. To achieve this objective, Atresmedia applies various measures which include the following: • Asking its suppliers to remove the packaging for the materials so that it can be reused or destined for other possible uses. • Removing any scrap and wiring waste generated from the facilities using authorised companies. • Encouraging the use of white paper recycling bins which are installed next to the copying and multi-function machines. • Asking employees to hand in used toner cartridges to obtain new ones. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 201 Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste 68 66 64 66 126 114 314 308 305 57 62 78 1,635 976 1,725 144 390 0.53 0.52 0.54 0.66 Paper and Debris Solid Televisions Fluorescent Large Toner Small cardboard from works urban waste (units) lights (units) batteries (t) batteries (t) (m3) (t) (units) (t) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Note 15: Data on non-hazardous waste production was taken Note 16: Data on hazardous waste production corresponds to the centre in San in the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Sebastián de los Reyes. In terms of hazardous waste, this increased by 20% in televisions and 43% in florescent lights. This increase comes as a result of the increase in television production, which brings with it an increase in the surface area used (pre-assembly, connections with newsrooms, etc.). All hazardous waste generated was recycled. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 202 HAZTE ECO: together for the environment Led by Canal Neox, HAZTE ECO is an Atresmedia initiative addressing the protection and defence of the environment and encouraging social mobilisation in this area. Since its creation in 2010, and thanks to the support of the main environmental organisations such as Greenpeace, WWF and Ecoembes, HAZTE ECO has promoted many initiatives with specific challenges for tackling climate change, encouraging recycling, preventing the Arctic melting and preventing forest fires. These actions have also had the support of the Group's reporting power. In 2015 important initiatives were run to protect the environment. Save the Arctic Although HAZTE ECO has been working with the Greenpeace Save the Arctic campaign since 2012, in April 2015 this support was intensified with the collaboration of laSexta, which joined forces with Neox to cover a women's expedition to the Arctic, headed by Elena Anaya. In addition, programmes such as El intermedio and Zapeando on laSexta and HAZTE ECO on Neox issued an appeal to promote the gathering of signatures which, together with the great work done by Greenpeace around the world, made it possible to obtain a commitment to protect 10% of the Arctic, a major step in ensuring the sustainability of this habitat. Earth Hour Atresmedia once again supported this action organized by the WWF, which has now become the largest global initiative in defence of the environment. Since 2007, people from around the world have come together to do the same thing at the same time: switch off their lights for one hour. The Atresmedia facilities did the same and the group's news programmes covered the story throughout the world. In addition, Neox dedicated a special segment to the initiative on the HAZTE ECO programme, and it also had a major presence on the campaign's website and social network profiles. Promoting the importance of recycling The HAZTE ECO programme continued its awareness-raising and promotion efforts on the issue of recycling, in collaboration with Ecoembes. Several programmes covered topics such as the processing and transformation of different types of waste (drink cans, canned goods and cartons). Efforts were made to clear up certain 'myths' about recycling in order to offer viewers clear and useful information. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | THE ENVIRONMENT | 203 Prevention of summer fires With the aim of raising awareness about fire risk in summer, HAZTE ECO broadcast an awareness-raising spot on Neox during the months of July, August and September. On this occasion, the message also emphasized dealing with the greatest enemy of our forests: climate change. Climate change awareness-raising On the occasion of the Paris Climate Summit, HAZTE ECO joined forces with the WWF to launch an awareness-raising and action message against climate change through the #NiUnGradoMás campaign. The campaign involve broadcasting a spot on Neox, as well as coverage of the action on the programmes Zapeando (laSexta) and Tu tiempo con Roberto Brasero (Antena 3). For its part, the website hazteeco.es created a specific section for this cause and the HAZTE ECO programme on Neox devoted a special broadcast to the agreements reached, the culmination of other reports on climate change offered throughout the year. Further information on HAZTE ECO http://www.antena3.com/especiales/noticias/ciencia/hazte-eco/ 2016 Challenges In 2016, Atresmedia is taking on new challenges in the area of environmental management aimed at improving sustainability and the environmental awareness of society. 2016 Objectives 1. Carrying out the third implementation phase for LED lighting in San Sebastián de los Reyes, with the changing of approximately 5,000 lights in the main building. 2. Continuing with the process started in 2015, which involves the launch of a plan to replace the centralised refrigeration equipment (coolers) for others that are more energy efficient. The plan is for this to be concluded over the next four years. 3. Reducing the volume of Solid Urban Waste (SUW) by 1% compared to 2015. 4. Reducing toner cartridge consumption by 2% compared to 2015. 5. Reducing the volume of paper and cardboard destined for recycling by 2% compared to 2015. 6. HAZTE ECO: Continuing to raise awareness about the effects of climate change. Monitoring and strengthening the Save the Arctic campaign with the help of Greenpeace. Continuing with the fire prevention campaign in collaboration with WWF. Annexes ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 205 G4-18, G4-22, G4-23 About the Corporate Responsibility Report This is the ninth time that Atresmedia has Any variations in terms of the scope and published its Corporate Responsibility coverage of the information are noted in Report as part of the Annual Report, the corresponding section of the report. detailing its commitments in matters of Likewise, any changes to the formulas sustainability from an economic, social used for calculating the data provided are and environmental perspective. reported. The Corporate Responsibility Report has Materiality: The materiality of the content been prepared in accordance with the of this report has been determined from current reporting demands and trends, Atresmedia's own analysis, as well as so that on the one hand it complies with several analysis of sustainability issues the GRI G4 guidelines in line with the in the media sector published by the exhaustive option and the GRI Media CSR Media Forum,and the information sector supplement and on the other it received from the stakeholders through progressively and in more depth includes the different communication channels the content recommended by the established such as the discussions held international framework for preparing and a survey for this purpose, among Integrated Reports, developed by the other channels that are explained in the International Integrated Reporting Corporate Responsibility section of the Council (IIRC). report. Coverage and scope: For the third All relevant material aspects have been consecutive year, the report follows the analysed to identify their correspondence criteria established by the G4 guide from with the specific content and indicators the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in from the GRI G4 guide, selecting those its comprehensive option, and has been sections that truly respond to the verified by an external and independent interests of the stakeholders and the organisation (Aenor). The GRI Media strategy of Atresmedia. Other sections Sector Supplement has also been taken from G4 have also been voluntarily account in its preparation as well as the responded to since these, without being Global Compact framework. relevant to the organisation, contribute to increasing the transparency and The contents included in the report understanding of the company's activity. refer to the period between 1st January 2015 and 31st December of the same year and cover the activities of the different companies forming Atresmedia (Atresmedia Televisión, Atresmedia Radio, Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia Digital, Atresmedia Diversificación, Atresmedia Cine and Fundación Atresmedia). The content takes into account the Group's analysis of materiality and under no circumstances are there any intentional omissions of relevant content. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 206 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 RELEVANT ASPECTS FOR STAKEHOLDERS Correspondence with G4 PRIORITY General aspect Specific aspect Aspect Section Quality of the content Broadcasting of content MEDIA M2-M5 Protection of minors SOCIETY: HIGH G4 SO1 Local Communities Social action Social action campaigns ECONOMIC P. Indirect G4 EC7 economic consequences Responsible advertising Quality of the advertising Advertising management services MEDIA M2-M5 Independence between advertisers and content Satisfaction of the advertisers PRODUCT: Labelling G4 PR5 Broadcasting of content Editorial independence MEDIA M2-M5 Freedom of expression STRATEGY AND AVERAGE G4-1 ANALYSIS Economic management Strategic areas and objectives ECONOMIC P.: G4 EC1, EC4 Economic Performance MEDIA M1 Transparency GOVERNANCE G4 34-48, 51 Corporate governance Control mechanisms ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 56-58 LABOUR: Internal organisation Human capital development G4 LA9-10 Training and education Shareholder composition PROFILE G4-7 ECONOMIC P.: Economic management G4 EC1, EC4 Cost management Economic Performance LOW MEDIA M1 Governance bodies GOVERNANCE G4 34-48, 51 Corporate governance Regulatory compliance ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4 56-58 The G4 indicators provided with a high and average priority are those that can be identified with the colour orange in the report's GRI index. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 207 Verification report ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 208 Corporate Social Responsibility certificate ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 209 GRI Index Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) G4-1 3, 7 TOTAL Yes, 207 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Description of key impacts, risks, and 3-11, 43, 30-31, 36-41, G4-2 TOTAL Yes, 207 opportunities 46-52 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 2, 34 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the primary brands, products, and G4-4 34, 25-28, 36-41 TOTAL Yes, 207 services. Report the location of the organization’s G4-5 2 TOTAL Yes, 207 headquarters. Report the number of countries where the Atresmedia operates in organization operates, and names of countries Spain. However some G4-6 where either the organization has significant of its channels (Antena TOTAL Yes, 207 operations or that are specifically relevant to 3 Internacional) can be the sustainability topics covered in the report. watched abroad G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 34 TOTAL Yes, 207 Atresmedia operates in Spain. However some Report the markets served (including of its channels (Antena G4-8 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and TOTAL Yes, 207 3 Internacional) can be types of customers and beneficiaries). watched abroad 34, 38-41 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 210 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report the scale of the organization, including: 13, 36-37 • Total number of employees • Total number of operations 93% of Atresmedia's • Net sales (for private sector organizations) net income comes or net revenues (for public sector from advertising. The G4-9 TOTAL Yes, 207 organizations) remaining income is split • Total capitalization broken down in terms between minor activities of debt and equity (for private sector such as copyright, film organizations) productions and special • Quantity of products or services provided initiatives. • Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. • Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. • Report the total workforce by employees 147-150, 154 and supervised workers and by gender. • Report the total workforce by region and External and selfgender. employed employees • Report whether a substantial portion of do not represent a G4-10 TOTAL Yes, 207 the organization’s work is performed by significant part of workers who are legally recognized as the company, so self-employed, or by individuals other no monitoring is than employees or supervised workers, established that allows a including employees and supervised breakdown by gender. employees of contractors. • Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Report the percentage of total employees G4-11 149, 150 TOTAL Yes, 207 covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 65, 68 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 • Changes in the share capital structure and 30-33 TOTAL Yes, 207 other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination . Report whether and how the precautionary G4-14 approach or principle is addressed by the 46-52 TOTAL Yes, 207 organization. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, G4-15 42, 48-49, 85, 122-123 TOTAL Yes, 207 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 211 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: G4-16 • Holds a position on the governance body 59, 60-62 TOTAL Yes, 207 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 34 documents. All entities that are listed G4-17 Report whether any entity included in in the consolidated TOTAL Yes, 207 the organization’s consolidated financial financial statements are statements or equivalent documents is not also listed in the report. covered by the report. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 Explain how the organization has implemented 57-58, 205-206 TOTAL Yes, 207 the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. List all the material Aspects identified in the G4-19 58, 206 TOTAL Yes, 207 process for defining report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), 58, 206 select one of the following two approaches The material aspects and report either: G4-20 identified have been TOTAL Yes, 207 The list of entities or groups of entities considered for the entire included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not Atresmedia Group. material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization 58, 206 If the Aspect is material outside of the The aspects identified organization, identify the entities, groups of as material have been G4-21 TOTAL Yes, 207 entities or elements for which the Aspect is considered for all of material. In addition, describe the geographical Atresmedia's external location where the Aspect is material for the stakeholders. entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 212 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report the effect of any restatements of G4-22 information provided in previous reports, and 205 TOTAL Yes, 207 the reasons for such restatements. Report significant changes from previous G4-23 reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect 205 TOTAL Yes, 207 Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged G4-24 54-56 TOTAL Yes, 207 by the organization. Report the basis for identification and G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom to 54-56 TOTAL Yes, 207 engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 54-56, 85, 106, 120, 133G4-26 TOTAL Yes, 207 group, and an indication of whether any of the 134, 158-159 engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those 54-56, 85, 106, 120, 133G4-27 TOTAL Yes, 207 key topics and concerns, including through its 134, 158-159, 167-168 reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar G4-28 206 TOTAL Yes, 207 year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 206 TOTAL Yes, 207 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 206 TOTAL Yes, 207 Provide the contact point for questions G4-31 2 TOTAL Yes, 207 regarding the report or its contents. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 Report the reference to the External Assurance 206 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report This report has been the scope and basis of any external assurance verified by AENOR with G4-33 provided. TOTAL Yes, 207 Comprehensive level. Report the relationship between the 207 organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 213 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 42-44 highest governance body. Identify any G4-34 IAGC: C.1. 1, C.1.2, C.1.3, TOTAL Yes, 207 committees responsible for decision-making C.2.4 on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics 42-44 G4-35 TOTAL Yes, 207 from the highest governance body to senior IAGC: C.1.10 executives and other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or 42-44 positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 IAGC: C.1.10 R IAGC: G.7 TOTAL Yes, 207 environmental and social topics, and whether (Recommendation 7) post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between 42 stakeholders and the highest governance body IAGC: meets on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-37 requirement 7 on TOTAL Yes, 207 If consultation is delegated, describe to whom corporate governance and any feedback processes to the highest (page 30 of the IAGC). governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body Number of each individual’s other significant 42-44 positions and commitments, and the nature of G4-38 IAGC: C.1.2, C.1.3, C.2.1, TOTAL Yes, 207 the commitments C.2.2 Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 42-44 G4-39 (and, if so, his or her function within the TOTAL Yes, 207 IAGC: C.1.22 organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: 42-44 Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 IAGC: C.1.5, C.1.6, C.1.19, TOTAL Yes, 207 Whether and how independence is considered C.2.4, C.1.34 Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 214 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, 42-49 including, as a minimum: IAGC: D.6, G.8 G4-41 TOTAL Yes, 207 Cross-board membership (Recommendation 8, Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other section C) stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, 29, 42-44 approval, and updating of the organization’s IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.4 G4-42 TOTAL Yes, 207 purpose, value or mission statements, Recommendation 8 on strategies, policies, and goals related to Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social impacts. 42-44, 49-52 Report the measures taken to develop IAGC: C.1.41 and enhance the highest governance Standards of Good G4-43 TOTAL Yes, 207 body’s collective knowledge of economic, Governance Fundación environmental and social topics. Atresmedia www. antena3.com/fundación. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such 42-44 G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. TOTAL Yes, 207 IAGC: C.1.20 Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, 42-44 risks, and opportunities. Include the highest IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, governance body’s role in the implementation C.2.4, section E. G4-45 of due diligence processes. TOTAL Yes, 207 Recommenda­tions on Report whether stakeholder consultation is Corporate Governance: used to support the highest governance body’s 43 and 44.1 a) identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 42-49 IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, C.2.4, section E. Report the highest governance body’s Recommendations on role in reviewing the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance: G4-46 TOTAL Yes, 207 organization’s risk management processes for 43 and 44.1 a) economic, environmental and social topics. Standards of Good Governance Fundación Atresmedia www. antena3.com/fundación ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 215 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer 42-49 Report the frequency of the highest IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 C.2.4, section E. TOTAL Yes, 207 environmental and social impacts, risks, and Recommendations on opportunities. Corporate Governance Report the highest committee or position IAGC: CC.1.14 that formally reviews and approves the G4-48 Recommendation 7 on TOTAL Yes, 207 organization’s sustainability report and ensures Corporate Governance. that all material Aspects are covered. 42-44 IAGC: C.1.14, C.2.3, Report the process for communicating critical G4-49 C.2.4, section E. TOTAL Yes, 207 concerns to the highest governance body. Recommendations on Corporate Governance Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated 3-6, 7-11, 42-44 G4-50 to the highest governance body and the TOTAL Yes, 207 IAGC: E.5, E.6 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: Performance-based pay Equity-based pay Bonuses Deferred or vested shares IAGC: Recommendation Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive 36 on Corporate G4-51 payments TOTAL Yes, 207 Governance. Termination payments IRC: sections A, B and C Clawbacks Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining G4-52 remuneration and whether they are IRC: A.2 TOTAL Yes, 207 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding 42-44 G4-53 remuneration, including the results of votes TOTAL Yes, 207 IRC: A.1, D.3 on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 216 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Atresmedia CMC: 12.13% Advertising: 7.74% Antena 3 Noticias: 5.92% Cordina Planet: 3.07% Report the ratio of the annual total Fundación: 5.24% compensation for the organization’s highestI3TV: 2.53% paid individual in each country of significant G4-54 Antena 3 TDT Canarias: TOTAL Yes, 207 operations to the median annual total 5.38% compensation for all employees (excluding the Uniprex TV: 4.22% highest-paid individual) in the same country. Antena 3 Eventos: 5.59% Antena 3 Multimendia: 6.90% Antena 3 Films: 1.64% Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in In 2015 there have been G4-55 each country of significant operations to the TOTAL Yes, 207 no pay rises (0) median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, G4-56 standards and norms of behavior such as 42, 44, 49, 85, 122-123 TOTAL Yes, 207 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful G4-57 42, 49 TOTAL Yes, 207 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to G4-58 42, 44, 49, 85, 92 122-123 TOTAL Yes, 207 organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Disclosures on Management Approach Page / Answer Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA 57-58, 205-206 TOTAL Yes, 207 The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 217 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ECONOMIC 30-31, 36-37 Yes, 207 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 30-31, 36-37 Yes, 207 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: Direct economic value generated: Revenues 13, 53 Economic value distributed: Report on Operating costs audited accounts G4-EC1 TOTAL Yes, 207 Employee wages and benefits (Available at www. Payments to providers of capital atresmediacorporacion. Payments to government (by country) com) Community investments Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other G4-EC2 A description of the impact associated with 190, 192 TOTAL Yes, 207 the risk or opportunity The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 218 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at When that estimate was made There are no pension G4-EC3 Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension TOTAL Yes, 207 schemes liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: Tax relief and tax credits Subsidies Investment grants, research and development 13 grants, and other relevant types of grants Report on Awards audited accounts G4-EC4 Royalty holidays TOTAL Yes, 207 (Available at www. Financial assistance from Export Credit atresmediacorporacion. Agencies (ECAs) com) Financial incentives Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation Report the information above by country. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. 0 euros Report on Significant funding and other support audited accounts M1 TOTAL Yes, 207 received from non-governmental sources. (Available at www. atresmediacorporacion. com). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 219 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE 39 Yes, 207 When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the The starting wage is ratio of the entry level wage by gender at set through a collective significant locations of operation to the agreement established minimum wage. for each of the group's Report whether a local minimum wage is G4-EC5 businesses with no TOTAL absent or variable at significant locations gender differences, of operation, by gender. In circumstances in and it is higher than which different minimums could be used as the statutory minimum a reference, report which minimum wage is wage. being used. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the percentage of senior management 35, CV in http://www. G4-EC6 at significant locations of operation that are atresmediacorporacion. TOTAL Yes, 207 hired from the local community. com/ ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 149 Yes, 207 Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and 13, 53, 89, 168, 187-188 services supported. Report on Report the current or expected impacts on audited accounts G4-EC7 communities and local economies. Report TOTAL Yes, 207 (Available at www. positive and negative impacts where relevant. atresmediacorporacion. Report whether these investments and com) services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. Report the significance of the impacts in 13, 30-31, 53, 89, 168, G4-EC8 TOTAL Yes, 207 the context of external benchmarks and 187-188 stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 66 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of the procurement budget used for significant locations of 66-68 G4-EC9 operation spent on suppliers local to that Proveedor Local: TOTAL Yes, 207 operation (such as percentage of products proveedor nacional and services purchased locally). CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Yes, 207 ASPECT: MATERIALS 199 Yes, 207 Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products and services G4-EN1 199-200 TOTAL Yes, 207 during the reporting period, by: Non-renewable materials used Renewable materials used ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 220 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the percentage of recycled input G4-EN2 materials used to manufacture the 199-200 TOTAL Yes, 207 organization’s primary products and services. ASPECT: ENERGY 193 Yes, 207 Report total fuel consumption from nonrenewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption Steam consumption G4-EN3 193-195 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the conversion factors used. 193-195 Report energy consumed outside of the Consumption accounted G4-EN4 TOTAL Yes, 207 organization, in joules or multiples. for by business travel is included. Energy intensity is determined by Report the energy intensity ratio. dividing internal Report the organization-specific metric (the consumption by the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the number of employees. ratio. Gas (m3/employee): Report the types of energy included in 8,48 Electricity (kw/ G4-EN5 TOTAL Yes, 207 the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, employee): 15.171.53 cooling, steam, or all. Automotive diesel Report whether the ratio uses energy (L./employee): consumed within the organization, outside of 26,65 Heating oil (L/ it or both. employee): 260.07, Automotive Petrol (L/ Employee): 9,30 Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in G4-EN6 joules or multiples. 193-195 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 221 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services G4-EN7 13, 189-190, 193-195 TOTAL Yes, 207 achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. ASPECT: WATER 200 Yes, 207 Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans 190-200 Ground water All the water used G4-EN8 TOTAL Yes, 207 Rainwater collected directly and stored by the comes from the public organization network. Waste water from another organization Municipal water supplies or other water utilities Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: Size of water source Whether or not the source is designated as a All the water used protected area (nationally or internationally) G4-EN9 comes from the public TOTAL Yes, 207 Biodiversity value (such as species diversity network. and endemism, total number of protected species) Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. Atresmedia, due to G4-EN10 Report the total volume of water recycled its business, does not TOTAL Yes, 207 and reused as a percentage of the total water recycle or re-use water. withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY 190, 202-203 Yes, 207 Report the following information for each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas: Geographic location Subsurface and underground land that Atresmedia operates in may be owned, leased, or managed by the urban areas that do not organization affect natural areas, so it Position in relation to the protected area (in does not have an impact the area, adjacent to, or containing portions on biodiversity of the protected area) or the high biodiversity G4-EN11 value area outside protected areas The workplace at TOTAL Yes, 207 Type of operation (office, manufacturing or San Sebastián de production, or extractive) los Reyes does not Size of operational site in km2 generate a significant Biodiversity value characterized by: environmental impact, The attribute of the protected area or high and nor do the rest of biodiversity value area outside the protected the workplaces. area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) Listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 222 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources) Introduction of invasive species, pests, and Atresmedia operates in pathogens urban areas that do not Reduction of species G4-EN12 affect natural areas, so it TOTAL Yes, 207 Habitat conversion does not have an impact Changes in ecological processes outside the on biodiversity. natural range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: Species affected Extent of areas impacted Duration of impacts Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. 190 Report whether partnerships exist with third Atresmedia operates in parties to protect or restore habitat areas urban areas that do not G4-EN13 TOTAL Yes, 207 distinct from where the organization has affect natural areas, so it overseen and implemented restoration or does not have an impact protection measures. on biodiversity. Report on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the Atresmedia operates in operations of the organization, by level of urban areas that do not extinction risk: G4-EN14 affect natural areas, so it TOTAL Yes, 207 Critically endangered does not have an impact Endangered on biodiversity. Vulnerable Near threatened Least concern ASPECT: EMISSIONS 196 Yes, 207 Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. 190, 196-197 Report gases included in the calculation G4-EN15 The calculation includes TOTAL Yes, 207 (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, CO2 gases. NF3, or all). Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 223 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, 190, 197 G4-EN16 independent of any GHG trades, such as The calculation includes TOTAL Yes, 207 purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or CO2 gases. allowances. Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, 190, 197 G4-EN17 sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. The calculation includes TOTAL Yes, 207 Report gases included in the calculation, if CO2 gases. available. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. The intensity of Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. emissions is determined Report the organization-specific metric (the by dividing internal ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the consumptionby the ratio. G4-EN18 number of employees. Yes, 207 Report the types of GHG emissions included Scope 1: 1,82 tCO2/ in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy employee , Scope 2: 2,43 indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). tCO2/employee, Scope Report gases included in the calculation. 3: 0,35 tCO2/employee Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). 196-197 G4-EN19 Report the chosen base year or baseline and The calculation includes TOTAL Yes, 207 the rationale for choosing it. CO2 gases. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 224 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. Report substances included in the calculation. G4-EN20 Report standards, methodologies, and 193-194 TOTAL Yes, 207 assumptions used. Report the source of the emission factors used. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: NOX SOX Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) G4-EN21 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 196-197 TOTAL Yes, 207 Particulate matter (PM) Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the emission factors used. ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 200 Yes, 207 Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: Destination 200-201 Quality of the water including treatment Atresmedia sends this G4-EN22 method Yes, 207 to the public sewage Whether it was reused by another network. organization Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Reuse Recycling Composting Recovery, including energy recovery 190, 200-201 Incineration (mass burn) The number of units Deep well injection is specified, since Landfill G4-EN23 given the type of TOTAL Yes, 207 On-site storage waste generated, it is Other (to be specified by the organization) impossible to calculate Report how the waste disposal method has the weight . been determined: Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 225 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: Location of spill Volume of spill There have been no G4-EN24 TOTAL Yes, 207 Material of spill, categorized by: discharges. Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) Other (to be specified by the organization) Report the impacts of significant spills. Report the total weight for each of the following: Hazardous waste transported Hazardous waste imported G4-EN25 190, 201 TOTAL Yes, 207 Hazardous waste exported Hazardous waste treated Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based on the criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding There have been no information on: bodies of water or G4-EN26 Size of water body and related habitat TOTAL Yes, 207 habitats affected by Whether the water body and related habitat is discharges. designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 190 Yes, 207 Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. G4-EN27 192-197, 199-200 TOTAL Yes, 207 If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalization factors. Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each Atresmedia does not G4-EN28 product category. Yes, 207 manage products. Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 226 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 168 Yes, 207 Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Total monetary value of significant fines Total number of non-monetary sanctions There have not been G4-EN29 Cases brought through dispute resolution any penalties of an TOTAL Yes, 207 mechanisms environmental nature. Where organizations have not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: TRANSPORT 190, 194-195 Yes, 207 Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is not provided, 202 report the reason. Atresmedia’s G4-EN30 Report how the environmental impacts business does not TOTAL Yes, 207 of transporting products, members of the produce significant organization’s workforce, and other goods environmental impacts. and materials are mitigated. Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are significant. ASPECT: OVERALL 190 Yes, 207 Report total environmental protection 53, 190 expenditures by: Los costes de Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and G4-EN31 tratamiento y TOTAL remediation costs restauración no son Prevention and environmental management significativos costs ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 67, 199 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of new suppliers that G4-EN32 100% TOTAL Yes, 207 were screened using environmental criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. 66-68 Report the significant actual and potential Atresmedia's suppliers, negative environmental impacts identified in given their business, the supply chain. have no significant Report the percentage of suppliers identified G4-EN33 environmental impact. TOTAL Yes, 207 as having significant actual and potential However, suppliers are negative environmental impacts with which required to comply 100% improvements were agreed upon as a result with environmental of assessment. criteria, when applicable. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 227 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 168 Yes, 207 • Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. • Of the identified grievances, report how There have not been many were: G4-EN34 any complaints of an Yes, 207 – Addressed during the reporting period environmental nature. – Resolved during the reporting period • Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT 147 Yes, 207 Report the total number and rate of new 147-150 employee hires during the reporting period, No significant by age group, gender and region. differences exist in the G4-LA1 PARTIAL Yes, 207 Report the total number and rate of turnover rate, in its employee turnover during the reporting breakdown by age and period, by age group, gender and region. gender. Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: Life insurance Health care G4-LA2 155 TOTAL Yes, 207 Disability and invalidity coverage Parental leave Retirement provision Stock ownership Others Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 228 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Report the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. Report the total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. No. of employees on Report the total number of employees who maternity leave: 42 returned to work after parental leave ended, No. of employees on by gender. paternity leave: 19 G4-LA3 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the total number of employees who The number of returned to work after parental leave ended returning staff and who were still employed twelve months after staff retaining their their return to work, by gender. jobs is 100%. Report the return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 42, 147-150, 158-159 Yes, 207 Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and Notice periods are their elected representatives prior to the established in the implementation of significant operational collective agreement changes that could substantially affect them. G4-LA4 The existing collective TOTAL Yes, 207 For organizations with collective bargaining agreements include agreements, report whether the notice the consultation and period and provisions for consultation negotiation conditions. and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 164 Yes, 207 Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the 164 G4-LA5 organization. TOTAL 100% Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and workrelated fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by: Region Gender 164-165 Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), Law 31/1995 on G4-LA6 occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day TOTAL Yes, 207 the Prevention of rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and workOccupational Risks. related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organization is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: Region Gender Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 229 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Report whether there are workers who are involved in occupational activities who There is no risk of G4-LA7 TOTAL Yes, 207 have a high incidence or high risk of specific occupational illnesses. diseases. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. G4-LA8 100% TOTAL Yes, 207 If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 156 Yes, 207 Report the average hours of training that the 156-157 organization’s employees have undertaken Attendance on training G4-LA9 during the reporting period, by: courses shows no TOTAL Yes, 207 Gender significant differences Employee category by gender. Report on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. Report on the transition assistance programs G4-LA10 156-158 TOTAL Yes, 207 provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Report the percentage of total employees Performance by gender and by employee category who evaluations are G4-LA11 received a regular performance and career TOTAL Yes, 207 not periodically development review during the reporting performed. period. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 148 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: Gender Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old 149-150, 154 Minority groups The CV's of the Other indicators of diversity where relevant members of the board G4-LA12 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the percentage of employees per of directors are on the employee category in each of the following corporate website at diversity categories: www.atresmedia.es Gender Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old Minority groups Other indicators of diversity where relevant ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN 148 Yes, 207 Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations G4-LA13 TOTAL Yes, 207 of operation. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 230 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES 65, 67 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of new suppliers that G4-LA14 100% TOTAL Yes, 207 were screened using labor practices criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labor practices. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices. Report the significant actual and potential Atresmedia's suppliers, negative impacts for labor practices taking into account identified in the supply chain. their business, have no Report the percentage of suppliers identified G4-LA 15 existing or potential TOTAL Yes, 207 as having significant actual and potential significant negative negative impacts for labor practices with impact on work which improvements were agreed upon as a practices. result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 49 Yes, 207 Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: There have been no G4-LA16 Addressed during the reporting period complaints regarding Yes, 207 Resolved during the reporting period work practices. Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: INVESTMENT 65, 67, 167-168 Yes, 207 Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and There have been no contracts that include human rights clauses or investment agreements G4-HR1 TOTAL Yes, 207 that underwent human rights screening. requiring clauses on Report the definition of ‘significant investment human rights. agreements’ used by the organization. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 231 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures No requirements for concerning aspects of human rights that are training have been G4-HR2 relevant to operations. TOTAL Yes, 207 detected in terms of Report the percentage of employees in the human rights. reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION 60, 152 Yes, 207 Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: Incident reviewed by the organization There have been no G4-HR3 TOTAL Yes, 207 Remediation plans being implemented discrimination cases. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE 60, 147-148 Yes, 207 BARGAINING Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of 65-67 association or collective bargaining may be Atresmedia and its violated or at significant risk either in terms of: suppliers, taking into Type of operation (such as manufacturing account their business, plant) and supplier have no risk that the G4-HR4 TOTAL Yes, 207 Countries or geographical areas with employees’ freedom of operations and suppliers considered at risk association or right to Report measures taken by the organization collective bargaining in the reporting period intended to support may be infringed or rights to exercise freedom of association and threatened. collective bargaining. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR 60, 123 Yes, 207 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor 60 Young workers exposed to hazardous work Atresmedia and its Report operations and suppliers considered to suppliers, taking have significant risk for incidents of child labor into account their either in terms of: business areas, have G4-HR5 TOTAL Yes, 207 Type of operation (such as manufacturing no significant risk of plant) and supplier cases of child labour Countries or geographical areas with and young employees operations and suppliers considered at risk exposed to dangerous Report measures taken by the organization in jobs. the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 232 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 60, 147-148 Yes, 207 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: 60 Type of operation (such as manufacturing Atresmedia and its plant) and supplier suppliers, taking into G4-HR6 Countries or geographical areas with TOTAL account their business operations and suppliers considered at risk areas, have no risk of Report measures taken by the organization in forced labour. the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES 65-68 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of security personnel Atresmedia do who have received formal training in the not have security organization’s human rights policies or personnel on the specific procedures and their application to payroll. Subcontracted G4-HR7 TOTAL Yes, 207 security. personnel must comply Report whether training requirements also with the same Corporate apply to third party organizations providing Responsibility clauses as security personnel. other suppliers. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 60 Yes, 207 Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and actions Atresmedia operates taken with reference to: in Spain and the G4-HR8 TOTAL Yes, 207 Incident reviewed by the organization indigenous population Remediation plans being implemented are not at risk. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: ASSESSMENT 60 Yes, 207 Atresmedia operates Report the total number and percentage in Spain and does not of operations that have been subject to consider compliance G4-HR9 TOTAL Yes, 207 human rights reviews or human rights impact with human rights as a assessments, by country. risk, so no evaluations are made. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 233 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 65-68 Yes, 207 Atresmedia does not consider its suppliers to Report the percentage of new suppliers that G4-HR10 be a risk for compliance TOTAL Yes, 207 were screened using human rights criteria. with human rights, so no evaluations are made. Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts identified in Atresmedia does not the supply chain. consider its suppliers to Report the percentage of suppliers identified G4-HR11 be a risk for compliance TOTAL Yes, 207 as having significant actual and potential with human rights, so no negative human rights impacts with which evaluations are made. improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 49 Yes, 207 Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many There have been no were: G4-HR12 complaints in terms of TOTAL Yes, 207 Addressed during the reporting period human rights. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 234 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 167-168 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring 168-188 Public disclosure of results of environmental Actions benefiting and social impact assessments G4-SO1 the community are TOTAL Yes, 207 Local community development programs a MATERIAL aspect based on local communities’ needs for stakeholders Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts Formal local community grievance processes Report operations with significant actual There are no and potential negative impacts on local operation centres communities, including: that have or could G4-SO2 TOTAL Yes, 207 The location of the operations have a significant The significant actual and potential negative negative impact on impacts of operations local communities. ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 46, 49, 51 Yes, 207 Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO3 46, 51 TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and percentage of 42-44 G4-SO4 business partners that the organization’s antiTOTAL Yes, 207 100% corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 235 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Report the total number of confirmed There have been no G4-SO5 incidents when contracts with business cases of corruption TOTAL Yes, 207 partners were terminated or not renewed due or lawsuits. to violations related to corruption. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY 46, 61 Yes, 207 Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made Atresmedia does not directly and indirectly by the organization by G4-SO6 make contributions TOTAL Yes, 207 country and recipient/beneficiary. of this type. Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 46 Yes, 207 Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting Atresmedia has period regarding anti-competitive behavior not received and violations of anti-trust and monopoly G4-SO7 complaints related TOTAL Yes, 207 legislation in which the organization has been to anti-competitive identified as a participant. behaviour or similar. Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 46, 85, 122 Yes, 207 Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Total monetary value of significant fines Total number of non-monetary sanctions Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms G4-SO8 85, 108 TOTAL Yes, 207 If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON 65 Yes, 207 SOCIETY Atresmedia does not consider that its Report the percentage of new suppliers that suppliers are a risk in G4-SO9 were screened using criteria for impacts on relation to negative TOTAL Yes, 207 society. social impacts, so no evaluations are made. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 236 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer Atresmedia does not consider that its suppliers are a risk in G4-SO10 Yes, 181 relation to negative TOTAL Yes, 207 social impacts, so no evaluations are made. ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON 85, 92, 122 Yes, 207 SOCIETY Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many There have been no were: G4-SO11 complaints about TOTAL Yes, 207 Addressed during the reporting period social impacts. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ASPECT: CREATING CONTENT 65, 84, 106, 120 Yes, 207 Methodology for assessing and monitoring M2 65, 84-86, 106, 120-125 TOTAL Yes, 207 adherence to content creation values. Actions taken to improve adherence to M3 65, 84-86, 106, 120-125 TOTAL Yes, 207 content creation values, and results obtained. ASPECT: CONTENT DISSEMINATION 84, 106, 120 Si, 178 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues M4 (accessibility and protection of vulnerable 84-97, 106-108, 120-125 TOTAL Yes, 207 audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained. Number and nature of responses (feedback/ complaints) related to content dissemination, including protection of vulnerable audiences M5 85, 92, 124 TOTAL Yes, 207 and informed decision making and accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. ASPECT: AUDIENCE INTERACTION 85, 96, 106, 120, 133 Yes, 207 Methods to interact with audiences and 86-92, 96, 106-107, M6 TOTAL Yes, 207 results. 120, 133 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 237 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 38-41 Yes, 207 Report the percentage of significant product Atresmedia's products G4-PR1 and service categories for which health and have no risks to health TOTAL Yes, 207 safety impacts are assessed for improvement. or safety. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the There have been no reporting period, by: incidents deriving Incidents of non-compliance with regulations from the breaching resulting in a fine or penalty of the regulations G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations TOTAL Yes, 207 or voluntary codes resulting in a warning related to the health Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary and safety of products codes and services. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 91-95, 123 Yes, 207 Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling: The sourcing of components of the product or service Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an G4-PR3 91-95, 123 TOTAL Yes, 207 environmental or social impact Safe use of the product or service Disposal of the product and environmental/ social impacts Other (explain) Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty Incidents of non-compliance with regulations G4-PR4 92, 120, 124 TOTAL Yes, 207 resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period relating to information G4-PR5 69-83, 85 TOTAL Yes, 207 about: The organization as a whole A major product or service category Significant locations of operation ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015 | ANNEXES | 238 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer Report whether the organization sells products that are: 120 Banned in certain markets Atresmedia does The subject of stakeholder questions or public not market products G4-PR6 TOTAL Yes, 207 debate that are banned or Report how the organization has responded questioned by the to questions or concerns regarding these stakeholders. products. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 120 TOTAL Yes, 207 resulting in a fine or penalty Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. ASPECT: MEDIA LITERACY 96 Yes, 207 Actions taken to empower audiences through M7 media literacy skills development and results 96-97 TOTAL Yes, 207 obtained. ASPECT: Customer Privacy 46 Yes, 207 Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: Complaints received from outside parties and There have been no substantiated by the organization complaints about a G4-PR8 Complaints from regulatory bodies violation of privacy TOTAL Yes, 207 Report the total number of identified leaks, and loss of customer thefts, or losses of customer data. data. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 46 Yes, 207 Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use G4-PR9 of products and services. 92, 120, 124 Yes, 207 If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Atresmedia Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13 San Sebastián de los Reyes 28703 (Madrid) comunicacion@atresmedia.com responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Telephone: (+ 34) 91 623 05 00 Fax: (+34) 91 654 92 04
