Communication on Progress 2016 Gran Living ApS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT With the aim to continue the focus on the social and environmental responsibility of our company, we, Gran Living ApS, reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We, Gran Living, will continue to pursue the process of integrating the Ten Principles within our strategies, policies and operations and undertake projects to advance our support hereof. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To communicate about our overall strategy, daily actions and operations to integrate the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our business, we hereby launch our first Communication on Progress. Yours sincerely Kathrine Gran Hartvigsen Creative Director Gran Living ApS, Denmark, COP for 2016 OUR STORY Gran Living ApS Behind Gran Living ApS is the couple Kathrine and Per Gran Hartvigsen who has successfully run the company since 2004. Ever since its foundation, the company has designed and imported quality home interior for Stamp leading chains and has extensive experience with trend spotting, W12xH16mm developments of its own designs and production of interior for the home. AYTM The brand AYTM was established by Gran Living ApS in 2015. AYTM design luxury home interior in timeless designs. AYTM approaches the concept of Nordic design in a sophisticated and elegant manner with focus on high quality and exquisite details. In spite of their simple idiom, the products are eye-catching and impactful. OUR CSR POLICY At Gran Living we acknowledge our social and environmental responsibilities. Based on our capabilities, we voluntarily take the initiative to protect the workers and the environment in the areas in which we operate and we continuously seek to improve conditions for the employees and the general surroundings. HUMAN RIGHTS Gran Living support and acts in compliance with human rights and expects our business partners to do likewise. We strongly condemn childand forced labour. We acknowledge diversity and the rights of employees. Therefore we will not accept any kind of discrimination or violations of rights. FAIR WORK Gran Living cares about the safety and well-being of our employees at all times. We strive to provide a healthy environment and expect our business partners to do the same, as we believe it goes hand in hand with motivation and results. ANTI-CORRUPTION Gran Living refrains from corruption and bribery in any form. We believe in ethical and fair business practises, and expect from both own employees and external business partners to avoid any kind of unethical business practises. ENVIRONMENT Gran Living cares about the environment with concern for the future. We focus on the long term consequences of our activities and strive to prevent, minimize and remedy adverse impacts our activities place on our earth, and we expect the same from all parties throughout our supply chain to secure the best possible conditions for future generations. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Gran Living will not conduct business with any supplier engaging in or benefiting directly from human rights or labour rights abuses. Gran Living expects all suppliers to support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights and labour rights. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2015 • Gran Living initiated the dialogue with active A ranking suppliers in 2015. Announced CSR audits have been conducted in China, with the purpose on initiating the dialogue about CSR based on our Supplier Code of Conduct. • Initiated the process of becoming GoodWeave certified to give our customers the best assurance of no use of child labour in the production of our rugs and to support the project of preventing child labour in the rug manufacturing industry. • Enhancing the wellbeing and health of employees of Gran Living ApS by implementing an everyday 5 minutes workout, offering height adjustable tables and preferable chairs for all employees. RESULTS AHIEVED IN 2015 • In the beginning of 2016, Gran Living became GoodWeave certified. • All suppliers have received our Supplier Code of Conduct and are obliged to sign this in order to commit to international standards for human right and labour rights. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2016 • Conducting CSR audits with 50% of active suppliers • Starting up CSR project in India in cooperation with non-governmental organization to support the education of women in India within our area of business. ENVIRONMENT Gran Living expects suppliers to work systematically to prevent and minimise environmental impacts from its activities; including prevention of pollution, secure sustainable use of resources, climate change mitigation, and adaptation and protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats, as well as improve performance of others within its sphere of influence through a proactive approach and responsible management of its environmental aspects. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2015 • Gran Living has implemented an internal system for sorting of waste • Purchasing of sustainable/recyclable office supplies. • Creating an internal culture of reducing printing where possible. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2016 • Initiate the process of using 100% sustainable and recyclable packaging • Reduce the internal consumption of printing paper by 20% • Initiate the process of using FSC certified wood ANTI CORRUPTION Gran Living expects suppliers to refrain from and prohibit corruption and bribery at all times and in any form, including active and passive bribery and corruption in the private and public sphere. The supplier shall refrain from using bribery or any other method to unjustly influence business partners, public officials or the judiciary. Gran living expects suppliers to instruct their agents, intermediaries and other parties with whom the organisation has operating relationships, to neither engage in nor tolerate that they engage in any act of corruption. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2015 • In our Supplier Code of Conduct we have made a clear statement that we do not engage in business relationships where corruption and bribe are necessary to drive business. • Our company policy has a clear statement that no employees at Gran Living ApS are allowed to take bribe. RESULTS AHIEVED IN 2015 • All suppliers have received our Supplier Code of Conduct and are obliged to sign this in order to commit their business to avoid any form of corruption and bribe. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2016 • Our goal for 2016 is to collect signed Supplier Code of Conducts from all active suppliers in order to have signed commitments from all suppliers to align with our policy of no corruption and bribe. GRAN LIVING, DANMARK Balticagade 10 st. DK-8000 Aarhus C CVR NR. 27615244 EMAIL: mail@granliving.dk TLF: +45 8678 2620
