UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HANDBOOK | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | To Our Stakeholders Subject: Statement of Continued support for the Global Compact I, Thomas Pengelly, Managing Director of Saana Consulting, I am pleased to confirm that Saana Consulting reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Tom Pengelly Managing Director Saana Consulting Ltd | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | Contents 1. Human Rights ..................................................................................................... 4 2. Labour ................................................................................................................. 6 3. Environment ........................................................................................................ 8 4. Anti-Corruption .................................................................................................. 10 | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | 1. Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Saana Consulting is committed to ensuring that all our employees are committed to and influencing our business partners and clients to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We use our internal project management systems to record against all our business partners and suppliers any perceived or proven breach of the Global Compact principles pertaining to Human Rights. At Saana Consulting we work with major International Development Donors. Our own codes on human rights are heavily influenced and look to stay abreast of the policies of our clients. Due to this, every aspect of our work is ultimately driven by these and other development policies and vetted by our clients in the light of their own policies. As such, Saana Consulting’s goal is to continue supporting, wherever possible, the Global Compact principles on Human Rights through the work we carry out. We further seek to ensure that any failure to do so in our power, is recorded and addressed prior to the submission of our next COP. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. Saana Consulting is committed to addressing any concerns in regards to the abuse of human rights on the part of our employees, clients and third party suppliers. Saana Consulting has adopted the ISO 9001 standard. The ISO 9001 Standard requires an annual internal audit of all suppliers. To ensure compliance with the standard, compliance with the ten United Nations Global Compact Principles and for the purposes of best business practices, Saana Consulting reviews its suppliers on an annual basis as part of its annual internal audit. To further ensure that our processes in relation to our suppliers remain up to date we were successfully audited by the relevant organisation which offers the ISO 9001 Standard Certificate. In addition, and as explained in part 1.1. above, Saana Consulting’s clientele are major international development donors. Due to this, we are often required to report on the suppliers and external associates we collaborate with. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance Following an internal audit under the ISO 9001 Standard, Saana Staff have received no reports of human right abuses by third party suppliers. This process will continue to be monitored for this coming reporting period, whilst Saana Consulting’s third party supplier list will be updated as needed. Our supplier review list is hosted on a shared server. This allows all members of staff who come in contact with suppliers to be able to leave comments and review the list when required. By providing our employees transparency and flexibility we ensure that | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | the list is kept up to date. The list is subjected to a review from the Company’s Project Management Unit on an annual basis. It further ensures that no supplier which has been marked as not suitable for business is being chosen. | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | 2. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour right for the company (i.e. labour rights – related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Saana Consulting has in its core goals to ensure best practice in human rights policies. The ILO Core Conventions and the UNGC Principles on labour standards are fully supported by the company. Our contracts and employee handbook clearly affirm individual and collective employee rights. They further affirm employees’ responsibilities to co-workers and acknowledge the right of employees to relevant compensation and benefits. At Saana Consulting, we uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and would never seek to work for, or partner with, any organisation which does not fully recognise the elimination of forced labour, child labour and employment discrimination. As a business with a global portfolio of projects it is not possible to assess the labour risks in all the countries in which we work. However, our work comes from winning bids for international development consultancy, in which the funding that we receive to support beneficiaries is issued as part of high level programmes vetted under the International Development policies of organisations such as the UK Department of International Development, the European Union and the United Nations Development Programme. Saana Consulting’s core goals are to ensure that our human resources policies and documentation outlining the rights of employees are never in breach of ILO conventions and UNGC principles on labour standards. We always seek to continue updating and reviewing our policies and documentation in the light of these. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, dress labour risks and respond to labour violations. At Saana Consulting we have a contract of services with Citation, one of the UK’s biggest providers in the area of Health and Safety, Human Resources, Employment Law and ISO services. On an annual basis, as part of our Citation software we undergo a yearly review to ensure that our policies are in compliance with relevant labour and employment law. Upon changes of any of the aforementioned laws, we make the necessary adjustments to our human resources policy as required, including contracting documents and employee guidance which is included in our Employee’s handbook. This helps us to ensure that we have the best business practices in relation to the Human Resources policies and contractual policies. Because of this rigorous process and provision of services from Citation we are in the position to offer and distribute to our employees an up to date approved staff handbook, which highlights clear policies and procedures in relation to discrimination and harassment. The staff handbook provides clear instructions on seeking to address employees’ concerns in the case where they feel that their rights under local labour laws have not been respected. Further to the above, at Saana Consulting we have a Code of Conduct which regulates our policies and is in compliance with Citation Human Resources policy | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | recommendations. As a separate policy, Saana Consulting has endorsed Citation in policies relevant to labour risks and a set of a health and safety regulations to protect staff within the workplace. In addition, we provide annual and semi-annual 360 degree appraisals to our employees. This helps us to provide an additional communication channel to our employees so as to ensure employee satisfaction in all business areas. In the office, there is also an available thermometer which is used to ensure that the temperature in the room does not rise or go below normal working temperature levels. Citation also provides Saana Consulting with a Health and Safety annual audit. Due to this, we are able to ensure that we provide our employees with a safe and wellpreserved environment to operate in. Measurement of outcomes Description of the company monitors and evaluate performance. At Saana Consulting we are able to measure the outcome of our policies from the feedback we receive from our stakeholders. The employee staff handbook provides a clear policy with relevant instructions which encourages and helps employees and other stakeholders to report any suspected or wrong-doing in regards to Saana Consulting’s Code of Conduct, in the areas of discrimination and harassment. During the last period to which this report relates to no reports have been filed since the system has been implemented. As also discussed in point 2.2. above, the semi-annual and annual appraisals with our employees help us to determine their level of satisfaction. Employee satisfaction is further supported by calculating Saana’s Consulting retention ratio by our HR Department. Further to this, our Labour and Human Rights policies were audited as part of our Citation certification. We currently hold a certification for Citation Approved Employment Systems which is valid until 28th of November 2018. | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | 3. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Saana Consulting supports the United Nations Global Compact principles on the Environment. We are committed to ensuring minimal waste in relation to use of resources. Saana Consulting has a clear policy on ensuring that all actions, within the sphere of control of employees, are taken to minimise any adverse effect on the environment. Our specific goals in the area of environmental protection this year, are to be able to further measure areas where we can improve our environmental footprint globally as well as to continue the drive within the central Saana Consulting office on efficient use of resources and recycling. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. As a company with a global project portfolio Saana Staff and Associates carry out a large amount of air travel. However, we only book our flights with a single travel agency supplier with whom we are working on getting management information to help measure our environmental footprint over the course of a year. Saana Consulting’s staff are also encouraged wherever possible to combine journeys in order to reduce the distances of travel. We look to encourage all our partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact Environmental Principles. The Project Management Unit at Saana Consulting oversees logistics spend. This activity helps in raising awareness to all employees about the importance of carbon footprint of the company where possible. Further environmental protection training is anticipated. Saana Consulting is also in contact with its suppliers in order to help in addressing the concerns in the area of environmental sustainability. Further to the above, Saana Consulting is able to control the temperature of the office through the use of a central thermostat. The boiler is checked on a regular basis so as to ensure that it is running efficiently and is using the lowest amount of gas supply possible. The company’s premises include showers which are available to all employees. This particular available facility motivates employees to use alternative methods of travelling to work, for example cycling, without this affecting their professional attire during working hours. In addition, Saana Consulting’s Citation approved handbook contains information regarding staff action in the area of environmental policy at Saana Consulting. The handbook is distributed to all staff and outlines procedures in terms of waste reduction and minimisation of consumption of resources. The following action points are issued to employees:  Lights should be turned off when they are not required | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com |  Heating levels should be regularly reviewed by Saana’s employees, using the available thermometer, so as to ensure that heating levels are kept to an acceptable level.  Journeys should be well planned so as to ensure that fuel used is minimised  Paper and Cardboard should be recycled using the relevant recycling systems at the company’s premises. Measurement of Outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Energy resources and waste management forms part of management reports at Saana Consulting. As described in point 3.2, Saana Consulting provides Saana Consulting staff with facilities for different environmentally sustainable practices. These facilities, including the recycling of paper and other recyclable materials and the use of available shower rooms are monitored on a regular basis. In addition, bills for electricity supply are compared against bills from the previous year and are then considered on a per employee basis. This provides the Project Management Unit with an understanding of under, normal or overconsumption of electricity. The findings of these monitoring activities are reported back to Saana Consulting’s staff in order to enhance employee’s motivation for achieving greater environmental sustainability performance. Saana Consulting requires this feedback from a range of its suppliers, particularly in the area of travelling. This helps the Project Management Unit to monitor that the carbon footprint per travel and hence plan for better management in the future. Finally, the environmental practices at Saana Consulting are reviewed and monitored by Citation. Due to this, we are able to ensure we thrive in promoting environmental practices in our day to day business operations. | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com | 4. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment. Description of polices, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Saana Consulting supports the UNGC principles on anti-corruption and the UN Convention Against Corruption. We have a zero tolerance for corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Saana Consulting has a specific policy for employees’ guidance. The policy is in place so as to assist employees in the case that they are confronted with extortion or bribery. The policy highlights that Saana Consulting won’t work with suppliers who do not adhere to the Global Compact anti-corruption principles. The goals of Saana Consulting in this area are to continue to monitor the attempts of Staff members into any form of extortion or bribery and maintain our strict policy in this regard from Senior Management. As Saana Consulting operates in a global portfolio and is a small business, it is difficult to accurately measure the impact of corruption within the countries they operate. However, any incidence of corruption emerging from our day to day research is taken into account and staff awareness of such issues is raised accordingly. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents. At Saana Consulting, as part of our Citation endorsed staff handbook, there is a clear set of policies and procedures around anti-bribery. These policies clearly outline the definition of bribery. This is in addition to the Anti-Corruption and bribery policy, which has already been circulated to all employees. Ethical behaviour for financial probity and reliability are highly respected values at Saana Consulting. Saana has set out a consolidated course of actions designed to limit its exposure to bribery by: [a] Having a clear anti-bribery policy [b] Establish and implement anti-bribery procedures as appropriate [c] Ensure on a regular basis this policy is updated and communicated to all employees and to others who will perform services for the Company [d] Undertake appropriate due diligence measures before engaging others to represent the Company in its business dealings. [e] Monitor and review the risks and the effectiveness of any anti-bribery procedures that are in place. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. Within Saana Consulting, the prevention, detection and reporting of bribery is the responsibility of all employees. The Company is committed to: | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com |  Encourage employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion of bribery  Provide employees with suitable channels of communication and ensure that sensitive information is treated appropriately.  Investigate instances of alleged bribery and assist the Police and any other appropriate authorities in any resultant prosecution  Take disciplinary action against any individual (s) involved in bribery. Any suspicion of bribery is immediately reported in confidence to either the Director of Quality and Results or the Managing Director at Saana Consulting or both. Such incidents are recorded as ‘Non-conformances’ and form an additional part of our ISO Standard. The records for ‘Non-conformances’ are reviewed by our internal audit procedures and subsequently discussed at Senior Management meetings. These procedures take place before our external audit as part of the renewal process of the ISO standard. No incidents have been reported since the policy has been put in place. If any incidents were to be reported, the outlined ISO procedures provide us with a process of Corrective and Preventative action, a process also subjected to internal audit and review by Senior Management. The procedure outlines that any supplier, client or beneficiary found to be in breach of our Anti-Corruption and Bribery policy would be immediately highlighted as a non-conformance stakeholder on our shared project management system. | Saana Consulting Ltd || The Chocolate Factory || 5 Clarendon Road || London N22 6XJ, UK || Tel +44 208 881 6500 || Company registration no: 5666387 || VAT no: GB 877 6408 74 || www.saana.com |
