Sustainability Report 2015 1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2015 Highlights 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 11th largest airline in the world 2015 and leader in South America Revenues % Pawvssenger and cargo sectors (domestic and international) Listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index More than 67 million 3.8% passengers carried in 29 countries 13.1% others 1 million metric tons of cargo. cargo operation EBITDA (US$ million) 83.1% 10.1 passenger operation 2013 1.68 2014 1.50 US$BILLION 2015 1.45 total 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 US$ million) 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 COMMITMENT TO SAFETY All operational safety indicators improved in 2015. The company’s total injury rate dropped by 41%, with the decrease reaching 54% in some units. NEW LOOK HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE LA6 The geographical outline of Latin America inspires the new LATAM brand, which conveys some of the 2014 2015 2015 / 2014 company's key attributes, such as commitment Number of injuries 1,234 739 -40.1 % to efficiency, care for people and the strong identification with the continent in which it is based. Injury rate 2.40 1.42 -40.1 % The change in the corporate image will take place Number of days lost 12,764 12,072 -5.4 % gradually in a process lasting until 2018. Number of fatalities 0 0 0% 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EFFICIENCY AND CARE 2.5% AVERAGE ANNUAL IMPROVEMENT IN FUEL EFFICIENCY FROM 2012 TO 2015 38.4 MILLION GALLONS OF FUEL ECONOMIZED THROUGH ECOEFFICIENCY MEASURES 40% REDUCTION OF UP TO 40% IN NOISE GENERATED DURING TAKE-OFFS THROUGH USE OF MORE MODERN AIRCRAFTT 5 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL CONNECTIVITY MANAGEMENT AND CLIENT SATISFACTION FACILITIES VIA WEBSITE OR CELLULAR TELEPHONE ticket ˾Flight operations: The Chilean international operation purchase, seat reservation, was certiﬁed under the International Air Transportation check in, emission of boarding Association's voluntary environmental program: IATA pass, ﬂight status. Environmental Assessment (IEnvA). LATAM is the ﬁrst flight airline in Latin America and the third worldwide to operations RECOMMENDATION LEVEL (NET receive this certiﬁcation. PROMOTER SCORE): 40 (a point higher than in 2014) CULTURAL CHANGE PROJECT (PILOT AT TWO UNITS): 12% increase in client satisfaction ˾ Ground operations: In 2015, LAN CARGO became the (Estado Contact Center in ﬁrst cargo airline with operations at Miami ground Santiago, Chile) and 40% International Airport to receive ISO 14001 certiﬁcation operations (Brasilia Airport, Brazil) for its Environmental Management System. US$ 195,500 IN THE CUIDO MI DESTINO SUSTAINABLE TOURISM PROGRAM TOTAL OF INVESTED US$ 1.6 MILLION INVESTED SINCE 2009. 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN markets in which we operate, such as Chile hubs in the United States and Europe. With OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS and Peru. In 2015 the seat capacity (ASKs) was these agreements, we have the possibility to reduced by 2.5% in Brazil’s domestic operation open a large network of destinations and oﬀer and renegotiated our aircraft deliveries, which further advantages to our customers, such as resulted in the cancellation of nearly 40% of the unique ticket sales and improved travel Dear shareholders, our ﬂeet commitments through 2018 and an experiences. This was only possible because of investment reduction of 2.9 billion dollars. We our unrivalled ﬂight network and connections 2015 was the most challenging year in the are aware of future challenges, and in 2016 we within South America. history of LATAM and its aﬃliates airlines will continue to adapt TAM’s network with an operate, local currencies depreciated; thus important additional reduction of 8% to 10% in Finally, I wouldn’t like to end this message with impacting our revenues and costs related to seat capacity in the Brazilian domestic market announcing our new brand, LATAM Airlines. the import of goods and services. Moreover, as well as downsizing the international market Since the beginning we knew that the best we faced a huge economic and political crisis from Brazil, especially to the United States. way to merge the diﬀerent hispanic and in Brazil, our largest market; which strongly Therefore, 2015 will be remembered as the Brazilian cultures would be through a new impacted the civil aviation sector. The country year where LATAM demonstrated its ability to brand, a decision that we have arrived to after faced the largest recession of its modern respond to challenging economic scenarios. long discussions and breaking of paradigms, history; resulting in a contraction of GDP, because a new brand has never been created increased unemployment and a fall in real We continue to consolidate the leadership in from a merger or association of airlines in the wages. This has had a signiﬁcant impact on the our main hubs – Guarulhos, Brasilia, Lima and history of aviation. It wasn’t an easy decision, wealth of individuals and companies, with the Santiago – which will enable us to develop because the replacement of powerful and troubles in the political environment aﬀecting our network and oﬀer the broader range of historic brands such as LAN and TAM required expectations, thus exacerbating the damage to destinations to our passengers. Proof of this is courage. It was also a logical decision, because the macroeconomic scenario. the thirteen regional and international routes the merger will generate economies of scale in that were announced during the year, including the long run with the process simpliﬁcation in This highly challenging scenario in the largest connections between Brasilia and Montevideo virtually every area. market explains the 219 million dollars loss (JJ), Punta Cana and Buenos Aires (4M) and that LATAM reported in 2015, which could Lima to Montevideo (LP), Antofagasta and In 2016, our plan is to expand LATAM Group’s have been worse if it wasn’t mitigated by the Washington D.C.(LP) leading position in Latin America, ﬂying to new strong performance of the Spanish speaking destinations with our unique identity and the markets. It’s worth highlighting that LATAM met I would like to highlight the ‘joint business same strength to overcome problems and grow its operating margin forecast of 5%, with the agreements’ negotiated in 2015 between in a proﬁtable way. most adverse impact on currency depreciation, LATAM and IAG (controlling holding company mainly in Brazil. of British Airways and Iberia) and American Yours sincerely, Airlines (AA), one of the leading airlines in Notwithstanding the above, LATAM Airlines the United States. Once approved by the Mauricio Amaro Group retained its leadership in the main corresponding authorities, we will have access Chairman of the Board to a broad network of connections in important LATAM Airlines Group 7 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MESSAGE allow us to build a distinctive oﬀer. We oﬀer the group to our customers and investors and at FROM THE CEO best network of destinations, a state-of-thethe same time provides a valuable contribution art digital experience and a team that directs to Latin America. For the second consecutive its eﬀorts towards satisfying our customers; year, we were one of only two airline groups which will guarantee our future growth. worldwide to be listed in the Dow Jones World G4-1 Sustainability Index, placing us among a select Dear shareholders, In this vein, we continue working to enhance group of companies for sustainability based on our ﬂight network and connections within long-term economic, social and environmental The consolidation of LATAM as one of the South America, thus oﬀering our passengers an criteria. leading airlines in Latin America in terms of unparalleled connectivity in the region. LATAM We have worked with conviction and passion, quality and service has been a priority over the Group will continue to focus on strengthening giving our best to get to this stage. Along last few years. We believe that the only way the main hubs, allowing us to reinforce the with thanking our shareholders, I would like to be successful is to oﬀer a distinctive value group’s connectivity in Latin America, North to acknowledge over 50,000 people from proposal to our passengers. Being only a step America, the Caribbean, Europe and now Africa. diﬀerent nationalities that work for LATAM away from a huge accomplishment – the launch Group, whose eﬀort and dedication has been of our new brand – we are still convinced that During 2015, we invested more than US$50 crucial for this unique and historic project. we have the right strategy to achieve our goal million in the implementation of digital LATAM is a global operator and is preparing of positioning LATAM among the best airlines in advances that have allowed us to improve to compete in the major leagues of the airline the world. the passenger ﬂight experience, oﬀer better business worldwide, therefore generating value service before and after the ﬂight and improve for our shareholders, stakeholders and the I would like to take this opportunity to inform our how our employees work. Through this society as a whole. you about all the work we’ve done over the investment we look forward to creating a last year. Introducing LATAM has meant unique ﬂight experience and a competitive Yours sincerely, change; changes that have opened a world of advantage for LATAM Group. Some of the possibilities and allowed us to reestablish a new innovations that stood out during the year Enrique Cueto culture with the customer and place them at the were: the implementation of a new onboard CEO Grupo LATAM center of every strategic plan. LATAM has not wireless entertainment system that enables only brought together the best of LAN and TAM passengers to watch movies, series and videos stories, but also it has ampliﬁed them on a large through their own mobile devices; as well scale to deliver our clients much more than the as a new smartphone application, oﬀering sum of their parts. electronic boarding passes. Additionally, three thousand tablets were delivered to LATAM We have made these changes in a highly Group employees; to help improve our service complex and challenging regional scenario, quality, whether directly or indirectly. which encourages us to be eﬃcient, take care of our cost structure and to prioritse our I also want to highlight our daily commitment strategies. We have focused on initiatives that to be a transparent and responsible airline 8 The Company LEADER IN SOUTH AMERICA 10 LATAM AIRLINES GROUP 11 SUPPLIERS 15 JOINT CONSTRUCTION 17 RELATIONS WITH STRATEGIC 19 STAKEHOLDERS AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS 21 9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE COMPANY: LEADER IN The airline group’s connectivity is boosted SOUTHAMERICA by its participation in the oneworld global alliance, comprising 15 airlines that ﬂy to G4-3, G4-4, G4-8 and G4-9 150 countries. This alliance gives LATAM The LATAM Airlines Group is the leader passengers access to 117 destinations in in passenger and cargo transportation Latin America, 435 in North America, 395 in South America. In 2015, the airline in Europe and more than 800 in Asia, Africa group transported more than 67 million and the Middle East. passengers and carried a million metric tons of cargo between 29 countries. LATAM The group comprises the companies LAN Airlines Group S.A. is the new name given Airlines and its aﬃliates in Peru, Argentina, in 2012 to LAN Airlines S.A. as a result of Colombia and Ecuador, LAN Cargo and its its association with TAM S.A. It has 50,413 aﬃliates, TAM and its TAM Linhas Aéreas employees and a ﬂeet of 331 aircraft, one subsidiaries, including the TAM Transportes of the youngest and most modern in the Aéreos del Mercosur (TAM Airlines industry, with an average age of seven Paraguay) and the Multiplus business units. years. G4-3, G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 A key diﬀerential is the airline group’s SINGLE BRAND wide-ranging network of 150 destinations, connecting Latin America, the Caribbean, In the second half of 2015 LATAM announced its new brand, aimed at conveying some of the North America, Europe and Asia Paciﬁc. company’s key attributes visually, such as its commitment to efﬁciency, caring for people and LATAM and its aﬃliates airlines also strong identiﬁcation with Latin America. Inspired by the geographical outline of the continent, operate in the seven largest domestic work on applying the new brand was initiated in 2016 in the airline group’s physical spaces, markets (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, aircraft, commercial units and communication channels. The change in corporate image will be Ecuador, Paraguay and Peru), accounting carried out gradually, with completion scheduled for 2018. for half of the passenger trafﬁc within South America. Based on a strategy of hubs Between the association of LAN and TAM and the launch of the single brand, three years were in key airports, the company facilitates spent on research into stakeholders and scenario studies in ten countries representing strategic connections within the region and markets or activity bases. The process took the history airlines, the expertise developed over worldwide. Examples of this strategy are decades of activities and the synergies which justiﬁed the association into account. the airports in Guarulhos, São Paulo (Brazil), and Lima (Peru). 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LATAM ARGENTINA LAN Argentina is the second largest 2.4 million passengers on domestic ﬂights XX passengers on international ﬂights Airlines Group operator of domestic ﬂights in the country, consolidated traﬃc: + 4.0%(RPK)1 in a market dominated by state-owned capacity: + 4.0% (ASK)2 Aerolineas Argentinas (more than 70%). Occupancy rate: 76% The company operates 15 aircraft ﬂying to Market share: 25% 14 destinations. BRAZIL 32.1 million passengers on domestic ﬂights The Brazilian domestic market is 67.2 million passengers on international ﬂights the largest in South America and the consolidated traﬃc: -2.6% (RPK)1 fourth largest worldwide in passenger capacity: -2.5% (ASK)2 transportation. TAM operates 44 domestic occupancy rate: 81.6% destinations with a ﬂeet of 120 aircraft. market share: 37% CHILE 7.2 million passengers on domestic ﬂights The leader in the Chilean market, in which XX passengers on international ﬂights it has operated for 86 years, LAN serves 15 consolidated traﬃc: +1.3% (RPK)1 destinations with a ﬂeet of 25 aircraft. In capacity: +0.3% (ASK)2 COLOMBIA 2015, the company transported 7.2 million occupancy rate: 83.3% ECUADOR passengers on domestic routes, stable in market share: 75% LA PAZ BRAZIL relation to the previous year. PERÚ CHILE ARGENTINA FILTER BY DOMESTIC MARKETS CARGO ONLY INTERNATIONAL DESTINATIONS CODESHARE DESTINATIONS 11 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LATAM COLOMBIA In its fourth year in operation, LAN 4.6 million passengers on domestic ﬂights XX passengers on international ﬂights Airlines Group Colombia transported 4.6 million consolidated traﬃc: +15% (RPK)1 passengers in 2015, growing 4% over the capacity: +15% (ASK)2 previous year. The company is the second occupancy rate: 79% largest airline in the country, with a ﬂeet of market share: 20% 15 aircraft serving 17 domestic destinations. ECUADOR 1.1 million passengers on domestic ﬂights In operation since 2009, LAN Ecuador ﬂies XX passengers on international ﬂights to ﬁve destinations, oﬀering connection consolidated traﬃc: +7% (RPK)1 options to promote tourism and national capacity: +8% (ASK)2 development. In 2015, the company occupancy rate: 81.2% transported some 1.1 million passengers on market share: 39% its domestic routes, 1% up on the previous year. The ﬂeet comprises three aircraft. PERU 6.2 million passengers on domestic ﬂights LAN Perú is the leader in the Peruvian XX passengers on international ﬂights market, in which it has operated for 16 consolidated traﬃc: +8.3% (RPK)1 COLOMBIA years. In 2015, the company carried capacity: +8% (ASK)2 ECUADOR 6,2 million passengers, an increase of 8.3% occupancy rate: 81.6% LA PAZ BRAZIL over the previous year. LAN Perú serves 16 market share: 66.5% PERÚ destinations with a ﬂeet of 17 airplanes. CHILE ARGENTINA FILTER BY DOMESTIC MARKETS CARGO ONLY INTERNATIONAL DESTINATIONS CODESHARE DESTINATIONS 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LATAM Airlines Group VALENTIA AMSTERDAM BASEL SAN JOSE MERIDA GUADALAJARA MARACAIBO CIUDAD DE GUATEMALA PORTO SPAIN CIUDAD DE PANAMÁ LA PAZ CABO FRÍO FILTER BY DOMESTIC MARKETS CARGO ONLY INTERNATIONAL DESTINATIONS CODESHARE DESTINATIONS 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LATAM Airlines Group 57 31 NORTH AMERICA EUROPE DESTINATIONS DESTINATIONS 08 INGLATERRA ALEMANIA CANADA FRANCIA EEUU ITALIA ASIA ESPAÑA DESTINATIONS 05 MEXICO CUBA REPÚBLICA DOMINICANA AFRICA DESTINATIONS POLINESIA LA PAZ 30 FRANCESA BOLIVIA AUSTRALIA DESTINATIONS PARAGUAY URUGAY ISLAS MALVINAS FILTER BY DOMESTIC MARKETS CARGO ONLY INTERNATIONAL DESTINATIONS CODESHARE DESTINATIONS 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE COMPANY: SUPPLIERS services; consumables; part manufacturer monitoring and the pursuit of synergies throuapproval (PMA), wheels, brakes, tires and aviogh more in-depth knowledge of each sector in In 2015, LATAM progressed in the global nics; in ﬂight entertainment (IFE); seats, trim the supplier chain. alignment of parameters for goods and & ﬁnish; sales and rotables; larger composervices acquisition and supplier management, nents, such as landing gear and others; pooled The same principle guided the adoption of a consolidating its Procurement and Supply (repairs, exchanges and rental of certain new tool to track cases of non-conformance Chain Policy, which takes the group’s Code of components oﬀered in a pool by suppliers) identiﬁed in internal and external audits. Ethics and anti-corruption policy into account, and non-pooled parts (such as tools and other Based on the systematization of the in addition to speciﬁc regulatory requirements types of components). There are another ten information obtained in the different for the diﬀerent countries in which the comcategories of non-technical purchases indicountries, the solutions developed are pany operates. The document is the result of an rectly related to the operation: administration; becoming increasingly global in nature. extensive process undertaken during the year airport; infrastructure; catering; hotels and Action plans will be monitored on a monthly by the Procurement, Compliance and Legal uniforms; marketing; professional services basis. G4-12 areas. It sets forth the principles governing and transportation. Specialization enhances relations with suppliers, with particular focus on risk reduction, ethics, legal compliance and social and environmental criteria. In the course Identify and manage risks of the year, the procedures and framework agreements to be adopted by the company Reinforce relations were also validated. To adopt speciﬁc parameters for ethics, sustainability and eco-eﬃciency in managing suppliers These initiatives are part of LATAM’s eﬀort to standardize its activities and were undertaken in parallel with the redeﬁnition of the corpo2015 TARGET: rate procurement structure. To streamline  ˾ÎÏʨØÓÞÓÙØÙÐËÍÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÚÜÙÍßÜÏ×ÏØÞÚÙÖÓÍã processes and drive efﬁciency, all the organization’s purchases were grouped in categories RESULTS and responsibilities assigned to speciﬁc areas.  ˾ÝÞËØÎËÜÎÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÚÜÙÍÏÎßÜÏÝËØÎÎÏʨØÓÞÓÙØÙÐÍÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÚÜÙÍßÜÏ×ÏØÞÚÙÖÓÍã improvement of risk monitoring and control processes, encompassing social and Technical purchases directly related to the environmental risks operation are divided into fuel; engineering  ˾ÓÎÏØÞÓʨÍËÞÓÙØÙÐÝãØÏÜÑÓÏÝËØÎÙÚÚÙÜÞßØÓÞÓÏÝ˞ÑÏØÏÜËÞÓÙØÙÐÝËàÓØÑÝ̙ÓØÍÙÝÞËàÙÓÎÏÎ̚ 15 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MANAGING THE CHAIN All company suppliers submit to the company Code of Conduct, which addresses questions ENVIRONMENTAL The establishment of a global procurement such as ethical conduct, anti-corruption CLAUSE b. In the event of an environmental incident, and supply chain policy enabled LATAM practices, occupational health and safety, to act strictly in accordance with the to standardize the ﬁnancial, social and human rights – and more speciﬁcally child “Once selected, the supplier must guidelines provided by the client (LATAM environmental criteria used to select and and slave labor –, working conditions, as well sign a contract, which contains an Airlines Group or any of its subsidiaries), monitor suppliers and to enhance risk as social and environmental responsibility. environmental clause. By this clause, including the application of controls and management throughout the chain. Partners Furthermore, contracts contain speciﬁc providers are compelled to comply with all mitigation measures. are systematically submitted to monitoring clauses on compliance with environmental environmental legal requirements and to based on a matrix which takes into account requirements, with performance monitored take responsibility for any sanctions in this c. Heed the observations and apply the most relevant risks for each supplier by audits. Environmental criteria are regard. Also, contractors are bound by this the corrective or preventive measures category, encompassing aspects such as level incorporated into the selection of partners: clause to safeguard the environment and to proposed by the client or any other of ﬁnancial solvency, compliance with labor ranging from the measurement and avoid actions that may harm it, taking any inspection authority. and ﬁscal standards, sanitary requirements, management of greenhouse gas emissions, preventive measures needed. The clause ethical conduct, as well as human rights and energy efﬁciency and initiatives to ensure applies to all types of providers, especially d. Provide all the information requested social and environmental best practices. In the reduction and proper disposal of waste, those working with hydrocarbons, by the Client to facilitate audits and 2016, the organization is planning to adopt an in particular hazardous varieties. The criteria fuels, efﬂuent discharges, atmospheric veriﬁcation of compliance with client IT tool which will permit it to check LATAM were already being applied to certain speciﬁc pollutants and waste, in particular guidelines and environmental regulations. suppliers against international databases and procurement categories and were extended hazardous varieties. Suppliers’ failure to comply with this clause blacklists of companies involved in money to the entire supply chain. may result in termination of the contract.” laundering, fraud, ﬁnancing terrorism, crimes Also, by this clause the supplier agrees to: Source: LATAM standard contract against humanity, and the exploitation of child The company conducts audits on thirdor slave labor. parties and sub-contractors regarding a. Report any event that may cause real labor obligations, overtime and equipment or potential environmental damage to Supplier management also takes into maintenance. the client account speciﬁc potential risks and impacts in determined value chains, identiﬁed from Periodic audits are also carried out on a mapping exercise conducted in Brazil suppliers considered to be critical, such as FOCUS ON MICRO in 2013 and updated by the company in those providing aircraft parts, aviation fuel, companies. Additionally, a speciﬁc communiAND SMALL COMPANIES 2015. The potential risks identiﬁed include airport equipment and passenger back up and cation channel through which they may make degrading working conditions at apparel tracking systems. Suppliers of products and comments, complaints and clarify doubts was suppliers, health and safety in catering services that have a high cost, that are not In 2015, LAN Colombia launched its Micro and created in the supplier portal. All contacts via supply, the physical safety of crew members easy to substitute or that could potentially Small Company program (MyP, in the Spanish the channel receive a response in at most ﬁve and passengers in transportation and hotel aﬀect operational continuity are considered acronym), aimed at forging closer relations days. The volume of business LAN Colombia accommodation and environmental impacts to be critical. with these suppliers and promoting their did with micro and small companies totaled caused by inadequate waste management development. Payment policy was modiﬁed reover US$ 2.1 million in 2015. EC7 on the part of fuel, tire and infrastructure sulting in payment terms reduced to at most 30 suppliers, for example. EN33 – LA15 – HR11 days, attuned with the ﬁnancial reality of these 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE COMPANY: ˾ ̙ ØÞÏÜØËÞÓÙØËÖÓàÓÖàÓËÞÓÙØ on accelerating the development and JOINT CONSTRUCTION Organization): LATAM has contributed commercialization of sustainable in discussions regarding the aviation biofuels. environment, adaptation to climate G4-15 – G4-16 change and market-based measures ˾ ÖÓËØûËÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÚËÜË LATAM is committed to dialogue with to mitigate it. Among the ICAO ÓÙÍÙ×ÌßÝÞĜàÏÓÝÎÏàÓËûéÙ government agencies and industry Objectives for 2014-16 is Environmental (ABRABA): TAM belongs to this associations in the diﬀerent markets in which Protection, which seeks to minimize the organization, which provides a forum it operates, with the objective of driving adverse environmental eﬀects of civil for Brazilian aviation companies to responsible business conduct, inﬂuencing aviation activities. discuss and agree upon the production best practices, developing joint projects and and usage of biofuels in the industry. working on common causes. For this reason, ˾  ̙ ËÞÓØ×ÏÜÓÍËØËØÎËÜÓÌÌÏËØÓÜ the company monitors debates on the air Transport Association): the company has ˾ ×ÚÜÏÝËÝÚÏÖÙÖÓ×Ë˝ËÖÝÙÌÏÖÙØÑÝ industry, promoting transparent dialogue been leading the regional discussions to this alliance of Brazilian companies aimed at the pursuit of joint solutions in on climate change and greenhouse gas that seek to mobilize and articulate accordance with legal frameworks. emission reduction, especially through business leaderships for the reduction the Climate Change Group. Since the and management of greenhouse gas As part of its environmental strategy, end of 2015, the LATAM Environment emissions along with management LATAM also participates in industry director has presided ALTA. of climate-associated risks and discussion forums aimed at establishing public policies. a joint commitment to reducing ˾ ËÜÌÙØÓÝÍÖÙÝßÜÏÜÙÔÏÍÞ̙̚˝ÞÒÏ environmental impacts, in particular those CDP has played a relevant role globally ˾ ÏÐÙÜÏÝÞËÞËÑÙØÓË˝ÞÒÓÝÓÝËÚßÌÖÓÍ̋ related to climate change. The company’s as a forum for discussing climate private alliance aimed at reclaiming ﬁrm positioning and coherent conduct have change-related issues. In this regard, the ecosystem of a region of key helped drive the adoption of a number of LATAM Airlines Group has been an active environmental interest, Chilean agreements on relevant questions. Based participant, with its Environmental Patagonia. Over the past 100 years, on a multi-sector approach, the company Director speaking at a number of these this region has suﬀered the impact seeks to engage diﬀerent actors in the forums. The company also reports of ﬁres and commercial exploitation pursuit of solutions for delicate issues such regularly to the CDP on its emissions which have devastated more than 3 as sustainable energy sources. performance. million hectares in this zone. Through LAN, LATAM is one of the founding Worthy of note were LATAM’s contributions ˾ ÒÏßÝÞËÓØËÌÖÏàÓËÞÓÙØßÏÖÝÏÜÝ companies of this initiative. to the following organizations and projects Group (SAFUG): TAM participates in the course of 2015. in this group, which was formed in ˾ ˝ ÏÜßÒËÝÌÏÏØÙʥÝÏʵÓØÑÞÒÏ September 2008 with support and emissions of ground operations since ˾ ̙ ØÞÏÜØËÞÓÙØËÖÓÜÜËØÝÚÙÜÞ advice from the world’s leading 2012 through a REDD project managed Association): the company has actively environmental organizations, such as by Bosques Amazónicos. In four years of participated in this association, the Natural Resources Defense Council operation this alliance has oﬀset 25,046 especially in environmental discussions and the Roundtable on Sustainable tons of CO2 emissions. on climate change strategy and Biomaterials (RSB). The group is focused environmental management. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS G4-16 MARKET MAIN ORGANIZATIONS MARKET MAIN ORGANIZATIONS Argentina Cámara de Comercio Argentina Brasilera Chile Cámara Oﬁcial Española de Comercio de Chile Cámara de Compañías aéreas de Argentina (JURCA) CIEPLAN Centro de Implementación de Políticas Públicas para la Equidad y el Comunidad Mujer Crecimiento (CIPPEC) Council of the Americas Consejo Empresario Argentino para el Desarrollo Sustentable (CEADS) Fedetur Instituto para el Desarrollo Empresarial de la Argentina (IDEA) Instituto Chileno de Administración Racional de Empresas (ICARE) Pacto Global de las Naciones Unidas Sociedad de Fomento Fabril  ÜËäÓÖ ÖÓËØûËÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÚËÜËÓÙÍÙ×ÌßÝÞĜàÏÓÝÎÏàÓËûéÙ̙ÌÜËÚË̚ Colombia Asociación de transporte Aéreo de Colombia-ATAC American Chamber of Commerce for Brasil (AMCHAM) Cámara Colombo Brasilera   ÝÝÙÍÓËûéÙÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÎÏÑĂØÍÓËÝÎÏÓËÑÏØÝ̙̚ Cámara Colombo Chilena   ÝÝÙÍÓËûéÙÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÎËÝ×ÚÜÏÝËÝĀÜÏËÝ̙̚   ÝÝÙÍÓËûéÙÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÎÏÜËØÍÒÓÝÓØÑ̙̚ Ecuador Asociación de Representantes de Líneas Aéreas Del Ecuador (ARLAE)   ÝÝÙÍÓËûéÙÜËÝÓÖÏÓÜËÎÏÏÖËûŋÏÝ×ÚÜÏÝË̋ÖÓÏØÞÏ̙̚ Cámara Ecuatoriana Americana de Comercio Conselho Empresarial Brasileiro para o Desenvolvimento Sustentável Cámara de Industrias y Producción (CEBDS) Clube Corporativo WWF Peru Asociación de Empresas de Transporte Aéreo Internacional (AETAI) Empresas pelo Clima Asociación Peruana de Empresas Aéreas (APEA)   ÏØÞÜÙÎÏÝÞßÎÙÝÏ×ßÝÞÏØÞËÌÓÖÓÎËÎÏÎËßØÎËûéÙÏÞßÖÓÙËÜÑËÝ Cámara Binacional de Comercio Peruano Uruguaya   ̙ÍÏÝ̚ Cámara Binacional PerúBrasil (CAPEBRAS) Junta de Representantes das Companhias Aéreas Internacionais do Cámara de Comercio Americana del Perú (AmCham ) Brasil (JURCAIB) Cámara de Comercio PeruanoChilena   ËÍÞÙÖÙÌËÖÎËÜÑËØÓäËûéÙÎËÝËÍÓÙØÏÝØÓÎËÝ Cámara Nacional de Turismo (CANATUR) Sindicato Nacional das Empresas Aéreas (SNEA) Sociedad de Comercio Exterior del Perú (COMEX) Chile Asociación Chilena de Aerolíneas (ACHILA) Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Acción RSE Cámara Chileno-Brasileña de Comercio (CBC) Strategic Global Compact Cámara Chileno Norteamericana de Comercio (AMCHAM) alliances International Air Transport Association (IATA) Cámara de Comercio Chileno-Argentina Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association (ALTA) Cámara Chileno-Colombiana Cámara de Comercio ChilenoPeruana Cámara de Comercio de Santiago 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE COMPANY: RELATIONS WITH Compliance, Human Resources, Investor STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDERS Relations, Airports and Procurement, among others. The goal is to promote dialogue LATAM has always sought to turn its around subjects of common interest and interactions with its diverse stakeholders into to transparently reinforce the company’s opportunities for joint development. In the positioning on pertinent questions for the course of 2015, the company developed a tool aviation industry. to leverage this process systematically: the Corporate Stakeholder Relationship Policy. Based on the policy, LATAM undertook the The document applies to all LATAM units and mapping of the 19 stakeholders groups with will be submitted for approval by the Board of which it maintains relations. From these, seven Directors in 2016. strategic groups were prioritized – public and regulatory authorities, primary suppliers, The policy objectively sets forth the criteria unions, communication media, passenger to be used in identifying and prioritizing clients, employees and investors. Action plans stakeholders, taking into account the were drawn up and relationship channels speciﬁc context, company guidelines, topics deﬁned in accordance with the diﬀerent considered to be material in managing proﬁles. G4-24 – G4-25 sustainability, potential impacts and the power of inﬂuence of each group. As such, The Corporate Stakeholder Relationship this policy beﬁts the dynamic nature of these Policy is aligned with the international relationships and the growing trend towards commitments assumed by LATAM and with demands for information, transparency and a the references the company uses in managing proactive stance on the part of the company the economic, social and environmental and will be used periodically to review the list dimensions of the business. Worthy of of stakeholder groups. note among these are: the ISO 26000 social responsibility standard; initiatives Roles and responsibilities were determined such as the Global Compact’s Sustainable within the company for the execution of Development Goals; the International Labor structured engagement plans, tracking Organization’s (ILO) Tripartite Declaration progress against the goals and targets of Principles concerning Multinational established by means of performance Enterprises and Social Policy and the indicators. The process will be overseen by the Organization for Economic Cooperation Corporate Aﬀairs area and executed under and Development (OECD) Guidelines for a matrix structure by the diverse company Multinational Enterprises. areas, such as Finance, Marketing, Legal, 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 KEY STAKEHOLDERS MAIN DIALOGUE CHANNELS KEY STAKEHOLDERS MAIN DIALOGUE CHANNELS Employees Internal communication Communication media Interviews (individual or group) and publicity events Periodic meetings (Breakfast with executives) Press releases Committees and extended committees Social networks Surveys FAMPRESS Performance appraisals   ÓÝÓÞÝÞÙËÓØÞÏØËØÍÏËÝÏ Internal standards and regulations Telephone and email Passenger clients Newsletter Unions Monthly meetings Website, mobile application and social networks Speciﬁc agendas Commercial ofﬁces and Contact Center Teams (crew, airport) Satisfaction surveys Loyalty programs Public and regulatory authorities Publications Drive joint solutions (Annual Report, Sustainability Report) Encourage best practices Meetings and working groups Reports Communicate LATAM’s positioning on topics Website and social networks of interest to the sector Press releases Telephone and emails contact 2015 TARGET: Primary suppliers Publications (Annual Report, Sustainability Report)  ˾ÝãÝÞÏ×ËÞÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÝÞËÕÏÒÙÖÎÏÜÜÏÖËÞÓÙØÝÒÓÚÎãØË×ÓÍÝ Satisfaction surveys and improvement groups Tender processes RESULTS Call Center Channel for reporting breaches  ˾ÎÏʨØÓÞÓÙØÙÐÍÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÝÞËÕÏÒÙÖÎÏÜÜÏÖËÞÓÙØÝÒÓÚÚÙÖÓÍã Channel for reporting breaches  ˾ÚÜÓÙÜÓÞÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÝÞËÕÏÒÙÖÎÏÜÑÜÙßÚÝ Web platform  ˾ÍÜÏËÞÓÙØÙÐËÍÞÓÙØÚÖËØÝ Investors Website Publications (Annual Report, Sustainability Report, speciﬁc studies and reports) Form 20F Presentation of quarterly results, conference call Periodic meetings Email 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 THE COMPANY: SUSTAINABILITY AWARDS Bureau Veritas Certiﬁcation: AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2015: ˾ ÏÜÞÓʨÍËÞÓÙØ ͕͒˛͑͑͒ÓØÓË×Ó˛ The companies that belong to the LATAM Airlines Group received nearly 25 recognitions ˾ ͕th year in the “DJSI Emerging Markets” AENOR (Spanish Association for in diﬀerent areas, such as services, category. Standardization and Certiﬁcation) sustainability and onboard entertainment, ˾ ͓ year in the “DJSI World” category. Environment: among others. The most important recognitions that LATAM Airlines Group CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project): ˾ ÏËÝßÜÏ×ÏØÞËØÎÏâÞÏÜØËÖàÏÜÓʨÍËÞÓÙØÙÐ received during 2015 are highlighted below. carbon footprint. ˾ ˫ÏÝÞÙ×ÚËØãÓØ ËÞÓØ×ÏÜÓÍËˬáËÜÎ˛   CAPITAL magazine and The Note: IEnva Registered Airline (IATA): World Line Airline AwardsSkytrax 2015: ˾ Ù×ÚËØã ÏËÎÏÜÓØÖÓ×ËÞÏÒËØÑÏ˛ the most prestigious award of the industry. ˾ ÞËÑÏ͓ ØàÏÜÞÓʨÍËÞÓÙØ˛ ˾ ˝͒st place in the “Best Airline in South Award Empresa Alas20 (sustainable leaders): America” category. ˾ ˝͔rd place in the “Best Airline in South ˾ áËÜÎ˫ÏÝÞÙÐÞÒÏÏÝÞˬ˛ America” category. ˾ ÏØÏÜËÖËØËÑÏÜ ÏËÎÏÜÓØßÝÞËÓØËÌÓÖÓÞã˝ ˾  ˝͒st place in the “Best Service in South Enrique Cueto. America” category. ˾ ͒st place in the “Company Leader in Investor ˾ ˝͔rd place in the “Best Service in South Relations” category. America” category. ˾ ͓nd place in the “Company Leader in Corporate Governance” category. Airline of the Year Awards 2015: Acknowledgement granted by AirlineRatings Aviation Climate Solutions: to the best airlines whose purpose is to help passengers to choose with whom to travel. ˾ ÏÍÙÑØÓÞÓÙØ˫ʩ   ÍÓÏØÍãÓØÞÒÏËÓÜ˝ˬ˛ ˾ ÏÍÙÑØÓÞÓÙØ˫ʩ   ÍÓÏØÍãÓØÞÒÏËÓÜ˝ÖÞÜË̋ ˾ ˝ÓØØÏÜÙÐÞÒÏ ÙØÑ ËßÖ×ÏÜÓÍËÝ Light Containers”. category. ˾ ÏÍÙÑØÓÞÓÙØ˫ËÜÌÙØËØËÑÏ×ÏØÞ˝×ËÜÞ Fuel Program”. 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ONBOARD ENTERTAINMENT AWARDS Ethical Boardroom Corporate Governance Awards 2015: ˾ ÙÖÓÙ˝ÎÎÓÏʶääÓÏáËÜÎÝ͓͖͑͒˝ÙØÏÙÐÞÒÏ print and digital magazines industry globally. ˾ ˝ÓØØÏÜÓØÞÒÏ˫ÏÝÞÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏ Governance – Airlines – South America – ˾ ËÑËäÓØÏ˝ÙÖÎÏØáËÜÎÐÙÜ˫ÏÝÞÝÏÙÐ 2015” category. Illustration” for the report “Kings of Speed”, June 2015. eCommerce Awards 2015: The most important award of the electronic ˾ ËÑËäÓØÏ˝ÙÖÎÏØáËÜÎÐÙÜ˫ÏÝÞ commerce sector. General Design” for the report “Gastronomy Special”, November 2014. ˾  ˝ ËØ˛ÍÙ×˫ ÏËÎÏÜÓØÏÙ××ÏÜÍÏÓØ the Tourist Industry”. ˾ ÙÍËÖØÏáÝÚËÚÏÜÓØÏÜß˝ÙÖÎÏØáËÜÎÐÙÜ “Best New Publication of the Year”. ˾ ˝ ËØ˛ÍÙ×˫ ÏËÎÏÜÓØÏÙ××ÏÜÍÏÓØ the Tourist Industry”. OTHER AWARDS ˾ ˝ ËØ˛ÍÙ×ÜÏÍÙÑØÓäÏÎÐÙÜÓÞÝ Structured Financing of the Year – Latin contribution to the digital economy in the Finance Magazine country. Award for the EETC ﬁnancial transaction, in Cellars in the Sky Award – Business Traveller: recognition of size, legal complexity and for being pioneers in this type of transaction and ˾ ËØÎ˝ÓÖàÏÜÏÎËÖÓØÞÒÏ˫ÏÝÞ innovative in the market. Fortiﬁed After Dinner Wine in First Class” ÍËÞÏÑÙÜã̙ÐÙÜÞÒÏáÓØÏ͓͑͑͘ÜÙʰÙÜÞ ̚˛ Corporate Transparency Report 2015 – UDD, KPMG Y Chile Transparente ˾ ˝ÜÙØäÏÏÎËÖÐÙÜÞÒÏáÒÓÞÏáÓØÏÜ Bürkin-Wolf Gasbohl 2009, Pfalz. ˾ ˝͓ØÎÖËÍÏÓØÞÒÏ˫ÏÝÞÜËÍÞÓÍÏÝ 2015” Category for public traded companies. Fohla Top of Mind 2015 Award (BR): Award for the most admired companies in ˾ ˝ÒÏ×ÙÝÞÜÏ×Ï×ÌÏÜÏÎÌÜËØÎÓØÞÒÏ Brazil – Carta Capital magazine (BR): “Airline Company” category. ˾ ˝ÓØØÏÜÓØÞÒÏ˫ÓÜÖÓØÏÙ×ÚËØÓÏÝˬ Category (for the 7th consecutive year). 22 Governance COMMITMENT TO TRANSPARENCY 24 RISK MANAGEMENT 27 MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY 29 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE: COMMITMENT TO ˾ Ù××ÓʵÏÏÙÐÞÒÏÙËÜÎÙÐÓÜÏÍÞÙÜÝ – ˾ ÞÒÏÜÙ××ÓʵÏÏÝ̎ created by the TRANSPARENCY comprising nine members, all of whom Board of Directors to discuss and make are independent and three of whom hold recommendations regarding Strategy; The LATAM Airlines Group is a publicly seats on the Board of Directors. This Finance; Leadership; and Brands, listed company with shares traded on the committee fulﬁlls the role stipulated by Products and Loyalty Programs. Santiago Stock Exchange, Chile’s Electronic corporation law and the standards of the Stock Exchange and the Valparaiso Stock Securities and Exchange Commission ˾ÏØÓÙÜËØËÑÏ×ÏØÞ – comprising the Exchange. Its shares are also listed on (SEC). The committee examines: reports executives working in the LATAM Airlines Brazil’s BMFBovespa Exchange as Brazilian from the company’s external auditors, Group or the LAN and TAM business Depositary Receipts (BDR), and on the New balance sheets and other ﬁnancial units, including the heads of the Finance, York Stock Exchange (NYSE) as American statements; internal control reports; the Personnel Management, Marketing, Depositary Receipts (ADR). G4-7 pay scale of senior management, as well Legal, Audit, Corporate, Planning and as everything concerning related-party Management Control areas. The company’s corporate governance is transactions. overseen by the Board of Directors, which is supported in decision making by the Board of Directors’ Committee and four other  1   committees dedicated to speciﬁc areas. At the executive level, the CEO, corporate Mauricio Rolim Amaro (Charmain) Enrique Cueto Plaza (CEO, LATAM Airlines vice presidents and senior LAN and TAM Henri Philippe Reichstul Group) executives are responsible for putting the Juan José Cueto Plaza Ignacio Cueto Plaza (CEO, LAN) strategy into practice in accordance with Georges de Bourguignon Claudia Sender (President, TAM) the standards of transparency, ethics and Ramón Eblen Kadis Armando Valdivieso (Senior VP regulatory compliance determined by the Ricardo J. Caballero Commercial, LATAM) board. G4-34 Carlos Heller Solari Cristian Ureta (Executive Vice president, Gerardo Jofré Miranda Cargo) The main attributions of these entities are: Francisco Luzón López Roberto Alvo (Senior VP International and Emilio del Real (senior vice Alliance, LATAM) ˾ ÙËÜÎÙÐÓÜÏÍÞÙÜÝ – comprising nine president, Human Resources) Jerome Cadier (Chief Marketing oﬃcer) members, it is responsible for analyzing 1members up to April 2016. Juan Carlos Menció (Senior VP Legal) and deﬁning LATAM’s strategic vision. Emilio del Real (Senior VP of Human All board seats are renewed at two-year Resources) intervals. The directors are elected via Andrés Osorio (Chief Financial Oﬃcer) a cumulative vote as established in the Hernán Pasman (Chief Operating Oﬃcer) company’s bylaws. Enrique Elsaca (Senior VP Spanish Speaking countries) 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 25,00% cueto group (1) 12,02% amaro group / tep chile (1) 6,12% bethia group 5,60% ebien group 18,75% afps 3,91% adrs 0,44% bdrs 9,51% overseas investor 18,65% others / chile (1) the cueto group controls the latam airlines group voting shares; and tep chile s.a. has control of tam s.a. 25 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 MARKET RELATIONS For example, the document explicitly single channel, covering matters ranging sets forth LATAM’s positioning and from compliance with the company’s Code The Investor Relations area oversees expectations in terms of employee of Ethics, to labor issues and questions INTERNAL STANDARDS relations with LATAM shareholders and conduct in relations with government or involving discrimination, harassment, UNDERPINNING CONDUCT IN other capital market agents, adopting a company representatives, prohibiting the as well as all types of fraud, corruption LATAM transparent communication policy that acceptance of gratiﬁcations or the oﬀer of or bribery. employs speciﬁc channels. The group´s irregular payments. Regarding contracts ˾ÙÎÏÙÐÙØÎßÍÞ ﬁnancial and governance information is or ﬁnancial contributions in the name of The channel is operated by a third˾ØÞÓ̋ÙÜÜßÚÞÓÙØÙÖÓÍã made available in English, Spanish and the group to charity campaigns, social or party provider to ensure independence ˾ÙÖÓÍãÙØÜÏÝÏØÞÝ˜ ÙÝÚÓÞËÖÓÞãËØÎ Portuguese on the website political causes, the Code determines that and probity in the analysis of and Entertainment for Government Ofﬁcials http://www.latamairlinesgroup.net. the express, prior authorization of the response to all reports. All incidents are and Third Parties company’s Board of Directors is necessary. analyzed and forwarded to investigative ˾ÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÙÖÓÍãÙØÜÏÝÏØÞÝ˜ ÙÝÚÓÞËÖÓÞã The company presents its results on a committees in each country. In the event and Entertainment for clients and for quarterly basis by means of reports and All suppliers and all employees must of any irregularity, the Code of Conduct suppliers teleconferences organized by the Investor sign a Term of Commitment in which Administration Committee, comprising the ˾ÙÖÓÍãÙØÞÒÏÙÖÏÝËØÎÏÝÚÙØÝÓÌÓÖÓÞÓÏÝÙÐ Relations area and the Chief Financial they undertake to observe the guidelines Human Resources, Compliance, Legal and Executives Ofﬁcer (CFO). set forth in the Code; the company also other areas in each location, decides on the ˾ÍËÖÏ̋ÚÙÖÓÍã̙ÓØÍÖßÎÓØÑ ˪ÝËØÎ promotes periodic training sessions measures to be taken. ˪ÝÜÏÚÙÜÞÓØÑÖÓØÏÝ̚ CONSTANT IMPROVEMENT on the code for employees. In 2015, all ˾ÙÎÏÙÐÙØÎßÍÞÎ×ÓØÓÝÞÜËÞÓÙØ employees received communications on Internal compliance and accountability Committee Procedure The LATAM Airlines Group’s corporate ethical conduct and legal compliance, policies are aligned with the legal ˾ÚÏÍÓËÖÏÜàÓÍÏÝÐÙÜßÌÖÓÍʩÍÓËÖÝÙÖÓÍã governance practices are subject to and 89% took part in speciﬁc courses. A requirements for companies with shares constant review in order to ensure that total of 42,300 employees were trained, traded on the New York, Santiago and its internal self-regulatory processes are including almost one thousand working São Paulo stock exchanges. The Legal fully aligned with the regulations in force in sensitive areas and more than 1,700 area has staﬀ responsible for supporting and with company values. Decision making leaders. SO4 the LATAM Chief Compliance Ofﬁcer in and commercial activities are underpinned each country (Brazil, Chile, United States, by the principles of ethics and business Additionally, a Compliance Month was Mexico, Peru, Colombia, Argentina and conduct set forth in the LATAM Code organized during each semester aimed Ecuador) and in Europe. of Conduct. Published in 2014, the code at providing information and raising consolidates the guidelines set forth in consciousness in this area, as well as the LAN and TAM codes, providing uniﬁed publicizing the company’s new Ethics orientation for the entire company and website on a massive scale. The internal guidelines for relations with relevant channels for reports on breaches of laws stakeholder groups. G4-56 and internal standards of professional and personal conduct were consolidated in a 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE: RISK MONITORING these risks, LATAM acts in conjunction MANAGEMENT with the competent authorities, conducts At the highest level of governance, communication and preventive campaigns Risk management is a strategic pillar for the strategic cross-cutting and emerging in the event of epidemics, in addition LATAM Airlines Group, subject to ongoing risks are monitored regularly by the Risk to incorporating these factors into its improvement. Based on work begun in 2014, Committee, which reports to the Board of emergency response plans. LATAM has been focusing more closely Directors. At the executive level, there is a on cross-cutting risks – those involving Risk Desk coordinated by the CRO, with the more than one category – and on the early participation of managers from diﬀerent detection of emerging ones. This approach areas and selected guests. The idea is to constitutes a strategic complement to the encourage a more holistic vision of any functional risk monitoring and management issues, to see how the impacts interrelate system in operation throughout the and to seek opportunities for synergy. The diﬀerent company areas, overseen by the assessment incorporates economic, social respective heads. and environmental matters. In 2015, the CRO’s (Chief Risk Ofﬁcer) The plans for 2016 entail extending the team created to support this pillar led the approach adopted at corporate level to mapping and construction of a strategic the local operations in order to integrate risk matrix, which takes into account the the main strategic risks identiﬁed in probability of occurrence and the potential the subsidiaries. The company also impact (in economic and reputational intends to advance in the consolidation terms) of each type of risk. These are of an internal risk management culture, monitored systematically by the company ensuring the entire team is aware of the from an integrated standpoint, using a potential impacts each decision may have single methodology. on overall results. This work also enabled the construction of Among the emerging risks identiﬁed a Corporate Risk Policy, approved by the by the company, worthy of note are Board of Directors at the end of 2015 for possible ﬁnancial impacts in the medium implementation in 2016. term resulting from more restrictive atmospheric emission standards legislation and the propagation of communicable diseases, which in extreme situations could aﬀect demand for services. To minimize 27 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 colocar el título RISK MANAGEMENT internal audit legal and compliance Processes Civil (regulatory, operational ING AND EMERGI and accounting aspects) -CUTT NG Criminal SS RIS RO KS Regulatory Fraud C Contractual 0peration RISK finance Technology MANAGEMENT Fuel Information security Interest e-business Foreign exchange Continuity Financing Revenues safety business Flight safety Brand Occupational safety Reputation Security Service Partnerships Expansion Environment 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE: MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is integrated throughout LATAM Airlines Group strategy, breaking down into three dimensions: governance of sustainability ˾ ÑÙàÏÜØËØÍÏÙÐÝßÝÞËÓØËÌÓÖÓÞã˝ the Transparency IONSHIP AND CO company has a clear, transparent LAT MM Regulations and commitments R RE UN positioning in relation to its LDE IC A Risks and opportunities O commitments and goals, with decision STA ON KE TI Alignment regarding aid and donations making, execution and the monitoring of H results supporting the implementation of strategy; SUSTAINABILITY ˾ ÍÖÓ×ËÞÏÍÒËØÑÏ˝ developing a balanced vision incorporating the mitigation of risks and the pursuit of new opportunities to manage the climate change businesses’ actual and potential Carbon footprint environmental impacts, with special Eco-eﬃciency emphasis on reducing the company’s Sustainable alternative energy corporate carbon footprint, using alternative citizenship energy sources and implementing ecoEnvironmental management systems and certiﬁcation Client experience efﬁciency measures; Support for internal culture (care) ˾ ÍÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÍÓÞÓäÏØÝÒÓÚ˝making LATAM’s Economic development of region businesses and its value chain relationship Preservation of heritage network – suppliers, employees, clients and society – a catalyst for social and economic development and environmental balance in the region by means of employee development, private social investment deﬁned in accordance with corporate values and adjusted for local needs, encouraging the adoption of best practices and fostering tourism. 29 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 These three dimensions sustain the LATAM SUSTAINABILITY TRANSPARENCY company’s performance and guide its actions, helping LATAM to exercise the Transparency is a corporate value for LATAM, responsibility inherent to its leadership achievements in 2015 goals 2016 goals 2017 underpinning communication with clients, role in the region in its relations with suppliers, authorities and other stakeholders. stakeholders. governance of sustainability By means of a series of tools and participation Deﬁnition of supplier management Implementation of supplier Improve scores in DJSI in key forums, the company ensures The company addresses compliance strategy management strategy accountability for its commitment and with laws, regulations and voluntary Sustainability strategy performance in sustainability. These include: agreements and sustainability-related Internal training risk management strategically. Senior ˾ ßÝÞËÓØËÌÓÖÓÞãÜÏÚÙÜÞ˝ in accordance with management is responsible for the climate change Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, environmental and sustainability area, LATAM publishes an annual report monitoring performance in conjunction with CNG2020 Strategy Certiﬁcation of environmental Meet CNG2020 initiave at the lowest management system at possible cost presenting its most relevant indicators, the relevant departments and units, and Alternative energies Maintenance, Repair and Service Implementation of environmental encompassing greenhouse gas emissions, working with the subsidiaries, suppliers and IenvA certiﬁcation (IATA) facilities (MRO), at the maintenance management systems in all company energy consumption, waste generation and industry associations to drive compliance base in Chile and at the cargo unit in operations Miami (USA) legal compliance. with environmental standards, emission Deﬁnition of environmental levels, internal environmental guidelines management systems for the other ˾ ÖÙÌËÖÙ×ÚËÍÞ˝ the company has been a and the application of best practices. operations signatory to this United Nations initiative Periodically the Executive Committee since 2012, providing annual updates on monitors performance in the key indicators corporate citizenship its measures to achieve the ten compact for economic, social and environmental goals. questions, as well as evaluating the LATAM social investment strategy Insert concept of sustainability in Execution of social investment Engage employees in corporate value proposition strategy Corporate citizenship eﬀectiveness of internal controls and risk citizenship actions. projects involving employees ˾ ËÜÌÙØÓÝÍÖÙÝßÜÏÜÙÔÏÍÞ̙̚˝LATAM management in these areas. has reported to the CDP since 2011 and is committed to improving company performance year on year. ˾ Ùá ÙØÏÝßÝÞËÓØËÌÓÖÓÞã ØÎÏâ̙  ̚˝ Latam Airlines Group has reported to the DJSI since 2011, and has been listed in the emerging markets index since the following year. In 2015, LATAM was listed on the index for the fourth year running, an achievement which positions it among the world leaders in climate change and eco-efﬁciency in the aviation industry. 30 Strategy BUILDING THE FUTURE 32 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESULTS 34 31 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRATEGY: BUILDING THE destinations in Europe, the United States, Organizational strength: technical capacity FUTURE Canada and South America to the network. and employee engagement underpin Both agreements are subject to government all LATAM’s work. In 2015, the company For LATAM Airlines Group, achieving its approval. invested heavily in process simpliﬁcation, aspiration of being one the three biggest in strengthening leadership roles and in airlines groups in the world involves much Leading brand and client experience: in adapting internal structures, aimed at avoiding more than mere numbers that demonstrate 2015, a LATAM launched its new brand, duplication and overlap and driving efﬁciency. its ﬁnancial performance, ﬂeet excellence, which uniﬁes the LAN and TAM brands destinations map and service quality. consolidating the strong association with Risk management: a more strategic and The airline group’s vision is based on the Latin American continent, which is the systemic approach was adopted, incorporating relationship dynamics and businesses heartland of company operations. More than the mapping and consolidation of new which are sustained over time and generate just a graphic symbol, the new brand stands dynamics for monitoring cross-cutting and shared value for shareholders, the market, for the internal cultural transformation the emerging risks. The process involves diﬀerent employees, clients, suppliers and society as company has been undergoing since the areas and all levels and is aimed at establishing a whole, and upon which the future is built merger and is fully attuned with the renewal an internal decision making culture which one day at a time, in the present. of its value proposition for clients and its takes the correlations and potential impacts diﬀerentiation strategies. This is manifest of each initiative into account on a broad basis. Five strategic pillars established in 2014 in the Twist project, which is changing the drive the company’s internal dynamics and way the company relates with its clients Combined in a matrix with the topics its teams’ eﬀorts geared towards achieving and involves heavy investment in digital covered by Corporate Sustainability the LATAM future vision. These are: technology. Strategy, these pillars are translated into the initiatives executed by the diﬀerent Leadership in destination network: its Cost competiveness: the commitment to company areas on a day to day basis. extensive network of destinations within efﬁciency fundamental to any operation South America, and connectivity with gains even greater relevance given the rest of the world are at the heart of the challenges posed by the current LATAM strategy and constitute a major macroeconomic conjuncture. Diligence in appeal for clients and potential partners. ﬁnancial management, a focus on operational In addition to consolidating domestic and excellence and ﬁne tuning ﬂeet investment international hubs in key airports in which the plans are some of the elements in this company operates directly, LATAM invests pillar. The target is a 5% reduction in total in agreements to expand the possibilities operational costs by 2018. oﬀered to clients. This is exempliﬁed by the agreements signed at the beginning of 2016 with American Airlines and with the International Airlines Group (IAG), comprising British Airways and Iberia, which added 420 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC PILLARS X MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS (1) (1) 33 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 STRATEGY: FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL RESULTS Pursue synergies in cost and asset management Generate value for the company and its LATAM maintained its leadership position capital providers in 2015 in spite of the challenging economic conjuncture, marked by a downturn in economic growth and the devaluation of local currencies in South America, TARGET: particularly in Brazil. The company  ˾ËÚÚÜÙâÓ×ËÞÏÜÏÎßÍÞÓÙØÙÐ͖ϯÓØÙÚÏÜËÞÓØÑÍÙÝÞÝÌã͓͙͑͒ managed to increase operating margin by 1 percentage point (p.p.) compared with 2014,  ˾×ËÓØÞËÓØÖÓÛßÓÎÓÞãÖÏàÏÖËÞËÜÙßØÎ̿͒˛͖ÌÓÖÖÓÙØ reaching 5.1%, with an operating income of US$ 513.9 million. It also maintained 2015 RESULT an adequate level of liquidity, ending the  ˾ËÚÚÜÙâÓ×ËÞÏÜÏÎßÍÞÓÙØÙÐ̿͔͓͖×ÓÖÖÓÙØÓØÙÚÏÜËÞÓØÑÍÙÝÞÝ year with US$ 1.361 billion in cash and cash equivalents, corresponding to 13.4% of net  ˾ÌËÖËØÍÏÙÐ̿͒˛͔͗͒ÌÓÖÖÓÙØËÞÏØÎÙÐãÏËÜ revenue for the preceding 12 months. The company’s resilience to macroeconomic difﬁculties is due to its diversiﬁed commercial model, rigorous expense management, adjustments in the ﬂeet plan and its agility in adapting to lower demand by reducing capacity in the domestic and international markets in Brazil. The cost reduction strategy generated savings of around US$ 325 million in the year, higher than the original expectation; the target is to reach a 5% reduction by 2018. In addition to increased efﬁciency, operating costs were positively impacted by the devaluation of local currencies, with an 11.5% reduction in cost per ASK -equivalent (excluding fuel) in 2015. 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY DJ PERFORMANCE In 2015, for the fourth year running LATAM was quoted on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the main sector (leader) 87 global reference in the economic, social and environmental aspects of long-term sector value generation. The selection is based (average) 57 economic on a methodology known as Best in Class, latam 74 which analyzes large publicly traded companies in diﬀerent industries in terms of their economic, social, environmental performance and governance practices. sector 90 (leader) Only leading companies are included in the ﬁnal list, which is published annually. sector (average) 50 The process of selecting the companies environmental in the DJSI is conducted by RobecoSAM, latam 76 an investment consultancy specialized in sustainability. In addition to being in the indices for sector 78 (leader) Chile and the Emerging Markets – with sector companies in countries such as Brazil, Chile, (average) 46 social China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, latam 64 Mexico, Morocco, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Russia, South Africa, Thailand, Taiwan and Turkey –, LATAM is sector 85 also in the Dow Jones Sustainability World (leader) Index, reserved for the top 10% of the entire ranking. In 2015, the 2,500 largest sector (average) 52 total companies (according to the S&P Broad Market Index) from 47 countries were latam 72 assessed, from which 317 were selected. 35 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 2015 NUMBERS CARGO OPERATION in Argentina, Chile Colombia, Peru, Brazil, operates, the macroeconomic situation in Total revenue was US$ 10.125 billion in 2015, Paraguay, Uruguay, Mexico, Miami, Los Brazil presented the major challenges for 18.8% down on the previous year, driven by LATAM progressed in its pursuit of synergies Angeles and Europe, which account for around the company. Low growth, the accentuated a 19% and 22.4% decrease in passenger between the cargo and passenger businesses, 13% of its total business. devaluation of the currency and economic and and cargo revenues respectively, partially leveraging the two operations through In 2015, the airlines group transported 1 million political instability led to a 15% reduction in oﬀset by a 2.2% increase in other revenues. optimized use of aircraft capacity. Integrated metric tons, 9% down on 2014. Cargo capacity, air cargo imports on routes from the United In 2015, passenger and cargo revenues route planning and the use of aircraft holds on measured in ATK, dropped 1%, resulting in a States to Latin America. This situation accounted respectively for 83.1% and 13.1% passenger ﬂights to carry cargo is proving to 4 p.p. reduction in the occupancy rate, which provoked a 22.4% decrease in cargo revenues of total operating revenue. be the right strategy. reached 56%. in 2015, the result of the 12.0% decrease in LATAM and its aﬃliates, have cargo operations Of the markets in which the company cargo trafﬁc and the 11.8% drop in income. Demand in the Spanish-speaking countries – Chile, Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Ecuador – continued to grow at a modest rate in the fourth quarter of 2015, with a 5.3% increase in passenger trafﬁc FLEET EBITDA (US$) measured in RPK , ending the year at 17,858. Passenger capacity, measured in ASK, In 2015, LATAM announced the restructuring increased 2 5.5% in the year, driven by of its 2016 – 2018 ﬂeet renewal plan, growth in Peru and Argentina, together with reducing its pre-delivery advance payments, sector 85 (leader) a 0.2 percentage point rise in the occupancy with a view to adapting capacity to Latin rate, which reached 81.5%. American market conditions. The renewal sector (average) 52 total scheduled for the period was reduced by On a global level, the company’s total around 40% (approximately US$ 3.0 billion). latam 72 capacity increased by 3.1%, driven by 6.4% This measure is aligned with company growth in the international routes, focused strategy to maintain a healthy balance and on strengthening the hubs and routes to appropriate liquidity levels. the Caribbean. Domestic capacity in the Spanish-language markets grew 4.8%, mainly due to Colombia and Peru; there was a decrease in the routes between Brazil and the United States. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EC1 ADDED VALUE STATEMENT (AVS) 2015 – US$ THOUSAND DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Revenues 10,125,826.00 Employee salaries and charges 2,072,805.00 Sales of goods, products and services 9,740,045.00 Taxes, charges and contributions -173,142.00 Allowance for loan losses – reversal/constitution 0.00 Interest and rent 413,357.00 Non operating 385,781.00 Interest on own equity and dividends 0.00 Inputs acquired from third-parties 6,614,795.00 Retained proﬁt/losses -143,005.00 Raw materials consumed 0.00 Investments in the community 1,934.95 Cost of goods and services sold 3,963,728.00 Added value retained 431,700.05 Materials, energy, third-party services and others 2,651,067.00 Loss/recovery of assets 0.00 Gross Added Value 3,511,031.00 Retained 934,406.00 Depreciation, amortization and exhaustion 934,406.00 Net Added Value 2,576,625.00 Added value received in transfer 27,025.00 Equity income 37.00 Financial revenues 26,988.00 Total added value 2,603,650.00 37 Clients THE BEST EXPERIENCE 39 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Chile in the second half of the year. Around CLIENTS: THE BEST EXPERIENCE 31,300 LAN passengers were notiﬁed about the risk of delays or cancellations by SMS The LATAM brand and service quality are or email, and 13,700 (44%) used the chat to diﬀerentials for the company. To reinforce seek alternatives. The majority of accesses these and take relationship to the next (70%) were by mobile phone, and 26.4% level, LATAM is working on a number of used the service via computer. This feature initiatives aimed at enhancing the client will be extended to TAM in 2016. experience across a broad spectrum that goes beyond the time spent in the In addition to pre-boarding services, during air. Investments in technology, new the ﬂight passengers have access to the communication platforms, a client-focused LAN and TAM entertainment menu and service culture and rewards programs are information via an application for mobile some of the instruments the company uses phones, tablets and notebooks. to forge closer ties with passengers at all points of interaction, ranging from the website, stores, contact centers to airports and in ﬂight services. Oﬀer new forms of communication and connectivity Enhance the client experience The airline group invests constantly in Engage employees in promoting the experience digital technology to improve connectivity with clients and facilitate access to its services. Passengers may buy tickets, 2015 TARGETS: reserve their seats, check in and get their  ˾ÝËÞÓÝÐËÍÞÓÙØÜËÞÏ̙ÍËÜÑÙÙÚÏÜËÞÓÙØ̚˝͕͘ϯ boarding pass via the company website and mobile phone apps. In 2015, new features 2015 RESULTS were introduced such as ﬂight status,  ˾ØÏáÐßØÍÞÓÙØËÖÓÞÓÏÝÙØÞÒÏáÏÌÝÓÞÏËØÎ×ÙÌÓÖÏÚÒÙØÏÝ with real-time information on whether a ﬂight is on time or late, with explanations  ˾ÓØÍÜÏËÝÏÓØÍÖÓÏØÞ̙áÓÝÞËØÎÙÞËÖÚÓÖÙÞÚÜÙÔÏÍÞÝ̚ËØÎÏ×ÚÖÙãÏÏÝËÞÓÝÐËÍÞÓÙØ about any delays and expected arrival and departure times.  ˾ÓØÍÜÏËÝÏÓØÚÜÙÎßÍÞÓàÓÞã In the second half of the year, an option  ˾ÝËÞÓÝÐËÍÞÓÙØÜËÞÏ̙ÍËÜÑÙÙÚÏÜËÞÓÙØ̚˝͘͘ϯ permitting LAN clients to reschedule delayed or cancelled ﬂights by means of a chat available in the application was enabled. The service helped to reduce the impact of an air trafﬁc controllers’ strike in 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CULTURAL CHANGE PROJECT The project results were highly positive Cultural change Project in the three dimensions in which it is To leverage a new across-the-board service monitored: client satisfaction; employee culture, LATAM has launched a cultural engagement and productivity. In the ESTADO CONTACT CENTER change project. This process was initiated Contact Center, for example, productivity with pilot projects in two locations: Brasilia increased by 20%; the number of satisﬁed 20% airport, in Brazil, the fourth largest in the clients grew 12% while dissatisﬁed clients LATAM operational region, and in the decreased by 33%. At Brasilia airport, + in productivity (1) Estado Contact Center in Santiago, Chile, service efﬁciency was up by 12% (based operated by a team of around 500 people. on the average number of clients served The ﬁrst step was to identify speciﬁc work details, the way the teams are organized, per employee). Employee satisfaction, measured on a daily basis, grew 40%. +12% in satisfied clients the demand ﬂow, client proﬁles and 33% needs in the two units. The proposal was The initiative is being extended to the rest reduction in dissatisfied to elaborate the global strategy and act of the service network in 2016. Twist is clients locally, adapting it to speciﬁc requirements already underway in the LATAM service and possibilities. units at the Galeão and Santos Dumont airports in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Miami During three months, the transformation (United States) and at the airport and BRASILIA AIRPORT teams implemented changes in the contact center in Lima (Peru). By the operational routines and monitored the end of 2016, the project will have been 12% results. There were over 40 initiatives, implemented at all the contact centers ranging from rethinking how company and around 70% of the airports used by + in productivity (1) policies are applied and how tasks and the company. responsibilities are divided among the team to the adoption of tools to monitor client satisfaction in real time. A key +40% in satisfied employees element in the project was higher employee engagement stemming from increased decision making autonomy. (1) passengers/employees (pax/fte–full time employee) 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SATISFACTION PR5 LOYALTY PROGRAMS LATAM tracks passenger satisfaction To oﬀer a more complete view of client The LATAM Airlines Group operates via online surveys based on Net perceptions, the calculation also includes two loyalty programs that reward more Promoter Score (NPS) methodology. The passengers whose ﬂights suﬀered frequent ﬂyers with free tickets, upgrades, questionnaires are sent out on a weekly delays. At TAM, the survey is conducted products and, in some cases, facilitated basis to passengers who have ﬂown LAN among participants in the TAM Fidelidade access to check in and boarding. The or TAM. From 2014 to 2015, Total NPS program, while LAN takes into account both programs work in parallel, enabling the increased slightly from 39 to 40 points. LANPASS clients and passengers not in the respective participants to accumulate and With this methodology, the result may vary loyalty program. exchange points for travel on LAN and TAM, from -100 points to + 100. as well as on ﬂights operated by oneworld alliance member companies. These are: CARGO CLIENTS ˾ áËÝÍÜÏËÞÏÎÓØ͚͙͕͒ËØÎ In the cargo operation, the methodology used is the total satisfaction rate, which takes into enables members to accumulate miles account diﬀerent aspects of the service. The rating in 2015 was 77%, 6 percentage points up which may be redeemed as airline on 2014, beating the target (74%) set for the period. The improvement in the rate is due to tickets or products. In 2015, the program the action plans adopted by the company based on the results of the previous survey and the had 10 million members in Chile, Peru, focus on factors such as reservation fulﬁllment, reduction in Contact Center and customer Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and the service response times, cargo delivery conditions and the ﬁt between cargo capacity/ United States, a 13% increase compared destination network and client needs. In terms of individual operations, the leaders are Quito with 2014. (83%), New York (82%) and Miami (81%). The operations in Europe had an average score of 82%, compared with 77% in Latin America. ˾ ÓÎÏÖÓÎËÎÏ˝áËÝÞÒÏʨÜÝÞÏàÏÜÖÙãËÖÞã program created in Brazil back in 1993. Since 2010 it has been part of Multiplus, the biggest loyalty network in Brazil. Members may accumulate points and exchange them at 13,000 points belonging to 465 companies in diverse segments, in addition to acquiring airline tickets. Multiplus is listed on the BM&FBovespa exchange, with TAM as its main shareholder. TAM Fidelity ended 2015 with 12.8 million members, 8% up on the previous year. 41 Environment ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS AND 43 CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT 45 2015 PERFORMANCE 47 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT: ENVIRONMENTAL climate change strategy, pursuing several in order to inﬂuence investment decisions ASPECTS AND CLIMATE CHANGE lines of action. and to drive down greenhouse gas emissions. In absolute terms, air transportation The LATAM environmental management accounts for only 2% of greenhouse system was designed to reduce the EMISSIONS gas emissions related to human company’s impacts on climate change and activity, according to data from the to improve its capacity to adapt to changes LATAM is a member of the main discussion Intergovernmental Panel on Climate in weather patterns and in the regulatory forums on climate change and collaborates Change (IPCC). Around 80% of the sector’s environment. This also permits LATAM with a number of group initiatives to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are related to track and follow up on the targets improve environmental performance to ﬂights of over 1,500 kilometers, journeys established, facilitating management of its in aviation. The company is the leader for which air travel is the most eﬃcient material issues. in eﬃcient fuel use and is committed alternative3. In spite of the limited relevance to the International Air Transportation in terms of global emissions, the potential JET FUEL Association’s (IATA) Carbon-Neutral eﬀects of aviation on climate change Growth (CNG2020) initiative. An represent the industry’s main environmental The main source of GHG emissions in impact and are the target of coordinated aviation is fuel consumption, and by means 3 Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2014. Aviation – eﬀorts and voluntary public commitments. of constant investment in technology Beneﬁts beyond borders, p.7. and the improvement of procedures, the 4 RTK: revenue ton kilometer. Weight transported In the list of topics considered to be operation has been driving eﬃciency gains multiplied by the distance traveled. material by LATAM, the environmental year on year. Relative fuel consumption 5 Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2014. Aviation – component of sustainability management (measured in RTK4) has decreased on Beneﬁts beyond borders, p.23. is a constant. In the process of elaborating average by 70% since the birth of the air this report, three of the nine relevant travel industry5. Flights have also become topics are related to environmental more eﬃcient in terms of emissions: while impacts and are addressed from a total passenger numbers have grown perspective of mitigating climate change by around 5%, the annual increase in and capacity to adapt to it. This is a topic emissions is approximately 3%. that can have a profound eﬀect both on the proﬁtability and execution of the With its Fuel Eﬃciency Program, LATAM company’s operations. The LATAM risk economized 38.4 million gallons of fuel management system has detected risks in 2015, avoiding 366,500 tons of CO2e arising from the growth in regulations emissions. Since fuel is also one of the aimed at controlling climate change, and main resources used in the operation, over the past year the company has been eﬃcient management has a direct impact engaged in the implementation of its on costs. The company has also committed to putting a price on its carbon footprint 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 unprecedented proposal, CNG2020 is public exposure to aircraft noise. It is B787 and the new Airbus A350, which will a voluntary commitment under which, important that urban development plans come into operation in 2016. These new from 2020 airlines will oﬀset all sector take this into consideration in order not to aircraft generate up to 40% less noise emissions exceeding average emissions restrict air industry growth. than similar models. Even so, the company in the baseline period 2018-2020 until the Currently, the LATAM ﬂeet is compliant aims to decrease noise generation further company achieves its emissions reduction with the ICAO Chapter IV Standard, the by investing in more modern and silent target. most rigorous noise standard in the aircraft and engines and by implementing aviation industry, and the company is operational best practices, such as LATAM is working towards becoming engaged in diverse initiatives to improve its continuous descent approaches and onecarbon neutral in its ground operations. performance in this area. In recent years, engine taxiing; technological developments, Since 2012, the company has reduced it has withdrawn aircraft generating higher like RNP; and on ground initiatives, such as annual emissions by 12% and oﬀset a noise levels from the ﬂeet, including the minimizing the use of APUs in airports. further 7%. An example of this eﬀort is A340, replacing it with models such as the Colombia, which oﬀset all its emissions from ground operations in 2014. This involved the purchase of carbon credits from the REDD Chocó Forest Conservation Mitigate operational impacts project in the Darién region, close to on climate change the Panamanian border. Emissions measurement was veriﬁed externally by the Spanish Association for Standardization and Certiﬁcation, AENOR. TARGETS: COMPLIANCE  ˾ÍÒÓÏàÏËÜÌÙØÏßÞÜËÖÜÙáÞÒÌã͓͓͑͑ Other environmental management aspects  ˾ ËÖàÏÞÒÏÍÙ×ÚËØã˪Ý͓͖͑͑ÍËÜÌÙØÐÙÙÞÚÜÓØÞÖÏàÏÖÌã͓͖͑͑˛ of the operation are also taken into account in long-term planning. The proliferation 2015 RESULTS of regulations governing air quality and  ˾àÏÜËÑÏ Ï×ÓÝÝÓÙØÝÙÐ͙͑˛͔͘ÕÑ͓˹͒͑͑ noise levels constitute a critical issue for LATAM performance standards. There is also concern related to urban growth. These days, more and more housing developments are located closer to airports, increasing 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT: ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The program is based in the development of MANAGEMENT SYSTEM environmental requirements that are common to the participating companies and is geared Climate change, and on a broader level, the The company’s environmental management towards sharing best environmental practices. company’s performance in environmental guidelines are applied to all the operation’s It is designed to be implemented in two stages: questions, are incorporated into the risk services, including support activities matrices that guide business decision such as maintenance, logistics and waste ˾ ÞËÑÏ͒ËÖÖÙáÝÞÒÏËÓÜÖÓØÏÞÙÏÝÞËÌÖÓÝÒÞÒÏ making. The analysis encompasses any management services; they also guide new framework for its EMS and to identify and potential operational impacts, supply chain product development and supplier selection. comply with legal requirements and other management and the company’s capacity to The standards constitute a speciﬁc item in obligations. adapt to increasingly restrictive standards and the LATAM Code of Conduct, available online, legislations, as well as to changing weather and are also made explicit in the company’s ˾ ÞËÑÏ͓ËÖÖÙáÝÞÒÏÓÜÖÓØÏÞÙÎÏÞÏÜ×ÓØÏ conditions, including increases in temperature, internal policies. [+Attachment 1] the signiﬁcance of its environmental variations in wind and the volume of rainfall aspects and set objectives and targets. It and the occurrence of extreme climatic In ﬂight operations, particularly noteworthy also provides a framework for monitoring events. Management methodology includes in the year was the Chilean international requirements, internal assessments and preventive and mitigation measures. EC2 operation’s certiﬁcation under the management review. International Air Transportation Association’s Regarding legal compliance risks, in addition voluntary environmental program: IATA Worthy of note among the beneﬁts of IEnvA to ﬁnancial impacts, the company analyzes Environmental Assessment (IEnvA). LATAM is certiﬁcation are: a reduction in risks of legal the potential impact on its image of nonthe ﬁrst airline group in Latin America and the compliance; ﬁnancial savings through the compliance with standards. third worldwide to receive this certiﬁcation. lower use of resources; demonstration of good The process took three years and involved environmental governance; environmentally The management of environmental risks in analysis of environmental requirements at conscious personnel; transparent LATAM Airlines Group is aimed at: all destinations served by the unit, as well as environmental information for stakeholders. a detailed study of the environmental impact ˾ ÏØÝßÜÓØÑÞÒÏÖÏÑËÖÍÙ×ÚÖÓËØÍÏÙÐËÖÖ  caused by ﬂights and corporate activities. Airlines Group operations, IEnvA is an environmental management ˾ Ó×ÚÖÏ×ÏØÞÓØÑËØÎ×ÙØÓÞÙÜÓØÑ×ÓÞÓÑËÞÓÙØ system designed by the aviation industry, actions and speciﬁcally for the aviation industry to drive environmental improvement. It allows airlines ˾ ÚÜÏÚËÜÓØÑÞÒÏÍÙ×ÚËØãÞÙÓ×ÚÖÏ×ÏØÞ to focus on environmental performance and comply with the IATA Carbon Neutral improvement and leverage universal solutions Growth 2020 target. that exist across the aviation industry. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 COMPATIBILITY WITH THE ISO14001 STANDARD IATA commissioned Societé Genérale de Surveillance (SGS) to conduct an independent compatibility review of the IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) Program against the International Standard for Environmental Management (ISO14001:2004). SGS conﬁrmed that the IEnvA standards are consistent with the International standards and the programs are compatible. (The complete SGS declaration may be viewed in the Attachment.) [+ Anexo 2]. In 2015, LATAM advanced towards its target Return on environmental investments tracking of environmental investment and the of developing environmental management The systematization and integration of measurement of the results achieved in terms systems based on the ISO14001 standard in its environmental management throughout of eﬃciency gains and cost avoidance. ground operations for the maintenance units the company also enables more accurate (MRO’s) in the countries in which we operate. The maintenance bases in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru are engaged ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT (US$) 2013 2014 2015 in implementing management systems along these lines. The LAN Cargo unit system in Investments (Capex) 12,522,000 2,522,000 911,691 Miami received ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in 2015. Operational expenses (Opex) 817,760 983,110 1.925,418 Considering the airline group’s total transportation, measured in RTK, so far 25% Total 13,339,760 3,505,110 2.837,108 of our operations already have systems certiﬁed in accordance with international standards. Environmental Violations Airlines Group did not register any signiﬁcant The management systems are based on sanctions for failure to comply with the law in To drive internal performance improvement, the study of the applicable environmental 2015. LATAM has established management goals regulations, and are used to ensure and in the areas of technology, operations, maintain compliance with standards. LATAM infrastructure, economic performance, legal compliance and external commitments. The company monitors progress towards these by means of 21 key indicators. [+ Attachment 3] 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT: 2015 PERFORMANCE LATAM actively strives to improve its environmental performance, pursuing impact reduction targets and monitoring progress against these targets periodically. COMMITMENT BASELINE YEAR TARGET 2015 ACHIEVEMENT A 1.5% annual improvement in fuel ͓͚͑͑˹͓͓͑͒ 1.5% annually until 2020 2.5% average annual reduction from 2012 to eﬃciency until 2020 (IATA* Target Nº1) 2015. Carbon Neutral Growth (CNG) by 2020 2009 Carbon Stabilized Advances in discussions that will enable the (IATA* Target Nº2) Growth by 2020 implementation of a carbon neutral growth strategy. Halving net CO2 emissions by 2050, rela2009 Reducing stabilized Advances in discussions on action plans in the tive to 2005 levels (IATA1 Target Nº3) emissions relative to area. 2005 levels Carbon Neutral Ground Operations by 2012 Zero-carbon in ground 12% reduction in emissions from 2012 to 2015. 2020 operations Oﬀsetting of 7% of emissions by means of reforestation projects. A 10% improvement in infrastructure 2012 10% reduction in energy Expansion of eco-eﬃcient lighting projects in energy eﬃciency by 2020 intensity in buildings administrative buildings and hangars. ̙Ò˹͓̚ Maintenance of consumption levels compared with 2014.*** 10% less waste by 2020 2012 10% reduction in waste 19% increase in waste generation compared generation with 2014. Management programs to enable target to be achieved on schedule are under development. Having an Environmental Management 2012 100% implementation IenvA – level 2 certification obtained for the Chilean System (EMS) implemented by 2016 international operation, as well as ISO 14001 certification for the LAN Cargo operation in Miami. Advance in implementation of ISO 14001-based environmental management systems in the main Aircraft Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facilities. *International Air Transportation Association. **Full Time Employee. ***Takes the adjusted data into account, since the coverage scope was extended from 2014 to 2015. 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EN15 EN16 EN17 EN18 EMISSIONS LATAM monitors its greenhouse gas (GHG) GREENHOUSE GASES (T CO2E) 2013 2014 2015 ∆ 2015/2014 emissions on an annual basis using GHG Protocol methodology. The calculation takes Direct emissions* 11,844,687 11,716,772 11,610,378 -0.91% into account international reference data and information collected from the management Indirect emissions** 18,597 18,003 20,660 14.7%2 systems in diverse LATAM areas. Whenever necessary, data on other consumption sources Other indirect emissions*** 4,283 7,091 4,214 -40.6%4 are also used for purposes of estimates. Total 11,867,567 11,741,866 11,635,252 -0.01% The emissions inventory has been conducted since 2010, but, for purposes of comparison Emissions intensity 81.09 80.14 80.37 0.34% and analysis of annual variations, 2012 data ̙ÕÑ͓Ï˹͒͑͑ ͕̚ ËÜÏßÝÏÎ˛ÒÓÝáËÝÞÒÏãÏËÜáÒÏØÞÒÏ ˹ TAM merger took place and also when the *Direct emissions (Scope1): fuel consumption in air operations, ﬁxed sources and the LATAM vehicle ﬂeet, as well as refrigerant gas fugitive emissions. ISO 14.064 standard was introduced as a **Indirect emissions (Scope2): electricity purchase. The increase is due to changes in Ecuador (increment of data coverage monitoring tool. from 28% to 88%) and Brazil (due to constructions and the opening of new facilities. ***Other indirect emissions (Scope3): ground transportation linked with operations (employees, suppliers and waste) and Obs.: the emissions factors used for the employee business air travel (using other companies). The decrease is due to diﬀerent factors. First, a general reduction in the calculation and the scope of the data are corporate travels. Also, there is a reduction in the data coverage for employee commuting in Peru, which explains an 8%. And, detailed in the Attachment.[+Attachment 4] Brazil had a decrease of 44% due to a lack of coverage of data. ****Emissions intensity: indicator for air operations only. From 2012 to 2015, LATAM reduced its annual greenhouse gas emissions from ground operations by 12% and oﬀset a further 7% by means of reforestation programs. The diverse LATAM initiatives to optimize fuel use in 2015 permitted a reduction of 366,500 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. The main factors driving this result were minimization of the use of auxiliary power units (APU), accounting for 27.6% of the overall reduction, and the new operational procedures adopted (impact of 15.6%). EN19 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EN20 – EN21 ECO-EFFICIENCY Eco-eﬃciency in fuel use OTHER EMISSIONS 2013 2014 2015 ∆ 2015/2014 LATAM is the world leader in eﬃcient fuel use. Measured in RTK6, its operations consume Ozone-depleting gases (t CFC11e) * 3.86 2.18 4.96 127.4%* 10% less fuel than the average for members of IATA7, which has 260 aﬃliates and represents Nitrogen oxides (NOx) – t 40,752 40,022 39,722 -0.8% 83% of all international air traﬃc. EN27 TARGETS:  âÏ×ÓÝÝÓÙØÓØÞÏØÝÓÞã̙Ñâ˹ ̚ ͓˛͙͑ ͓˛͖͘ ͓˛͗͘ ̋͑˛͖ϯ In addition to the direct environmental  ˾ ØÍÜÏËÝÏʮÏÏÞÐßÏÖÏʩÍÓÏØÍãÌã beneﬁts of reduced non-renewable fuel 1.5% a year until 2020 to reduce NOx intensity in the passenger operation 0.30 0.28 0.28 0.3% consumption and the corresponding decrease relative GHG emissions (measuin climate change impacts, the increased ÜÏÎÓØÙ͓˹ ̚ NOx intensity in the cargo operation 1.57 2.02 2.13 5.4% operational eﬃciency generates ﬁnancial gains for the company. In 2015, the measures 2015 RESULTS Sulfur oxides (SOx) – t 1,805 1,776 1,759 -1.0%*** enabled savings of 38.4 million gallons of fuel,  ˾ʩÍÓÏØÍãÑËÓØÝÙÐ͑˛͔ϯ which translates into a cost avoidance of US$  âÏ×ÓÝÝÓÙØÓØÞÏØÝÓÞã̙Ñâ˹ ̚͓ ͑˛͓͒ ͑˛͓͒ ͑˛͓͒ ̋͑˛͔ϯ 79.1 million.  ˾ËàÓØÑÝÙÐ͔͙˛͕×ÓÖÖÓÙØÑËÖÖÙØÝ of fuel SOx intensity in the passenger operation 0.01 0.01 0.01 -0.5% The airline group’s robust environmental performance also represents a diﬀerential  ˾ßÝÞËÓØËÌÓÖÓÞãÎÓʥÏÜÏØÞÓËÖ×ËÓØSOx intensity in the cargo operation 0.07 0.09 0.09 5.4% in terms of attractiveness compared with tained for clients competitors. Around 25% of cargo service revenues come from customers that use *Includes: HCFC-22, HFC-134a, HCFC-141b, R-410a, R-422d, R-438a and Halon 1301. Variation in ozone-depleting gases is due to an increment in Brazil. environmental criteria in supplier selection. **Sulfur oxides (SOx): An adjustment was made in the values presented for 2014 (from 2,779 Ton to 1,776 Ton) due to a To maintain the highest eco-eﬃciency homologation in the methodology used for sulfur oxides calculations. standards, LATAM focuses on three fronts: a young ﬂeet, eﬃcient fuel use and infrastructure improvements. 6 Revenue ton kilometer. 7 According to the 2014 comparison. The data for 2015 were not available on publication of this report.. 49 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Young ﬂeet Control acoustic impact of LATAM aircraft The LATAM business model, based on an in communities close to airports eﬃcient, modern ﬂeet, drives ﬁnancial and environmental gains. Currently, the average age of the company’s aircraft is seven years, the same as the previous year, reﬂecting Invest in technology to reduce noise generation LATAM strategy of maintaining a modern ﬂeet. More eﬃcient engines and operational TARGET: procedures oriented to combating waste  ˾ ÏÏÚÓØÑ͒͑͑ϯÙÐÞÒÏʮÏÏÞÓØÍÙ×ÚÖÓËØÍÏáÓÞÒÞÒÏ ØÞÏÜØËÞÓÙØËÖÓàÓÖàÓËÞÓÙØ ensure excellent aircraft performance. In Organization (ICAO) Chapter IV 2015, LATAM ﬂeet emissions were on average ͙͑˛͔͘ÕÑ͓˹͒͑͑ ˜ÖÙáÏÜÞÒËØÞÒÏÓØÎßÝÞÜã 2015 RESULTS average.  ˾ÖÏÏÞ͒͑͑ϯÍÙ×ÚÖÓËØÞ˛ In some of the more modern aircraft such as the Boeing 787, impact reduction is even more signiﬁcant: a reduction of up to 20% in GHG emissions and up to 40% in noise during Eﬃciency in fuel use The new measures adopted in 2015 involve takeoﬀ, the most critical ﬂight phase for noise three main focuses. Together with the pollution. EN27 The LAN and TAM eﬃciency programs were Operations and Safety areas, the procedure uniﬁed in the LATAM Fuel Eﬃciency Program for activating exterior lighting during approach in 2015. In addition to investing in consolidating and landing operations was reviewed, and a culture of eﬃciency and an environmentally with the lighting being turned on only at responsible mindset within the team to lower altitudes, when it is really necessary. ensure the maintenance of existing initiatives In addition to the direct impact on energy (see box), management at corporate level consumption by the actual lighting system, drove new synergies and an advance in the the modiﬁcation reduces the time the aircraft company’s strategic approach. is submitted to the aerodynamic resistance caused by the equipment. The management and operational procedures determined in the new program enabled In an operation involving the Maintenance total savings of 38.4 million gallons of fuel area there was a review of the protocol for in the year. On average, the fuel eﬃciency of activating the airplanes’ auxiliary power unit the company has improved by 2.5% per year (APU), used to operate the doors and the compared to 2012 levels8. 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 air conditioning on the ground. Software developed by the company enabled the MAIN ACTIONS Routes, cruising speed and landing: Use of engines on the ground: mapping of situations in which the equipment was turned on during maintenance processes, Weight on board:  ˾ÚÖËØØÓØÑÙÐÜÙßÞÏÝÞÙËàÙÓÎËÎàÏÜÝÏ  ˾ÞËâÓÓØÑáÓÞÒÔßÝÞÙØÏÏØÑÓØÏ˞ identifying unnecessary waste. Through weather conditions or turbulence with initiatives to boost team awareness and  ˾ßÝÏÙÐÖÓÑÒÞÏÜ×ËÞÏÜÓËÖÝ˞ the support of navigation tools and real Maintenance: investments in infrastructure improvements,  ˾ÏʩÍÓÏØÞÍÙ×ÌÓØËÞÓÙØÙÐÚËÝÝÏØÑÏÜÝ ÞÓ×ÏÓØÐÙÜ×ËÞÓÙØ˞ including external power sources, it was and cargo  ˾ÚÜÓÙÜÓÞÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÎÓÜÏÍÞÜÙßÞÏÝ  ˾ÎÏàÏÖÙÚ×ÏØÞÙÐËÚÜÙÑÜË×ÞÙÍÙÜÜÏÍÞ possible to reduce waste in the use of the  ˾ÙÚÞÓ×ÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐáÏÓÑÒÞÎÓÝÞÜÓÌßÞÓÙØ and continuous descent approach ÎÏÐÏÍÞÝÞÒËÞËʥÏÍÞÐßÏÖãÓÏÖÎ˞ APUs at all stages of maintenance. to ensure the most suitable center of ÚÜÙÍÏÎßÜÏÝ˞  ˾áËÝÒÓØÑÏØÑÓØÏÝÞÙÏØÝßÜÏ×ÙÜÏ gravity.  ˾ßÝÏÙÐÞÙÙÖÝÝßÍÒËÝÞÒÏÝËÞÏÖÖÓÞÏ ÏʩÍÓÏØÞÍÙ×ÌßÝÞÓÙØËØÎÞÙÜÏÎßÍÏ Lastly, the airline group also enhanced global navigation systems to ensure safer, particulate emissions. management of inspection and maintenance ×ÙÜÏÏʩÍÓÏØÞËÚÚÜÙËÍÒ×ËØÏßàÏÜÝ˞ activities, which were coordinated with  ˾ÙÚÞÓ×ÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÍÜßÓÝÓØÑÝÚÏÏÎÝ˞ ﬂight operations. This integrated planning  ˾ÝÞËØÎËÜÎÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐËÚÚÜÙËÍÒËØÎ helped reduce the need to relocate planes landing operations. from one city to another exclusively for purposes of inspection, ensuring alignment between inspections and cargo or passenger transportation operations. These three measures were incorporated into LATAM’s routines, complementing the fuel eﬃciency initiatives already in use, which are described in the box below. 51 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 The diﬀerent fuel eﬃciency measures enabled a 5,000TJ reduction in the operation's energy consumption. ENERGY SAVINGS (TJ) EN6 27.6% use of apus 15.7% operational procedures 5,036 11.5% on-board weight reduction TJ 7.7% 3.3% opeed optimization maintenance panel total 5.3% engine washing 24.8% others 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Infrastructure Considering all energy sources, LATAM consumption dropped by 0.7% and energy Even though they represent only a small intensity remained stable. EN7 proportion of the company’s carbon footprint, ground operations are also the target of impact reduction initiatives. LATAM ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWH)* EN5 2013 2014 2015 ∆ 2015/2014 has developed construction and building enablement manuals based in Green Building Energy for Air Operations 45,280,763 44,389,626 44,136,305 -0.6% criteria, taking into account environmental matters, and is now working in implementing Energy for Ground Operations 87,742 213,547 174,103 -18.5% the in the infrastructure plan of the company. The company constantly develops programs Total 45,368,505 44,603,173 44,310,407 -0.7% to drive the rational use of water and energy. In terms of waste management, LATAM  ØÏÜÑãÏʩÍÓÏØÍã̙Ò˹͒͑͑ ̚ ͑˛͔͒ ͑˛͔͒ ͑˛͔͒ ͑˛͗ϯ takes measures to guarantee that the largest quantity possible of waste material remains in the production chain, and when this is not *Energy consumption (MWh): Includes internal and external consumption. Breakdown by type of consumption possible, it ensures adequate disposal. and type of fuel in Attachment 5. [+Attachment 5]. Even though the overall electricity consumption increased compared with 2014, Normally for the air industry, water The water crisis which began in the southeast we have developed several initiatives in 2015. consumption does not represent a signiﬁcant of Brazil in 2014 remained serious throughout environmental impact; however, LATAM 2015, particularly in the state of São Paulo. One of the initiatives adopted to reduce power has historically opted to monitor this Under the circumstances, LATAM maintained consumption was the modernization of the indicator. Consumption in 2015 was 335,900 its contingency plan to minimize its impacts. lighting at headquarters in Santiago, Chile. The m3, practically stable compared with 2014 One of the measures adopted was supplying light bulbs were replaced with more eﬃcient (335,100 m3). EN8 water for the aircraft at airports in regions models, driving a reduction in consumption of not aﬀected by the drought. In addition over 20%. Also, the airline group monitors the water to reducing demand in the region, these use in airplanes in order to optimize the measures ensured company operations were Also, in Colombia, an eco-eﬃciency and volume loaded and, therefore, reduce its not jeopardized. employee environmental awareness project consumption. is underway at the company’s three oﬃces in the capital, Bogota. A diagnosis conducted in 2015 identiﬁed potential energy savings of around 8%. 53 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 In 2015, the total waste generated by the operation increased by 37% ALTERNATIVE ENERGIES production plants and distributors could result compared with 2014, reaching 3,934.9 metric tons. in high transportation costs and a consequent Over the years LATAM has conducted three increase in the company’s carbon footprint due ﬂights using biofuels. In 2010, LAN Airlines to the long distances involved. WASTE (T) carried out a test ﬂight prior to ASTM Furthermore, governments have been certiﬁcation of this fuel; in 2012 it pioneered occupied with other issues lately, leaving little hazardous non hazardous the use of biofuel in a commercial ﬂight in or no space for the discussion of sustainable South America with a ﬂight in Chile; and in 2013 fuels. This has led to regulations imposing it was responsible for the ﬁrst commercial the incorporation of biofuels that have ended 2014 978.6 1.895.8 2,874.4 t (total) ﬂight in Colombia. up being impossible to apply. A case in point is Peru, where the government was forced 2015 920.6 3,014.3 3,934.9 t (total) LATAM adopts the positioning that the to revoke this ruling, it being impossible concept of alternative energies in aviation to execute due to high prices and the lack should not be limited to biofuels, but of volumes necessary to supply the airline (1) for non hazardous waste, the increment in the generation is explained because there was an rather extended to include all sustainable industry. increment in data coverage of 29% (in 2014 chile did not report this item). fuels. With this goal, the airline group has been active on a number of fronts, such as It is the company’s perception that the conducting studies on the eco-eﬃciency of feasibility of sustainable alternative fuels biofuels and the potential for using them in depends on the adoption of a multi-sector 2015 WASTE DESTINATION EN23 HAZARDOUS (T) NON HAZARDOUS (T) diﬀerent regions, promoting seminars and approach that includes fuel producers, engine debates with authorities in the countries in and aircraft manufacturers, policy-makers, as Landﬁll 92.21 1,606.30 which it operates, as well as monitoring the well as the airlines. Together they may address development of alternative fuels worldwide. this challenge and start developing guidelines Recycling 132.96 1,210.85 Through TAM, the company is a member of and sources of funding to stimulate the the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group incorporation of alternative sustainable fuels. Incineration 92.04 0 (SAFUG). The current conjuncture is not favorable for the use of this type of fuel in airline operations. Co-processing 223.55 19.18 In spite of these eﬀorts, incorporating the The constant pursuit of new energy sources is use of alternative sustainable fuels is still a key issue for the sustainable development of Controlled waste depot 238.15 0 not feasible in the region in which LATAM the industry, and LATAM will continue to work operates. There is a disparity between the on developing alternatives which will enable Eﬄuent treatment 123.48 0 volume of fuel required by the industry the use of more sustainable fuels in the future. and production volumes, which translates Others 18.21 178.03 into prices that are far higher than those of regular fossil fuels. Moreover, the location of Total 920.60 3,014.36 54 Safety INTEGRATED STRUCTURE 56 55 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SAFETY: INTEGRATED STRUCTURE Ensuring the highest safety standards for clients, Safety is a priority for LATAM. The airline employees and the community group addresses this question in an integrated Consolidating a culture of prevention fashion based on risk management at all stages of the operation, systematic performance monitoring and a commitment to continuous improvement, sustained by 2015 TARGETS: investments in technology, knowledge and the  ˾injury rate: 1.86 engagement of the entire work force. Safety management is aligned with the highest RESULTS international standards and is broken down  ˾ÓØÔßÜãÜËÞÏ˝͒˛͕͓̙͕͑˛͒ϯÜÏÎßÍÞÓÙØÞÒÜÙßÑÒÙßÞÞÒÏÍÙ×ÚËØã̚ into four speciﬁc areas: operational or in-ﬂight safety, corporate or infrastructure security,  ˾ÞËØÎËÜÎÓäËÞÓÙØÙÐÍÙÜÚÙÜËÞÏÚÜÙÍÏÎßÜÏÝ occupational safety and emergency response.  ˾̿͒×ÓÖÖÓÙØÓØÍÙÝÞÝËàÙÓÎÏÎ̙ÞÒÜÙßÑÒÜÏÎßÍÞÓÙØÓØÓØÝßÜËØÍÏÚÜÏ×Óß× As with in other company areas, 2015 was ÐÙÜ͓͑͒͗ËØÎ͓͑͒͘̚ the year in which corporate structures in the safety area were coordinated. LATAM progressed in the alignment and standardization of procedures for the entire OPERATIONAL SAFETY The analysis of operational performance, airline group operations, which enabled the in place since 2013, also takes into account integration of information and the adoption Using diverse tools and indicators, the human factors impacting safety, with action of a more systemic approach to safety airline group oversees ﬂeet behavior and plans incorporating factors linked with management. aircrew compliance with procedures aimed at team behavior. This work encompasses minimizing risks in ﬂight operations. Worthy crew members, as well as the airport and of note in 2015 was the consolidation of a maintenance teams, who work together to centralized information analysis system for identify risks and share best practices. all company ﬂights, collected individually by automated systems on each aircraft. In Work on monitoring and continuous addition to measuring performance, the improvement directly involves 130 company indicators are used to drive improvement executives. Operational managers in the measures. Based on the analysis of these holding company and safety managers from indicators, targets are established and speciﬁc areas meet on a monthly basis to reviewed periodically using as a yardstick the analyze the evolution of the indicators and best results from the previous period. discuss solutions for the problems and risks 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 identiﬁed. Furthermore, there are discussion to reinforce a culture of proactive risk series of measures to engage employees, in forums dedicated to questions inherent to prevention. Throughout the operation, teams particular leaders, was developed. human factors, cargo transportation and were focused on improving risk exposure airport operations. diagnoses and applying the information ÒÏÝÏ×ÏËÝßÜÏÝÜÏÝßÖÞÏÎÓØËØËàÏÜËÑÏ͕͒ϯ obtained in corrective plans. LATAM also reduction in the airline group’s injury rate. INFRASTRUCTURE SECURITY implanted its Action Plan Index to monitor ØÝÙ×ÏßØÓÞÝ˜ÞÒÏÎÏÍÜÏËÝÏÜÏËÍÒÏÎ͖͕ϯ the execution of actions plans. In parallel, a (see box). In line with the principle of standardization adopted by LATAM, operational security processes implanted by LATAM in 150 airports HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE / LA6 2014 2015 2015/2014 were redeﬁned based on a single standard and are aligned with local operating standards.  ß×ÌÏÜÙÐÓØÔßÜÓÏÝ ͒˜͓͔͕ ͔͚͘ ͕̋͑˛͒ϯ Currently the main focuses in infrastructure security are drugs and passengers with either  ËÞÏÙÐÓØÔßÜÓÏÝ̩ ͓˛͕ ͒˛͕͓ ͕̋͑˛͒ϯ ØÙàËÖÓÎÎÙÍß×ÏØÞÝ̙ÙßÞÙÐÎËÞÏÙÜÍÙßØÞÏÜÐÏÓÞ̚ ÙÜÙØÏÝÞÒËÞËÜÏÓØËÎ×ÓÝÝÓÌÖÏ̙ÚÜÙÒÓÌÓÞÏÎËÞ  ß×ÌÏÜÙÐÎËãÝÖÙÝÞ ͓͒˜͕͗͘ ͓͒˜͓͑͘ ͖̋˛͕ϯ ÞÒÏÎÏÝÞÓØËÞÓÙØ̚˛  ß×ÌÏÜÙÐÐËÞËÖÓÞÓÏÝ ͑ ͑ ͑ϯ OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY *Injury cases/average number of employees x100. This area underwent standardization in 2015, with the deﬁnition and approval in coordination with the corporate level of monitoring procedures and indicators to be applied throughout the group. The work was led by the Occupational Safety Center of Excellence and involved safety leaders in the diverse countries in which LATAM operates, who provided information, discussed best practices and sought solutions for common challenges. This joint eﬀort also enabled the deﬁnition of the company’s operational safety management strategy and macro objectives for the three following years. The idea is 57 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Aligned with the upgrading of the airline group’s at height or in conﬁned spaces, exposure EMERGENCY RESPONSE approach to risk, a number of LATAM units to noise and handling mobile equipment, have implanted measures to drive synergies hydraulic systems or aircraft engines. In 2015, LATAM consolidated its corporate and knowledge to enhance management in this Risks of illnesses are related to exposure emergency response plan, which incorporated area. In Chile, for example, the environmental to ﬁberglass, UV radiation, solvents, dust the best practices developed in the diverse and occupational safety teams joined forces to mites and vibrations, manipulation of metals, group companies. Overseen by the Emergency create a plan to boost the efﬁciency of internal manual work with cargoes and psychosocial Committee, which reports directly to the audits and discussed joint actions to improve risk factors, which may provoke asthma, CEO, the plan mobilizes 5 thousand people legal compliance and reduce indirect impacts. tendinitis, injuries, allergies, skin cancer and organized in 11 local committees and is based work-related stress. The company works on three directives: caring for passengers The main risks of accidents in the company on minimizing these risks and monitors and family members; supporting authorities are concentrated in six categories: work associated indicators. LA7 in investigation processes; and keeping the ×ÏÎÓËÓØÐÙÜ×ÏÎ˛Ù×Ï͕˜͑͑͑àÙÖßØÞÏÏÜ employees are also prepared to provide humanitarian aid. SAFETY AND SAVINGS improvement of monitoring mechanisms, as well as initiatives to drive employee Groups of employees are trained especially In Andes, the LATAM unit responsible for all awareness, engagement and coto provide support in aviation incidents, ground support for ﬂight operations in Chile, responsibility. focused on meeting the immediate needs of the restructuring of occupational safety In addition to analyzing the most common passengers and their families and the provision management helped reduce the injury rate by incidents, mapping work place-related risk of psychological support. The plan also 54% compared with 2014. In addition to the situations, equipment conditions, information incorporates measures to ensure the continuity direct gains in employee health and safety, levels, employee training and their behavior of company activities and the provision of this reduction also enabled productivity in risk situations, the company also sought to information to the media and authorities. gains and savings for the company. With identify the correlation between individual the reduction in claims, LATAM was able to attitudes and organizational culture. In 2015, all executives and the 300 negotiate better terms in the annual renewal Employees were invited to participate in a emergency monitors who work at the airports of its insurance contract in 2015, with a US$ 1 survey based on an internationally approved received training. million reduction in the premium for the next methodology focused on aspects related to two years. people management, engagement, internal This work was aligned with LATAM’s climate and the degree of identiﬁcation with overall eﬀorts to broaden its approach to corporate practices. Around 80% of the risk management through the enhanced work force participated in the survey, the identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities, the results of which will be used to implement improvements. 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 People SIMPLICITY AND EFFICIENCY 60 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PEOPLE: SIMPLICITY AND Also worthy of note was an initiative EFFICIENCY to consolidate the LATAM culture, with the organization of a massive agenda of workshops. The ﬁrst wave was for leaders, To meet the challenge of ensuring the with all the company’s 1,500 team leaders alignment and high performance of 50,413 taking the courses. In a second stage, the professionals, comprising 62 diﬀerent training was extended to the teams, with the nationalities in 26 countries, LATAM maintains target of reaching all passenger-facing staﬀ a human resources management framework by the end of 2016. that comprehends talent attraction and retention, training, performance management A total of over 2 million hours of technical, and succession management. The work done behavioral and leadership training was by this area supports the company’s ﬁve provided for employees in the diverse strategic pillars and its aspiration to be one of company areas, averaging 41.5 hours per the three best airlines worldwide. person. In 2015, a key focus was process simpliﬁcation and standardization of training for the entire AVERAGE NUMBER OF HOURS TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE group. Courses were adapted to incorporate modiﬁcations in procedures, in particular in the regulatory and safety areas. Based on a 2013 40.7 central design, these will be executed locally in the countries in which LATAM and its aﬃliates 2014 36.0 have operations. For example, this process enabled the delivery of a single compliance 2015 41.5 training program for the entire LATAM group, covering the main internal compliance policies hours and guidelines. 42,300 employees were 0 10 20 30 40 50 trained, representing 84% of the work force. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENGAGEMENT FOR LEADERSHIP ROLE SUSTAINABILITY HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SUPPORT FOR LEADERS LATAM invests in training its employees In the eﬀort to consolidate and disseminate in the economic, social and environmental the organizational culture, of key importance In line with the goals of simplifying processes aspects of sustainability. In parallel with the In 2015, LATAM implanted the use of are the team leaders, responsible for driving and driving efﬁciency gains, LATAM has incorporation of these questions into business tricycles to help employees move more employee engagement in the day to day been reﬁning the tools it provides to support strategy, the company has been striving to quickly around the Maintenance Base in operations and ensuring their alignment leaders in managing their teams. In 2015, the raise employee consciousness and knowledge Santiago, Chile. These vehicles present with strategic objectives. The team leaders company created a virtual library containing in sustainability-related issues. a number of advantages compared with played an important role in preparing the the main documents on people management the electric motorcycles used previously: development and culture workshops. A group policies and practices, which are updated Corporate health, safety and environment they do not generate any environmental of 40 leaders was responsible for training and available for consultation and download. guidelines are set forth in the Code of Conduct impact, are equipped with cargo platforms other leaders, who acted as multipliers, An internal contact center was also set up to which was approved in 2014. The company has for transporting heavier objects and help replicating the courses to their teams. clarify team leaders’ doubts. In the ﬁrst six developed speciﬁc training programs based employees to stay ﬁt; they can also be months of activity, 98% of the leaders rated on the document to disseminate its contents maintained and repaired by suppliers already the service as “excellent”. among the work force. Sustainability was working on the Base. In a survey conducted also featured in the LATAM culture workshop among users, the tricycles were considered to To enable managers to be independent and program taken by the entire work force. be the safest and most convenient means of proactive in managing their own careers, transport by 67% of the respondents. studies are underway to improve information Moreover, forums and workshops are being channels. In the Chilean unit, a Personnel organized to brainstorm improvements in Focused on emissions reduction, the company Attention Module is in place on the company environmental development to encourage oﬀers its employees incentives to encourage intranet, providing each employee with environmentally friendly choices among environmentally responsible commuting. information on their functional situation in the company personnel. Some units provide vans for employee company. The idea is to reﬁne this model and transportation, as well as preferential parking extend it to the rest of the operation. The airline group’s progress and challenges for participants in car sharing schemes. related to environmental performance are also addressed in a monthly newsletter sent to all employees. 61 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYEES (2015) G4-10 PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT To drive internal mobility and the pursuit of new professional challenges within the airline Performance appraisal is conducted in group, LATAM posts job vacancies on the accordance with objective, predeﬁned criteria company intranet. Employees also receive a and periodic calibration forums, involving all weekly summary of the opportunities available 5% argentina company executives and ensuring uniformity via email. 52% brazil in the reviews of the entire group. Around 95% of the staﬀ eligible for assessment Focused speciﬁcally on employees identiﬁed 50,413 25% 3% chile ecuador were submitted to structured appraisal and feedback processes in 2015. The process as high potential, in 2015 the airline group conducted its Talent Review, which brought includes employees at all hierarchical levels together the professionals responsible for talent EMPLOYEES 8% peru in all the countries in which LATAM operates, management throughout the operation for an total with the exception of special cases such as exchange of information on the main proﬁles 1% united states union representatives or employees on leave identiﬁed and the needs of each country. for more than 180 days. The air crew appraisal 3% others otros process follows a speciﬁc calendar which extends to the ﬁrst quarter of the year after the period assessed. LA11 PILOTS: RIGOROUS SELECTION The employee appraisal results determine Pilot selection at LATAM incorporates career progression, and high performance is international parameters governing technical 19,483 30,930 rewarded with development opportunities. knowledge, aeronautics and ﬂight simulator In 2015, 85% of the vacancies for executive tests, as well as psychological factors, in line women men employees employees positions were ﬁlled by existing company with the legal requirements in the diverse employees, higher than the target rate for the countries in which the airline operates. To period (70%). Moreover, 38.1% of employees ensure autonomy, the process is outsourced considered to be high performers changed and subject to external veriﬁcation. It is also job during the year and 84.7% received salary submitted to internal audit, involving meetings increases. with representatives of the Human Resources area and senior Flight Operations and Safety executives. 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REMUNERATION SUCCESSION Focused on the future, LATAM maintains a PILOTS: RIGOROUS SELECTION The company’s remuneration strategies structured succession plan, the execution include a ﬁxed salary and a variable of which is closely monitored. Potential In recent years the turnover rate has remained stable in the company, at around 15%. component, based on performance against successors have been identiﬁed for around A number of measures have contributed to this performance, such as the enhancement of corporate, departmental and individual 78% of the company’s critical positions, be recruitment and selection processes, employee engagement, performance appraisal and goals and targets. Employees also receive it professionals deemed completely ready internal mobility, in addition to development and talent retention initiatives. beneﬁts such as medical assistance, accident to assume the new function (61%) or those insurance, maternity and paternity leave, undergoing preparation within the company pension plan and stock purchase plan. LA2 (17%). The result exceeded the 70% target established for the period. To stimulate team development and a high STAFF TURNOVER LA1 performance culture To promote internal engagement and strengthen 15.0% the LATAM culture 14.6% 2015 TARGETS: 15.5%  ˾ ÎÏØÞÓʨÍËÞÓÙØÙÐÚÙÞÏØÞÓËÖÝßÍÍÏÝÝÙÜÝÐÙÜ͑͘ϯÙÐÍÜÓÞÓÍËÖÚÙÝÓÞÓÙØÝ turnover 0 5 10 15 20  ˾ËØËÑÓØÑÞßÜØÙàÏÜ RESULTS  ˾ËÚÚÓØÑÙÐÝßÍÍÏÝÝÙÜÝÐÙÜ͙͘ϯÙÐÞÒÏÚÙÝÓÞÓÙØÝÍÙØÝÓÎÏÜÏÎÞÙÌÏÍÜÓÞÓÍËÖ 63 Corporate Responsability GENERATING 65 VALUE SUSTAINABLE 67 TOURISM SOCIAL ASPECTS 69 OF THE OPERATION 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSABILITY: or offering special terms for humanitarian and charges and spending on accommodation, GENERATING VALUE environmental protection initiatives, LATAM meals, transfers, excursions and shopping. reinforces its links with society and helps to In 2015, LATAM was the ofﬁcial sponsor of the LATAM is committed to the social and promote autonomy9. 12 th summit meeting of the Adventure Travel economic development of the regions in which Trade Association (ATTA), which represents it operates and to generating shared value for ECONOMIC STIMULUS ec8 adventure tourism operators the world over. its diverse stakeholders. The company has The meeting is held every two years, always in been engaged in an ongoing effort to drive Air transportation is a key driver for global a different location. The 2015 encounter took sustainability further into its business strategy. development and the world economy, enabling place in Puerto Varas in Chile By means of the accurate diagnosis of risks more efﬁcient transportation of people and opportunities throughout its relationship and goods around the globe. The industry10 9 Obs.: in addition to the initiatives aimed at external stakeholders described in network, LATAM strives to promote positive generates over 8.7 million 2 direct jobs and this chapter, the concept of corporate citizenship, which represents one of the impacts and mitigate the potentially another 49.3 million indirect ones globally, dimensions of LATAM’s sustainability strategy, also encompasses the work force, negative impacts of its operation. This work as well as driving other sectors. The global driving measures to promote employee quality of life. This aspect is addressed in is conducted via a cross functional structure economic impact is some US$ 2.4 trillion, greater detail in the chapter People in this report. focused on four areas: representing 3.5% of global Gross Domestic 10 Source: Aviation: benefits beyond borders, Air Transportation Action Group Product. Around 35% of world trade – in value (ATAG), published in April 2014. ˾ Considering social and environmental – involves air transportation. The share is even Obs.: the data refer to 2012 and comprehend commercial aircraft operators, variables in the creation and offer of greater in the tourist industry, with 52% of airports, air navigation service providers and aircraft and aircraft component products and services that improve the holiday makers traveling by air. manufacturers. client experience 11 Based on information provided by Sernatur (Chile), Mincetur (Peru), Indec According to the World Travel & Tourism (Argentina), Ministries of Tourism (Brazil and Ecuador), the World Bank and ˾ Supporting values in the company’s Council (WTTC), the sector accounted for 284 Procolombia. internal culture, such as a passion for million jobs in 2015, generating around US$ 7.8 ﬂying and genuine care for people trillion for the global economy, an increase of and was attended by some 700 professionals 3% compared with 2014. from 55 countries. In addition to promoting ˾ Contributing to the economic discussions on sector trends and development and As the leader in the region, LATAM contributed opportunities, the event enables the tourism towards leveraging the sector’s results. In operators to discover new destinations ˾ Help to converse the continent’s 2015, the company transported more than 4.8 in the host country, as well as develop environment and reinforcing its cultural million passengers from diverse regions of closer relations and identify partnership heritage of Latin America. the world to the main destinations in South opportunities in the local market. America, with an impact estimated at US$ 4.7 By fostering sustainable tourism, undertaking billion. This total includes the average amount private social investment in local development spent per tourist as informed by tourism projects, providing free cargo transportation organizations in the region11 , including airport 65 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSABILITY: CORPORATE RESPONSABILITY: GENERATING VALUE GENERATING VALUE BEYOND THE INDUSTRY LATAM – INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS the aviation sector's global employment and gdp impact2. south america – main destinations (2015) 21.3% chile aviation direct 4.8 indirect 36.2% brazil employement 606 8.7 18.6 23.2 58.1 + (millions) induced 14.9% argentina 1,303 1,627 catalytic tourism R$MILLION 17.0% perú 2,434 catalytic others PASSENGERS 6.4% colombia + total 4.2% ecuador gdp (us$ billion) (1)based on information in oxford economics, published in the atag study aviation: benefits beyond borders. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSABILITY: In Chile, 40 young volunteers worked together Some 100 young people from three NGOs SUSTAINABLE TOURISM on building a space in which artisans from the that work in local communities took part in city of Neltume could produce their work and the workshops. The end of the event was To leverage the positive effects its operation receive the hundreds of tourists that visit the marked by music, capoeira, theater and dance generates for tourism in South America, town every year. US$ 29,300 was invested performances, as well as graffiti in the city of LATAM engages a series of local actors in the project, which took three months to Rio de Janeiro. R$ 114,600 was invested in the in initiatives that combine economic execute. The intervention has helped empower project. development, environmental consciousness the women involved and develop their small In Colombia, the Cuido mi destino program and the preservation of cultural heritage. businesses, which now represent an important was implanted in San Andrés. Additionally, source of income for families in Neltume. the 2013-2015 cycle of interventions in Together with other companies, nonIn Puerto Natales, also in Chile, the access Girón, Santander, was concluded, with the governmental organizations and government was remodeled and Community Participation participation of more than 100 students, representatives, LATAM supports the Workshops were set up to boost tourism in the 70 members of the tourism business chain implementation of strategic plans for region. US$ 25,000 was invested in the city, (such as hotels, travel agencies and tourism sustainable tourism and the development of one of the most important tourist destinations operators), 15 suppliers and 60 LATAM tools for identifying risks and critical issues in the country. After the airport has been volunteers and employees. and for mitigating impacts, in addition to modernized, LAN should begin to operate a providing information and driving client and direct flight to the city from Santiago. DIGITAL LITERACY passenger awareness in this area. EC7 Female artisans in Neltume, Chile, are In Peru, the measures were aimed at valuing learning to take their first steps in the In the Cuido mi Destino program, created in public spaces and organizing workshops to digital world. Through a partnership 2009, LATAM coordinates the work done by promote consciousness of the importance between LAN and the foundation Chilenter, employee volunteers, students and authorities of the environment and tourism. Between the women received a donation comprising in repairing and refurbishing tourist spaces 2010 and 2015, US$ 81,000 was invested in a room equipped with ten computers for in determined cities, settlements or regions. remodeling work on the Mirador de Acuchimay digital literacy courses. In the classes, The places selected are submitted to belvedere in Ayacucho and in Pantanos de the women learn the basics of computing, three interventions, which are defined in Villa, an area in Lima that shelters more than including how to communicate by email and conjunction with the local community, over 200 species of birds. The local was visited by how to publicize their products on the social a three-year period. The goal is to promote 34,000 tourists in 2015. The work was carried networks. In addition to developing their the development of sustainable tourism. The out by 163 people, including LAN employees, small businesses, this helps them attract program also has a direct positive impact on students and teachers. customers from areas other than where the economy and commerce in these areas. they live. The courses were held in October In Brazil, 16 volunteer employees gave fours In 2015, the group invested US$ 195,500 in days of workshops on sustainable tourism and November 2015 and should continue in these measures. Since 2009, spending has as part of the commemoration of the 450th the first quarter of 2016. A total of US$ 700 totaled US$ 1.6 million. anniversary of the state of Rio de Janeiro. was invested in the project. 67 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 AN INTEGRATED LOOK AT THE American gastronomy and the care that POTATOES WITH DESIGNATION OF ORIGIN BUSINESS goes into planning and preparing food for Nowadays the potato is a fundamental passengers. The wealth of Latin America, culinary ingredient in diverse European Large companies have complex structures which encompasses landscapes as diverse countries, such as Russia, Poland and characterized by numerous simultaneous as the Caribbean, Patagonia, the Argentinean Spain, but cultivation of this tuber has processes with established goals and targets, Pampas, the Brazilian Northeast and the its origins in the Americas. In the Andean Frequently, the pressures of the day to day Amazon, the importance of the origin and region alone, more than 10,000 varieties tasks limit a team’s capacity to rethink the identity of the food and the connection have been identified, a veritable genetic work it does and incorporate new approaches. between gastronomy, cultural heritage and treasure that inspires popular feasts and To avoid this, LATAM created the Espacio LAB tourism were some of the aspects considered. tourist events in Peru, Bolivia and Chile. The (Lab Space), which stimulates reflection on the Chilean archipelago Chiloé, for example, has dynamics of company routines and the pursuit This study drove the refinement of the basic 286 native types that come in a variety of of creative solutions that add value for the concept of in-flight meals and communication shapes and colors, ranging from red, white company and for its strategic stakeholders. with the client. The plan for 2016 is to and blue to yellow, black, purple and pink. A increment the menu with a product-focused cuisine. The company is considering including number are described below: The Espacio Lab brings together employees from different company areas with the typical seasonal Latin American ingredients common goal of establishing a new meaning such as potatoes from Chiloé, cocoa from ˾ viscocha: used in the preparation of for the client experience based on the values Peru, salmon from Patagonia. Apart from pasta and dough such as gnocchi, and attributes associated with the LATAM experiencing new flavors, passengers will dumplings or potato pancakes; brand, such as innovation, its ties with Latin learn some of the history of the region and America and the delivery of a differentiated curious details that make up its heritage. ˾ clavela lisa: rosy in color with a creamy experience. The methodology employed texture, it is ideal for tortillas; encompasses the study of scenarios and trends and the integration of different ˾ guadacho: known for its variety of viewpoints in a joint construction. External colors (red, blue, white and black); stakeholders – such as clients, opinion formers and specialists – and the different company ˾ cabra: with a sweet, slightly peppery areas – including crew members, catering flavor, it is typically fried; and operations teams – were invited to participate. ˾ bruja: dark in color, normally eaten as a salad. One of the items the team focused on in 2015 was in-flight meals, which were analyzed employing a multifaceted approach, incorporating the cultural value of Latin 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSABILITY: Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais In Peru, LAN provides transportation for SOCIAL ASPECTS OF THE Renováveis) ensured the return of 70 wild cargo during national emergencies, as well OPERATION animals – toucans, macaws and one jaguar – to as for donations that are in accordance with their natural habitats in 2015. This work has the company’s procedures manual. In 2015, Through free or subsidized services offered by been in place since 2009. some 1,500 blankets were delivered to needy its units, LATAM facilitates logistics for social families in its areas of influence. 59 laptops and environmental initiatives in different In Chile, agreements were established with the and 842 kits of school materials were donated regions in the world. EC7 Mundo Mar Foundation and the National Fisheries to the Colégio de Ciudad de Papel and the Service to transport marine animals rescued on Machu Pichu local government, benefiting 380 CARGO UNIT the Chilean coast to recovery shelters. Seven people. The communities of Chosica and Villa Removal of recyclable waste from Easter animals were transported in 2015. el Salvador received 13t of clothes and food. Island Similarly, 708 computer components and used HUNTING TROPHIES Free of charge, the company transports telephones weighing 1.5 t were transported In 2015, LATAM joined the commitment post-consumer cardboard and plastic waste for the Ciudad de Papel electronic equipment proposed by the oneworld alliance to ban which is collected by the local government recycling program. This work has had a positive the transportation of the “big five” hunting and prepared for recycling. The island is one impact on the LATAM work force, as evidenced trophies: elephant, rhinoceros, lion, leopard of the most isolated places in the world, by an internal survey conducted in 2015, and Cape buffalo. located in the Pacific Ocean 3,700 kilometers showing that 97% of the employees approve off the South American coast. LAN maintains the company’s humanitarian aid measures. strong links with the island. It is the only airline Humanitarian aid During the year, 820 volunteers took part in serving this destination, which was included in The Avião Solidário (Humanitarian Airplane) the programmed activities, exceeding the its network in 1967. program in Chile provides support in target established for the period by 40%. social initiatives and natural catastrophes The transportation of waste is aligned with and emergencies in partnership with In Brazil, a number of clothing and food LATAM’s commitment to help preserve vulnerable governments and civil society organizations. donation campaigns were conducted as part ecosystems in the destinations it operates. In 2015, the aircraft transported more than of the 2015 Social Action program, which 120t of foodstuffs and medicines for those raised more than 900 kg of goods. When the In 2015, 302.6 metric tons of waste were left homeless by the rains in Northern Chile, state of Acre suffered one of the biggest transported. The material is sold to recycling in a coordinated action with the Fundación floods in its history, some 1,800 cleaning operators, and the funds generated by the Desafío Levantamos Chile. During the crisis products were donated, and employees who operation are invested in environmental initiatives between Colombia and Venezuela, the work in the city of São Paulo were transported undertaken by the island’s local government. aircraft carried humanitarian aid from Bogota to the region to assist in volunteer work. to the border region. In Argentina, it provided Almost 170 kg of food were collected after Animal rescue support for the work done by the Banco floods in the states of Santa Catarina and Rio In Brazil, an agreement with the environmental de Alimentos (Food Bank), transporting Grande do Sul, while employee volunteers agency Ibama (Instituto Brasileiro do 17t of food. provided humanitarian support. 69 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Organ transport been in place since 2006. This support is aimed biggest ever engagement with an ONG. More In Brazil, a cooperation agreement with at facilitating transportation for people who than 100 domestic and international air tickets the Ministry of Health enables the free work in these institutions, so that they may were donated in this initiative. TAM Linhas air transportation of organs, tissue and expand their field of action. Aéreas grants free domestic and international the medical teams involved in transplant air tickets to almost 30 institutions engaged operations nationwide. The agreement has In Colombia, the air ticket donation in sustainable social development activities been in place since 2013 and, in addition to the program benefited the Operación Sonrisa all over Brazil. These tickets contribute airport authority Infraero (Empresa Brasileira Colombia Foundation, which provides to the realization of a series of projects de Infraestrutura Aeroportuária), involves assistance for children with cleft lip and aimed at income generation, environmental other airlines in the country. In 2015, TAM palate in diverse regions of the country. conservation, humanitarian aid, health, made the second largest contribution to organ Around 300 tickets were used to transport education and sustainable tourism. In 2015, transport among the airlines in Brazil, carrying doctors, patients and family members, 28 institutions received a total of 1,689 air 1,500 items, including organs, tissue and enabling corrective surgery for 388 tickets, a 38% increase over the previous year. medical teams. children and assessment for a further 750. In Ecuador, the Toqué el Cielo con LAN Art and culture In Peru, the company offers free air transport program enables low-income children to To promote culture, LAN Cargo established for low-income individuals requiring have the opportunity to travel by air. The a new partnership with the CorpArtes emergency medical treatment outside the program is part of an agreement with Foundation, a Chilean organization dedicated area in which they live. In 2015, a total of 683 diverse institutions. The organization Plan to broadening access to culture, with a strong people received free tickets, encompassing Internacional conducts a means test to select emphasis on education, providing high quality both humanitarian aid and partnerships with the beneficiaries of the program. artistic experiences to boost cultural capital. institutions. In Colombia, the company supported TELETON initiatives by the Habitat Sur Foundation, In Brazil, the company donated 516 air tickets In Chile, every year the company transporting mobile libraries in the Amazon to people requiring medical treatment away participates in the Teletón, a major charity region, and the RE Foundation, transporting from their homes. Through a partnership event broadcast on television and aimed at musical instruments. with the NGO Make-A-Wish, the company raising funds for rehabilitation centers for also donated tickets to enable children with children and young people with motor skill DONATION OF AIR TICKETS TO serious illnesses to make their dream of disorders. The Teletón is a private non-profit CHARITY ec7 visiting a particular place in the world come institution which brings companies, artists, true. In 2015, the company intensified this communication media and the governments In 2015, LATAM donated 575 tickets. In partnership, launching a volunteer program together to raise donations. The event is addition to the three organizations with for employees interested in participating in held in most Latin American countries. In which the company has ongoing agreements the initiative. They formed different groups to 2015, LATAM donated US$ 420,700 during – Fundación Techo, América Solidaria and work on making the children’s dreams come the event. Coaniquem – requests were also granted from true. A total of 200 employees helped make the organization María Ayuda. The project has the dreams of 40 children come true in TAM’s 70 About the Report REPORTING 72 PROCESS AND MATERIALITY G.R.I CONTENT 74 INDEX GLOBAL COMPACT 82 CREDITS 83 71 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT: REPORTING and specialists in the aviation sector; our clients new demands; PROCESS AND MATERIALITY ˾ global reference documents on critical ˾ health and safety in the air and on the sector questions and impacts, such as the ground: to manage potential risks and publications Sustainability topics for Sectors to ensure the highest safety standards The LATAM 2015 Sustainability Report presents the – What do Stakeholders Want to Know, from for our clients, employees and the most important information about the economic, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the community; social and ﬁnancial performance of the companies Airlines Sustainability Accounting Standard in the LATAM Airlines Group during the period guide from the Sustainability Accounting ˾ talent management and controlling from January 1st to December 31st, 2015. The Standards Board (SASB); staff turnover: to enhance performance publication was prepared based on the Global and career management in the different Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, the main ˾ internal LATAM policies, including its business units aimed at creating an global reference for communicating sustainability. Corporate Sustainability Strategy and the integrated LATAM culture; It fulﬁlls the requirements for the application of the business’s strategic pillars; Core option of the methodology, as attested in the ˾ eco-efﬁcient management: to achieve independent veriﬁcation conducted by Deloitte. ˾ the company’s external commitments, such standards of excellence in the use of as the Carbon Neutral Growth 2020 initiative natural resources and in managing waste; The report content was determined based organized by the International Air Transport on the GRI methodology principles – balance, Association (IATA). ˾ mitigating climate change: to continually completeness, materiality and stakeholder reduce emissions intensity, to research inclusiveness – and reﬂects LATAM’s management In line with the recommendations in the GRI-G4 new energy technology and control of the most relevant topics for its sustainability guidelines, senior management analyzed the company impacts on air quality; strategy. These topics are revised annually to topics which could potentially impact LATAM and guarantee alignment with the expectations and its stakeholder groups, as well as the company’s ˾ noise reduction: to constantly control needs of the company’s stakeholders and to ensure capacity to inﬂuence each topic. At the end of the the acoustic impact of aircraft on closer focus in its action plans and communication process, the interrelationships between the topics communities close to airports and to strategies. deﬁned as priorities were analyzed and strategies invest in noise reduction technology; devised to group them together or separate them The following elements were taken into account in order to ensure even greater clarity and accuracy ˾ government relations, fair competition in the materiality process underpinning the 2015 in the processes of monitoring and communicating and speciﬁc regulatory matters: to Sustainability Report: G4-18 and G4-26 the results. maintain permanent dialogue with ˾ the results of a broad stakeholder consultation The end result of this process is the following process carried out in December 2013, which list: involved individual interviews, meetings, panel discussions and online surveys that conveyed ˾ client connectivity and relationship: to the opinions and perceptions of executives, invest in service quality, in transparent employees, clients, suppliers, market analysts and ethical communication and in meeting 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 governments, local authorities and sector monitored are aspects related to the material G4-19 to G4-21 and G4-27 associations geared towards achieving themes in managing sustainability, such as MATERIAL G.R.I LIMITS responsible business solutions; customer satisfaction, linked with the topic TOPIC ASPECT Is the aspect material Is the aspect material INDICATOR1 CHAPTER3 inside the organization? outside the organization? of connectivity, and talent management and Marketing Yes Yes (clients) PR5 ˾ economic and ﬁnancial sustainability: controlling staff turnover, which are part of Client connectivity communications Clients and relations Product and to drive synergies in cost and asset the Organizational Health Index (OHI). The service labeling Yes Yes (clients) PR7 management and the planning of current topic of economic-financial sustainability also Health and safety in Occupational Yes (clients People and future investments, focused on comes into this stage of the calculation and the air and on the health and safety Yes and society) LA6 Safety ground generating value for the company and its is monitored via company income and cost capital providers; efficiency indicators. Talent management Employment Yes No LA1 and controlling staﬀ People turnover Training and Yes No LA9 education ˾ value chain: to adopt speciﬁc parameters The third stage of the calculation takes into EN3 for ethics, sustainability and ecoaccount specific topics and indicators for each Eco-eﬃcient Energy Yes Yes EN6 Environment efﬁciency in managing suppliers. area. Among the company’s top 19 executives, management Eﬄuents and waste Yes Yes EN23 15 have targets linked with customer EN15 Each material topic has one or more indicators satisfaction, 8 answer for safety-related EN16 Climate change EN17 (see table) through which the company topics, six have targets linked with the OHI mitigation Emissions Yes Yes EN18 Environment EN19 monitors its progress against goals and and 5 have targets related to environmental EN20 EN21 targets. All are directly or indirectly related performance. to the macro objectives of the business Noise reduction3 There is no related Environment GRI aspect. and are backed by deﬁned strategies and Information on the management of the Government SO4 people responsible for their execution. The material topics and the results achieved is relations, fair Anti-corruption Yes No SO5 competition and The Company company’s performance impacts the variable presented in the 2015 LATAM Sustainability speciﬁc regulatory Anti-competitive Yes Yes (regulatory and SO7 matters behavior government authorities) remuneration of leaders, who manage results Report, the purpose of which is to hold EC1 via a matrix structure. the company accountable to its different Economic-ﬁnancial Economic performance Yes Yes (investors) EC2 Strategy sustainability stakeholder groups in relation to its Indirect economic Yes Yes (suppliers, EC7 EC8 communities) impacts Safety performance, for example, and more commitment to integrating the economic, Value chain Supplier assessment LA15 specifically the non-occurrence of any social and environmental dimensions of for labor practices Yes Yes (suppliers) accidents, is the trigger for the payment the business, striving for balance in the Supplier human rights Yes Yes (suppliers) HR11 The Company Environment assessment or not of a bonus each year. A second goals of driving economic growth, managing Supplier environmental stage of the calculation takes into account environmental impacts and generating social assessment Yes Yes (suppliers) EN33 performance against corporate targets, which progress in the communities in which the directly affects the Executive Committee’s organization operates. 1 GRI indicator through which LATAM monitors performance in each material topic. In addition to these priority topics, the report also presents other GRI indicators relevant for managing the company. variable remuneration and impacts the variable component of remuneration for all 2 Chapter in which the topic is covered in this report. employees. Worthy of note among the targets 3 Although it is not directly related to any GRI aspect, the topic was covered in the report with information gathered on how it is managed at LATAM, as well as the company’s goals and targets and the results achieved. 73 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT: GRI CONTENT INDEX GENERAL CONTENT Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance Strategy and analysis G4-1 Message from the PAGE 8 Verified. See president PAGE 85 Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 Name of the PAGE 10 Verified. See organization PAGE 85 G4-4 Primary brands, PAGE 10 Verified. See products and/ or PAGE 85 services G4-5 Location of Chile Verified. See the organization's PAGE 85 headquarter G4-6 Countries in which PAGE 10 Verified. See the operation's main or PAGE 85 most relevant units for the sustainability aspects of the report are located G4-7 Nature of PAGE 24 Verified. See ownership and legal PAGE 85 form G4-8 Markets served PAGE 10 Verified. See PAGE 85 G4-9 Scale of PAGE 10 Verified. See organization PAGE 85 G4-10 Employee proﬁle All employees are hired Verified. See on permanent contracts PAGE 85 and 99.2% work full-time. Further information on PAGE 91 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-11 Percentage of 68% of company Verified. See Material aspects G4-17 Entities included All the subsidiaries were Verified. See employees covered by employees are covered PAGE 85 identiﬁed and in the organization's covered by the report. PAGE 85 collective bargaining by collective bargaining boundaries consolidated ﬁnancial agreements agreements. statements, and entities G4-12 Description of PAGE 15 Verified. See not included in the report organization’s supply PAGE 85 G4-18 Process for PAGE 72 Verified. See chain deﬁning the report PAGE 85 G4-13 Signiﬁcant There were no signiﬁcant Verified. See content changes in the changes. PAGE 85 G4-19 List of material PAGE 73 Verified. See organization’s size, aspects PAGE 85 structure, ownership, G4-20 Boundary within PAGE 73 Verified. See and supplier chain the organization for each PAGE 85 G4-14 Description of The company does Verified. See material aspect how the precautionary not formally adopt the PAGE 85 G4-21 Boundary outside PAGE 73 Verified. See approach or principle precautionary principle, the organization for each PAGE 85 is addressed by the but its planning does take material aspect organization into account potential G4-22 Restatements of There were no Verified. See operational risks for information provided in restatements of PAGE 85 consumers and society. previous reports information from All the group's services, previous reports. including routes, itineraries, G4-23 Signiﬁcant There were no signiﬁcant Verified. See maintenance activities and changes in scope and changes. PAGE 85 loyalty programs comply boundaries of material with applicable legislation. aspects in relation to G4-15 Social charters, PAGE 17 Verified. See previous reports principles, or other PAGE 85 initiatives developed Stakeholder G4-24 List of PAGE 19 Verified. See externally engagement stakeholder groups PAGE 85 engaged by the G4-16 Participation PAGE 17 Verified. See organization in associations and PAGE 85 organizations G4-25 Basis for PAGE 19 Verified. See identiﬁcation PAGE 85 and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to PAGE 72 Verified. See stakeholder engagement PAGE 85 75 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-27 Key topics and PAGE 73 Verified. See SPECIFIC concerns that have PAGE 85 Economic category been raised through engagement, by Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance stakeholder group Report proﬁle G4-28 Reporting period From January 1st to Verified. See Economic performance DMA* PAGE 34 Not verified by external December 31st 2015. PAGE 85 assurance G4-29 Date of most 2015 Verified. See EC1Direct economic PAGE 37 Verified. See recent previous report PAGE 85 value generated and PAGE 85 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual Verified. See distributed PAGE 85 EC2 Financial PAGE 45 Verified. See G4-31 Contact point for investor.relations@lan. Verified. See implications and other PAGE 85 questions regarding the com PAGE 85 risks and opportunities report or its contents for organization’s activities due to climate G4-32 Option of Core Verified. See change application of guidelines PAGE 85 and location of GRI table Indirect economic DMA* PAGES 16, 65, 69 Not verified by external Impacts assurance Governance G4-33 Policy and current The report underwent Verified. See practice with regard external assurance. PAGE 85 EC7 Development and PAGES 16, 65, 69 Verified. See to seeking external impact of infrastructure PAGE 85 assurance for the report investments supported G4-34 Organization's PAGE 24 Verified. See EC8 Description of PAGE 65 Verified. See governance structure PAGE 85 signiﬁcant indirect PAGE 85 economic impacts Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, PAGE 24 Verified. See standards and norms PAGE 85 of behavior in the organization 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY EN17 Other indirect PAGE 48 Verified. See greenhouse gas PAGE 85 Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance emissionsbargaining Energy DMA* ATTACHMENTS Not verified by external agreements PAGES 53, 54 assurance EN18 Greenhouse gas PAGE 48 Verified. See EN3 Energy consumption ATTACHMENTS Verified. See emission intensity PAGE 85 within the organization PAGE 91 (attachment 5) PAG 85 EN19 Reduction of PAGE 48 Verified. See EN5 Energy intensity 2015 PERFORMANCE Not verified by external greenhouse gas emissions PAGE 85 and ATTACHMENTS assurance EN20 Emissions PAGE 49 Verified. See PAGES 53, 54 of ozonedepleting PAGE 85 EN6 Reduction in energy PAGE 52 Verified. See substances consumption PAG 85 EN21 NOx, SOx and other PAGE 49 Verified. See EN7 Reductions in energy PAGE 53 Not verified by external signiﬁcant atmospheric PAGE 85 requirements of products assurance emissions and services Efﬂuents and waste DMA* PAGE 53 Not verified by external Water DMA* PAGE 53 Not verified by external assurance assurance EN23 Total weight of PAGE 54 Verified. See EN8 Total water PAGE 53 Not verified by external waste, by type and PAGE 85 withdrawn by source assurance disposal method Emissions DMA* PAGE 48 Not verified by external Products and services DMA Management PAGES 49, 50 Not verified by external assurance approach assurance EN15 Direct greenhouse PAGE 48 Verified. See EN27 Initiatives to PAGES 49, 50 Not verified by external gas emissions PAG 85 mitigate environmental assurance EN16 Indirect greenhouse PAGE 48 Verified. See impacts gas emissions from the PAG 85 acquisition of energy 77 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Compliance DMA Management In 2015, LATAM received Not verified by external Supplier DMA* In accordance to risk Not verified by external approach four signiﬁcant assurance environmental analysis undertaken assurance ﬁnes for breaches assessment by LATAM, of the 21 EN29 Value of ﬁnes of environmental EN33 Suppliers identiﬁed technical and nonVerified. See and total number of standards, totaling US$ as having signiﬁcant technical purchase PAGE 85 sanctions resulting from 18,000. Three of the actual and potential categories in the supply non-compliance with ﬁnes were applied by the negative environmental chain, 7 involve value environmental laws Brazilian environmental impacts chains in which there is a protection agency Ibama risk of potential negative (Instituto Brasileiro environmental impacts do Meio Ambiente e from improper waste dos Recursos Naturais management. To reduce Renováveis ). These were such risks, the company for the transportation of demands compliance ornamental ﬁsh caught with speciﬁc contract without authorization, clauses and conducts transportation of ﬁsh periodic audits. For without proof of origin further information, see and for nonregistration PAGE 16. with the federal agency overseeing the shipment of potentially hazardous goods. The company also received a ﬁne from the São Paulo environmental agency Cetesb (Companhia Ambiental do Estado de São Paulo) for lack of an environmental license for Hangar 2. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL CATEGORY – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Training and education DMA* PAGE 60 Not verified by external assurance Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance LA9 Average hours PAGE 91 (attachment 6) Verified. See Employment DMA* PAGE 60 Not verified by external training per year PAGE 85 assurance LA10 Programs for skills In addition to the Not verified by external LA1 Total number and PAGES 60, 92 Verified. See management and lifelong ongoing employee assurance rates of new employee (attachment 9) PAGE 85 learning skills management admissions and employee and lifelong learning turnover strategies described on LA2 Comparison of PAGE 63 Not verified by external PAGES 61, 62 , LATAM beneﬁts for full-time and assurance provides orientation temporary workers for employees about Occupational health and DMA* PAGE 56 Not verified by external to retire. In the event safety assurance of dismissal, severance LA6 Injury, illness, and lost PAGE 57 Verified. See packages take into days rates PAGE 85 account the employee's LA7 Employees with high PAGE 58 Not verified by external age and length of incidence or high risk of assurance service. In some cases diseases related to their the company offers occupation outplacement support. 79 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LA11 Percentage of PAGES 62, 92 Not verified by external SOCIAL CATEGORY – HUMAN RIGHTS employees receiving assurance Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance performance appraisals Supplier human rights DMA* Since it involves the Not verified by external Supplier assessment DMA* PAGE 16 Not verified by external assessment textile industry value assurance for labor practices assurance HR11 Signiﬁcant actual chain, the supply of Verified. See LA15 Signiﬁcant actual In accordance to risk Verified. See and potential negative uniforms presents PAGE 85 and potential negative analysis undertaken ASSURANCE human rights impacts potential human rights impacts from labor by LATAM, of the 21 in the supply chain and risks, such as the practices in the supply technical and nonactions taken exploitation of child or chain technical purchase admissions and employee slave labor by companies categories in the supply turnover that outsource services. chain, 14 (67%) involve This topic is monitored value chains in which the by LATAM on a periodic risk of non-compliance basis. (For further with labor standards information, see is considered to be PAGES 15, 16.) medium. To reduce such risks, the company adopts preventive measures such as the requirement of reports from the supplier and the inclusion of speciﬁc contract clauses. For further information, see PAGE 15, 16. 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL CATEGORY – SOCIETY SOCIAL CATEGORY – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance Aspect Indicator Page/response External Assurance Anti-corruption DMA* PAGE 24 Not verified by external Product and service DMA* PAGE 39 Not verified by external assurance labeling assurance SO4 Percentage of PAGE 26 Verified. See PR5 Results of surveys PAGE 39 Verified. See employees trained PAG 85 to measure customer PAGE 85 in anti-corruption satisfaction policies and Marketing DMA Management In 2015, 11 ﬁnes were Verified. See procedures communications approach received, none of PAGE 85 SO5 Conﬁrmed cases There were no cases of corruption Verified. See PR7 Cases of nonwhich are considered of corruption and or breaches of the Code of Ethics. PAGE 85 compliance related to signiﬁcant. Three of measures taken product and service these are under appeal. AntiDMA* In 2015, the European Court of Verified. See communications competitive SO7 Total number of Justice ruled in favor of LATAM, PAGE 85 Compliance DMA* There were no Not verified by external behavior legal actions for antiannulling a ﬁne applied by the PR9 Fines for nonsigniﬁcant deﬁnitive assurance competitive behavior European Commission in 2010 compliance related to ﬁnes. For LATAM, ﬁnes for anticompetitive practice. This the provision and use of of more than US$ decision is not yet ﬁnal. Some products and services 50,000 or with the suits brought by users based on potential to impact the the initial ﬁne are still pending. At company's image or the end of the year, a conciliation operational continuity agreement was reached between are considered to be LATAM and Chile's Fiscalía signiﬁcant. Nacional Económica, to detail the company's obligations related to DMA* : Disclosure on management approach. the use of codes shared with other Obs.: There were no omissions in GRI required information. airlines. The agreement does not imply recognition of any infraction on the part of the company and ﬁnalizes the FNE's questioning of the LAN/TAM merger as constituting a monopoly in the Chilean operation. 81 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE PAGE Human rights Since 2012, LATAM has been a signatory 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 16, 80 to the Global Compact, a voluntary United Nations Organization (UNO) initiative aimed 2. Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses. 16, 26 at promoting corporate best practice in four Labor areas: human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The commitment was one of 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 75 the directives for the company's Corporate Stakeholder Relationship Policy, which was 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 16, 26 elaborated in the course of 2015 and will be 5. Support the effective abolition of child labor. 16, 26 submitted to the Board of Directors in 2016. LATAM is developing a series of initiatives to 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 62 put the ten Compact principles into practice. Environment The main ones may be located in this report in accordance with the following table. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 43 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 43 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 54 Anti-corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 26 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT: CREDITS OVERALL COORDINATION Enrique Guzmán José Miguel Nuñez Daniela Stange Loreto Silva Lavin PRODUCTION Gestão Origami Paulo Mindlin (materiality and GRI consulting) Adriana Braz and Judith Mota (content/editing) TRANSLATION TO ENGLISH Raymond Maddock WEB DESIGN AND PROGRAMMING MagiaLiquid 83 Assurance ASSURANCE 85 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 85 Attachments ATTACHMENTS: 87 ENVIRONMENTAL ATTACHMENTS: 91 PEOPLE 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 deliberate violations of the company’s c. Reduce waste, emissions and the use of toxic ATTACHMENTS: operating standards or processes. materials, according to internal procedures. Never ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT improvise in the disposal of industrial residues and Attachment 1 ˾ Developing a Safety, Quality and waste. LAN Safety, Quality and Environmental Management System Environment Policy that enables the periodic review of d. Respect the rights and environmental interests of targets, goals and allocated resources, neighboring countries and communities. LAN, a member of the LATAM Airlines Group, while implementing best environmental undertakes to comply with the highest, Safety, practices that enable us to prevent any e. Make efficient use offi the natural resources Quality and Environmental standards in all of form of contamination and to efficiently available in the workplace, recycle whenever its operational and administrative activities manage our carbon footprint. possible and promote innovative practices that and facilities. for this reason, it undertakes the enable greater economic efficiency through following commitments: ˾ In our company, we adopt the principles ecological efficiency. of ethics, excellence and continuous ˾ Declaring Safety an Uncompromising improvement in all management f. Act in a socially responsible manner, respecting Value of our company, fostering in our processes with the aim of advancing the customs and traditions of the people with whom people a culture of self-care, developing towards our goal of being the best airline the company interacts and contribute toward the prevention-oriented processes, in Latin America and one of the best in the sustainable development of the communities in identifying hazards, and assessing and world, while reinforcing our commitment which it operates, particularly in relation to tourist mitigating the risks associated with the to create value for our clients, activities. various operating and administrative shareholders, suppliers, authorities, activities that are inherent to the employees and local communities. g. Propose improvements that ensure the work place is company’s operations. always safe and healthy, notifying immediate superiors LATAM Airlines Group Code of Conduct in the event of irregularities or noncompliance with ˾ Complying with all applicable laws and 5.2. Environment, Health and Safety laws and adjusting irregular conduct rapidly. regulations while also observing the internal procedures established by the The LATAM Group is committed to protecting the h. Always act in accordance with the stipulated rules. company and the voluntary commitments environment, health and safety and will endeavor Under no circumstances should safety practices be to which it is a signatory. to promote a safe and healthy environment, ignored or disobeyed. preventing unfavorable and harmful impacts on the ˾ Giving due importance to the reports of environment in the communities in which it operates. i. Know the location of the emergency exits and unsafe actions and conditions, ensuring firefighting equipment in the work place. no sanctions are imposed on those who Therefore, in practice, we must: file such reports, given the understanding a. Comply with environmental laws and regulations. Obs: the complete document may be consulted here. that errors are inherent to the human http://www.latammairlinesgroup.net/phonix.zhtml?c=251290&p=irolcondition, while not condoning attitudes b. Create and maintain a safe work environment and govconduct involving operational negligence or prevent occupational accidents and diseases. 87 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Attachment 2 Attachment 3 INDEPENDENT VERIFICATION STATEMENT The following table shows the 21 key indicators LATAM uses to measure its progress against internal SGS Societé Générale de Surveillance SA environmental management goals and targets. was commissioned by IATA to conduct an independent and formal review of the “IATA Environmental Assessment Standards AREA INDICATOR UNIT GOAL Manual (IESM) version 2.0 february 2015” against ISO 14001:2004. Technology 1. Fleet modernization Years Same as ﬁrst in The verification assessment was executed benchmark as a desk top study and did not include a 2. Engine noise % Chapter III (ICAO)/% 100% Chapter IV (ICAO) review of any system implementation. Chapter IV The IESM version 2.0 included a set of 3. Support to Sustainable Number of biofuel ﬂights Having regular ﬂights requirements as well as guidance for fuel development with biofuels their implementation. On the basis of the 4. Research and % Investment R&D/ Control and verification work performed, the IESM Development revenues measurement of R&D requirements together with their guidance investment impact information are consistent with ISO Operations 5. Greenhouse Gas Kg CO2/100RTK Same as ﬁrst in 14001:2004 requirements. emissions control benchmark Geneve, 28.12.2005. 6. Control of the g gas/100RTK Total same as ﬁrst and Signed for and on behalf of the SGS Societé emission of other second od benchmark Générale de Surveillance SA pollutant gases Stéphane Rombaldi 7. In-ﬂight fuel jettison Number of events Same as ﬁrst in benchmark 8. Hazardous waste Ton Total hazardous waste reduction and treatment known and treated 9. Non-hazardous waste Ton Total non-hazardous reduction waste known and not treated 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 10. Water consumption Cubic meters / Employee Same as ﬁrst in 2015 PERFORMANCE reduction benchmark Attachment 4 10. Water consumption Cubic meters / Employee Same as ﬁrst in Emissions inventory reduction benchmark 11. Suppliers Yes/No Existing environmental SOURCE EMISSION FACTOR GOAL guidance Due Diligence Jet kerosene 3,15 kg CO2/kg fuel EU Regulation (EU) N°601/2012 Compliance Gasoline 69.300 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006** Infrastructure 12. Green-building Projects New project certiﬁed by Diesel Gas oil 74.100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006** LEED Natural gas 56.100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006** 13. Energy MWh/employee Same as ﬁrst in Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas 63.100 kg CO2/TJ IPCC 2006** benchmark Electricity (Chile) 326,26 g CO2/kWh http://www.iea.org/co2highlights/ 14. Implementation of Implemented airports/ 76%-100% Electricity (Argentina) 540 g CO2/kWh http://energia3.mecon.gov. RNP Total expected airports ar/contenidos/verpagina. Economic 15. Environmental Yes/No Existence of php?idpagina=2311 expenditure Environmental expense Electricity (Peru) 547 g CO2/kWh http://www.fonamperu.org/general/ control mdl/bienvenida.php 16. Emission of Carbon Million euros Application in projects Electricity (Ecuador) 731,1 g CO2/kWh http://web.ambiente.gob.ec/sites/ Bonuses default/ﬁles/users/greinoso/Informe Legal and others 17. Legal compliance % Legal regulation data All legal data and no ﬁnes %20de%20Factor%20de%20 of operation countries or sanctions Emision%20de%20CO2%202011.pdf Yes/No Compliance Electricity (Colombia) 284,9 g CO2/kWh http://www.minminas.gov.co/ 19. Environmental Yes/No 100% implementation minminas/kernel/usuario_externo_ Management System normatividad/form_consultar_normas_ 20. Carbon offsets Yes/No Reporting of all GRI energia.jsp?parametro=2266&site=1 indicators Electricity (Miami) 555,9 g CO2/kWh http://www.iea.org/co2highlights/ 21. Signed voluntary Yes/No 100% score in Electricity (Brazil) 124,4 g CO2/kWh http://www.mct.gov.br/index.php/ agreements environmental section of content/view/321144.html Dow Jones sustainability Index “A” score in CDP * The calculation for electricity takes into account the type of consumption and the percentage share of each country in the overall operation, measured in RTK. **IPCC: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 89 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMISSION 2013 2014 2015 References used in preparing the GHG inventory Fuel in air operations Jet Fuel 100% 100% 100% Fuel for ﬁxed sources Diesel 93% 82% 96% SPANISH SPEAKING COUNTRIES Natural Gas 93% 100% 100% ISO 14064:2006 standard, part 1 Gasoline 93% 100% 96% Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) developed by the World Resources Institute LPG 93% 61% 100% (WRI) and the Fuel in mobile sources Diesel 93% 80% 86% World Business Council for Sustainable Gasoline 96% 92% 82% Development (WBCSD) LPG 100% 100% 100% IPCC Guideline for National Greenhouse Gas Refrigerating gases Various 93% 100% 100% Inventories COBUS in other airlines Jet Fuel 100% 100% 100% BRAZIL Electricity Electricity 83% 84% 96% ISO 14064:2006 standard, part 1 Water consumption Water consumption 69% 65% 89% Brazilian GHG Protocol Program Waste Non-hazardous waste 79% 86% 94% IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Hazardous waste 100% 95% Gas Inventories UK Department for Environment, food & Rural Affairs (UKDEfRA) Guidelines on GHG conversion factors. 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-10 Attachment 5 Attachment 7 ATTACHMENTS: 2015 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) INTERNAL EN3 EXTERNAL EN4 PEOPLE EMPLOYEES 2015 Aviation fuel 158.889,43 SIMPLICITY AND EFFICIENCY By country Gasoline 10,07 Brazil 26,231 Attachment 6 Diesel 351,70 2,65 Chile 12,413 LPG 7,23 TRAINING – AVERAGE NUMBER OF Peru 3,896 Natural Gas 1,28 HOURS TRAINING PER EMPLOYEE Argentina 2,703 Ethanol 0,26 0,13 LA9 Colombia 1,747 Electricity 214,92 38,52 By functional category Ecuador 1,605 Total 159.474,89 41,30 United States 436 Administration 21.8 Others 1,382 Maintenance 51.7 By gender ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWH) EN5 2015 Operations 37.6 Men 30,930 Women 19,483 Aviation fuel 44,136,305 Flight crew 45.4 By functional category Gasoline 2,797 Cabin crew 60.8 Administration 9,118 Diesel 98,431 Sales 39.5 Maintenance 5,990 LPG 2,009 Operations 16,878 Natural Gas 355 By gender Air crew 13,405 Ethanol 110 Men 41.3 EMPLOYEES 2015 Electricity 70,401 Commercial support 5,022 Total 44,310,407 Women 41.9 Sales 3,383 Total 41.5 By age group Under 30 years 18,081 From 31 to 40 years 20,444 From 41 to 50 years 8,391 From 51 to 60 years 2,980 Over 60 years 517 Total 50,413 1 All work contracts are permanent and presuppose full-time employment. 91 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 LA1 Attachment 8 Attachment 9 TURNOVER RATE (%) PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL COVERAGE 2015* / LA11 By gender Men 15.77 By functional category Women 15.05 Administration 90.7% By age group Maintenance 51.9% Under 30 years 19.90 Operations 90.8% From 31 to 40 years 14.28 Cabin crew 36.2% From 41 to 50 years 10.4 Flight crew 0.5% From 51 to 60 years 9.77 Sales 90.4% Over 60 years 24.56 By gender By country Men 41.3% Argentina 5.81 Women 41.9% Brazil 16.82 Total 41.5% Chile 14.43 Colombia 19.52 1Considering all employees in accordance with GRI Ecuador 16.26 methodology. Peru 15.89 Internally the indicator for performance appraisal coverage in LATAM is based on the universe of employees eligible Others (including the United States) 12.54 for appraisal during the period, which excludes temporary Total 15.49 contracts, special cases (such as union representatives), employees on leave for more than 180 days and flight crew members, whose appraisal calendar extends to the first quarter of the year following the period assessed. Based on this calculation, total coverage in 2015 was 95%. 92
