PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Reporting for the period July 2015 – June 2016 PUBLIC STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 A message from the Managing Director: I am pleased to provide this year’s Communication on Progress and affirm Innovia Security’s commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Over the last 12 months, the business has evaluated how it manages itself to deliver quality and identified areas to improve and reinforce quality-led performance. These improvements are well underway. I believe there is a real alignment between this focus of the business and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Our ability to implement quality change is premised on the foundation of a strong integrity and ethics framework and clarity and consistency in our approach in support of the Ten Principles. On behalf of Innovia Security, I look forward to continuing our relationship with the UN Global Compact and welcome its continued influence on the way in which we conduct our business. Bernhard Imbach Managing Director 3 PUBLIC UNRESTRICTED ASPIRATIONS, ACTIONS, & OUTCOMES 4 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Introduction Innovia Security is the supplier of Guardian®, a sophisticated polymer banknote substrate used in 80 denominations by 24 central banks around the world. Guardian’s success is premised on its inherent anti-counterfeit attributes, longer banknote life time, and public health and environmental benefits. During the reporting period, Innovia Security commissioned a new opacification plant in England. The addition of this new plant extends Innovia Security’s operations to a total of three plants. Despite this growth, Innovia Security remains a small business for its global reach, employing a total of approximately 350 employees, across its operations in Australia, Mexico and England. The Australian entity in the Innovia Security division, Innovia Security Pty Ltd, became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)on 30 August 2012 and joined the Australian Network on 10 September 2012. This Communication on Progress reports on the activities of the whole division. Targets and objectives for a specific location are clearly identified. Where neither location is specified, the targets and objectives relate to both operations. Innovia Security has remained committed to its membership of the UNGC and seeks, to contribute to positive advocacy about the case for corporate social responsibility, and in particular the activities of the UNGC. Representatives of Innovia Security attended the Australian Network 2015 Annual General Meeting and have presented at anti-corruption workshops facilitated by the UNGC Network Australia. The Communications of Progress made to date by the business are available on its website, and Innovia Security continues to include the “We Support the Global Compact” logo on our website masthead in order to communicate to all website visitors our clear commitment to the principles of the UNGC. This Communication on Progress reports on Innovia Security’s progress during 2015/16, and sets targets for 2016/17. 2015-16 Actions: General Outcomes 1. Publish the 2015 Communication on Progress on the Completed organisation’s website 2. Publish and promote this Communication on Progress and Ongoing other UNGC related articles through internal staff communications, such as One!TV and One!News 5 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 2016-17 Actions: General 1. Publish the 2016 Communication on Progress on the organisation’s website 2. Publish and promote this Communication on Progress and other UNGC related articles through internal staff communications, such as One!TV and One!News 6 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security’s commitment to the overarching principle that each person is entitled to be accorded certain basic human rights is underpinned by Innovia Security’s Human Rights Policy. These policies are supplemented by the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy, the Performance and Misconduct Policy, Staff Uniform Policy, Induction Policy, Learning and Development and Study Assistance Policy. In setting its goals for the implementation of practices to achieve Principles 1 and 2 (in addition to human rights initiatives that relate directly to Principles 3 – 6), Innovia Security focuses primarily on achievable actions in: (a) health and safety, and providing a safe working environment. Innovia Security regards high standards of safety and health as a cornerstone of a successful business; (b) workplace culture, and ensuring employees have freedom to express themselves in an inclusive working environment; and (c) our second sphere of influence, namely with suppliers, business partners and customers. ImplementationHealth and Safety During the reporting period, the business undertook: the challenge of developing a Global 3 year rolling strategic improvement plan, building organisation maturity applying Professor Patrick Hudson’s model, anticipating further integration OHS&E accountability across all business functions. a review of its OHS&E management system that has resulted in a single platform for all operations that will support standardisation across the business. Furthermore, a new set of health and safety performance indicators, balance scorecard, with agreed lead & lag indicators has been implemented. The reporting process culminates at the divisional Board of Directors. The improved report on health and safety performance is given priority on the Board agenda. 7 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Oversight and management of health and safety matters by Plant Management occurs through formal meetings and review, including monthly Health and Safety Committee meetings and weekly Plant Management Team meetings. Innovia Security continues a roster for members of the Executive Team and Senior Management to undertake Safety Walks through the operational areas and a rotating attendance at the Health and Safety Committee meetings. This practice is aimed at ensuring focus on health and safety from the highest levels of management. At the Mexican plant, monthly meetings held within the industrial park where it operates, where health and safety representatives from all industries share best practices, assemble a mutual support society for emergency scenarios, discuss common safety and environmental problems which can affect all the industrial zone tenants and keep open communication with local authorities. Innovia Security’s commitment to the right to a safe working environment is also founded in providing quality training to its staff. At the Australian plant, OHS&E training continues to be a core part of the induction training of new staff and in dedicated eLearn training modules developed for continuous learning. At the Mexican plant, an annual health and safety training program was implemented which is designed to comply with both legal and corporate training requirements, and included content on fire prevention, chemical handling, forklift driving, work at heights and hot work, OHSAS 18001, involvement and ownership activities, amongst others. In addition, a new Training Methodology was developed and implemented to establish a training matrix for all staff outlining the training courses that are required to be undertaken during the year. The new Training Methodology requires an assessment of the delivery of each training course to evaluate the level of content retention and recommend where supplemental training is required for an employee. In the English plant In the English plant, all personnel have gone through a comprehensive training & induction package as part of the start up which has included Safety and Environmental requirements. A successful program has been running with great emphasis placed on the topics of workplace organisation, employee engagement, behavioural safety, hazard analysis, reporting and continuous improvement. In addition, the plant was accredited in March 2016 by The British Safety Council as an Approved Centre to deliver a suite of twelve nationally recognised Safety and Environmental/Sustainability qualifications including: Health & Safety, Fire Safety, Hazardous Substances, Manual Handling, Risk Assessment and Supervising Safely training. A training programme is in place and underway to deliver the training. All plants ensure that health and safety information is readily available, both through intranet network and the “Yellow board” for all personnel to be able to consult any time Innovia Security also provides access to an on-site clinic for treatment of soft tissue complaints or injuries, work or non-work related, with a view to maximise employee well-being. The next phase is to ergonomically assess all tasks in developing a risk 8 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 profile that will assist work place assessments and monitoring through the course of employment The business also provides an Employee Assistance Program for access to confidential counselling services. During the second half 2015, the Mexican plant achieved OHSAS 18001 Safety Management System certification. ImplementationOrganisational and Workplace Culture During the reporting period, Innovia Security updated its Human Resources strategy aligned to the Company’s new vision plus business strategy. The key elements of the Human Resources strategy were to:  Reinforce the new vision and global operations strategy to management  Introduce leadership development and team building programs to help ensure execution of our vision and business strategy and achievement of our workplace culture aspirations and goals  Re-train management on our performance management and pay for performance programs inclusive of the importance of behaviours aligned to our core values  Re-fresh of our core values plus our overall One Team One Vision cultural change program ‘One Team – One Vision’ (OTOV) cultural change program. The review concluded that this program had developed since it was introduced in 2011, such that the program has been modified where increased responsibility for improving engagement and enablement of our people was transferred from the Human Resources function to all managers and staff and the business has redirected its workplace culture efforts as follows: 1. OTOV Values, Mission, Strategy and Teamwork: In April and May 2016, the Human Resources Director presented to the plant management teams at workshops in Australia, England and Mexico reinforcing the need for management to continue to take ownership through their visible leadership of the OTOV program. An integral part of the workshop held by our HR Director was a refresh of our core values. Specifically, each plant management team has developed its commitments to behavioural actions to lead and promote our values further in the workplace. These workshops are currently being cascaded to all operations staff globally and led by plant management team members with support from Human Resources In Australia, Innovia Security has made new investments in its management training during the reporting period, in particular by implementing a Managers Essentials workshop program, designed to further develop the leaders and managers of the business with the view of improving team performance by sharpening 9 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 leadership skills. The Manager Essential workshop, is held monthly and empowers leaders to practice the skills gained by creating confident, inspired, empowered, and enthusiastic leaders. The staff at the English plant, the onboarding of all employees of Innovia Security England has been designed and executed with a multi-functional integrated approach which included manufacturing, OHSE, Quality and People. There has been significant investment to integrate the teams into the organisation structured around the organisation cultural program. In addition the Plant Management Team (PMT) have also received cultural awareness training which will be cascaded throughout the teams in the coming months. 2. Induction and Onboarding Process: During the reporting period, the business also improved its new employee onboarding process across its three sites, by facilitating easier access to organisational policies. The refined process is designed to ensure that new starters have a clear understanding of the organisation’s expected workplace behaviours. This process will continue to be reviewed and assessed across the three sites, to ensure standardisation. 3. Rewarding excellence in commitment to Values: The business continues to affirm the five values of Honour, Own, Grow, Engage and Excel and rewards excellence of commitment by staff to these values. Half-yearly Town Hall meetings hosted by Innovia Security’s Managing Director, with live video links between the various plants. These Town Hall meetings are an opportunity for the Executive Team to provide an overview of the health of the business and facilitate transparency and interaction between staff and management. Employees who have given exceptional or lengthy service to the business are recognised in this forum. ImplementationSecond Sphere of Influence Innovia Security continues to influence its suppliers, business partners and customers by adding a comprehensive “compliance with laws” obligation in its contracts. This requires the counterparty to comply with applicable laws, particularly nominating matters referenced in the Ten Principles. Measurement of Outcomes During the reporting period, two recordable injuries occurred in the Australian plant, 1 recordable injury occurred in the Mexican operations and none in the English plant. This reflects a sustained safety performance across the business. The annual OHSE training program has been re-designed with the intention of bringing the OHSE 10 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 personnel closer to the operative base, encouraging safety and environmental involvement. As in previous years, the 2015 Staff Climate Survey was conducted across the organisation to obtain anonymous feedback from staff. In 2015, the survey was undertaken by an external firm, benchmarking the results against comparable organisations. The outcome was very positive for Innovia Security, placing it above all comparable markets in terms of performance and work environment. The results showed improvement from 2015 and were taken into account in the company’s strategy and key focus areas. Following consideration of the results by the Executive Team, Innovia Security decided to dedicate the next 12 months to the application of derivative improvements and action plans and will review outcomes of these plans by conducting the survey next in 2017. It is expected that this will positively impact the workplace environment because the action plans have the necessary amount of time to be developed and properly implemented. 2015-16 Actions: Human rights Outcome 1. Complete health and safety training for the Completed. External Safety Executive Team Consultancy illustrated the OHS legal framework and the obligations to officers of the company 2. Undertake a staff climate survey, benchmarking Completed the results against comparable organisations. Complete an independent report to the Executive Team on the survey outcomes and recommendations. 3. Continue Town Hall Meetings in a manner that Ongoing facilitates transparency of business results and strategy, and encourages active participation from staff 4. Continue improvement of the Induction and Ongoing Onboarding Program by providing better access to workplace conduct policies (including health and safety) to increase employee’s awareness and understanding of the organisation’s expectations and requirements. 6. Develop a “Stop and Think” Risk Assessment Ready for launch Booklet. 7. Develop an Occupational Health and Safety Completed database. 11 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 2015-16 Actions: Human rights 1. Introduce and develop the Organisational Maturity Model based on the philosophies of Professor Patrick Hudson for OHSE management 2. Enhance OHS&E reporting to place greater emphasis on inherent & emerging risk management by site 3. Identify and implement improved operating practices & controls in operational areas defined as ‘Hazardous Zones’ 4. Develop detailed OHS&E training needs analysis and consolidate training material 5. Finalise the Training Matrix supporting staff development 12 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security reiterates its labour policies described in its 2014 Communication on Progress. In particular, Innovia Security confirms its labour policies are union neutral and set out standards of behaviour expected in the workplace designed to eliminate discrimination, harassment and bullying and other inappropriate behaviour. Innovia Security focuses its goals on the implementation of practices to achieve Principles 3 to 6 (in addition to human rights initiatives that relate directly to Principles 1 and 2) on actions in: (a) collective bargaining for and by unionised staff and sponsorship of employees’ freedom of association (b) appropriate workplace behaviour, to eliminate unlawful discrimination, intimidation or harassment Implementation During the 2015 year, the Mexican operation reviewed the remuneration aspects of its collective bargaining agreement. The division continues to maintain a current Appropriate Workplace Behaviour Policy (AWBP). This policy was recently reviewed to specifically address Mexican law aspects. The policy refers to both federal and state laws that deal with equal opportunity, anti-discrimination, anti-bullying and fair work. The Appropriate Workplace Behaviour eLearning training session continues to be used across all plants and is a mandatory learning module for all new staff. In addition to the AWBP review, each plant has appointed Contact Officers to support the report of inappropriate workplace behaviour and ensure all corrective actions are timely applied. 13 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 The business is also reviewing the current AWB online training and considering alternative delivery options, such as face to face/onsite training. Measurement of Outcomes In 2015 Mexican operations, a remuneration increase was agreed under the applicable enterprise bargaining agreement. All staff have completed the Appropriate Workplace Behaviour (AWB) training. 2015/16 Actions: Labour Outcome 1. Continue improvement of Induction and Onboarding Completed Program by providing better access to workplace conduct policies (including anti-discrimination policies) to increase employees’ awareness and understanding of the organisation’s expectations and requirements. 2. Commence reporting to the Executive Team of labour Not completed related data, including gender equality indicators. 2016/17 Actions: Labour 1. Continue to improve training programs and awareness sessions to ensure all staff understand and demonstrate Innovia Security’s core labour principles 2. Continue to review of gender equality data 14 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Innovia Security acknowledges its responsibility to the environment and is committed to seeking viable solutions to environmental challenges. Innovia Security identifies its ability to best contribute towards the achievement of Principles 7 to 9 by: (a) Recognising the impact of its manufacturing operations of their local environment. (b) Promoting the inherent environmental solutions in its product and supporting its customers in demonstrating their environmental leadership and commitment. Implementation – manufacturing operations Environmental objectives and targets were set and documented in early 2016. This set a list of actions to be completed to improve operational environmental management. In particular, the Mexican plant has completed the installation of LED lamps in production floor, quality laboratory and maintenance workshop areas. During the second half of 2016 lamps replacement will continue in the office areas. The project has resulted in the replacement of 62 metal additive lamps (HDI) of 500 watts from productive area by 62 LED lamps of 150 watts. The LED lamps produce higher lux per watt and are more efficient than traditional light sources. In addition, LED lamps contain no mercury or lead, are free of any harmful UV emissions, making these environmentally friendly. LED lamps are also durable and more safe because it doesn´t contain filament, so there is not threat of damage due to shock or vibration. 15 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 In the Australian plant, a quote has been obtained for a lighting upgrade in certain areas of the production facility and the plant management team will now prepare a business case to present to senior management. Other environmental initiatives completed at the Mexican plant include: 1. installation of pipework necessary to water site gardens with treated water. 2. emissions monitoring program was put in place, in order to sample oxidizer Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) input and output and determine how efficiently it is reducing the solvent vapours emissions to a less hazardous gas. 3. Electronic waste is disposed of by a company certified in propose electronic waste disposal 4. waste toner generated at the paper printing stations is recollected and sent to proper disposal with the supplier as part of their toner recycling campaign 5. an ultrasonic cleaning machine has been installed during 2016 first half in the pre-press area for better cleaning of machinery pieces without using solvents 6. certificated wooden boxes are used for product transportation, which are treated with anti-flammable substances to prevent them from burning and insecticide to avoid moths or other insect’s nesting, to allow the international shipping of our product. After receiving raw material in wooden boxes, these are to be dismantled and recycled. The Mexican operation is currently reviewing the possibility of changing from wooden boxes to cardboard boxes, whose material is lighter and eco-friendly. All metal jacks used to secure our product during a shipment are recovered for recycling purposes. 7. Waste cardboard, wood, scrap metal and iron residue is classified and destined to recycling plants 8. polymer material that has been rejected or spoiled is then granulated, put into jumbo bags and sold to certified suppliers who can reuse this material in the making of plastic products. The Mexican operations currently sell granulated material to two approved and certified suppliers. 9. Expired film is used during the first printing phase of our process in order to adjust and calibrate the machine, and avoid the generation of more waste. At the Australian plant, there has been a real focus on reducing spoilage rates in production jobs, and there are currently 7 six sigma projects underway to target spoilage reduction. The reduction in spoilage has a positive environmental impact in the reduction of waste. Staff training in relation to environmental matters remains a core aspect of the environmental management system. 16 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Implementation – Guardian® Global Recycling Program for customers In 2015, Innovia Security launched the Guardian® Global Recycling Program, and this program has continued during the reporting period. Polymer banknote technology and a co-ordinated global recycling program assist central banks to comply with world trends in the efficient use of resources and waste reduction. PolyTeQ Services, Innovia Security’s technical services division, provides support to the central bank and/or banknote printers to identify suitable recyclers locally or regionally, to facilitate the recycling process. Awareness of the benefits of recycling polymer based banknotes was further enhanced with the publication of Innovia Security’s Guardian Global Recycling Program in Specimen 5, The Biannual Journal of Guardian, during the reporting period. Measurement of Outcomes – manufacturing operations The Mexican operation continues to be certified under the environmental standard ISO 14001 (Environmental Management Systems) and also holds the Industria Limpia (Clean Industry) Certificate issued by the Mexican Government. The installation of LED lighting at the Mexican plant has resulted in a significant 69% reduction in annual electricity consumption. Emissions monitoring program has informed the maintenance provided to the equipment to deliver an operational efficiency very close to the designed efficiency (above 95%). The Australian operations continued to maintain ISO certification, including ISO-9001 (quality management), ISO-14001 (environmental management) and ISO-18001 (health and safety management). The focus on spoilage reduction has recorded a positive downward trend in waste generation over the last 12 months. Measurement of Outcomes – Guardian® Global Recycling Program for customers Since the last Communication on Progress, a further 3 central banks and 2 banknote printers have moved to full recycling of their polymer banknote waste. This has resulted in a total of 10 central banks and 7 banknote printers that are now reaping the full environmental and reputational benefits of recycling Guardian. There are a further 3 central banks ready to commence recycling once volumes of waste reach economically viable levels. 17 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 2015/16 Actions: Environment Outcome 1. Complete feasibility study of the installation of LED Completed – Mexico lighting in production areas. Underway Australia 2. Maintain certifications and standards compliance. Completed 3. Expand the influence of the Guardian® Global Completed Recycling Program to assist other Central Bank or finished banknote printer customers to undertake full recycling programs. 2016/17 Actions: Environment 1. Convert a further 3 central banks to the Guardian Global Recycling Program 2. Complete LED installation 3. Maintain accreditations and standards compliance 4. Investigate & identify energy and waste stream efficiencies and/or reduction opportunities supporting the environmental improvement strategies for the next 3 years 5. Establish environmental targets for natural resources and waste streams 6. Continue to educate and generate environmental awareness 18 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals The organisation’s historical experience has informed its approach to dealing with corruption. Since 2010, the business embarked on a transformation in governance, culture, and its commercial model led by a new management team. Today, Innovia Security’s Integrity and Ethics Program is at the heart of an exceptional cultural transformation. The Integrity and Ethics Program is founded in a governance structure that sets out, at its highest level, the accountabilities of the Board and Executive Team, as well as the structures, policies and processes that each relies on to execute on these accountabilities. A comprehensive Integrity and Ethics Policy approved by the Board, is supplemented by detailed policies regarding the receipt and provision of gifts and entertainment, the management of conflicts of interest created by engaging former decision makers in the public sector, commercial sponsorship and charitable donations. Innovia Security also has in place a Whistleblower Protection Policy, supported by independently operated reporting hotlines. Innovia Security recognises its responsibility as a thought leader and role model in the industry by implementing actions to achieve Principle 10. Implementation Innovia Security remains an accredited member of the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) and the BnEI Member’s Assembly. Innovia Security continues its pre-engagement due diligence of key suppliers and business partners, intermediaries and high-exposure employees as previously detailed, to ensure it understands who the business is engaging with to meet its sanctions obligations and to minimise the potential reputational and legislative non-compliance risks to the organisation. Limits and requirements under the Receipt and Provision of Gifts and Entertainment Policy are communicated during induction sessions provided by the Risk and Compliance Team and reiterated to staff every 18 months. In addition, staff members are reminded about the requirements of this policy at times of the year when gift giving is more likely to occur. Innovia Security provides online anti-corruption training for all its staff and intermediaries, and antitrust training for relevant staff and intermediaries. Each new staff member and intermediary must undergo training upon recruitment, and the 19 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 training is repeated for each intermediary every 12 months and for staff members every 18 months. Innovia Security does not retain the services of ex-executive level public officials in the area in which they worked for a period of 12 months after the person ceases to hold the relevant position. Innovia Security continues to include anti-corruption requirements where possible in its contracts with key suppliers, business partners and customers. Innovia Security continues its Whistleblower Protection Procedure which provides employees and other interested parties with a mechanism for addressing any concerns that they may have about the operations and activities of Innovia Security. This procedure facilitates reports to be made directly to the Chief Risk and Compliance Officer or confidentially through an externally managed Whistleblower Hotline. Measurement of Outcomes In February 2016, Innovia Security received confirmation from GoodCorporation, the independent auditor of the BnEI Accreditation Committee, that the work undertaken over the past 12 months has enabled the retention of Innovia Security’s BnEI Level 1 accreditation Outcome (the top of the industry benchmark), and thus Innovia Security will maintain its BnEI membership. Innovia Security will continue to be subject to regular audits by GoodCorporation or other independent auditors, on behalf of BnEI, in order to maintain its BnEI membership. Awareness of the procurement framework and associated procedural requirements has been improved by the delivery of training sessions for key business policies and procedures at the Australian and English operations, with training in Mexico to follow in Q3 2016. Supplier setup processes have been further standardised across all locations, with Mexico moving to utilisation of standard forms for supplier setup request and due diligence questionnaires. Approval for supplier engagement for Australia and England is centralised, with due diligence review by both Procurement and Risk & Compliance departments for high risk suppliers. The Mexican supplier engagement process, particularly due diligence review, is to be assessed at the time of the awareness training sessions in Q3 2016 with any further requirements for standardisation to be completed in 2016/7. 2015/16 Actions: Anti-corruption Outcome 1. Achieve and maintain BnEI accreditation. Completed 2. Strengthen divisional Procurement Framework and improve Completed employee awareness and understanding of procurement requirements, in particular in relation to due diligence enquiries for the engagement of High Risk (category 1) suppliers. 20 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 2016/17 Actions: Anti-corruption 1. Achieve and maintain BnEI accreditation through 2017 audit. Develop new learning management system for anti-bribery and corruption and 2. conflicts of interest training Complete awareness training of the procurement framework and associated 3. procedural requirements at the Mexican plant Assess supplier engagement process at Mexican plant, particularly due diligence 4. review process and implement any further requirements for standardisation Replace the existing Whistleblower Hotline service provider at the Mexican plant with Expolink to increase the level of service and number reporting avenues for 5. anonymous incident reports. Roll out an awareness campaign on July 2016. Communication will assure staff that any allegations will be investigated fairly, impartially and thoroughly. Implement the Risk and Compliance e-learning module (Spanish version) at the Mexican plant developed with the Learning and Development Advisor to ensure all 6. new starters receive a consistent induction to company’s Integrity and Ethic policies and procedures. 21 PROTECTED PUBLIC CLOSING STATEMENT 22 PUBLIC Innovia Security Communication on Progress June 2016 Closing Statement We are pleased to provide this Communication on Progress for 2015/16 period. Innovia Security reiterates its continuing commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and to exerting influence wherever possible to increase awareness of those Principles. We look forward to continuing to integrate our commitment to the Principles into the operations of our business as it grows. 23
