PAE 2015 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact 2015 Table of Contents Dear Colleague, In 2015, PAE placed its focus on development and growth. After adding approximately 2,500 new employees from the acquisitions of the Global Security and Solutions (GS&S) A Message from PAE business unit of US Investigations Services (USIS) and A-T Solutions, PAE worked to enhance the company’s internal infrastructure, in order to reduce the amount of manual CEO John Heller processes and increase operational accuracy and speed. Page 1 Internal initiatives including a streamlined and integrated financial system; a new human resources information system and contracts database; and a leadership development program for PAE’s rising leaders all led to more efficient and effective processes that Ten Principles of the contributed to the company’s organic and inorganic growth throughout the year. UN Global Compact PAE succeeded in re-capturing many legacy contracts in 2015 and won several major Page 2 new contracts with strategic value for positioning the company for future work with new and existing customers. PAE also implemented a plan to expand into new areas of national security and round out the full spectrum of services our customers require for Human Rights their enduring missions. Page 3 This growth would not have been possible without PAE’s established corporate culture and our employees’ commitment to our corporate values: Labor Standards Page 4 Perform with Excellence and Integrity – Deliver 100% of customer commitments, on time, within budget and with the highest standards of ethics and compliance. Enable the Business – Ensure safe and secure operating environments for all employees. The Environment Page 5 Grow the Business – Create a culture of growth and entrepreneurial behavior that drives value and opportunity for ownership, customers and employees. Anti-Corruption PAE also celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2015. Reflecting on PAE’s six decades of Page 6 service, I am proud to observe that while PAE’s company values have evolved, they have not changed in essence. Employees are just as committed to supporting our customer’s enduring missions with integrity and excellence today, as they were in 1955 and all the Appendix years in between. Page 7 After two acquisitions, significant internal initiatives, major contract wins and recaptures, and the celebration of our 60th anniversary, I am pleased to say that throughout 2015, PAE remained committed to the Global Compact principles. We are proud to recommit ourselves for the year ahead and pledge to maintain and continually increase our support of responsible, ethical and business operations. John Heller Chief Executive Officer 1 Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Human Rights Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAE Values PAE Code of Conduct One of PAE’s core corporate values is to “perform PAE’s Code of Conduct stipulates that all with excellence and integrity.” We expect that all employees are required to comply with our employees integrate this commitment into their own corporate policies, the laws of the United daily work whether they support our customers’ States and the laws that govern their country of missions directly or indirectly. In a direct sense, operation. PAE’s Global Logistics & Stability Operations business unit includes programs that provide Our zero tolerance policy is in place to protect critical support to the civil infrastructure of employees from discrimination and harassment, conflict and post-conflict countries; assist foreign and employees are encouraged to report any governments that are challenged to provide for violation of this policy or any other concern. In the needs of their citizens; and provide logistics addition to reaching out to our Chief Ethics & and training to support basic human needs within Compliance Officer personally, PAE employees the context of peacekeeping and humanitarian have various channels to report violations, missions. Under contract to the USAID Office including our 24-hour Ethics Hotline, which of Foreign Disaster Assistance, PAE provided is reachable by international and domestic operations, logistics and medical support for nine employees via phone or email. While these and Ebola Treatment Units and one Field Hospital other regulatory measures are effective, it is throughout Liberia in 2015. truly the management team that sets the tone and expectations for the rest of the workforce. PAE Initiatives Through their example and the corporate policies PAE’s mandatory annual ethics and compliance in place, PAE uses every resource at its disposal trainings includes an explanation of the company’s to support and protect human rights. expectations of behavior as stated in the Code of Conduct entitled “Leading the Way.” Among the topics covered in the training, special attention is PAE Spotlight: paid to ethics awareness, diversity and inclusion, PAE’s Justice Sector Support Program (JSSP) was human trafficking, creating a harassment-free instrumental in working with the Afghan Ministry workplace and Equal Employment Opportunities. of Women’s Affairs (MOWA) Victim Assistance PAE educates its employees on the U.S. Federal Program to develop a public awareness campaign Acquisition Regulation and provides additional that included TV spots and billboards to address training to mitigate even the slightest perception domestic violence. The countrywide public of inappropriate behavior. awareness campaign aimed to raise victim’s awareness of available assistance. PAE is committed to ethical performance of our work, and we support the industry-wide efforts of the International Stability Operations Association to promote universal standards of conduct. PAE’s comprehensive compliance plan trains our employees to recognize and report violations they may observe in their work or travels, such as instances of human trafficking, which is one of the fastest growing criminal activities in the world. 3 Labor Standards Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAE Values PAE’s commitment to fair labor standards Ethics & Compliance Officer works closely with provides employees with the right to collective PAE’s Legal department, Human Resources and bargaining; fair compensation for the work Program Managers to thoroughly investigate any they do; and protection from every form of reported allegations, and take action if necessary. discrimination. We believe that our employees are our most valuable assets, and we prioritize PAE Code of Conduct their individual and collective needs accordingly. PAE’s support of our employees’ fair labor PAE’s workforce includes a number of union rights around the world is vital to maintaining labor groups, and we are proud of the effective a productive workforce. In turn, we expect our collaborations between PAE Labor Relations employees to create a culture of fairness and and these teams to most effectively support the equality amongst themselves by treating each missions of our customers. other as they wish to be treated. This is a recurring theme throughout our policies and Code of PAE Initiatives Conduct; where our employees must lead with PAE has continued its partnerships with integrity and excellence. organizations such as the International Stability Operations Association and the United Nations PAE Spotlight: Global Compact to expand awareness of globally PAE employees have access to the PAE Library, recognized fair labor standards. which stores all of the company’s policies and related documents. Weekly company Operating in over 60 countries on all seven communications direct employees to the Library continents, PAE’s diverse workforce is comprised for various policy updates and procedures that of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of enforce our values of working with integrity age, ethnicities, religions and races. To protect and excellence. Our employees are educated and our employees from abuse or harassment, and to trained on our labor policies on the first day of ensure that our working environment is inclusive their employment, and the entire workforce is reand respectful of all employees, PAE implements trained on key elements of our business conduct a zero tolerance policy against any sort of on an annual basis. We prohibit discrimination in discrimination. any form and take an active approach to recruiting and developing a diverse workforce, which we Every PAE employee is trained on our policies believe is one of our greatest organizational on non-discrimination, Equal Employment strengths. Opportunity, our culture of leading with integrity and excellence, and our commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment, among many others. At the conclusion of our new-hire orientation and every annual ethics and compliance training, every employee is required to sign and return an acknowledgement page, confirming that they comprehend and voluntarily agree to follow the policies by which PAE is governed. Forced labor and child labor are strictly prohibited in every area where we work. We promote the use of our Ethics Hotline, and PAE’s Chief 4 The Environment Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAE Values PAE recognizes that the safety of our employees our employees. Our goal is to reduce waste; and the protection of the environment are maximize the utility of any unavoidable waste; imperative to ensuring our operational success. and conserve energy, water and any other natural Our Environmental Safety and Health (ESH) resources in the construction and/or maintenance initiatives are implemented by local ESH phase of our programs. representatives on sites where PAE is the majority owner of contract operations. We have continued PAE Code of Conduct the efforts from previous years to reduce Our Code of Conduct addresses our company’s hazardous environmental releases and other ESH commitment to a safe and healthy work incidents on contract sites around the world. Our environment, and we ask that all members of our ESH organization continues its active request for organization consider themselves ambassadors input from our diverse workforce, in an effort of public safety. Not only are all employees to combine the knowledge from our different responsible for complying with ESH regulations backgrounds and experiences. PAE is also and laws, they are also required by policy to proud to have our headquarters in a Leadership report any injury sustained or accident observed in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) on a job site to their management immediately. designated building. Throughout the year, our employees participate in LEED initiatives such PAE Spotlight: as an E-waste recycling project. In 2015, PAE’s team at Johnson Space Center (JSC) was awarded the 2014 Contractor Safety PAE Initiatives Forum (CSF) Safety and Health Excellence PAE emphasizes to its employees that prevention Award at the SUPER NOVA level and a 2014 is the first line of defense against hazardous Safety Innovation Award. The CSF Awards are environmental impacts. Our Target Zero goal given to contractors who have excellent safety an initiative aimed at eliminating injuries performance by being well below average and negative environmental impacts applies industry injury rates; for participation and support throughout the company. We have continued of community events and safety meetings; and pollution prevention initiatives and recurring for a report which highlighted innovative and training for all on-site employees on proper measureable Safety and Health Programs and disposal of hazardous waste. We have also employee involvement. The SUPER NOVA level continued our recycling and reusable materials of the award is the top of three levels honored. plan at international project sites. The Innovation Award for outstanding safety Our ESH representatives record, log and report or health innovation was awarded to PAE for all safety incidents and environmental releases. the implementation of the Hazardous Materials These incidents are tracked on a system modeled Pharmacy. Mislabeled materials, corroded after a blend of the ISO-9000, ISO-14000 and containers, and waste materials were all disposed OHSAS-18000 certification requirements. of, and through PAE, the on-site pharmacy improved controls and reduced duplication of Our ESH standards apply to our procurement inventories. process as well. PAE upholds U.S. standards for purchasing materials that do not contain lead or asbestos from international vendors. In the absence of nation-specific environmental laws, we adhere to the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance document, and our subcontractors make every effort to incorporate LEED standards into our construction projects. We choose to use products that are safe for our client, the environment and 5 Anti-Corruption Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAE Values PAE’s quarterly employee magazine, Inside PAE, Given the different cultures in each of the countries where PAE operates, our employees have and regularly includes perspectives from the Ethics will continue to encounter varying interpretations & Compliance Office and offers examples of of business protocol. Because a gesture could be unethical behavior in our industry, to emphasize considered typical etiquette in one country and the importance of following our anti-corruption bribery in another, PAE and other contractors policies. In the event of a corruption claim, the must be proactive in training employees to avoid Ethics & Compliance Office works closely with the most conservative definitions of extortion and our General Counsel to investigate thoroughly. bribery. PAE’s position against corruption is not only the PAE provides employees with ample training concern of our Ethics and Legal departments. Our to prepare them for any instance of corruption Procurement team is required to compare vendors’ they might confront, and implements precautions costs to ensure fair competition. Procurement to ensure that the laws of the United States personnel are also specially trained to not accept and foreign governments are strictly followed. gifts of any value from potential vendors, to avoid Through diligent instruction and annual even the perception of bribery. Additionally, our reinforcement of policies and procedures through International Trade Compliance Office procures our annual ethics and compliance training, PAE the appropriate authorizations for international employees receive a comprehensive education on shipments to fulfill all regulatory requirements. how to operate ethically and professionally. PAE Spotlight PAE Initiatives In November, PAE hosted several members from the Department of State Office of Defense Trade PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer serves as one of the four founders of the Compliance Controls Compliance (DTCC) as part of their Leadership Roundtable (CLR), which was Company Visit Program to review PAE’s trade established in 2013 to promote excellence in compliance program. PAE was the first services compliance and reality in regulations. The company that DTCC visited; the office typically invitation-only group of key leaders in the focuses on manufacturers and exporters of Washington, DC metropolitan area collaborates defense hardware. PAE was honored to show the with other relevant professional organizations, DTCC team that our business conduct aligns with and educational institutions to promote company ethics guidelines and complies with all development and continued learning for leaders applicable legal requirements. PAE was honored in the compliance profession. to demonstrate how our business operations align with company ethics guidelines and comply PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer with all applicable legal requirements. During leverages the CLR to shape quarterly compliance the visit, PAE took the opportunity to highlight discussions on high risk areas; such as False our new HR information system (Workday), our Claims Act, respect and workplace safety, annual ethics and compliance training program and conflicts of interest. The Chief Ethics & and our new contracts database as examples of Compliance Officer also chairs a Monthly our comprehensive focus on trade compliance. Compliance Council comprised of functional executive leaders to: oversee the Company’s implementation of compliance programs, policies and procedures that are designed to be responsive to the various compliance and regulatory risks facing the company; assist the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer in fulfilling oversight responsibility for the Company’s compliance and ethics programs; and perform any other duties deemed as necessary. 6 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available online at: http://www.pae.com/about-pae/ethics-and-business-conduct 7 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 8 2016 PAE Marketing & Communications 10
