Contents Management's Commitment ……………………………………………………… 1 Special Feature ……………………………………………………………………… 3 Corporate Governance ……………………………………………………………… 10 CSR Management ………………………………………………………………… 33 CSR Objectives and Achievements ……………………………………………… 36 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services …………………………… 43 Communication with Shareholders and Investors ……………………………… 53 Thorough Compliance ……………………………………………………………… 56 Risk Management ………………………………………………………………… 70 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace ……………………… 76 Supply Chain ………………………………………………………………………… 103 Preservation of Global Environment ………………………………………… 108 Connection to Society …………………………………………………………… 135 GRI Guidelines ISO26000 Comparison Table ………………………………… 149 Third Party Opinion ……………………………………………………………… 166 CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy ……………………………………………… 167 In fiscal 2014, ended March 31, 2015, NGK Group net sales increased due to steady demand for automotive-related products in the Ceramic Products Business, increased demand for ceramics used for semiconductor manufacturing equipment in the Electronics Business and the inclusion of fourth quarter sales from NGK Electronics Devices, Inc., which became a consolidated subsidiary in January 2015. In the Power Business, sales increased due to the shipment of NAS® battery systems for electric energy storage to a large project overseas. In terms of income, although a provision for losses related to competition laws was recorded as an extraordinary loss, profits increased due to improved operating income. In each business area, there is a strong potential for achieving mediumto long-term growth, thus we are promoting initiatives aimed at creating new products and businesses. To realize this growth potential amid the expansion of globalization, intensifying competition due to the rise of manufacturers in developing countries and increasing societal demands for management transparency, it is critical that we both create a structure for responding to changes in the environment surrounding NGK and change our own behaviors going forward. In September 2015, NGK admitted to violating U.S. antitrust laws and other regulations in some business transactions related to automotive catalytic substrates, and accepted a plea agreement. We deeply apologize for having caused a great deal of concern among our customers, shareholders, investors and everyone involved. The NGK Group considers legal compliance to be an important management issue. Although we have a compliance structure in place, in recognition of the seriousness of this situation, we will further enhance our compliance structure and conduct thorough training with regard to antitrust and related regulations targeting our Board of Directors and all our employees in an effort to regain stakeholder trust and prevent recurrence. Plea Agreement with U.S. Department of Justice concerning ceramic substrates for catalytic converters New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures innovations promoting the objective of creating resilient and efficient manufacturing sites are focused on the mediumto long-term business environment. To establish competitive capabilities for success in global markets from 2020 onward, we established ambitious “challenge targets,” and launched “new challenge activities” to achieve these targets. The NGK Group will unite to conduct global initiatives and work together with customers and procurement partners to go -1beyond conventional thinking in an attempt to realize increased product value and innovative manufacturing processes. Strengthening Head Office Capabilities Underpinning Global Management Amid accelerating global business development, the head office provides business divisions with highly specialized and strategic support in a desire to reinforce the entire NGK Group. Specific issues refined through detailed discussions, such as the development and utilization of global human resources and responses to increased legal risks, are the focus of activities conducted over a two-year period starting in fiscal 2015 aimed at creating a world-class global company. Reinforcing CSR To maintain the high degree of trust from our stakeholders, I personally visit all business divisions and speak with employees directly to ensure all NGK employees possess a strong awareness of compliance and reinforce the recognition that all our business activities are based on a foundation of safety, environment, quality and CSR. Aiming for high world-class standards, we will further enhance our business, our corporate social responsibility (CSR) and our governance in line with the self-imposed objective of “paying strict attention to on-site operations.” Every person working in the NGK Group will step-up their performance while maintaining a focus on the future as we promote the creation of a vigorous company able to make the most of its overall capabilities. In April 2015, NGK signed on to the UN Global Compact. As a world-class global company, we will develop business and proactively fulfill our social responsibilities based on international standards for decision-making. The CSR Report 2015 introduces the NGK Group’s CSR initiatives and target directions in accordance with the Group’s “CSR promotion items.” After reading this publication, we invite you to offer your frank and direct opinions on our initiatives. -2[Special Feature] New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures Tackling Challenges for 2020 New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures Activities Concept Activities consist of “fiscal year improvement activities” involving targets that must be achieved, and “new challenge activities” involving challenge targets. New challenge activities are initiatives with even higher objectives for achieving ideals and targets defined for each business focused on the 2020 business environment. New Challenge Activities Initiative Perspectives Initiatives for further technological advancements, improved product quality and profitability Global initiatives unifying Group companies in Japan and overseas Wide-reaching initiatives involving customers and suppliers New, imaginative initiatives utilizing advanced case studies and external information and resources Dialogue: New Manufacturing Structural Innovation Initiatives Launching New Manufacturing Initiatives to Contribute to the Global Environment and Society -3[Special Feature] New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures Tackling Challenges for 2020 What is NGK aiming for with its new/reformed manufacturing structures? How can new manufacturing initiatives contribute to the global environment and society? Four key personnel discuss NGK’s mediumto long-term vision and their thoughts on manufacturing. -4Aiming for Ideals and Targets Focused on 2020 Niwa: New/reformed manufacturing structures involve engaging in new challenging activities aimed at achieving ideals and targets defined by each business division by the year 2020. The mission is to establish NGK Group competitiveness over the medium to long term. What is the status of the targets and nitiatives in the divisions you manage? Ishikawa: The Electronics Business Group’s New Metals Division aims to establish a position of solid leadership in the market and is utilizing big data as one means to this end. We think analyzing big data acquired from copper alloy strip production processes will enable more efficient and stable production of products with higher quality and high added value. Matsuda: The Ceramic Products Business Group aims to become the top supplier of honeycomb ceramics. NGK products account for a large share of the global market, so production that is more efficient and sophisticated will lead to significant merits for the NGK Group as well as the global automotive industry. Deploying production processes established at our mother plant in Japan aimed at saving energy, space and manpower to all production bases worldwide will strengthen our global competitiveness. Mima: The Power Business Group’s NAS Battery Division aims to become the leading company in large-capacity electricity storage batteries. With a large capacity suited for long-duration storage, NAS batteries are gaining attention as storage batteries able to provide a stable supply of power promoting the introduction of renewable energy. Enhanced cost competitiveness is indispensable for the expanded adoption of NAS batteries. Development, design, procurement and production all face a multitude of issues, so we are tackling the challenge of a multipronged and aggressive target. Niwa: The Corporate Manufacturing Engineering’s Construction & Maintenance Department aims to become the top engineering group in the manufacturing of ceramics. Our goal is to raise energy efficiency and human productivity by 200% compared to existing plants-twice that of current levels?and we are considering the construction of a model plant introducing the most advanced energy conservation and automatization technologies. Furthermore, to enable the appropriate management of production, we are incorporating the latest information technologies into our existing production management system to gain feedback based on the real time analysis of energy consumption, production status and other data while at the same time engaging in “Visualization” initiatives. Our Ultimate Mission is to Contribute to a Better Social Environment Matsuda: New/reformed manufacturing structures also consider the perspective of contributing to the environment and society through technological advancements and enhanced product value indispensable. HONEYCERAM® is useful for preventing air pollution, so we can say that this product itself contributes to environmental conservation. Considering that products created by NGK are used in cars around the world and protect the global environment, as someone involved in manufacturing, I feel that we must pursue further technological advancements. Ishikawa: Our corporate philosophy is “NGK products and technologies must create new value and contribute to the quality of life,” thus I think this is truly the number one goal of new/reformed manufacturing structures. Contributing to a better social environment involves improving a variety of environments surrounding humans. Providing the world with a more comfortable lifestyle through technological innovations in manufacturing is our ultimate mission. -5Mima: At present, the Japanese government is promoting the introduction of renewable energy and is engaged in a variety of initiatives aimed at the realization of a hydrogen society.Large-scale batteries are necessary to efficiently use unstable renewable energy and achieve a balance between energy demand and supply?this is where NAS batteries can display its true capabilities. I want NGK to contribute to the realization of a society with a low impact on the environment through new/reformed manufacturing structures that will enhance NAS batteries as a product contributing to a better social environment. Manufacturing Innovations Cultivating the Next-Generation of Human Resources Mima: Skilled people are the key to further advancements in automatized and labor-saving manufacturing processes. As manufacturing technologies become increasingly advanced, the skills demanded of people also increase, raising the importance of passing on knowledge from one generation to the next. Thus, new/reformed manufacturing structures also aim to cultivate human resources. Matsuda: Cultivation of human resources able to support global manufacturing systems is also a critical issue for the ceramics business. At production bases in developing countries in particular, there is a tendency toward employee attrition, so fostering motivation in each individual employee and creating a human resources structure that promotes the advancement of local employees is also a critical factor. Niwa: We will cultivate the next-generation of human resources through new/reformed manufacturing structures. The entire NGK Group will come together to take on challenges to be achieved by the year 2020 with the aim of realizing growth through businesses that contribute to the environment and society./p> Toward the Forefront of Innovation The Global Spread of Manufacturing and Personnel Training -6[Special Feature] New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures Tackling Challenges for 2020 With the launch of new/reformed manufacturing structures, young employees at bases in each global region are taking on new challenges. Experiences of success when taking on difficult issues are spreading globally, ushering in the next-generation of manufacturing. This section introduces leading-edge NGK Group innovations led by individual employees. At NGK’s production base for automotive exhaust purification ceramic products in China, my job is to propose more efficient production conditions using a database to “visualize” information related to personnel, equipment, raw materials and processes. The completeness, accuracy and timeliness of data are critical to compiling information in a database. To ensure these conditions, I not only collect data, but must also increase awareness among relevant personnel and build the management system necessary for the data. I want to improve the NGK Group product efficiency by incorporating improvement case studies from overseas Group companies and sharing our own improvement case studies. I want to contribute to global environmental conservation through my work to increase the productivity of automotive exhaust purification ceramic products. -7Ceramics are pottery, so firing and drying account for more than half the energy used. My mission is to search for new manufacturing approaches that would address these processes. Specifically, I am promoting initiatives for the maximal plant-wide reuse of midto low-temperature waste heat from kilns and other equipment. At present, I am conducting surveys, analyzing data and submitting effective usage proposals regarding energy consumption and waste heat. This will become foundational data used in the energy-conserving design for a new automotive exhaust purification ceramics plant to be constructed in Poland. There are all sorts of ideas in energy conservation. As I move forward with surveys and analysis to discover energy-saving techniques ideal for a mass-production ceramics plant, I feel this fleshing-out process is extremely worthwhile. To reduce NAS battery costs, we are promoting automatization of manufacturing processes with the aim of creating zero-worker plants. Leaving simple tasks to machines and shifting humans to high-value-added work to increase productivity is the aim of the zero-worker movement. One step in that direction currently involves initiatives to automate manual labor in the manufacturing process, including the application of multiaxial, robot-controlled 3D vision and high-output laser markers among other new devices. There is no end to the challenges we are taking on, including IoT* initiatives involving the centralized management of facilities equipped with networks through data communications. The spread of NAS batteries due to reduced costs promotes the use of renewable energy, creating a better global environment. I am proud of the work we are doing for the future. * Internet of Things -8Last year, I returned to Japan after working for seven years at the New Metals Division production base in France. Waiting for me was work that excites the engineer’s spirit:manufacturing innovation using big data. The manufacturing worksite involves more than a few conditions that cannot be quantified accurately. For example, metallic material heat treatment. Although conditions are supposed to be identical, small fluctuations in temperature and line speed cause characteristic deviations. Nor can we ignore discrepancies in previous operational conditions. Use of this accumulated chain of data is linked to the stabilization of quality. Up to now, we have analyzed data from hundreds of samples, but the use of big data will enable us to analyze 10?100 times more data. The discovery of unexpected data unnoticed until now will likely lead to significant improvements. An unexplored world is coming into view through the perspective of big data usage. This presents significant possibilities and importance for those of us creating new manufacturing structures. -9Corporate Governance NGK is conducting measures to expand and strengthen its corporate governance to increase corporate value with the intent of becoming a company trusted by all its stakeholders. Corporate Governance Report(PDF:268KB) Basic Policies To ensure appropriate operations and transparent management, NGK has set its sights on establishing and maintaining an organization capable of swiftly responding to changes in the business environment, and a fair and open management system emphasizing the interests of shareholders. These components make up NGK's basic approach to corporate governance. To put this approach into practice, NGK has chosen a corporate governance structure anchored by a Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition to the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors, NGK corporate governance includes the Executive Committee and several other committees established to assist the president in management decision-making. These bodies help to enhance governance efficacy by deliberating and reviewing important matters. In recognition of needs to execute swift and optimal decision making and respond promptly to changes in the operating environment, NGK introduced a corporate officer system, thus separating the management decision-making and supervision functions from business execution functions, and clearly defining the responsibilities of both. Furthermore, to strengthen the Board of Director supervision and monitoring functions, major committees among those tasked with mitigating the various risks surrounding NGK are obligated to report to the Board of Directors,NGK established new committee structures, including a Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, a Management Council, External Director Meetings and a Management Ethics Committee, etc., to realize a more comprehensive corporate governance structure. 10 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Enhancement Ongoing structural enhancements aimed at strengthening corporate governance include the introduction of a corporate officer system and an external director system to improve the management supervision and monitoring functions and facilitate recommendations with respect to overall management. April 1999 Formulated Guidelines for Corporate Behavior April 2003 Revised to NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior Introduced a corporate officer system June 2005 Introduced a stock option system Introduced an external director system July 2005 Established the CSR Committee April 2007 Established the CSR Promotion Office June 2010 Appointed independent corporate officers Major revision to NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate July 2011 Behavior April 2015 Signed on to UN Global Compact June 2015 Established Global Compliance Office December Established new committee structures 2015 11 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Scheme To ensure lawful business activities and management transparency, respond quickly to changes in the management environment, and create and maintain a fair management system from the shareholdersâ€™ perspective, NGK has created the following systems: 12 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Promotion Structure Business Execution Status Regarding business execution based on the Board of Directors resolutions, the president presides over company business as the chief executive of business execution. The Executive Committee holds discussions to assist the president's decisionmaking with respect to important matters regarding business execution. In addition, the Board of Directors ask for proactive recommendations for management by external directors pertaining to management-related issues at Corporate Council meetings to facilitate an exchange of opinions between external directors and representative directors. Monitoring Status In line with monitoring policies and plans defined by the Audit & Supervisory Board, audit & supervisory board members make an effort to collect information through Hearing convened by Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors, etc., in an attempt to communicate with directors and employees while monitoring director business execution by attending Board of Director and Executive Committee meetings. At Audit & Supervisory Board meetings attended by outside audit & supervisory board members, accounting auditors and Internal Auditing exchange information in an attempt to facilitate mutual cooperation. Election of Corporate Officers Director candidates are determined by Board of Director resolution and appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Audit & supervisory board members candidates are determined by Board of Director resolution with approval from the Audit & Supervisory Board and appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Moreover, with respect to the appointment of directors, the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, consisting of a majority of external directors, deliberate matters related to board member and corporate officer appointments, Chief Executive Officer succession planning and other matters, the results of which are reported to the president in an effort to ensure fairness and improve transparency when making director appointments and remuneration decisions. Also, to further clarify the directors' mission and responsibilities, the term of office for directors is one year. Director Training Newly appointed representative directors, directors and corporate officers are provided with training conducted by attorneys in the United States and Japan related to the Companies Act and the Competition Law, conducted at the time of their appointment. In addition, each year lectures are held targeting all corporate officers, including directors related to compliance with the Competition Law, focused on the expanding scope of Competition Law enforcement and practical business risks. In July 2015, a hearing was conducted presenting the opinions of outside experts regarding societal demands related to corporate governance. In addition, with regard to external directors, we provide individual explanations concerning mainly Board of Director meeting proposals facilitated by personnel from relevant business divisions, as well as regular opportunities for the provision of information and exchange of opinions pertaining to business environment and related issues. To learn about the policies on the training, please see the following: 13 The Board of Directors, comprising 12 members, deliberates matters prescribed in the Companies Act, as well as other important management issues, providing oversight for the execution of duties by directors. To clarify the division of roles between execution and Board of Directors monitoring of management, Board of Director meetings are led by a Chairman who, in principle, does not execute business. The Board of Directors includes the appointment of two external directors to create a system enabling management monitoring based on professional knowledge and decision-making from a wider perspective. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of four members, each of whom attend Board of Directors meetings and conduct other activities to audit the execution of duties by directors. The Audit & Supervisory Board includes the appointment of two outside audit & supervisory Audit & Supervisory board members, each possessing significant business experience. One of our standing outside Board audit & supervisory board members has many years of operational experience in financial institutions possessing a considerable degree of financial and accounting knowledge enabling him to conduct monitoring effectively. Comprising the President, directors,audit & supervisory board members and executive officers Executive and division heads designated by the president, this body deliberates the matters necessary to Committee help the President with decision-making. This body assists the president and CSR committee with decision-making by deliberating matters necessary for the observance of laws, regulations and corporate ethics. Observance of laws, regulations and corporate ethics 1. Revision or abolition of basic policies related to the observance of laws, regulations and corporate ethics, including the Guidelines for Corporate Behavior. 2. Determination of systems, structures and strict observance of important activities CSR Committee pertaining to laws, regulations and corporate ethics company-wide. 3. Determination, revision or abolition of risk management structures pertaining to laws, regulations and corporate ethics. Responses to items determined to pose a significant threat to the company, as well as consideration and evaluation of the projects promoted by each subcommittee and other CSR-related items identified as important by the CSR Committee pertaining to matters, incidents or accidents related to laws, regulations or corporate ethics, are also deliberated. This body formulates and deliberates the planning of matters necessary to help the President NGK Environmental and the NGK Environmental Protection Committee chairman with decision-making regarding Protection the realization of our Core Policy on the Environment to promote business activities in harmony Committee with the environment. Aiming to increase customer satisfaction and trust by realizing even higher-quality products and services, this body deliberates the matters necessary to help the President and the Company-wide Quality Committee chairman with decision-making regarding the following Company-Wide items. Quality Committee 1. Revision or abolition of Company-wide Quality Policy and Objectives 2. Items pertaining to the prevention of serious quality defects in the market and technological responses after occurrence 3. Other quality-related matters determined to be important Company-Wide This body attempts to promote, through lower committees, the deliberation and determination Safety and Health of Company-wide basic policies regarding safety and health and the establishment of basic Committee policies and priority targets. This body deliberates matters necessary to help the President and Internal Controls Committee chairman with decision-making regarding internal controls system evaluation and reporting Internal Controls related to financial reporting based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Committee 1. Determines reporting scope of same reports this fiscal year, evaluation and reporting schedules, evaluation standards relating to internal controls and other basic matters 14 2. Determines internal controls evaluation summary and internal controls report drafts. Mechanism for deliberating items necessary to assist the decision making of the President and Development Development Committee chairman regarding evaluations, budgets, major individual planning Committee and commercialization projects related to development. Mechanism for deliberating items necessary to assist the decision making of the President and Facilities Committee Facilities Committee chairman regarding policies, evaluations, budgets and performance and major individual planning related to capital expenditure and information systems. Mechanism for deliberating items necessary to assist the President’s decision making Company-wide regarding policies, systems, structures and major individual planning related to company-wide Education Council human resource development. Aimed at ensuring business continuity in times of emergency, a mechanism for executing the BCP operation and maintenance of business continuity planning (BCP) in normal times as well as Countermeasures guidance and support for restoration systems and determining a restoration order of priority Headquarters when BCP is in effect. Central Disaster Mechanism for executing requisite duties based on commands from the Division Head and Prevention and deliberating items necessary to assist the decision making of the President and Division Head Control regarding items related to earthquakes, storm and flood damage, fires and explosions that Headquarters threaten or significantly impact the company. Security Export Mechanism for the deliberation and determination of guidance for subsidiaries and affiliates, Control/ the creation of legal compliance and other internal systems with respect to security export Specified Export and controls, specified export declaration systems and the management of customs clearance Customs Clearance operations. Control Committee 15 Corporate Governance New Committee Structures NGK INSULATORS, LTD., has further strengthened and enhanced its corporate governance structures by establishing new committees to bolster the supervision and monitoring functions of the Board of Directors. Strengthening the Corporate Governance Structures --Establishment of New Committees and Expansion of the Whistleblowing System Business Ethics Committee Comprised of external directors and one internal director responsible for compliance, this committee monitors for fraud or illegalities involving senior management, as well as for compliance with the Competition Law and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and reports directly to the Board of Directors. As a mechanism to prevent fraud or legal violations, in addition to the existent Helpline, an internal reporting system (Hotline) linked directly to external directors was established with the aim of strengthening NGK's compliance structure. Corporate Council The meeting enables external directors to exchange opinions with representative directors and other corporate officers when proactive recommendations for senior management are sought from external directors regarding various managementrelated issues. Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee Comprising a majority of external directors, this committee attempts to ensure fairness and increase transparency related to determining the appointment and remuneration of officers by deliberating matters related to the appointment and remuneration of board members and corporate officers, Chief Executive Officer succession planning and other matters, the results of which are reported to the Board of Directors. Conference of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Comprised exclusively of external directors, these meetings facilitate an exchange of opinions regarding NGK management issues, with the intent of proactively contributing to discussions at Board of Director meetings. Hearing convened by Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Outside Directors Comprised of corporate auditors and external directors, these hearings gather information from internal sources regarding the business environment and issues surrounding NGK. Corporate Governance Scheme 16 Corporate Governance Whistle-blowing System Helpline Establishment We established a helpline to receive inquiries and reports from employees aimed at curtailing and preventing activities contrary to the spirit of the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and to facilitate the quick resolution when issues occur. Each overseas Group company has its own helpline. Those seeking advice or reporting issues are promised protection under corporate regulations. Hotline Establishment We established a hotline as an internal control system for responding to fraud and legal infractions committed by senior management, including Competition Law and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations. The hotline is operated by outside lawyers, with issues handled by the Management Ethics Committee, composed mainly of external directors, who report directly to the Board of Directors. 17 Corporate Governance Support for the Corporate Governance Code In accordance with the basic principles of the Corporate Governance Code mandated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, NGK's implementation status is as follows: Disclosure based on each principle of the corporate governance code Principles 1-4. Policy regarding strategic holdings and criteria for the exercising of voting rights related to strategic shareholdings NGK maintains ongoing policies to hold listed shares that contribute to long-term business development aimed mainly at maintaining and strengthening business relationships. Shares in the Morimura Group, established by a common founder, are held with the intention of enhancing Group brand value. This will contribute both to initiatives aimed at mutual improvements in management quality and industrial developments focused on ceramics. The significance of holding strategic shares, as well as share prices, dividend yields, ratings and other details, are regularly confirmed at Board of Director meetings to determine whether to maintain these holdings. Concrete explanations are provided regarding the aim and rationale of holdings in the Securities Report. Regarding the exercise of voting rights pertaining to strategic shareholdings, rights are exercised on the basis of whether management places importance on improving corporate value in the held company and increasing shareholder profits, from both a mediumto long-term perspective as well as the point of view of agenda item details that do not impair shareholder profits. Principles 1-7. Procedural framework regarding transactions between related parties Regarding transactions with directors and corporate officers, the NGK Board of Directors approve items in accordance with procedures related to conflict-of-interest transactions defined in the Companies Act. At Board of Director meetings, which include independent external directors, discussions and determinations are conducted from the perspective of whether transaction details and terms are appropriate, and whether or not there will be any adverse impacts on the company. The main details of transactions are disclosed in business reports and the Securities Report. Regarding transactions with corporate auditors, at present no such matters have been approved by the Board of Directors, however these will be handled as matters for approval going forward. Regarding transactions with major shareholders, although at present we do not foresee such transactions, as above, these will be handled as matters for approval by the Board of Directors. Principles 3-1. Enhanced information disclosure 1. Company aims (corporate philosophy, etc.), management strategy and management planning NGK's corporate philosophy states â€œNGK products and technologies must create new value and contribute to the quality of life.â€ Management strategy and planning are disclosed in our Consolidated Financial Results as well as on our company website. 2. Basic stance and policies regarding corporate governance 18 Please see here for details regarding NGK's basic stance on corporate governance. Furthermore, NGK's basic policies on corporate governance are as follows: (1) Maintaining shareholder rights and equality NGK observes suitable procedures related to the execution of rights by shareholders, and provides information sufficient in quality and amount to explain to shareholders through the timely and appropriate disclosure of information to substantially ensure shareholder rights, including voting rights at the general meeting of shareholders. (2) Appropriate cooperation with stakeholders other than shareholders NGK attempts to create corporate value over the mediumto long-term and realize sustainable growth through the proactive promotion of appropriate cooperation with a variety of stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers, creditors and regional societies based on our corporate philosophy. (3) Ensuring transparency and appropriate information disclosure Aware that the appropriate disclosure of information ensures corporate management transparency, as well as contributes to improved corporate governance, NGK proactively disseminates information pertaining not only to the company's financial condition, management performance and other financial information, but also information about management strategies and issues, risk, corporate governance and other non-financial issues. (4) Duties of Board of Directors, etc. Based on an awareness that the main duties of the Board of Directors is to indicate basic management policies and supervise and monitor business execution by directors, NGK makes maximum use of various committees involved in business execution and advisory committee members comprised mainly of external directors to ensure directors are sufficiently meeting their responsibilities. (5) Dialogue with shareholders Based on the recognition that constructive dialogues with shareholders are important to realize sustainable growth and increased corporate value over the mediumto long-term, NGK makes best effort to provide effective feedback to management related to the opinions and concerns of shareholders through sincere responses to shareholder inquires in conjunction with the relevant departments as necessary. 3. Policies and procedures for Board of Director determination of senior management and director remuneration (Policies) With the aim of providing motivation to realize NGK's corporate philosophy and management policies, as well as heighten the transparency, fairness and clarity of director responsibilities, director (excluding external directors) and corporate executive remuneration is comprised of three components (1) a level-based, fixed annual salary as basic remuneration, (2) an annual performance-based bonus to heighten the connection to company performance and further clarify the fulfillment of responsibilities by each director, and (3) stock-related remuneration to boost motivation and morale aimed at enhancing corporate value over the mediumto long-term through proper company management, by sharing the shareholders' risk of declines as well as the merits of stock price increases and increasing sensitivity to NGK share prices. In terms of the ratio of fixed annual remuneration to variable remuneration, from the perspective of emphasis on maintaining and improving performance over the mediumto long-term, NGK sets the performance-based variable remuneration at an appropriate level. External directors and corporate auditors receive only basic remuneration based on their supervision of management from an independent perspective and role as monitors; no performance or share price-based remuneration is provided. In terms of amounts, resolutions at the regular general shareholders meeting held in June 2007, excluding stock-related remuneration, namely stock options, capped annual compensation for directors at 800 million yen and external director compensation was capped at 30 million yen per year. Similarly, resolutions for director (excluding external director) stock options were limited to 200 million yen or less per year, while corporate auditor remuneration, etc., was capped at 100 million yen per year. (Procedures) Resolution of annual remuneration amounts including bonuses for each director and corporate officer is entrusted to representative directors at Board of Director meetings and determined in consultation with them. In terms of specific procedures, the basic remuneration is determined by considering corporate performance and the level of remuneration within the similar industry, with the amount set according to position or rank. Performance-based bonuses, which are annual bonuses, are determined based on management indicators and increases/decreases in performance, including 19 annual consolidated operating margins, consolidated sales and consolidated ROE. In terms of stock-related remuneration, as a long-term incentive, the allotment of stock remuneration-type stock options with a strike price of 1 yen per share are determined in accordance with position or rank. In principle, conditions determining the exercise of stock options stipulate that stock options can be exercised starting one year after a director's resignation for no longer than a period of five years. The amount of remuneration for each corporate auditor is determined by discussion by corporate auditors. The determination of procedures and basic policies related to remuneration are deliberated at the Advisory Committee involved in remuneration, which comprises mainly external directors. By reporting results of the deliberation to the Board of Directors, NGK aims to ensure fairness and improve transparency. 4. Policies and procedures for appointing director and corporate auditor candidates and Board of Director selection of management team (Policies) NGK is a manufacturer in the business of providing ceramics and other materials and related products to a variety of industries in a wide range of areas in and outside Japan. The management team, directors and corporate executives responsible for business execution, are required to engage in business judgments and decision-making based on individual knowledge pertaining to each NGK business area, production technologies and research and development, as well as financial, legal and labor-related knowledge. Similarly, standing corporate auditors are also required to conduct monitoring based on a specialized knowledge of finance, etc., and knowledge gained through individual business experience. Accordingly, candidate nominations place importance on practical experience with production technologies, research and development, sales and planning, etc., as well as leadership and financial, legal and labor-related knowledge. External director and external corporate auditor candidates are nominated for their high degree of specialization in law, corporate finance and other areas, as well as knowledge related to international affairs, and social and economic trends. In accordance with NGK's Articles of Incorporation, the total number of directors is limited to 15 or less. (Procedures) To ensure fairness and transparency, the selection of directors is proposed to the Board of Directors after discussions are held by all presidents regarding each candidate. To ensure the independence of candidates for corporate auditor, in addition to a discussion by all representative directors, the approval of the Board of Corporate Auditors is also sought. Furthermore, director and corporate auditor candidates are voted on by the Board of Directors as general meeting of shareholder objective items (agenda items). Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee comprised of a majority of external directors involved in appointments discusses the selection of candidates and appointment policies, the results of which are reported to the Board of Directors in best effort to improve transparency and further ensure fairness. 5. Explanation regarding individual nomination and appointment when appointing director and corporate auditor candidates and Board of Director selection of management team The reasons for appointing director and corporate auditor candidates are as follows: Eiji Hamamoto : Mr. Hamamoto possesses a wide range of experience in finance, accounting, human resources and other management divisions, was involved in the management of an overseas subsidiary and has served as the General Manager of NGK's core businesses, including the Power Business Group and Electronics Business Group. Mr. Hamamoto's nomination as a director candidate reflects his knowledge related to management overall and an international perspective based on an abundance of business experience at NGK. Taku Oshima Assigned to the production technologies division after joining NGK, Mr. Oshima was involved in the launch of a production line at an overseas subsidiary. He was also involved with the inception of NAS (sodium sulfur) battery mass production, engaged in design, production, market cultivation and other duties as the General Manager of the world's first large capacity storage battery business division, establishing it as NGK's core business. In view of his experience, Mr. Oshima was appointed as a director candidate with the expectation that he will continue to drive NGK's business going forward. 20 Yukihisa Takeuchi :Mainly assigned to the R&D Division, Mr. Takeuchi led the development of piezoelectric micro-actuators, which were commercialized and established as a core product, and possesses management experience as a division general manager. In addition, he engaged in new product development in areas including energy, ecology and electronics, as well as ceramics fundamental research as General Manager of the R&D Division. He was appointed as a director candidate for his wide ranging knowledge of divisional management and technological areas. Susumu Sakabe : Since joining NGK, Mr. Sakabe has worked mainly in the Finance Division, with experience in domestic and overseas subsidiary administration, including positions as the General Manager of the Division Planning and Finance departments. He has been engaged in the revision of internal rules pertaining to accounting and taxation and structural reorganization, as well as dialogues with investors. He was appointed as a director candidate for his abundant experience and knowledge relating to finance. Hiroshi Kanie : Engaged in Industrial Process Division sales and corporate planning, Mr. Kanie also has experience in head office management as the secretarial office manager. Currently, he is leading the management of NGK's largest business, the Ceramics Business Group, and was appointed as a director candidate for his wealth of experience in that business as well as for his network of contacts within and outside the company. Ryohei Iwasaki : After involvement in Ceramics Business Group sales, Mr. Iwasaki ran an overseas subsidiary, managed the Corporate Strategy Office and was the General Manager of the Electronics Business Group, accumulating a diverse range of practical experience related to business management. He was appointed as a director candidate due to the corporate management knowledge he has gained through these experiences. Hideaki Saito : Since engaging in Industrial Process Division sales upon joining NGK, Mr. Saito has held several management positions including The Worker's Union Central Executive Committee Chairman and Power Business Group Sales Manager. Currently, in charge of Power Business Group management, he was appointed as a director candidate for his deep network of personal contacts within and outside Japan as well as his wealth of knowledge in business. Shuhei Ishikawa : Having been engaged in technology and development in the Metals Division since joining NGK, Mr. Ishikawa is knowledgeable about production technologies and new product development in this division. Having served as a department head in the Metals Division, he currently leads the Electronics Business Group management, and was appointed as a director candidate due to his vast knowledge of the electronics industry. Nobumitsu Saji : With a variety of business experience gained in Power Business Group sales, the Finance Department, overseas subsidiaries and positions in outside organizations, Mr. Saji managed the Planning Division of Power Business Group as well as the Legal Department. At present, he is engaged in research focused on the international competitive investigation under the supervision of an independent committee. He was appointed as a director candidate because of his position as a leader of NGK's legal and compliance having jurisdiction over legal and compliance-related departments. Chiaki Niwa : With a long history in the Engineering Division (now spun off as a separate company) and Plant Technology Department within the Industrial Process Division, Mr. Niwa is currently in the role of leading Company-wide manufacturing as the head of the Production Technology Division. He was appointed as a director candidate due to his substantial knowledge related to project management and production technologies. Hiroyuki Kamano : Engaged in a legal practice focused on corporate international business development as an attorney for many years, and serving as the vice-chairman of the Tokyo Bar Association, Mr. Kamano has a wealth of experience and success in the legal profession. He was appointed as an external director candidate with the expectation that he will strengthen NGK's corporate governance and compliance systems through recommendations on overall management drawing on his professional experience in Japan and overseas. 21 Toshio Nakamura : Having served as Ministry of International Trade and Industry (now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Trade Director and Small and Medium Enterprise Agency Secretary, at present, Mr. Nakamura is an Executive Director at the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and has for many years served in key positions that contributed to the promotion of commerce and industry. Mr. Nakamura was appointed as an external director candidate based on the expectation that he will provide recommendations on all NGK management issues utilizing substantial experience and wide-ranging knowledge accumulated throughout his career. Takeyuki Mizuno : With business management experience focused on manufacturing, Mr. Mizuno was involved in the establishment of the Ceramics Division for Semiconductor Manufacturing Equipment after being engaged in technological development in the Ceramics Business Group. He also has many years of experience in the Manufacturing Technologies Division, the Company-wide Quality Committee and the Company-wide Environmental Committee. He was appointed as a corporate auditor candidate in consideration of knowledge gained through these positions as well as his ability to monitor NGK business management. Ken Sugiyama : Since joining NGK, Mr. Sugiyama spent many years in the Finance Department, where he served as General Manager. In addition to involvement in the business management of an overseas subsidiary, he also has experience as head of the Auditing Department. He was appointed as a corporate auditor candidate in consideration of his monitoring abilities and his wealth of knowledge and experience related to financial accounting and business auditing. Setsuo Tanaka : After serving various management positions in the police department including as chief of police, Mr. Tanaka was appointed as an external corporate auditor candidate with the expectation that he will offer recommendations on overall NGK management issues from the perspectives of risk management and proper business practices utilizing his wealth of experience and achievements in public administration. Ichiro Terato : Having served as a Senior Managing Executive Officer at The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. (now The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) and as a Director and Executive Vice President at the Nikon Corporation, Mr. Terato was appointed as an external corporate auditor candidate based on the expectation he will provide recommendations on all NGK management issues utilizing his wide-ranging knowledge and vast experience as a corporate management professional accumulated throughout his long career as a corporate manager. Supplemental principles 4-1 (1). Summary of scope of senior management delegation The NGK Board of Directors deliberate and determine matters prescribed to be resolved legally by the Board of Directors, as well as the importance and disposition of items corresponding to these matters as items appropriate for resolution at Board of Director meetings. The Board of Directors discuss management planning formulation and management strategies required to establish strategic direction in order to realize NGK's corporate philosophy, which is delegated to NGK senior managements who determine business-related matters based on this policy. Items deliberated and determined by the Board of Directors are explicitly defined in NGK's Articles of Incorporation and the regulations governing the Board of Directors. These mainly pertain to Company-wide overall budgeting, corporate dissolution, mergers, alliances and other strategic planning, share handling regulations, general meeting of shareholder convocation notices, the appointment and dismissal of presidents, approval of financial statements and business reports, the disposal and acquisition of important financial assets (long-term holdings of marketable securities, property, equipment, etc.), the appointment and dismissal of key employees and the establishment or restructuring of key organizational structures. NGK introduced a corporate officer system in an attempt to achieve prompt decision-making by separating the management decision-making and business execution functions. For matters other than the above, senior managements 22 make decision based on a separately prescribed administrative authority chart. Principles 4-9. Criteria for determining independence of independent external directors In addition to the treatment of external directors under the Companies Act, as well as the requirements for external directors as established by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, NGK assumes that directors meeting any of the following conditions are not able to be considered as independent and external directors (hereinafter, independent external directors ). However, even if any of these conditions apply to a person, NGK will consider them to be appropriate as an independent external director in light of their character or insights, sufficiently meeting the requirements for an external director under the Companies Act and an independent director as defined by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. These persons are able to become independent external directors on the condition that a public explanation is provided as to the reasons they are thought to be appropriate as an NGK independent external director. Within this determination criterion, managing director means company managing directors, executive officers and corporate officers as well as managers and other employees, and NGK Group means NGK and its subsidiaries and affiliated companies. 1. Major shareholders, who at present possess 10% or more of ownership voting rights in NGK. If major shareholders are corporations, the managing directors of such corporations employed during the three most recent fiscal years. 2. Current managing directors of suppliers with whom transactions account for 2% or more of consolidated net sales of either the supplier or NGK Group in any of the last three fiscal years, including the most recent. 3. Managing directors employed during the three most recent fiscal years at financial institutions or other corporations that are major creditors upon which NGK depends and for which there are no alternatives and are indispensable in terms of NGK Group fund procurement. 4. Current directors or officers employed during the three most recent fiscal years at organizations receiving annual contributions or assistance from NGK Group in amounts exceeding 10 million yen or 30% of average annual expenses, whichever is larger. 5. Certified public accountants, tax accountants or members of auditing firms or tax accountancies employed by NGK Group as accounting auditors or accounting advisors during the three most recent fiscal years. 6. Attorneys, certified public accountants, tax accountants or consultants other than those mentioned above who during any of the three most recent fiscal years including last fiscal year has obtained annual profit of 10 million yen or more in cash or other financial assets from NGK Group apart from officer remuneration, or who are members of law offices, auditing firms, tax accountancies, consultancies or organizations providing advice other than those mentioned above who during any of the three most recent fiscal years including last fiscal year have received 2% or more of consolidated total sales payments received from NGK Group. 7. Managing directors during the last three fiscal years including the most recent fiscal year of companies for which NGK is a major shareholder at present. 8. Relatives, including the spouse, parents, relative in the second degree or offspring of anyone indicated in 1-7 above. Supplemental principles 4-11 (1). Stance regarding scale, diversity and balance of knowledge, experience and abilities for Board of Directors as a whole 23 NGK's Board of Directors is comprised of individuals who possess practical experience and leadership in each of our business areas, including manufacturing technologies, research and development, sales and planning, as well as financial, legal and labor-related knowledge. The Board also includes individuals from outside the company who are highly independent and possess a high degree of specialization in law and corporate finance as well as knowledge pertaining to international affairs, and social and economic trends. In accordance with the Articles of Incorporation, the number of directors is limited to 15 people. NGK recognizes that the promotion of women and foreigners is an important issue to be examined from the perspective of being necessary for the expansion of business going forward. Supplemental principles 4-11 (2). Director and corporate auditor concurrent appointment as directors at other listed companies Every year, NGK discloses the status of concurrent appointment of the Company's directors and corporate auditors at other companies in general meeting of shareholder convocation notices, Securities Reports and reports pertaining to corporate governance. Supplemental principles 4-11 (3). Summary of analysis and assessment results pertaining to the efficacy of the Board of Directors It is assumed that NGK's Board of Directors functions effectively, engaging in lively discussions and conducting proceedings appropriately in accordance with laws and regulations, the Articles of Incorporation and internal rules. Going forward, NGK plans to conduct self-evaluations by each director, and upon reporting them to the Board of Directors, disclose a summary of analysis and assessment of the effectiveness of the Board's function Supplemental principles 4-14 (2). Policies on the training of directors and corporate auditors In light of the obligation for good manager's duty of care as employees appointed as directors and corporate auditors. NGK has adopted the following training polices aimed at providing opportunities for learning that will enable these individuals to fulfill their responsibilities as management professionals and executive supervisors. 1. Corporate governance and compliance-related training involving the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and the Competition Law for internal directors. 2. With regard to external directors, we provide individual explanations concerning mainly Board of Director meeting proposals facilitated by personnel from relevant business divisions, as well as regular opportunities for the provision of information and exchange of opinions pertaining to business environment and related issues. Principles 5-1. Policies related to the establishment of systems and initiatives aimed at promoting constructive dialogue with shareholders NGK is engaged in the maximization of corporate value through two-way communication with shareholders and investors, including efforts to provide accurate and timely explanations regarding management conditions and polices. NGK makes best effort to promote constructive dialogue through sincere responses to requests for interviews with shareholders and investors, questions raised at general shareholder meetings and inquiries sent through our corporate website, which are facilitated under the guidance of the directors in charge of the Finance and General Affairs departments, which work in close cooperation with the Corporate Strategy Office, the Public Relations Office and Legal Department when necessary. NGK also places importance on direct dialogue with institutional investors, conducting biannual earnings presentations and overseas IR road shows led by senior managements. The details of these dialogues are regularly reported to the Board of Directors. This management feedback is used to 24 improve management efficiency and transparency. Shareholder and investor dialogues are conducted with the objective of increasing corporate value and capital efficiency, as well as promoting sustainable growth. The disclosure of material information not already publicly available within the context of these dialogues constitutes damage to the equality between shareholders. In principle, NGK does not disclose unannounced material information. Reasons for not implementing each principle of the corporate governance code Principles 4-8. Appointment of two or more independent external directors At present, NGK's Board of Directors includes two external directors whose appropriate role is the strengthening of corporate governance through recommendations related to overall NGK management. One of these is paid expenses related to their commission as chairperson of a separately installed independent committee, and is not registered as an independent director. Although this external director is not registered as an independent director, there is no relationship of special interest with NGK. The company determines that this external director independent is sufficiently fulfilling their expected role as independent from management, providing the Board of Directors with an outside perspective based on experience and knowledge, including minority shareholders. The other external director is registered as an independent director, fulfilling an important role in terms of sustainable corporate growth and mediumto long-term corporate value improvement by providing the Board of Directors with recommendations based on their experience and knowledge. In light of the demand for the appointment of two or more independent external directors in the recent corporate governance code, NGK will consider how this condition will be met going forward. 25 Corporate Governance External Directors and outside audit & supervisory board members NGK appoints individuals who possess outstanding achievements and a wealth of experience from a variety of industries to monitor director business execution in an attempt to realize stronger, more efficient management. Additionally, in terms of external director independence, overall determinations are made with consideration for the Tokyo Stock Exchange “Guidelines for Listing” to avoid conflicts of interest with general shareholders. Our two external directors are professionals able to make objective, rational decisions, while our two external audit & supervisory board members provide opinions mainly from social and financial perspectives. Activities of Outside Directors Attendance at Board of Name Main activities Director meetings Mr. Kamano offers advice regarding compliance structure enhancement and Hiroyuki Attended all 13 Board of management approaches for management Kamano director meetings planning utilizing his substantial experience External and specialization as an attorney. directors Mr. Nakamura offers opinions that clarify the Toshio Attended 12 of 13 Board of foundation of business decisions utilizing his Nakamura Director meetings wide-ranging experience and achievements in economic and industrial administration. Attendance at Audit Attendance at Board Name & Supervisory Board Main activities of Director meetings meetings Mr. Tanaka offers advice pertaining Attended all 13 Attended all 15 to enhancing risk management Setsuo Board of Director Board of Corporate systems utilizing his experience and Tanaka meetings Auditor meetings achievements in police administration. Outside audit & supervisory board Mr. Terato provides opinions on members general management utilizing Attended 11 of 13 Attended all 15 experience and wide-ranging Ichiro Board of Director Board of Corporate knowledge gained in management Terato meetings Auditor meetings positions with The Bank of TokyoMitsubishi UFJ and the Nikon Corporation. Current Independent Directors and Reasons for Appointment 26 Independent Name Reasons for Appointment directors Mr. Nakamura is expected to provide recommendations on all NGK management issues utilizing substantial experience and wide-ranging knowledge accumulated Toshio throughout his career, during which he served as Ministry of International Trade and Nakamura, 〇 Industry (now Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) Trade Director and Small Outside and Medium Enterprise Agency Secretary. At present, Mr. Nakamura is an Executive director Director at the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and has for many years served in key positions that contributed to the promotion of commerce and industry. Mr. Terato is expected to provide recommendations on all NGK management issues Ichiro Terato, utilizing his wide-ranging knowledge and vast experience as a corporate Outside audit management professional accumulated throughout his long career as corporate & supervisory 〇 manager, during which he served as a Senior Managing Executive Officer at The board Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd. (now The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ) and as a members Director and Executive Vice President at the Nikon Corporation. 27 Corporate Governance Board of director and audit & supervisory board member remuneration, etc. Determination and Details of Policies Related to the Calculation Method for Aggregate Director Remuneration In April 2005, the Board of Directors decided to revise the director remuneration system by introducing performance-based bonuses and stock-based compensation stock options to clarify directors' responsibility for achievement and enhance fairness and transparency with the intent of stimulating motivation aimed at realizing corporate philosophy and management policies. Based on this decision, and within the framework subsequently approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders, director remuneration is determined in accordance with the following policies. Moreover, regarding director and corporate officer remuneration, the Nomination and Compensation Advisory Committee, consisting of a majority of external directors, deliberate matters related to board member and corporate officer appointments, Chief Executive Officer succession planning and other matters, the results of which are reported to the president in an effort to ensure fairness and improve transparency when making director appointments and remuneration decisions. Remuneration Determination Polices Director remuneration consists of basic remuneration as fixed annual remuneration Director Remuneration commensurate with management positions, a performance-based bonus and (Excluding external directors) stock-related remuneration. External director and audit & supervisory board member remuneration consists solely of basic remuneration. Bonus system based on annual performance of each director (excluding external Performance-based bonuses directors) aimed at increasing connection to earnings and clarifying directors’ (An annual bonus) responsibility for achievement. Amount varies based on consolidated operating income, net sales and ROE performance. To further increase sensitivity toward NGK stock prices and consolidated earnings, and to share not only the benefits when stock prices rise, but also the risks facing shareholders when stock prices fall, as well as increase motivation and morale with respect to increasing the stock price and consolidated earnings through Stock-related remuneration appropriate management, NGK grants stock-based compensation stock options at (Long-term incentive) an exercise price of ¥1 per share to directors (excluding external directors) in an amount determined according to the relevant position. In principle, stock options may be executed within a period of five years beginning no earlier than one year after resignation. Amount of audit & supervisory Determined through discussions with audit & supervisory board members board member remuneration 28 Total remuneration by type (Millions of yen) Total Applicable Director category remuneration directors Basic Stock Retirement (Millions of yen) Bonus (people) remuneration options benefits Directors (excluding external 478 381 67 29 13 directors) Audit & supervisory board members (excluding outside 59 59 3 audit & supervisory board members) External corporate 44 44 4 officers Directors Receiving Total Remuneration of ¥100 Million or More In fiscal 2014, no directors received consolidated remuneration of ¥100 million yen or more. 29 Corporate Governance Internal Control Systems The Board of Directors and the executive bodies overseen by the president are responsible for establishing and operating NGK's internal control system. The Auditing Department, a specialized internal audit body, is responsible for monitoring the status of business execution at each operating division. Moreover, NGK has established the Internal Controls Committee to manage its reporting system for internal controls pursuant to Japan's Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. The NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior were formulated as a policy embodying the Group's corporate philosophy. These guidelines specify the Group's fundamental stance with respect to business activities and corporate behavior to ensure it remains a company that is beneficial to society, even in the pursuit of its economic goals. The CSR Committee, meanwhile, is responsible for a range of activities that include formulating NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior, ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and corporate ethics is fully entrenched throughout the Group, and developing responses to incidents and accidents it believes could significantly impact the Company. The committee's actions are designed to maintain and improve the level of the Group's internal control system. Please note that the “resolution for the development of systems to ensure the appropriateness of operations” was amended at a Board of Director meeting held on April 20, 2015 based on revisions to the Companies Act and Companies Act enforcement regulations that went into force on May 1, 2015. 30 CSR Management CSR Activities Concepts and Systems The NGK Group aims to realize its corporate philosophy through the provision of products and services that will bring new value to society and contribute to the creation of a better social environment. We will fulfill our social responsibilities through these activities, establishing and continually strengthening CSR objectives to meet the expectations and earn the trust of society. Corporate Philosophy, and NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior 31 CSR Management Materiality Aiming to develop a sustainable society and in consideration of a variety of stakeholder demands, the NGK Group established eight items from Guidelines for Corporate Behavior as CSR promotion items determining the specific objectives and achievements for each item. Each year, we verify the achievement status of each objective in an attempt to continuously improve these efforts. CSR Activity Objectives and Achievements 32 CSR Management CSR Promotion Framework To promote CSR activities, the NGK Group established the CSR Committee, the NGK Environmental Protection Committee, the Company-wide Quality Committee, the Company-wide Safety and Health Committee and the Internal Controls Committee. In terms of legal and corporate ethics compliance activities, the CSR Committee discusses items necessary to assist decision-making by the president and CSR Committee chair, provides support in matters determined to potentially have a substantial impact on the company with respect to legal or ethical considerations, incidents or accidents, reviews and evaluates the promotion plans of each subcommittee, and conducts a wide range of activities, including the discussion of CSR-related items, determined to be important by the committee chair. About the Roles and Functions of Each Committee 33 CSR Management Targeted Stakeholder and Response Policies The NGK Group promotes an understanding of our business among customers, suppliers, shareholders, investors, employees and regional communities, continuously improving our activities and initiatives through dialogues with all our stakeholders. Connection with Customers To earn and maintain the trust of customers, we engage in the creation of new value through the provision of products and services realizing global environmental conservation and social safety and peace of mind from a long-term and global perspective. Company-Wide Quality Policy Connection with Suppliers With a basic policy centered on the three principles of openness and fairness, partnership and relationship with society, the NGK Group is engaged in fair, free and transparent business transactions with the procurement partners in our supply chain. We also established a supplier helpline to provide unwavering support for important inquiries in an effort to build and maintain fair supplier relationships. Basic Purchasing Policy Supplier Helpline Supply chain: Fair and honest evaluation of procurement partners, and extensive resource diversification Connection with Shareholders and Investors The NGK Group aims to meet expectations for enhanced corporate value through dialogues and efforts to disclose information pertaining to management, finance, products and services in a timely and appropriate manner. Employees The NGK Group strives to create a safe and comfortable workplace environment with respect for employee humanity. We also support the growth of human resources and fair treatment enabling each employee to maximize their skills. Basic Policy on Human Resource Development Regional Communities We proactively engage in social contribution activities in response to community needs with the intent of becoming a corporate citizen trusted by society with concern for social issues in all countries and regions where we do business. 34 CSR Management Human Rights Initiatives Having established respect for humanity in its Guidelines for Corporate Behavior, the NGK Group uses its intranet, which is available to all domestic Group company employees, to explain and disseminate the United Nations “Universal Declaration of Human Rights”*1 and “Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.”*2 The NGK Group took advantage of its participation in the UN Global Compact in April 2015 as an opportunity to proactively spread awareness about the protection of human rights, and in May, conducted a seminar providing an overview of the UN Global Compact and an explanation of its proposals for the protection of human rights among other efforts to spread awareness about the importance of protecting human rights through compliance training. Compliance Training *1 Adopted on December 10, 1948 at the Third United Nations General Assembly Session, this declaration expresses the rights to which all human beings in all nations are inherently entitled (General Assembly Resolution 217 (III)). The formal name is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. *2 UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Based on the “Report on Human Rights and Transnational Corporations and Other Business Issues” by John Ruggie, UN Secretary-General's Special Representative for Business and Human Rights (at that time). The UN Global Compact is a global framework for realizing sustainable growth through companies and organizations acting as good members of society. Participating corporations support ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption required in the practice of corporate activities. [The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact] Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Related News 35 CSR Objectives and Achievements *Evaluation standards: Target achieved 80% or more of target achieved Less than 80% of target achieved Provision of Products that Contribute to Better Social Environment Development and Provision of Products and Services That Help to Preserve the Natural Environment Strengthen production system in Strengthened global production Strengthen production system in response to market trends for system in response to expanding response to market trends for automotive-related demand for automotive-related ◯ automotive-related products. products.(NGK Group) products. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) Development and Provision of Products and Services That Embody Safety and Reliability Began full-fledged operation of NAS® batteries at domestic Promote market development Promote market development and cost reductions. (NGK) smart cities, increased ◯ and cost reductions. (NGK) shipments to meet large overseas orders. (NGK) Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services In design divisions, enhanced Zero major market complaints design verification in through strict design verification Enhance design quality in light of consideration of usage and reliability evaluation. deterioration, improve environment and deterioration. In manufacturing methods to product divisions, improved ◯ Eliminate defect costs through optimization and standardization control variation. (NGK Group) manufacturing methods to of production conditions. (NGK control product discrepancies Group) (NGK Group) Disclosure of Corporate Information Enhancement of Corporate Information Disclosure Enhance and continue to provide Enhance and continue to provide Conducted ongoing fair and fair and honest information fair and honest information honest information disclosure in disclosure in a timely and a timely and appropriate manner. ◯ disclosure in a timely and appropriate manner. (NGK appropriate manner. (NGK (NGK Group) Group) Group) Consistent Improvement of Internal Controls Relating to Financial Reporting Improved all items identified by Curtail and clearly improve items Improve items identified during identified by audits. (NGK Group) audits within the fiscal year. ◯ audits. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) 36 Raise efficiency in assessment Raised efficiency in assessment Raise efficiency in assessment and audit of processes rated and audit of processes rated and audit of processes rated favorably in the previous fiscal favorably in the previous fiscal ◯ favorably in the previous fiscal year. (NGK Group) year. (NGK Group) year. (NGK Group) Thorough Enforcement of Compliance; Risk Management Thorough Promulgation of the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior Through Education Familiarized employees with Continue thorough awareness Continue thorough awareness career training, created a paper and inculcation of NGK Group and inculcation of NGK Group on awareness summarizing Guidelines for Corporate guidelines for corporate behavior ◯ Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and behavioral Behavior and behavioral distributed to all employees. guidelines. (NGK Group) guidelines. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) Reinforcement of the Risk Management System The CSR Committee will The CSR Committee will CSR Committee met three times, regularly follow-up on the status regularly follow-up on the status of Company-wide risk followed up on status of risk ◯ of Company-wide risk countermeasures. (NGK Group) countermeasures.(NGK Group) countermeasures. (NGK Group) Distribute CSA questionnaire to Distributed CSA questionnaire to Implement CSA questionnaire all domestic Group companies. 311 domestic Group company ◯ targeting NGK (domestic Group companies) directors and managers. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Conducted awareness program for approximately 200 Conduct awareness program for manager-level employees Conduct awareness program for managers on innovator intellectual property consisting of lectures led by ◯ manager-level employees. invited university professors who (NGK) management. (NGK) discussed innovator intellectual property management. (NGK) Conducted ten small group Continue to conduct small group discussion-based seminars for Continue to conduct small group discussion-based seminars for young engineers in the R&D and ◯ discussion-based seminars for young engineers. (NGK) business divisions attended by young engineers. (NGK) 73 employees. (NGK) Creation and Consistent Improvement of a Framework for Information Security Followed up on security measures and software Complete Group-wide Continue to follow up on security management status at Group compliance with Microsoft Edge measures and strengthen companies during and at the end software management. (NGK of the fiscal year. Provided ◯ browser ahead of January 2016 phase-out of Internet Explorer Group) individual guidance to Group (NGK Group) companies with insufficient measures. (NGK Group) Strict Adherence to the Anti-Monopoly Act, Subcontract Act, and Other Laws and Regulations 37 Pertaining to Business Transactions Conducted three seminars on competition law compliance inviting lawyers as external lecturers targeting corporate officers, key personnel and sales Continue regularization of staff. Approximately 480 Continue regularization of seminars, etc. (NGK Group) employees attended; those ◯ seminars, etc. (NGK Group) unable to attend watched the lecture in DVD. (NGK Group) Conducted the seminar in Europe, the United States and South Africa. (NGK Group) In addition to inculcating Promote thorough awareness Implement program to thoroughly thorough awareness, introduced and use of competition laws latest information on competition ◯ inculcate competition law handbook. (NGK Group) compliance. (NGK Group) laws. (NGK Group) Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Export Management Conducted awareness training focused on import/export Ongoing study meetings and handbook at study meetings Inculcate thorough awareness of training related to import/export related to import/export ◯ import/export handbook. (NGK) management. (NGK) management in each division. (NGK) Respect of Humanity and Assurance of Comfortable Working Environment Maintenance and Consistent Improvement of Safe and Comfortable Working Environments Focus efforts on safety training Strengthened experiential Focus efforts on safety training to prevent accidents before they training attended by more than ◯ to prevent accidents before they occur. (NGK) 350 employees. (NGK) occur. (NGK Group) Promote 5S workplace Horizontally deployed successful Promote 5S workplace certification activities, continue to case studies developed ◯ certification activities, continue to develop company-wide. (NGK) company-wide. (NGK) develop company-wide. (NGK) Continue health management for Continue health management for Continued implementation, 114 employees who routinely work employees participated. (NGK) ◯ employees who routinely work long hours. (NGK) long hours. (NGK) Development of Human Capital and Recruiting of Human Resources across the Group Promoted systematic training Plan highly effective human Plan highly effective human resource training. (NGK) through approximately 120 ◯ resource training. (NGK) programs. (NGK) Held training to enhance Promote systematic training in Promote systematic training in in-house instructor skills attempt to strengthen onsite attended by 21 employees. ◯ attempt to strengthen onsite capabilities. (NGK Group) capabilities. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) 38 Ongoing language training (Goal: 88% of new hires achieved a Ongoing language training (Goal: 80% of new hires score 600 or TOEIC score of 600 points or ◯ 80% of new hires score 600 or higher on the TOEIC). (NGK) higher. (NGK) higher on the TOEIC). (NGK) Utilization of Diverse Human Resources Maintain disabled employment Achieved the 2.23% legally Maintain disabled employment rate at 2.0% or higher. (NGK) mandated ratio. (NGK) ◯ rate at 2.0% or higher. (NGK) Continue to promote use of Continue to promote use of system for transferring to general Six employees transferred to system for transferring to general general employment jobs. (NGK) ◯ employment jobs. employment jobs.(NGK) Increase ratio of new female graduate employment. (NGK) Support for Better Balance between Work and Home Life/Childrearing In conjunction with the Worker's Union, reviewed factors causing work outside regular business hours to increase and implemented countermeasures Work with labor union to promote resulting in a significant Work with labor union to promote rectification of long working reduction in the incidence of ◯ rectification of long working hours. (NGK) employees working 45 or more hours. (NGK) hours outside regular business hours. Also, the number of employees working 600 or more hours annually has decreased for three years straight. (NGK) In addition to consideration for working hours, we increased the amount of maternity gift payments, established a gift payment for children starting elementary school and created a Increase use of expanded Increase use of expanded babysitter expense subsidy childrearing support measures. system. Furthermore, we ◯ childrearing support measures. (NGK Group) (NGK) implemented a system for preferentially allotting employee parking spaces within the vicinity of the headquarters to employees raising children. (NGK) Implementation of Fair, Free and Transparent Transactions Fair and Honest Evaluation of Procurement Partners, and Extensive Resource Diversification We visited and evaluated nine Conduct evaluation of new Conduct assessment on 10% of new suppliers and 103 existing suppliers and important suppliers total number of suppliers. (NGK) suppliers, a total of 112 ◯ (approximately 1% of all supplier companies. (NGK) companies). (NGK) 39 Discussed individual responses Discussed individual responses Promote consideration of with consideration to with consideration to collected questionnaire results on BCP targeting top 50 relationships with each ◯ relationships with each procurement partner and procurement partner and suppliers. (NGK) supplier. (NGK) supplier. (NGK) Promotion of CSR Procurement Maintain ongoing activities aimed Expand CSR procurement by Obtained written agreements at reconfirming supplier seeking agreement from new from new suppliers. (NGK ◯ understanding and written suppliers (NGK Group) Group) agreements. (NGK Group) Preservation of Global Environment Prevention of Global Warming Curb CO2 emissions. Curb CO2 emissions. Curb CO2 emissions. Domestic: Domestic: Domestic: Emissions volume of less than Emissions volume of less than Reduce CO2 emissions by 10% 183,000 metric tons. 185,000 metric tons. compared to fiscal 1990 Basic unit per net sales 13% Basic unit per net sales 13% (190,000 tons or less); Basic reduction from previous fiscal reduction from previous fiscal unit per net sales: Reduce by year. year. △ 20% compared to fiscal 2010. Overseas: Overseas: Overseas Basic unit per net sales 4% Basic unit per net sales 18% Basic unit per net sales: Reduce reduction from previous fiscal reduction from previous fiscal by 5% or more compared to year. year. fiscal 2010. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) (NGK Group) Adoption of Environmentally Friendly Production Processes Promote the development of CO2 reduction effect of Promote the development of innovative process technologies improving production processes innovative process technologies for overseas locations. (NGK (overseas total): Approximately ◯ for overseas locations. (NGK Group) 23,000 tons. (NGK Group)) Group) CO2 reduction effect of energyPromote energy conservation Promote energy conservation saving general purpose measures on general purpose measures on general purpose equipment (domestic total): equipment at Group companies Approximately 1,400 tons; ◯ equipment at Group companies in Japan and overseas. (NGK in Japan and overseas. (NGK (overseas total): 2,800 tons. Group) Group) (NGK Group) Promotion of Resource Recycling Curb amount of discarded Curb amount of discarded Curb amount of discarded materials generated. materials generated. materials generated. Domestic: Domestic: Domestic: Basic unit per net sales 23% Basic unit per net sales 15% Basic unit per net sales: Reduce reduction compared to the reduction compared to the △ 10% compared to fiscal 2010. previous fiscal year. previous fiscal year. Overseas: Overseas: Overseas: Basic unit per net sales: Reduce Basic unit per net sales9% Basic unit per net sales 19% 5% compared to fiscal 2010. reduction compared to the reduction compared to the (NGK Group) 40 previous fiscal year. previous fiscal year. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) Increase recycling rates within Established recycling rate Steadily promote and manage the scope appropriate for actual appropriate for each recycling in accordance with conditions at all overseas manufacturing base. (NGK ◯ conditions in each country. manufacturing bases. (NGK Group) (NGK Group) Group) Strengthening of Global Environmental Management Focus on overseas Group Identify potential environmental Conducted investigation into past companies, identify issues and risks at overseas Group troubles at global Group ◯ consider responses when companies. (NGK Group) companies. (NGK Group) necessary. (NGK Group) Coordination with Local Communities and Promotion of Contribution to the Society Provision of Scholarships and Living Assistance to Foreign Students Provided housing for 39 students Maintain support to foreign from five countries and Maintain support to foreign students. (NGK) scholarships for 20 students from ◯ students. (NGK) ten countries. (NGK) Held Chinese and Korean Continue to hold language Continue to hold language language classes 20 times, classes and cross-cultural classes and cross-cultural conducted cross-cultural exchange meetings led by exchange meetings led by foreign students conducted exchanges with foreign students ◯ foreign students conducted from eight countries, including within and outside the company. within and outside the company. Sweden, Malaysia, Sri Lanka (NGK) (NGK) and Mongolia, ten times. (NGK) Sent NGK International Friendship Club Membership Distribute information after Distribute information after support ends. (NGK) Cards and New Year's greetings ◯ support ends. (NGK) to approximately 300 supported students up to now. (NGK) Cooperation with Local Communities, Labor Unions, and NPOs in Social Contribution Activities Ascertain activity status and Ascertain activity status and maintain distribution of maintain distribution of Shared the status of activities at information connected to the each company. (NGK Group) ◯ information connected to the upcoming activities at each upcoming activities at each Group company. (NGK Group) Group company. (NGK Group) Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees Donated approximately 44,700 Continue to create an school meals to Africa through Continue to create an environment enabling employees Table for Two (TFT). (NGK) environment enabling employees to easily take part in volunteer Conducted forest cultivation ◯ to easily take part in volunteer activities. (NGK) volunteer activities. (NGK) activities. (NGK) Participated as group volunteers 41 at Marathon Festival NagoyaAichi. (NGK) Communications with Stakeholders Communication with Customers and Procurement Partners Hold earnings results Held earnings results Hold earnings results presentations for major presentations for 130 major ◯ presentations for major suppliers. (NGK) suppliers. (NGK) suppliers. (NGK) Continue to operate the supplier Continue to operate the supplier Continue to operate the supplier helpline. (NGK) helpline. (NGK) ◯ helpline. (NGK) Continue visits and assessments Visited 9 new suppliers and 103 Continue visits and assessments focused on new and important existing suppliers for a total of ◯ focused on new and important suppliers. (NGK) 112 suppliers. (NGK) suppliers. (NGK) Interaction with Local Communities via Plant Tours and Open House Events Interacted with local communities Continue to interact with local Continue to interact with local communities. (NGK) through 12 plant tours held at ◯ communities. (NGK) four sites. (NGK) Exchanged opinions with Conduct ongoing dialog with Enhance communication with external stakeholders. (NGK) individuals mainly from local △ external stakeholders. (NGK) administrations. (NGK) CSR Talk Live (Discussions on Implementing CSR with Every Employee Class) Continue two-way Continue two-way Conducted CSR Talk Live 9 communication events with NGK communication events with NGK times at 7 venues in Japan. and domestic Group company (NGK and domestic Group ◯ and domestic Group company employees. (NGK and domestic employees. (NGK and domestic companies) Group companies) Group companies) Substantially expanded content. Enhance CSR-Web content and Enhance CSR-Web content. Disseminated information in real use it for employee training. (NGK and domestic Group time. (NGK and domestic Group ◯ (NGK and domestic Group companies) companies) companies) 42 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Basic Approach The NGK Group engages in the creation of quality from the customer’s perspective by defining Corporate Quality Objectives each year in accordance with Corporate Quality Policy based on the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior. Corporate Quality Policy Take quality seriously, providing useful products and services that earn our customers' trust and that of the world at large Fiscal 2015 Corporate Quality Objectives Zero major customer complaints through strict design inspection and reliability evaluation. Eliminate failure costs through optimization and standardization of production conditions 43 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Quality Activity System The NGK quality activity system consists of a company-wide system, led by the Company-wide Quality Committee chairman, and business division internal activity system, led by the heads of each business division. In terms of company-wide activities, the Company-wide Quality Committee was established to function as a deliberative body assisting the Company-wide Quality Committee chairman, while business division internal activities systems were put in place for each business line, creating appropriate quality systems for each. Quality assurance, quality management, quality improvements and quality training activities are promoted by the acquisition of ISO9001 or TS16949 certification. Company-Wide Quality Activities System Quality Management System Acquisition Status (March 2015) The NGK Group quality management system has acquired 34 certifications (ISO9001 or TS16949) covering 100% of production bases in Japan and overseas. 44 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Enhancing the Elimination of Quality Risks Company-Wide NGK Group Corporate Rules for Company-Wide Quality Activities In fiscal 2010, the NGK Group began restructuring quality activities to respond more precisely to increasing and diversifying quality demands from customers in different target markets. To this end, Company-wide quality activity rules were formulated to eliminate quality risks by promoting the establishment and improved efficacy of rules within the promotion of activities. Within company-wide quality activities, quality risks are eliminated through adherence to four rules. Quality confirmation rule: Establishes milestones, from development to start of production, and confirms conformance with six quality levels when production processes change. DR function strengthening rule: Registers DR plans with quality risks of medium or high importance as important DR with participation of company-wide DR reviewers. The company-wide Quality Management Department head holds company-wide DR for cases with particularly high quality risks. Quality monitoring rule: Monitors and shares information company-wide with respect to quality status changes or problems concerning products or markets. Manufacturing defects and customer complaints are reported each month to the company-wide Quality Management Department, who provides advice on how to address defects. Handling major customer complaints rule: In the event of a major customer complaint, the situation is quickly assessed and reported to the company-wide Quality Committee to formulate countermeasures. Among these activities, design review (DR) is considered most critical. DR is conducted when development milestones are reached or when production processes change. Critical DR is conducted by reviewers from throughout the company to support the elimination of risks. Company-wide DR is conducted in the Company-Wide Quality Council, who calls on a wide range of engineers and knowledgeable people throughout the company to evaluate product reliability and safety from a variety of perspectives. DR Guidelines DR Guidelines were created to enable more proactive DR and the thorough elimination of quality risks. We promote increased DR efficacy through efforts to spread DR, including training and reviews of each DR. DR Guidelines show key concepts and perspectives with regard to eliminating quality risks and describe ways to enhance DR quality risk elimination activities. 45 From the Establishment of Rules to More Effective Improvements From the Establishment of Rules to More Effective Improvements In addition to strengthening and invigorating DR, NGK conducted internal monitoring at each division to confirm the establishment and efficacy of rules for company-wide quality activities and engaged in discussions aimed at improving quality activities in each division. In fiscal 2014, emphasis was placed on conducting activities to control product discrepancies in light of product deterioration. Design verification was enhanced in consideration of user environment and deterioration in the Design Division, while process design discussions were held to reduce product discrepancies and existing product improvement initiatives were promoted in the Production Division. Going forward, NGK will thoroughly eliminate quality risks and make further improvements to manufacturing quality through initiatives to strengthen quality activities. Eliminating Adverse Impacts on User Health and Safety All departments at NGK conduct DR when commercializing new products. Product commercialization is conducted based on deliberation to ensure no adverse impacts on user health and safety. 46 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Company-Wide Quality Activities at Overseas Production Bases From their inception, overseas production bases have created quality systems and acquired ISO9001 or TS16949 certification. As at production bases in Japan, since launching company-wide quality activities, customer complaints and the status of manufacturing quality are reported each month and issues are discussed at the Company-wide quality activity meeting. This has enabled the entire NGK Group to quickly ascertain quality status. Company-wide quality activity rules and corporate quality objectives are developed each year in an attempt to expand the deployment of quality activities. A joint technical exchange meeting held at a Group company in the United States In May 2014, NGK Ceramics USA and NGK Automotive Ceramics USA held a joint technical exchange meeting attended by approximately 40 employees. Product and technical staff shared information about HONEYCERAM®* and other latest technological trends in an attempt to enhance one another’s technical understanding. Note: A ceramic substrate containing catalysts that render harmful substances found in gasoline vehicle exhaust harmless. 47 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Total Employee Participation in Development of QuiC Activities to Improve Quality The NGK Group develops QuiC (Quality up innovation Challenge) quality improvement activities that all employees have participated in since 2003. These activities attempt to enhance product and work quality, in particular, quality improvement activities conducted by small groups, which results in suggestions for improvement, with the best improvements shared as an example across the entire NGK Group. Every July, NGK holds a company-wide contest at its headquarters to highlight examples of outstanding improvement activities with the intent of horizontal deployment throughout the company. Fiscal 2014 Proposal Activity Participation Rate Manufacturing divisions 100% Non-manufacturing divisions 85% Number of Proposals Approx. 36,000 Held on July 18, 2014, 16 divisions, including overseas Group companies, presented outstanding improvements to a total audience of 400 employees. QuiC Activities Aimed at Further Invigoration QuiC activities comprising Group improvement activities and proposal activities were conducted mainly to improve the resolution of immediate problems at worksites, but in 2014 Group improvement activity guidelines were issued in an attempt to shift the focus to the resolution of business issues in each division. As these activities had tended to focus on the manufacturing divisions, these guidelines encourage activities that are directly engaged in workplace and business issue resolution in the Engineering and Sales and Administrative divisions. In fiscal 2104, we began exchange-based training workshop at overseas manufacturing bases for personnel demonstrating excellent Group improvement activities and proposal activities. In response to global production systems, interactions at the overseas production base where the training takes place shall lead to an increase in knowledge and motivation with respect to improvement activities at both bases. Special Feature: New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures Promoting Employee Exchanges Between Japan and Poland to Realize 48 Further Quality Improvements In November 2014, the Company conducted an overseas training activity at NGK Ceramics Polska for the first time with the intent of increasing the effectiveness of QuiC activities. The six participants comprised employees who submitted the best proposals in fiscal 2013 and Grand Prize winners from the company-wide presentation for fiscal 2014 QuiC activities. The training helped improved the skills of both the participants and the local Polish staff. Feedback from Training Participants “The boundless ambition of the overseas staff made a deep impression on me.” Masatoshi Kamiya, Ceramics Business Group I was at a manufacturing base in China for four years, where I worked with local staff engaged in quality improvements. This training was my first time visiting a European manufacturing base, where I participated in improvement training with highly ambitious Polish staff. Exchanging specific opinions while viewing the worksite led to many new realizations and discoveries, resulting in an extremely meaningful training for all involved. What I learned will be useful for improving quality going forward, and by sharing the information I received with coworkers in Japan, I will attempt to raise the level of the workplace overall. “I will optimize the manufacturing process using the knowledge I gained during training.” Boleslaw Warzecha, NGK CERAMICS POLSKA Seeing the factory where I work through the eyes of the Japanese staff who attended the training led to my discovering approximately 30 areas for improvement. I also received a wealth of advice that will lead to big improvements. Above all, seeing the Japanese staff’s thorough and uncompromising approach to improvements was extremely stimulating for everyone who participated and significantly increased our motivation to further improve quality. At present, we are engaged in a company-wide project to eliminate waste from the manufacturing process. Making use of what we learned during training will lead to the optimization of manufacturing processes. 49 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services Strengthening Quality Education Traditionally, quality education at the NGK Group has focused on manufacturing site improvement methods such as the QC approach and QC tools. Furthermore, from fiscal 2009, to strengthen practical education preventing quality defects, NGK added practical risk prevention training for young design engineers and their supervisors. During practical risk prevention training in fiscal 2014, quality risks were identified in actual development and design topics in an attempt to learn about the promotion of development and design with an emphasis on eliminating quality risks. Practical risk prevention training (for managers) involved seminars promoting preventative activities within divisions targeting upper level managers. With regard to DR for eliminating quality risks, in fiscal 2011 NGK began training to promote the improved efficacy of these activities. In fiscal 2014, DR Guidelines were used in training mainly for younger employees. Additionally, we made use of information pertaining to past mistakes to learn and prevent recurrence, what is known as the “knowledge of failure,” in a seminar for managers and key personnel in the Engineering divisions. NGK will provide enhanced quality training to further enhance the ability to discover quality risks among design engineers and DR participants going forward. Main Quality Improvement Activities Strengthened in Fiscal 2014 Participating Number of Training name Times Objective Divisions Participants Learned approaches to heightening awareness of practical risks based on Practical risk prevention Four customer needs using actual business 16 20 training Divisions issues. These activities were concentrated over a short period, held four times in one month. Mainly Targeted upper level managers to Practical risk prevention Engineering promote prevention activities within training and Quality 1 22 divisions and teach reliable management (For managers) Assurance knowledge and behaviors managers divisions should engage in. Attempted to raise level of DR through Core focus on DR modalities and the DR guideline training product 2 40 necessity of improving DR. Level-based lines training for young engineers in their fourth year of employment. Targeted key personnel in development, Lectures and design and quality assurance. Lectures Core exercises: 60 and exercises made use of examples of Knowledge of failure product 2 employees mistakes in actual business practices. In seminar lines Lectures: 130 addition, managers were taught the employees necessity of deployment of information acquired to division members. Recommending the QC Test Since fiscal 2011, under the slogan “thoughtful 50 manufacturing,” Group company NGK Metex has been focused on human resource development through the implementation of “awareness training.” With the aim of going even further, since 2014 they have encouraged employees to sit for the quality control test (QC test, administered by the Japanese Society for Quality Control). In the first year, nearly 40% of their employees passed one of the four levels evaluated on this exam. Employees from both the manufacturing divisions as well as the management divisions took the exam, as the company aims to have all its employees pass. The enhanced skills of each employee are used to increase product quality 51 Realization of Higher Quality Products and Services System for Making Use of Customer Feedback in Management As the top industrial ceramics manufacturer in the industry, NGK makes use of its accumulated technologies to manufacture and sell C1 home-use water purifiers and promotes the creation of mechanisms for reflecting customer feedback. Establishment of a Customer Consultation Helpdesk We set up a dedicated C1 customer consultation helpdesk in-house to create a mechanism for reflecting customer feedback in our products and services. During fiscal 2014, in department stores across Japan, we launched over the-counter sales and held taste tests at various events to convey the appeal of water purifiers in an attempt to communicate actively with customers. We also respond to inquiries submitted through the NGK website. Customer Cards We respond to customer feedback provided on ¡°customer cards¡± sent to us when customers purchase the C1. This card includes a survey asking customers to fill in the location and reason for the purchase and the name, address and age of the customer. Customer¡¯s information is added to a list used to notify them when it is time to replace the cartridge. 52 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Basic Approach The NGK Group corporate information disclosure is defined in “How to Engage in Business Activities” within the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior (see below). Furthermore, along with timely and accurate disclosure of management and financial data through a variety of mediums, including via the corporate website, business reports and annual reports, the NGK Group strives for two-way communication enabling invaluable input from its shareholders and investors. Disclosure of Corporate Information We will release, in an accurate and timely manner, any information sought by the public; including information on our management, finance, products and services to improve transparency in management and to gain society's trust in NGK Group companies. Behavioral Guidelines We will promptly disclose any information required by society in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and our internal rules. We will establish and adequately operate a mechanism for internal control relating to financial reports to disclose accurate financial information. We will make good faith effort to answer any inquiry from customers pertaining to our products and services, providing responses in an appropriate manner. NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior 53 Communication with Shareholders and Investors Management from the Shareholder’s Perspective Open Shareholder Meetings NGK endeavors to hold open shareholder meetings that its shareholders feel welcome to attend. Every year, we introduce NGK corporate activities at the shareholder meeting with permanent booths near the venue displaying product exhibits explained by NGK staff. At the fiscal 2014 General Meeting of Shareholders, in addition to the main venue, we adopted a new management approach and set up an additional venue to accommodate increased shareholder attendance. The additional venue was equipped with a monitor facilitating two-way interaction in an attempt to improve communication with shareholders. In an effort to expand shareholder meeting-related information, convocation notices were issued three weeks before the day prior to the meeting date. We also introduced an electronic voting system utilizing the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Electronic Voting Platform. In addition, we attempted to improve the legibility of convocation notices by switching to the highly readable Universal Design Font typeface. Please click on the link below to view convocation notices, results of exercising voting rights and notices of resolution. General Meeting of Shareholders-Related Information Two-Way Communication In addition to regular presentations held in Japan and overseas, the NGK Group conducts one-on-one meetings and participates in interviews among other ongoing initiatives to expand dialogues with institutional investors. NGK senior management also visits and conducts one-on-one discussions with institutional investors in Japan and overseas. Going forward, we will continue and expand these activities to further deepen communication with investors. Activities in Fiscal 2014 Details Senior management conducts presentations for analysts and institutional investors Japan twice each year. They also conduct one-on-one meetings and participate in interviews. Senior management conducts overseas IR targeting analysts and institutional Overseas investors twice each year. Click here to access online IR Includes reporting information and the timely disclosure of non-reporting information, Library securities reports, annual reports, General Meeting of Shareholder materials and IR Information other information. Measures for Returning Profits to Shareholders NGK views the return of profits to shareholders as one of its most important management policies. As a basic policy, we strive for shareholder-oriented management emphasizing return on equity (ROE), and distribute the benefits of successful management after consideration of a comprehensive range of factors, including business performance, financial position and future business development. In fiscal 2014, favorable exchange rates due to the weakening yen and overall solid performance in ceramics products used in automotive-related products, semiconductor manufacturing equipment and all other businesses resulted in substantially higher sales and income compared to the previous fiscal year. Subsequently, ROE improved 2.8 percentage points over the previous fiscal year, to 11.4%. In light of these results, we increased the annual dividend by 2 to 30 per share, with a consolidated payout ratio of 20.4%. 54 Shareholders Information Shares Information (as of March 31, 2015) Total number of Shares authorized 735,030 thousand Total number of shares issued 327,560 thousand Number of shareholders 21,342 Share Distribution (as of March 31, 2015) Stock data and other related information 55 Thorough Compliance NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior To realize and protect the NGK Group corporate philosophy of creating new value by providing products and technologies that contribute to a better social environment, we established the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and thoroughly promote awareness. Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and Thorough Observance of Behavioral Guidelines The NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines, initiatives conducted individually, are thoroughly observed. We created awareness handbooks a paper on awareness summarizing guidelines for corporate behavior and portable compliance cards distributed to all employees including contract manufacturing employees and temporary employees, at NGK and all domestic Group companies. Efforts are also made to ensure a thorough understanding of the Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines among NGK employees at training for new hires, while promotion-related training includes an explanation of the Behavioral Guidelines. The purpose and significance of the Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines are also explained at CSR Talk Live events held by the NGK Group. At overseas Group companies, rules are formulated in response to the specifics of each company and country and region in light of the Behavioral Guidelines. Corporate Philosophy and Behavioral Guidelines CSR Talk Live Dialogue 56 Thorough Compliance Compliance Promotion Structure We established the Compliance Subcommittee under the CSR Committee to ensure strict observance of laws, regulations and corporate ethics within the Group. Furthermore, we established the Security Subcommittee to respond to incidents and accidents with the potential to significantly impact the Company. Helpline Establishment We established a helpline to receive inquiries and reports from employees aimed at curtailing and preventing activities contrary to the spirit of the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and to facilitate the quick resolution when issues occur. Each overseas Group company has its own helpline. Those seeking advice or reporting issues are promised protection under corporate regulations. 57 Thorough Compliance Promoting Compliance Education We established a helpline to receive inquiries and reports from employees aimed at curtailing and preventing activities contrary to the spirit of the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and to facilitate the quick resolution when issues occur. Each overseas Group company has its own helpline. Those seeking advice or reporting issues are promised protection under corporate regulations. Compliance Education Conducted in Fiscal 2014 58 Title Target Content Conducted 4 times (including New hires CSR basics, compliance basics before-assignment training) Mid-career CSR basics, compliance basics 1 time Regularly appointed CSR basics, compliance basics 2 times Q, R group promotions, CSR basics, compliance basics 3 times Career Education transferred employees Newly appointed S CSR, Compliance, security export control, 1 time group competition laws Newly appointed key CSR, Compliance, security export control, 1 time personnel competition laws Key personnel second CSR, Compliance 1 time grade promotion Training for Japanese Employees scheduled security export control, competition laws, 1 time expatriates for postings abroad international anti-bribery regulations (global training) Group governance, thorough Subcontract Act compliance, latest insider trading regulations, Informative Key personnel and crime and accident protection, risks and Meetings for Laws other targets depending 6 times responses related to trademark, latest and Compliance on content regulations pertaining to anti-bribery of foreign public officials Three times (in Competition laws All corporate officers, all addition, lectures Expanding scope of Competition Laws compliance key personnel, were conducted enforcement and practical business risks lectures salespeople using DVDs in each area) overseas Group Competition Laws companies (Europe, training for United States) Training using original DVDs 1 time overseas Group managers, salespeople, companies NGK temporarilyassigned staff Anti-bribery Group companies regulation training (Europe) managers, Training using original DVDs 1 time for overseas salespeople Group companies Explanation of specific behaviors and Competition laws Targets depending on regulation for the observance of competition 8 times training content laws and legal content 2 times Purchasing 1 timecompanies Group Other training officers/person in Subcontract Act explanatory meeting charge NGK 1 time 59 Thorough Compliance Corruption Prevention Structure To practice fair and transparent business transactions, the NGK Group engages in the prevention of bribery and other forms of corruption. Anti-Bribery Regulation Training As in the previous fiscal year, in fiscal 2014 foreign public officials anti-bribery regulation training was conducted as part of training for Japanese expatriates. Anti-bribery regulation training was also conducted at overseas Group companies, and training was held using originally produced DVDs in fiscal 2014. Observing the Competition Laws and Other Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions 60 Thorough Compliance Observing the Competition Laws and Other Laws and Regulations Pertaining to Business Transactions The NGK Group strictly adheres to competition laws (Antimonopoly Act), the Subcontract Act (Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors) and other laws and regulations pertaining to business transactions. The thorough observance of laws and regulations, including the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and Behavioral Guidelines that mandate the observance of the Antimonopoly Act, and initiatives in Japan and overseas aimed at strengthening employee awareness of Competition Laws Compliance Rules formulated in 2011 enable us to refrain from improper conduct or transactions and engage in the creation and maintenance of fair and equal business relationships with suppliers. Plea Agreement with U.S. Department of Justice concerning ceramic substrates for catalytic converters Strengthening Our Compliance System Related to Competition Laws 61 Year conducted Regulation Development Creation of Internal Systems Training ·Formulated guidebook and ·Required each business ·Lectures on the briefing document for the group to submit a Compliance Anti-Monopoly Act by outside FY1997 Anti-Monopoly Act Status Report on the instructors (attorneys) Anti-Monopoly Act (subsequently held annually) ·Formulated Competition Laws FY2011 Compliance Rules ※1 · Created and distributed the ·Established an independent ·In-house training led by legal Competition Laws Compliance committee department staff Handbook ※2 ·Lectures by local attorneys FY2012 · Created and distributed an held at overseas subsidiaries Appendix to the Competition Laws Compliance Handbook ·Conducted briefing on the Competition Laws Compliance FY2013 Handbook ·Invited U.S. attorneys to lecture on Competition Laws ·Revised Competition Laws ·Introduced company-wide ·Conducted study meetings for Compliance Rules centralized supervision and newly appointed directors on ※3 reporting structures led by the Competition Laws and the ·Launched operation of a Board of Directors Companies Act by Japanese database for advanced (independent of the President) and U.S. attorneys notifications and participation ·Appointed company-wide (subsequently held annually) FY2014 reports pertaining to meetings Competition Laws supervisory ·Conducted study meetings on ·Launched operation of an managers Competition Laws at overseas e-mail monitoring system ·Enhanced the helpline Group companies ·Revised Competition Laws (corresponding to laws and Compliance Rules at North regulations in each country) American sales subsidiaries ·Enforced revised Competition ·The Competition Laws ·Conducted study meetings on Laws Compliance Rules Compliance Program was Competition Laws for new Submission of written oaths resolved by the Board of employees Confirmation of compliance Directors ·Distributed a Competition FY2015 status by third parties ※4 ·Established the Global Laws related DVD to domestic ·Revised Competition Laws Compliance Office group companies Compliance Rules at domestic Group companies The NGK Group is engaged in the following initiatives to strengthen our competition laws compliance system. FY2011 Established Competition Laws Compliance Rules to define compliance duties for corporate officers and employees, management structures and do’s and don’ts. ※1 FY2012 Created the Competition Laws Compliance Handbook and distributed it to all NGK officers and employees (who are in a management positions or are general staff in divisions that are relevant to competition laws). ※ 2 FY2014 Revised the Competition Laws Compliance Rules, introducing a mechanism for the effective operation, management and verification of a competition laws compliance program via a company-wide centralized supervision and reporting structures led by the Board of Directors. ※3 62 FY2015 Worked with compliance specialists from PricewaterhouseCoopers to confirm from a neutral point of view the status of a competition laws compliance program and a company-wide centralized supervision and reporting structures. ※4 To promote the use and thorough awareness of the Competition Laws Compliance Rules and Competition Laws Compliance Handbook, we conducted training related to competition laws and meetings to explain rule revisions. At overseas group companies, training was conducted using original DVDs. Competition Law-Related Training Times Content conducted Competition laws training for 1 Corporate governance (director training) directors Expanding scope of Competition Laws enforcement and practical Lectures by Outside Instructors 3※ business risks Training at overseas Group Competition laws details, execution status and important practical 1 companies points for observing these laws. Competition laws training Basic knowledge of competition laws and important practical points 10 conducted by internal lecturers for observing these laws Note: Additional lectures were conducted using DVDs in each area. Competition Laws Compliance Lectures As one component of education aimed at strengthening NGK’s Competition Laws compliance structure, an attorney was invited as outside instructor to conduct Competition Laws compliance lectures at three venues for corporate officers, key personnel and salespeople. Approximately 480 people attended. Employees unable to attend these events received a DVD version of the lecture. All key personnel and salespeople in Japan received these lectures. Original DVD training was conducted training at overseas Group companies in the United States, Europe and South Africa, which focused on practical points for compliance with 63 Competition Laws as well as Competition Laws details and execution status. Competition Laws training will continue to be conducted next year and beyond in Japan and at overseas Group companies in an attempt to further inculcate compliance awareness and knowledge. Competition Laws Compliance Lecture Status Explanations were provided with respect to individual actions, and compliance and leniency that should be adopted by the company based on the theme of “expanding scope of Competition Laws enforcement and practical business risks,” in light of the severity of the U.S. authorities’ response to cartels and trends in China and India. Date Venue Attendees Notes Dec. 8, 2014 Headquarters All corporate officers Lecture 372 key personnel and Dec. 25, 2014 Headquarters Lecture salespeople 75 key personnel and Mar. 9, 2015 Tokyo Lecture salespeople Domestic key personnel and Feb.–Mar. 2015 manufacturing DVD salespeople* and sales bases *Key personnel and salespeople unable to attend the lectures. Lecture Conducted by Yusuke Nakano, Attorney at Law (Anderson Mori & Tomotsune) Yusuke Nakano is a partner at Anderson Mori & Tomotsune mainly engaged in the areas of antitrust, business dispute negotiation and resolution, mergers and acquisitions, and intellectual property. He is an antitrust specialist with a wide range of experience in cartel investigation and merger control. Legal Department Individual Support for Business Divisions and Domestic Group Companies In order to enhance compliance with business related laws including the Subcontract Act, the NGK Legal 64 Department has been extending support, such as conducting individual training and briefing sessions for NGK’s business divisions and domestic group companies. The Legal Department offers a variety of support in response to requests from business divisions and domestic group companies, including consultations, preparation of necessary documentation and confirmation of compliance situations. The Legal Department, in fiscal 2014, continued to support business divisions and domestic group companies such as by preparing necessary documents to meet the needs of each individual division or group company. 65 Thorough Compliance Strict Adherence to Laws and Regulations Relating to Export Management As part of its thorough compliance efforts, NGK is engaged in the strict adherence to laws and regulations relating to export management. Behavioral Guidelines within the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior establish the observance of security export control-related regulations, while management and training is conducted based on internal rules and the Export/Import Handbook. Using Databases to Conduct Comprehensive Inspections and Customs Management In response to the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other export control-related laws and regulations, NGK screens exports and judges whether export licenses are required and records screening results in a security export control database. Furthermore, export management with respect to the export of certain products is conducted using specified export declaration systems. In fiscal 2014, a Logistics Management Group was established in the Purchasing Department to simplify handling of export and import-related inquiries, strengthen management structure for customs clearance of goods being imported and exported and upgrade internal training. Also in fiscal 2014, voluntary inspections were conducted pertaining to storage status based on laws and regulations and the integrity of information contained in the relevant written documentation of each department for items already imported based on the import cargo management ledger. Familiarization with the Export/Import Handbook NGK also made efforts toward thorough compliance with the Export/Import Handbook, which was published in fiscal 2012 and summarizes items for the observance of export/import customs clearance regulations. In addition to publishing this handbook on the company intranet where it can be viewed throughout the entire company, we provide training to spread awareness of the spirit of handbook through study meetings related to export/import management conducted internally in each business division. Export/Import management study meetings are held one or more times per year targeting relevant staff in divisions responsible for export and import activities. In fiscal 2014, these meetings were held in 24 divisions over a three-month period with about 360 employees in attendance. 66 Thorough Compliance Privacy Policy and Structure The NGK Group has established internal rules for privacy policy management in an effort to handle, manage and protect personal information provided by customers. About NGK’s privacy policy 67 Thorough Compliance Information Security Training The NGK Group CSR Committee's Security Subcommittee takes responsibility for supervising overall information security, and supports the General Affairs and Information Systems divisions based on the Basic NGK Group Information Security Policy, in an attempt to properly manage and operate information assets. Basic NGK Group Information Security Policy Formulation of Basic NGK Group IT Security Standards The rapid advance in information communication technologies and devices has made the quest for consistent IT security on a Group-wide level an urgent concern, thus in 2010 we formulated the NGK Group IT Security Standards with the goal of developing an IT security structure based on commonly shared Group standards and enhancing IT security. Every year, each Group company drafts action plans for the enactment of countermeasures in an attempt to systematically strengthen security. Through these countermeasure action plans, NGK confirms initiatives at each Group company and provides guidance as necessary. Enhanced Software Management In recent years, software management from the perspectives of security and compliance has gained importance, thus the entire Group is focusing efforts on software management. In fiscal 2014, we created Software License Management Guidelines, which were distributed throughout the entire Group. A questionnaire was distributed to inspect management status and Group companies where management was insufficient were directed to make improvements during the fiscal year. Visits were conducted at some Group companies to confirm management status and provide guidance. Information Security Training The following training sessions are conducted throughout the year to ensure strict adherence to information security amongst all employees. ◦ Training for newly hired employees ◦ Training for newly promoted supervisors and key personnel ◦ e-Learnings targeting all employees 68 Thorough Compliance Status of Law and Regulations Violations No cases were reported this year. 69 Risk Management Basic Approach The NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior were announced within and outside the company as our basic stance toward the realization of the NGK Group corporate philosophy of creating new value by providing products and technologies that contribute to a better social environment. This includes initiatives that strictly observe the protection of third party rights and corporate assets and trust through the practice of risk management. Corporate Philosophy and Guidelines for Corporate Behavior Risk Analysis and Response The NGK Group assumes six categories of company-wide risks pertaining to compliance, information, employment and labor, making an effort to avoid and prevent these risks through deliberation of budgets and plans and overall examination and analysis in the course of execution and settlement processes at Strategy Committee and Executive Committee meetings. Business continuity planning (BCP) was formulated to ensure the continuation of critical business functions in the event of large-scale natural disasters including wind and flood damage and earthquake, massive transportation accidents or other emergency situations, which will be addressed by the Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters and BCP Countermeasures Headquarters. Company-wide Shared Risks Category Risk Category Risk Legal/Regulatory infractions / improper Labor troubles accounting Labor accidents Misappropriation by individuals Traffic accidents 3.Employment/Labor Bribery Long-working hours/health 1.Compliance Violation of intellectual property rights management Human rights violations/harassment Support for unskilled labor Trouble with local communities Incidents and accidents 4.Incidents/Accidents /Disasters Support for antisocial forces Natural disasters Information systems breakdown Environmental management trouble 5.Environment 2.Information Leak of proprietary or personal information EMS insufficiency Inappropriate use of SNS 6.Product safety Defective products 70 Risk Management Risk Management System NGK operates a risk management promotion structure led mainly by the CSR Committee. A person of responsibility and response structure is established for each risk category in an effort to improve risk response capabilities and risk prevention activities. Risk Management System Risk response Normal Follow up by CSR Committee and other committees operations Legal/Ethical or CSR Committee is in charge. Initial response by five people chosen incident/accident response ahead of time to handle emergencies +relevant corporate officers. Emergency Quality-related accidents Company-Wide Quality Committee is in charge situation Central Disaster Prevention and Control Headquarters and BCP Disaster-related incidents Countermeasures Headquarters are in charge Identifying and Preventing Risks Based on the CSA Questionnaire As one part of enhanced risk management structure, NGK and domestic group companies conduct the Control Self-Assessment (CSA) questionnaire, which tests the knowledge of respondents regarding potential risks and their impact with the aim of ascertaining and avoiding various potential risks arising from daily business operations. Questionnaires targeting NGK and domestic Group companies are distributed every two years. In fiscal 2014, domestic Group companies received the questionnaire to follow-up on risks identified by the CSR Committee. The CSA questionnaire, which also functions to raise awareness regarding attempts to prevent and accurately respond to risks, will continue to be implemented going forward. 71 CSA Questionnaire Status Risk Management Measures Based on the CSA Questionnaire Company-wide risks Note: Human Resources, Legal, General Affairs, Purchasing, Information Systems, Environmental Management, Company-wide Quality Management and Construction and Maintenance departments Major Risks Countermeasures Enhance competition laws and bribery compliance framework (including overseas Compliance Group companies) Information Prohibit cameras, require confidentiality agreements Conduct organizational diagnostics, manage working hours, provide guidance to Employment and labor people and workplaces working long hours/overtime Incidents, accidents and Comprehensive disaster-preparedness drills, BCP drills, disaster planning in each disasters area Environmental/Product Patrols and drills, follow ups at Quality Committee and Quality Review meetings safety Legal Risk Management at Overseas Group Companies The NGK Group is engaged in strengthening its ascertainment of legal risk management status in overseas business to minimize the globalizing and diversifying risks associated with business expansion. We ask all overseas group companies to report information pertaining to the status of lawsuits, legal affairs and consultation with lawyers twice a year, and helpline usage, export controls and access to legal-related information once a year. Major issues found in such reports are reported to the Compliance Subcommittee and CSR Committee to share information. In fiscal 2014 as in the past, risk management status was ascertained and reporting content was checked through the legal risk management report. Consultations from overseas locations were handled by lawyers and legal departments to avoid risks. 72 Risk Management Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Initiatives BCP Initiatives NGK promotes Company-wide Business Continuity Planning (BCP) through the establishment of the Business Continuity Planning (BCP) Countermeasures Headquarters, an organization for leading business continuity and quick recovery in the event of a large-scale natural disaster, led by the President. Countermeasure initiatives include the establishment of multiple bases and procurement points, building and equipment reinforcements and employee safety assurance. Fiscal 2014 Initiatives Established a system able to Expanded installation of emergency communication methods at domestic Group quickly ascertain damage status companies Conducted drills to establish a timeframe standard (5–6 hours after a large-scale earthquake has occurred) to ascertain detailed status of damage to NGK Group Conducted various training employees, manufacturing facilities, infrastructure and headquarters function and activities determine whether emergency items can be supplied to customers. Issues and deficiencies were identified and used to improve BCP action plans. Initiatives Going Forward We augment BCP efficacy through a variety of training and more advanced training scenarios, expanding scope of training to include more employees in an effort to improve initial response and continue business activities. BCP training (BCP restoration measures meeting) President Taku Oshima provides guidance as leader of the BCP Countermeasures Headquarters 73 Risk Management Intellectual property management The NGK Group encourages the creation of intellectual property rights with intellectual property education, and works to ensure its proper acquisition and use of intellectual property rights based on a policy of respect for the intellectual property rights of others and ourselves. Our business, research and development, and intellectual property divisions collaborate closely with the goal of building a competitive patent network for the Company. Awareness Programs for Managers NGK conducted manager-class awareness programs to enhance intellectual property strategy in the research and development and business divisions, making use of issues identified in these programs in NGK's intellectual property strategy. In fiscal 2014, we invited an university professor to conduct an awareness program for managers on innovator intellectual property management. Approximately 200 employees and corporate officers attended the intellectual property management seminar, which discussed problematic cases and their countermeasures with respect to the use of intellectual property strategies by the Japanese manufacturing industry amid the rise of developing nations. Promoting Intellectual Property Training Young Engineer Training NGK continuously conducts presentations on patent map utilization and uses educational graphs and charts for the visualization of intellectual property information targeting mainly young engineers in research and development divisions. e-Learning has been used Company-wide for basic education. In fiscal 2014, presentations on patent map utilization were held twice, with a total of six employees taking part. 77 employees participated in e-learning. Furthermore, interactive-style small group seminars were held ten times primarily for young engineers in the research and development and business divisions. These seminars were attended by a total of 73 employees who exchanged opinions on subjects including fundamental patent knowledge, how to view inventions seen in patent applications by other companies, internal invention incentive system, prior art search and how to read patent specifications. <Participant Feedback on Interactive-Style Small Group Seminars> “Patents” Led to Change in Thinking About New Product Development Risako Ito SOFC Project, Corporate R&D With a sense that the creation of a patent network was necessary for the development of new products, I decided to participate in the patent-related small group seminar. After learning about the patent system, the necessity of patents and reviewing case studies related to the notice of reasons for refusal, I felt I had gained practical knowledge and response capabilities. The small group seminar format enabled participants to comfortably ask questions about points they don’t understand during the presentation. This seminar gave me a new awareness of the importance of patents. As a result, I now engage in my work with a daily awareness of generating ideas that might be patentable. 74 Employee Invention Reward System to Provide Incentives for Employee Inventions We established an employee invention compensation system comprised of application incentives, registration incentives and performance incentives to encourage employee inventions. Performance incentives are made up of usage at NGK, licensing, transfer and cross-licensing; usage at NGK is for patents used for profitable products, with a portion of that profit distributed to the inventor. Since the system was established, a portion of the profit from products including HONEYCERAM, Diesel Particulate Filters and ceramics products used in semiconductor manufacturing equipment has been distributed to the inventors. NOx Sensor Wins National Commendation for Invention NGK’s high-precision automotive nitrogen oxide (NOx) sensor won the Invention Prize in the first category of the 2014 National Commendation for Invention held by the Japan Institute of Invention and Innovation. The award ceremony was conducted at a hotel in Tokyo which was attended by inventor Kunihiko Nakagaki from NGK Europe GMBH (Germany), where he was temporarily assigned. NGK was the first company in the world to develop the award-winning NOx sensor for automotive applications. The NOx sensor qualified for the employee invention reward system. The award was conferred in recognition of the substantial contribution this unique and advanced product makes to the realization of clean diesel vehicles. Response to Intellectual Property Risks in China In response to intellectual property risks in China, we implemented measures to claim to right of prior use through the acquisition of certified dates via a Chinese notary public at all factories for the purpose of obtaining evidence for product production technologies against the leak of technologies or third party applications in the Chinese market. Furthermore, along with required procedures related to the employee invention reward system, we have formulated and introduced the same unique NGK reward schemes as in Japan. 75 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Basic Approach In the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior, our relationship with employees is based on Respect of Humanity and Assurance of Comfortable Working Environment and defined as follows. We will hire and treat our people in a proper and fair manner and will provide a safe and pleasant working environment in which our people can work comfortably without sacrificing their family life. We will make available the place and opportunities that can be challenged by people with versatile talent and will support the development of human resources through acquisition of knowledge and expertise. We will prevent any bullying, discrimination, harassment or other acts that violate human rights and, if there is any violation, we will take appropriate actions in an expeditious manner. NGK Group Number of Employees FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Number of Employees 11,666 12,372 13,159 13,210 16,217 NGK Employee Status in Fiscal 2014 Average Turnover Average Average number of years worked age ratio salary 14.7 years 38.8 years (Men: 14.6 years / Women: 15.5 7,370,000 1.7% old yen years) Number of New Hires Remaining at the Company (3 years) Total Men Women New graduate hires in 102 91 11 2012 Retention in 2015 97 87 10 76 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Health and Safety Aiming for zero industrial accidents, NGK introduced Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS) in fiscal 2007 as a mechanism for the ongoing systematic implementation of safety and health initiatives based on company-wide safety and health policies. Since then, we have made efforts to thoroughly embed and operate this system and strengthen risk assessment. Also, we are proactively engaged in improving the health of our employees. In recent years, we have focused on reducing long work hours and health management for employees who work long hours. Companywide Health and Safety Policy 'Securing the safety and health of each employee is the very foundation of a company's operation and existence' 1. Comply with Occupational Safety and Health Law and Company Regulations. 2. Engage in activities in line with the OSHMS to continuously raise the safety and health standards. 3. Promote safety and health activities under good communication with employees. 4. Eliminate the risks of hazards and prevent accidents to provide a pleasant workplace. 5. Prevent employees' health disorders and promote health enhancement activities. Enhancing Safety and Health Activities After an accident at the Chita Site in July 2012, NGK formulated a three-year action plan and strengthened safety measures. In fiscal 2014, we continued the exhaustive risk assessment which we began in fiscal 2012, formulating measures sequentially against the risks picked up from operations which are based on the degree of importance and danger. Responding to this accident with sincerity, we expanded the scope of assessment into areas such as immediate responses, conducting an emergency review of the potential for serious accidents, such as getting caught or pulled into machinery and electric shock hazards, with the aim of promoting both tangible and intangible safety countermeasures. Fiscal 2014 marks the final year of the three-year action plan and we have already completed 100% of all exhaustive risk assessment work. We also provided education on residual risks at all worksites. Safety and Health Education Targeting the Prevention of Workplace Accidents We also engaged in training to heighten safety and health awareness among employees. In fiscal 2014, we conducted training on residual risks identified during risk assessments intended to prevent workplace accidents. Experiential safety education is conducted on a monthly basis for employees with limited experience using a facility outside the company enabling participants to experience hazardous situations. We also put together a training program conducted for new hires using a simulated experience facility inside the company. In addition, lectures were conducted by managers responsible for safety and health at other companies and activity exchange meetings were held with other companies. Safety and health training was also conducted targeting non-regular employees. In addition to OJT for contract workers, accident prevention and traffic safety trainings are conducted one time a few months after an employee is hired as a company-wide follow-up training effort. Work-Related Accidents (NGK) Work-Related Accidents (Domestic Group Companies) 77 Rate of Lost-Worktime Injuries Work-Related Accidents by Type (past 7 years) (NGK and Domestic Group Companies) Rate of Occupational Disease (NGK) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 0 0.71 0.41 0.14 0 Number of Deaths from Work-Related Accidents (NGK and Domestic Group Companies) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 (Person) 0 0 1 0 0 Heightening Safety Awareness with the Experiential Classroom NGK Ceramics Suzhou (China) To heighten safety awareness among employees, one room at the plant was renovated to create an experiential classroom. Special equipment was used to simulate the experience of getting caught or pulled 78 into machinery and electric shocks to teach about dangers posed by equipment and work activities. As of July 2014, approximately 1,200 employees have participated in the experiential classroom. In addition to targeting manufacturing divisions, at the end of February 2015, these activities were expanded to include all employees, including office workers. Heightening safety awareness facilitates solid prevention of workplace accidents and avoids a variety of potential risks in daily work routines. Employee learning about the dangers of getting caught in Experiencing the dangers of falling down. Many machinery employees say this provides a better understanding of dangers than simply studying a manual at their desks. Company-wide Deployment of 5S Activities Since fiscal 2012, NGK has been promoting the expansion of 5S* activities Company-wide to include administrative divisions. Teams formed in each workplace promote the establishment of team objectives and periodic times to conduct activities. Successful examples were reported to the Company-wide Safety and Health Committee and deployed throughout the company * Sort, Set in order, Shine, Standardize and Sustain the workplace. 5S Examples in Administrative Divisions Improvement Case Study 1 Improvement Case Study 2 Improvement Case Study 3 Following Up with Employees Working Long Hours NGK provides employees working long hours, including non-regular and part-time employees with ongoing opportunities to meet with industrial doctors for health consultations and exams. The results are reported to and followed up on by Safety and Health Committees at each worksite. Consultations by Employees Working Long Hours 79 Consultations FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 (people) General employees 135 125 118 63 Managers 149 107 46 46 Note: Figures are total number of people. Counted as 80 hours/month, 300 hours/six months. Enhanced Safety and Health Management Working Hour Trends Hours worked (per person) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Annual fixed working 1,919 1,919 1,919 1,919 1,919 hours Annual actual working 2,098 2,103 2,089 2,087 2,077 hours Average overtime work per 23.7 24.6 24.1 24.4 24.5 month Aiming for zero accidents, NGK is promoting the creation of an Occupational Safety and Health Management System (OSHMS). Under the Company-wide Safety and Health Committee, we have established Safety and Health Committees at each site, department, factory and workplace, applying a PDCA cycle, with the aim of systematic and organizational improvement of occupational safety and health activities. NGK provided guidance on preventing accidents, the recurrence of accidents and conducted safety checks at the request of Group companies where accidents had occurred in fiscal 2014. Additionally, we also conduct a variety of activities focused on common activities in the daily workplace. Going forward, based on OSHMS, NGK will continue to focus efforts on improving the working environment. Worksites With External Certification in Safety and Health Management Systems (JISHA system OSHMS) Worksite Year Acquired Renewed 2014 Acquired certification Nagoya Site 2008 after second renewal inspection NGK Chita Site 2009 2013 Komaki Site 2009 2015 Second renewal inspection scheduled PDCA Cycle 80 Promotion of Activities Supporting Mental and Physical Health Four Types of Care for Mental Health NGK emphasizes the importance of promoting the health, both physical and mental, of its employees. The medical status of employees working long hours and the condition of those who need medical treatment are reported at monthly Safety and Health Committee meetings held at each site in an effort to thoroughly promote the reduction of work performed outside normal working hours. We also deploy ongoing activities focused on the Four Types of Care recommended by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare. In fiscal 2014, we created the Mental Health Creation Plan Four Types of Care Position-Based Mental Care Education We conduct ongoing position-based mental care education. Again in fiscal 2014, we provided education for new hires, regular employees and managers totaling 442 people. The education of managers focused on practical study, not only learning from lectures, but also through support for people in the workplace who are mental and practicing methods of careful listening*1 and autogenic training*2. In addition, NGK gives consideration to employees on sick leave, providing systems such as starting back to work on a half-day basis, gradually increasing to regular work hours after consultation with an industrial physician, enabling employees to devote their full attention to recovery with peace of mind. Also, in consideration of the various stress-inducing aspects of overseas postings, such as climates, cultures and environments that differ from Japan, NGK makes an effort to provide health consultations focused on mental healthcare. *1The careful listening method: Practical instruction involving two people role play as listener and speaker while pretending to discuss a problem. The objective is to better understand the speaker (subordinates), build better relationships and eliminate stress. *2The autogenic training method: Training method for physical and mental relaxation aimed at recovering from physical exhaustion, easing stress, improving work productivity and mitigating depression and anxiety. Position-Based Mental Care Education is conducted at NGK. (People) 81 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 New hires 85 97 103 88 56 General 179 178 227 293 291 employees Managers 39 40 63 95 95 Elimination of Harassment The NGK Group deals strictly with harassing behavior (for example, sexual harassment or power harassment) by employees that is injurious to individual dignity and interferes with workplace order and business execution. Efforts are made to respect the diversity, character and individuality of each of our employees, while avoiding discrimination based on one’s birthplace, nationality, creed, religion, gender, race, ethnicity, age, physical abilities, medical history, education or social position. Furthermore, we do not allow forced labor, child labor or any other forms of inhumane conduct. In addition to holding lectures aimed at preventing harassment, we also cover the prevention of harassment in compliance trainingto inculcate a thorough awareness among employees at all levels and positions. We established the helpline for consultation and reporting of harassment in the workplace. NGK Group Harassment Elimination Activities FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Lectures held 6 6 6 4 6 Participants 210 227 229 189 203 Helpline system Compliance training 82 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Diversity It is NGK Group basic policy to recruit human resources and offer stable employment and equal opportunities regardless of race, nationality, creed, gender, or physical abilities. Also, in an aim to promote autonomy and independence, NGK maintains the human resource systems necessary to provide employees with fair compensation commensurate with their degree of contribution to the company NGK New Graduate Hires Note: Excluding new graduates planned to transfer from temporary to regular positions (People) University graduate Junior High Joined college/Vocational school company Total Men Women School graduates April 2011 54 46 8 0 44 April 2012 60 50 10 0 42 April 2013 62 53 9 0 25 April 2014 36 28 8 0 20 April 2015 38 29 9 0 30 NGK Mid-Career Hires (People) Total Joined company Men Women Other Other Total university university men women graduates graduates April 2010 54 14 8 29 3 March 2011 April 2011 82 30 6 37 9 March 2012 April 2012 53 17 15 21 0 March 2013 April 2013 7 3 1 3 0 March 2014 April 2014 49 15 4 30 0 March 2015 83 Promoting the Success of Women Appointment of Female Managers (Management Staff) The NGK Group strives to increase opportunities for motivated and skilled people to enhance their skills regardless of gender. We are also engaged in the creation of an environment that makes working easy for women. NGK women key personnel (managers) increased from eight to 12 in fiscal 2013, and the addition of two more in fiscal 2014 resulted in a total of 14 people. Promoting Use of the System for Transferring to General Employment Jobs Among Women NGK has instituted a System for Transferring to General Employment Jobs, enabling employees who joined the company in general employment positions to transfer into career-track positions offering a wider range of duties and specializations. Career plan roundtable discussions led by employees who have transferred to general employment jobs and other activities to promote use of this system resulted in a total of 60 employees transferring from office work to general employment jobs as of fiscal 2014. Ratio of women employees FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Ratio of women 13.3% 13.1% 13.4% 13.3% 12.9% employees *1 Ratio of women key 1.1% 1.1% 1.0% 1.5% 1.8% personnel *2 Ratio of women working general 16.8% 16.6% 16.9% 16.6% 16.1% employment jobs *3 *1. Percentage among all employees *2. Percentage among all key personnel *3. Percentage among all general employment workers Certified as a Company Promoting Women’s Activities by the City of Nagoya* To support both work and childrearing efforts, NGK revised its system for employees returning to the workplace and expanded the employment and occupational scope with regard to women. In recognition of these efforts, we were certified as a Company Promoting Women’s Activities by the city of Nagoya in January 2012. From July 2014, we raised the annual quota for half-day paid leave from 14 to 20 times per year. We also introduced a time unit-based annual paid leave system enabling employees working shortened hours to take off time adding up to one day’s worth of paid leave per year. The promotion of these initiatives led to our being recertified in fiscal 2014. * Note: System for certifying companies that conduct outstanding initiatives enabling women to actively participate in the workplace in the areas of (1) awareness improvement, (2) work-life balance and (3) promotion of women’s active participation. 84 Expanding Employment of the People with Special Needs Beyond the Legally Stipulated Rate The NGK Group is engaged in initiatives to expand employment of people with special needs. As a result of promoting employment by accepting students from special needs schools as trainees and hiring participants from employment seminars for people with special needs, the ratio of people with special needs employed by NGK at the end of fiscal 2014 was 2.23%, which exceeded the legally mandated ratio of 2.0% instituted in April 2013 for the second straight year. Percentage of Employees with Special Needs (NGK) Various Systems Attempting to Make Use of Diverse Human Resources The NGK Group employs systems promoting the use of human resources based on the idea that human resource diversity is linked to changes in organizational culture. Human Resources Utilization Systems Aligned with Employee Individuality and Skills To open the way for employees to take full advantage of their individuality and skills, NGK operates an internal job application system, where open positions are announced internally and eligible applicants appointed, as well as a system for career track registration enabling applicants to register their work history, qualifications and desired position to provide an opportunity for individuals to carry out their work duties with a sense of satisfaction. Internal Job Application System Results Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Applications 5 16 3 2 19 (Cases) Recruits (People) 5 27 4 3 23 Applicants 4 9 8 3 12 (People) Successful applications 3 3 4 1 8 (People) Career Follow-Up System 85 Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Registered 1 2 7 5 2 (People) Transferred 0 2 2 0 1 (People) Promoting the Regular Employment of Manufacturing Contract Employees NGK established a system for converting manufacturing contract employees into regular employees, which was used to convert 27 employees to regular status in fiscal 2014. Excellent employees are identified through biannual human resource assessments and recommended by division heads to sit for the regular employee promotion exam. Those who pass the exam become regular employees. Excellent workers out of the ones who transfer to regular employment positions also have a chance for promotion to two higher ranks of company qualification. In fiscal 2014, four employees were promoted under this system. Transfers from Contract Manufacturing Worker to Regular Employee Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Converted 14 23 17 4 27 employees Double Promotions Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Promoted 11 11 11 7 4 employees Management of Follow-up System to Fit Young Employees in the Workplace To prevent career mismatches, NGK employs a follow-up system for younger employees. We conduct surveys and interviews about jobs and the work environment for career-track employees in their second year and manufacturing technology staff in their third or fourth year of employment. If they desire, feedback is provided to the managers responsible for these employees, leading to steady achievements in younger employees remaining at the Company. System for Rehiring Employees Including Half-Time Employment Option NGK introduced a rehiring system after retirement for regular employees in 2001, and for management staff in 2007. In fiscal 2013, we upgraded this system in accordance with the work style of senior employees by offering full-time or half-time employment options. As of the end of fiscal 2014, we had rehired 150 employees, of which 33 people were half-time or non-regular employees. NGK Rehiring System 86 Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Rehired employees 268 222 213 196 150 Of which are half-time 71 53 65 62 33 employees Ratio of rehired employees 7.5% 6.1% 5.8% 5.3% 4.0% among all employees* Note: All employees excluding contract and part time employees. 87 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Work-life balance promotion To promote a work-life balance and reduce long working hours, in fiscal 2011 NGK formulated specific rules based on initiatives that had been conducted by labor-management over the previous three fiscal periods. Seven Rules for Promoting a Work-Life Balance 1. No more than 80 hours of overtime work per month 2. Overtime work exceeding 45 hours per month limited to six months each year 3. At least six days of paid leave must be taken each year 4. No more than 300 hours of overtime work per six months 5. In principle, there will be no overtime work on refresh days (Wednesdays and Fridays). If overtime is necessary, a prior permit application must be submitted. 6. In principle, work must not be performed for more than seven days straight. If work in excess of seven days straight is necessary, a prior permit application must be submitted. 7. Written applications must be submitted when requesting employees work on holidays or late at night. Initiatives to Limit Overtime Work If, for any reason, overtime work in excess of 45 hour per month appears likely, the reason for the increase in overtime work must be confirmed through prior labor-management consultations to distribute time periods and workloads or increase the number of employees. Countermeasures for Mitigating Increased Overtime Working Hours Each year, the NGK discloses hours worked and paid leave utilization statistics to its Worker's Union for discussion and countermeasure deliberation purposes. For employees identified as working long hours, the Worker's Union meets with each workplace individually to discuss these details and devise countermeasures. Employees who have been temporarily assigned overseas must submit in writing the reason for working long hours and are required to submit to a health check. Results Work-Life Balance Actualization Card The Human Resources Department and the Worker's Union hold work style examination committee study meetings aimed at realizing a full work-life balance where employee awareness regarding working styles and working hours is examined and considered. In January 2014, a pocket-sized work-life balance actualization card was created and distributed to all employees. 88 The Work-Life Balance Realization Card, which raises awareness about work style options and the increased utilization of paid leave, was created based on the following three elements. Oath for realization Employees fill in their individual oaths Checklist Self-check pertaining to individual employee work styles Paid leave calendar Employees fill in the days they plan to take a paid leave in fiscal 2014 Rate of Paid Leave Utilization at NGK Fiscal year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Days granted 17.1 17.1 17.6 17.8 18.4 Days used 10.3 10.5 10.9 11.2 12.7 Utilization rate 60.5% 60.6% 62.0% 62.6% 69.1% Enhancing Systems Supporting Working Caregivers NGK is enhancing systems to create an environment that makes it easy for employees to work while providing child or nursing care. In terms of childrearing support, we make an effort to provide support measures that consider both working hours, such as the shortened working hour system, as well as the provision of financial support. In terms of caring for a sick or elderly family member, in addition to a leave of absence system, employees can take multiple days off to care for the same family member, or take a leave of absence for different reasons of caregiving. We are enhancing systems enabling employees to flexibly choose working styles. Childcare Support System Users Are on the Rise In 2010, NGK established new systems related to human resources and is engaged in expanding childcare support measures. In addition to considerations to working hours, from a financial point of view, we increased the amount of maternity gift payments, established a gift payment for starting elementary school and a babysitter expense subsidy system. We also created a system for preferentially allotting employee parking spaces within the vicinity of the headquarters to employees raising children. 89 Overview of Childrearing Support Measures and Users Systems that Exceed Legal Requirements System name Details 2012 2013 2014 16 21 26 Of which Of which returned returned to Last day of the month in which the child to work: 14 people work: 19 turns 18 months old or the end of March Childcare leave of (87.5%) people after the child turns one, whichever is longer absence (90.5%) (Legal requirement: until child is 18 months Pending old) Ratio of employees still working a year Pending after returning to work: 100% Six hours or seven hours per day for Shortened employees until the fiscal year when their working hours children start fourth grade in elementary 33 38 43 during school (Legal requirement: Only for children childrearing not yet three years old) Systems Operated Independently by NGK 90 System name Details FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Lump sum payment six Lump sum payment of reduced salary months after returning to accrued during maternity leave received six 11 13 20 work months after returning to work Paid leave can be taken in hourly System for taking annual increments by employees working paid leave in hourly shortened hours (one day). Convenient for Unintroduced 13 20 increments for employees those with children who suddenly develop a working shortened hours fever and need to leave early Childcare leave system for Unused annual paid holidays can be used 9 8 11 fathers for childcare leave of absence Interview attended by employee, HR and supervisor to provide the employee with Pre-maternity leave peace of mind while on maternity leave and 15 23 25 interview ensure both sides have proper understanding of procedures related to systems supporting childcare and work. Interview before returning to Supports smooth transition back to work 13 14 14 work focused on work details and work style. Enables employees to take a leave of System for accompanying absence of up to two years and six months family on overseas 1 1 while accompanying a spouse posted assignment overseas for work. 183 Maternity gift (family fund) A Â¥50,000 gift when a child is born 156 cases 165 cases cases Elementary school A Â¥50,000 gift when a child enrolls in 137 106 cases 134 cases enrollment gift (family fund) elementary school 106 cases cases Provides up to Â¥100,000 per year for Babysitter expense subsidy employees who must pay for a babysitter 25 33 13 (family fund) or daycare due to working hours. List of Systems for Nursing Care Support 91 Establishment of a Work and Family Life Support Site on the Company Intranet To spread awareness of childrearing measures, a work and family support site was created on the company intranet to explain various systems and support measures, as well as introduce feedback from users of these systems. A consultation function was added, enabling employees to communicate directly with the people responsible for facilitating support. The same information is provided in internal company reports. Furthermore, employees taking time off to give birth or care for children are provided with a presentation explaining how these systems work, which includes the participation of their supervisor to ensure both sides have a clear understanding of what these policies entail in an effort to create an environment in which taking advantage of these systems and support is as easy for the user as possible. Achieving a Work-Life Balance through Utilization of Shortened Working Hours Aya Sato, NCM Project, Corporate R&D As the daycare center closes at 18:30, I take advantage of shortened working hours. As I work in research, there were many times in the past that I worked overtime while waiting for the results of an experiment, but my supervisor understands the nature of this work and my workplace colleagues help out, enabling me to achieve a work-life balance. After my child is older, I hope to be able to return the favors I am receiving now. Certified by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare as a Company Supporting Childcare In December 2012, NGK was certified as a Company Supporting Childcare and received the Kurumin mark based on the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare's Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. December 2012 Company Supporting Childcare (Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) 92 In recognition of initiatives supporting work and childrearing, in January 2012, NGK was certified as a Company Promoting Women's Activities by the city of Nagoya. January 2012 Company Promoting Women's Activities (City of Nagoya) 93 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Human Resource Development At NGK, people are our most precious management resource. With respect for employee motivation and ambition, we engage in the cultivation of human resources who will lead the next generation. In recent years, NGK has concentrated efforts on the enhancement of cross-cultural communication skills and language training in line with globalization of the business environment, as well as the education of talented employees for management positions. Promoting Systematic Education through Nearly 120 Programs NGK is engaged in systematic human resources training covering the four areas based on training conducted at each juncture of an employee's career, such as when joining the company or receiving a promotion. Other than compulsory position-based training, we conduct functional training, offering approximately 120 types of programs throughout the year. NGK conducts business skills training as a program aimed at enhancing the skills of all its employees. We also conduct management training, including management foundational training targeting newly appointed Group managers, which we are expanding to include younger key personnel. Manufacturing training covers categories including onsite skill strengthening and supervisor training, while training for younger employees continued to focus on materials, forming, processing, drying, firing and other ceramics manufacturing fundamentals. Global training activities includes management training in three areas: English and Chinese communication skills, business skills, and international law and international human resources. We are engaged in planning optimized training in consideration of not only company needs but also divisional and employee needs. Training Participant Summary Average time spent in training annually per (total participants) employee FY2013 FY2014 Men 28 22 Women 15 14 Key personnel 18 15 Non-key 28 23 personnel 94 FY2013 FY2014 Key personnel 927 960 Men Key personnel 37 30 Women Non-key 2,779 2,752 personnel Men Non-key 308 302 personnel Women Men (total) 3,706 3,712 Women (total) 345 332 Average annual cost of training per full-time employee( ¥10 thousand) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 Average expenses 9 11 11 11 11 Establishment of Quality Improvement training for Skilled Positions In fiscal 2014, we established and conducted quality improvement training for employees in skilled positions. In line with a younger workforce and an increase in mid-career hires coming from a variety of backgrounds, it is necessary to create training programs that cover a variety of needs. Given these conditions, we restructured the content of quality improvement training for employees in skilled positions conducted in the past into four classes based on the skills and experience of the participants. The training conducts tutorials and covers practical issues based on these four levels of understanding. Through this training, a total of 136 employees came up with initiatives based on issues faced in their divisions and engaged in quality improvements. Measuring Human Resource Development Achievements Using Quantitative Indices We introduced quantitative indices to objectively evaluate the results of human resource development. We aim to accelerate employee skills development by making use of these objective evaluations. Quantitative Methodologies for Each Training Language training: Level check employing TOEIC or native speaking instructor Manufacturing leader training: Learning is evaluated using improvement approach awareness exam. Evaluates one aspect of results of loss cost improvements. Technical training: Practical application of themes are examined and evaluated using a point system. Onsite Leader Human Resource Development As veteran employees retire in large numbers the ratio of employees with limited experience are increasing at manufacturing sites. The NGK Group is systematically promoting training aimed at strengthening worksite capabilities. 95 Progress of Training Aimed at Strengthening Worksite Capabilities Furthermore, in fiscal 2011, NGK began training for all manufacturing site worksite leaders aimed at improving the leadership qualities and communication skills of on-site leaders that guide and cultivate younger employees. In fiscal 2014, 23 newly appointed worksite leaders underwent training on labor management and recognition of the role of the worksite manager. In training aimed at enhancing worksite capabilities, actual work improvement ability details were converted to a yen amount as one means of assessing the results of improvements. Training to Strengthen Worksite Capabilities FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 In-house instructor development 13 12 training(people) Brush up training(people) 13 8 21 Worksite leader training(people) 124 25 25 23 Financial impact of improvement training results (Tens of thousands 4,120 of yen per year) Financial impact of individual improvement results (Tens of 458 thousands of yen per year) English Instruction for New Employees With the aim of rapidly cultivating global human resources, we began English language instruction in fiscal 2011 targeting all new hires in general positions. The training is level-based and conducted during the first year of employment, consisting of global mindset training, foundational development training led by Japanese instructors and training to develop practical business skills led by native speakers. Teams comprised of trainees of different levels of ability are formed in an attempt to enhance capabilities through friendly competition during the training. 96 Practical Overseas Training to Cultivate Global Human Resources NGK conducts overseas practical training conducted over a period of six month at global Group companies with the aim of developing global human resources. The training focuses on developing practical business and communication skills in a cross-cultural environment targeting young employees who are future candidates for overseas postings. In fiscal 2014, seven trainees were recommended by their divisions. After two months of language training, they each spent 2–4 months in practical training at Group companies in Poland, Belgium and the United States. As of fiscal 2014, 46 employees had participated in this training, of which 29 have been posted overseas on permanent assignments. Promotion of intellectual property education 97 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Dialogue with Employees CSR Talk Live (Dialogue with Employees Aimed at CSR Practices) To deepen each and every employee’s understanding of CSR initiatives, NGK conducts “CSR Talk Live,” a talk event facilitating direct discussion between senior management and employees held at all domestic sites since fiscal 2009. Going forward, we will attempt to further inculcate CSR through additional direct dialogues. An overview of fiscal 2014 CSR Talk Live is presented in the digest. CSR Talk Live Distributing the Latest Information on CSR Activities on the CSR-Web The CSR-Web was established on our intranet to introduce Group CSR initiatives with the intent of inculcating an awareness of CSR among all NGK domestic Group employees. In addition to sharing CSR topics with all employees and presenting objectives for each area, information on the site is regularly updated to include CSR Committee meeting discussions and Q&A between senior management employees and general employees who attended the CSR Talk Live event in an attempt to provide a wealth of content only available on this website. Communication Between Labor and Management NGK makes an effort to build labor-management relations founded on mutual trust through communication with various consultative bodies, such as the Labor-Management Advisory Board, the Office Advisory Board and the Regular Labor-Management Council. NGK and the NGK Worker’s Union attempt to share business conditions and performance at Labor-Management Advisory Board meetings, as well as issues pertaining to manufacturing, work systems and workplace environments from each worksite at Office Advisory Board meetings. Labor and management also proactively exchange opinions at Regular Labor-Management Council meetings At Regular Labor-Management Council and Labor-Management Study Meetings held in fiscal 2014, two topics based on the theme of “improving safe, worthwhile and meaningful work” were discussed. Topic 1 Revise systems for promoting reviews of working arrangements with the aim of realizing a work-life balance Result: Expand half-day paid leave (from 14 to 20 times), establish hourly increment paid holiday system for employees working shortened working hours (equivalent to one day per year) 98 Topic 2 About revision to system related to residential measures linked to worker peace of mind Result: Revised overall allowances. Residence allowance, family allowance, Section Chief allowance, commutation allowance, working in Tokyo area allowance, job transfer allowance, solo assignment allowance and business trip accommodation expenditures. Internal Newsletter Receives Award in China (NGK Insulators Tangshan) To enliven internal communication throughout the NGK Group, many Group companies issue internal newsletters employing creative tactics to promote understanding of company issues amongst all employees. NGK Insulators Tangshan (China) received a second place award recognizing the outstanding content of its internal newsletter at a ceremony held in China in February 2014. This was the only award won by a foreign multinational company. NGK Insulators Tangshan internal newsletter 99 Respect for People and Ensure Comfortable Workplace CSR Talk Live (Dialogue with Employees on CSR Practices) To deepen employee understanding of CSR and related initiatives, NGK conducts “CSR Talk Live,” an event facilitating direct discussion with senior management held at all domestic sites since fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2014, this event was held nine times at seven venues, including NGK Ceramic Devices Komaki Site, NGK Adrec and Akechi Insulators. A total of 400 employees participated. At each venue, senior management emphasized the importance of NGK Group CSR initiatives to those in attendance, while the Environmental Management Department and CSR Promotion Office used specific examples to explain CSR Report details. Afterward, a Q&A session with employees was conducted on topics including environmental conservation, workplace safety and compliance. Comments provided on a post-event survey included “This event enabled me to reflect on how low my awareness had been up to now,” and “I talked with my children at home about the importance of environmental conservation.” These comments enabled us to ascertain the depth of employee understanding as it pertains to CSR activities. We will continue these activities in an attempt to further inculcate CSR. CSR Talk Live Event Schedule and Number of Participants Number of Place Date Participants September 30 50 Nagoya Site, Aichi Prefecture October 1 55 October 2 52 Chita Site, Aichi Prefecture October 15 56 Komaki Site, Aichi Prefecture October 22 49 NGK CERAMIC DEVICE October 28 50 Yamanashi Plant, Yamanashi Prefecture NGK Adrec Co., Ltd., Gifu Prefecture September 16 30 Akechi Insulators Co., Ltd, Gifu Prefecture September 25 30 Tokyo Main Office, Tokyo November 4 28 100 Nobumitsu Saji, Director and Senior Vice President, CSR Committee Chair CSR Talk Live Participant Questions and Company Answers (Excerpt) Environment: Environmental Conservation Activities at Overseas Plants Q. How are CSR and environmental activities developed at overseas plants? A. Once every two years, we want to visit overseas plants to meet with the heads of each division and develop environmental activities. We want to conduct an event similar to CSR Talk Live while considering methods appropriate for approaches conducted in countries overseas including, but not limited to, the environment. Q. What kinds of environmental awareness activities are conducted at overseas Group companies? A. In terms of senior management, we understand that they possess a solid environmental awareness. However, we have yet to ascertain the level of awareness among individual employees. We want to inculcate a deep understanding through a common global language using keywords such as safety and environment. Environment:CO2 Reduction Activities Q. How is the reduction of CO2 promoted? 101 A. The reduction of CO2 is promoted through the introduction of new manufacturing technologies that arise from new manufacturing structural innovations. Furthermore, steady on-site efforts have a substantial effect on improved productivity. Q. To reduce CO2 emissions, we utilize LGP and regenerative burners, but recently it feels like we are running out of ideas. Based on what we have done up to now, what are the most effective ways to reduce CO2? A. The firing of HONEYCERAM® and insulators emit the largest volumes of CO2, thus it is important to reduce the emissions per unit by shortening the firing schedule and increasing batch numbers. Let’s try to reduce the amount of steps in each process and increase productivity. Even the Environmental Management departments will support the elimination of utility-related waste. (NGK) Let’s go back to the beginnings of manufacturing and rethink the firing process. Please refer to the case study compilation created by NGK. (NGK Adrec) CSR: Expenses Q. How are decisions made regarding expenses incurred by social contribution and environmental burden reduction activities? A. Decisions are made by the CSR Committee, which meets three times each year. In terms of eliminating environmental burdens, we not only invest to reduce CO2 emissions, we also invest in productivity improvements that lead to CO2 reductions. CSR: CSR Procurement Q. I was in charge of CSR procurement, and I struggled with the setting of goals. What does CSR procurement look like going forward? A. The societal demand for CSR procurement continues to increase, which makes it harder to set goals. Goals must be achieved 100%, so let’s do everything we can to achieve goals. CSR: NGK Eco Point System Q. Within the Eco Point system, how are points earned for activities conducted at home? A. In principle, points are added up by checking off self-declared environmental activities on the Eco Card, such as regional cleanup and greening efforts. Points can also be earned for household environmental accounting ledgers, Eco Driving, sitting for the Eco Test and Eco proposals. Compliance: Competition Laws Q. With regard to competition laws, when I meet people from another company, I tend to become tight-lipped. Please explain the do’s and don’ts regarding competition laws. A. At present, we are revising the Competition Law Compliance Handbook to make it easier to understand. It is perfectly fine to maintain an awareness of competition laws related to your work. If there is something specific you are concerned about, please make sure you document it. Compliance: Helpline Q. When power or sexual harassment is reported to the helpline, what kind of response can we expect? A. The criteria for power harassment are fuzzy, so we make an effort to speak with both parties. When it is difficult to speak directly with those involved, we listen to what people around them say. When an incident is reported to the helpline, we never reveal any details so employees can use it with peace of mind. 102 Supply Chain Basic Approach The NGK Group established the Basic Purchasing Policy in an attempt to conduct fair and honest business transactions and to prosper together with all our procurement partners. Basic Purchasing Policy Open and Fair ·Open, fair, and equitable procurement ·Pursuit of the principles of competition and economic potential Partnership ·Mutual prosperity based on mutual trust with suppliers Relationship with Society ·Obeying the law ·Protecting the environment 103 Supply Chain Promotion of CSR Procurement The entire NGK Group gives priority to employing suppliers with the same amount of consideration for the importance of CSR as the NGK Group, as well as green procurement, which gives priority to purchasing products and services with low environmental impact amid increasing societal demand for the realization of CSR activities as overall supply chain activities. In fiscal 2013, the CSR Procurement Guidelines were revised. New CSR Procurement Guidelines In fiscal 2013, the NGK Group revised the CSR Procurement Guidelines. This involved organizing previously established guidelines in accordance with Basic Purchasing Policy and adding sections on disputed minerals, corruption and principles regarding human rights and labor. Having partially revised existing Green Procurement Guidelines, we newly incorporated them as “Green Procurement Standards” into the CSR Procurement Guidelines as a supplemental material. While these guidelines apply to all NGK Group suppliers, we also ask that they are understood and followed by the suppliers who supply our suppliers. We constantly attempt to expand and practice these initiatives by disclosing these guidelines to all NGK and global Group company suppliers. The CSR Procurement Guidelines are published in Japanese, English and Chinese languages, available below. Procuring Resources and Raw Materials Responsibly The NGK Group conducts procurement activities that consider impacts on regional communities stemming from the use of raw materials (e.g. “conflict minerals” including tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries, as well as minerals that are the source of funds for armed insurgencies in that region) with the potential to cause social issues such as human rights violations and poverty, and takes steps to avoid using such materials when there is risk of adverse impact. CSR Procurement Guidelines Supplemental Materials Japanese language NGK Group's Supply-Chain CSR Guidelines (Japanese)(PDF:371KB) NGK Group's Green Procurement Standard (Japanese)(PDF:278KB) Appendixes (Japanese)(PDF:515KB) English language NGK Group's Supply-Chain CSR Guidelines (English)(PDF:162KB) NGK Group's Green Procurement Standard (English)(PDF:121KB) Appendixes (English)(PDF:235KB) Chinese language NGK Group's Supply-Chain CSR Guidelines (Chinese)(PDF:273KB) NGK Group's Green Procurement Standard (Chinese)(PDF:246KB) Appendixes (Chinese)(PDF:315KB) Developing CSR Procurement in Conjunction with Societal Trends The NGK Group has engaged in the expansion of CSR Procurement by inculcating an understanding of CSR Procurement among its suppliers, conducting status surveys and taking proactive steps to further advance guideline compliance while expanding CSR Procurement activities to new suppliers. Going forward, we will consider societal trends while aiming for greater quality through the maintenance and continuation of CSR Procurement activities with suppliers. We will also promote activities in each country and region where we operate overseas Group companies. 104 ■Ongoing Promotion of CSR Procurement 105 Supply Chain Fair and Honest Procurement Partner Evaluations and Extensive Resource Diversification In accordance with the Basic Purchasing Policy, the NGK Group selects procurement partners based on fair and honest evaluations. We also attempt to ensure procurement when disasters occur through the extensive diversification of procurement resources. Selection of Suppliers Based on Fair and Honest Evaluations NGK opens its doors to a wide range of procurement sources, including companies with which it has had no previous transactions. In terms of selecting new suppliers, we choose from multiple companies through fair and honest evaluation of their CSR initiatives, environmental conservation efforts and financial condition as well as quality, cost and delivery (QCD). In addition to the procurement department being involved in the selection of suppliers, multiple departments are also involved in this process, which requires multi-stage approval before selection occurs in an effort to ensure fair and honest evaluation and decision-making. Promoting Business Continuity Planning (BCP) through the Diversification of Procurement Resources In the event of unforeseen circumstances such as a major natural disaster, NGK promotes the sourcing of raw materials, equipment, secondary materials and other critical purchased parts from multiple suppliers as part of its BCP efforts to ensure procurement is uninterrupted. For items which are available from only one supplier, we are in the process of ensuring sufficient inventory and that the storage facilities for these items are located in a safe place that cannot be damaged by tsunami. In addition, when selecting a new procurement partner, we take into consideration the existence or absence of multiple locations and efforts to ensure inventory. 106 Supply Chain Communication Activities with Procurement Partners Earnings Presentations for Suppliers NGK held an earnings presentation for major suppliers in June 2014 attended by 230 people from 130 companies. The earnings presentation introduced NGK procurement initiatives aimed at reducing the cost of procurement including logistics, business continuity planning (BCP) and stabilizing procurement in response to fluctuating demand. We also asked suppliers for their cooperation regarding the secure management of information. After the presentation, a social gathering was held where suppliers were able to exchange ideas with NGK directors and division heads. Suppliers invited to the earnings presentation. Ongoing Operation of the Supplier Helpline In 2008, NGK established the supplier helpline system. Receiving consultation via email, fax and telephone, we make an effort to respond with solutions quickly. In fiscal 2015, we continue to build and maintain fair supplier relationships through the ongoing operation of the supplier helpline. Individual Visits to Suppliers in Japan and Overseas To procure from the most suitable suppliers, NGK visits suppliers around the world to conduct a fair and honest evaluation in terms of quality, cost and delivery (QCD). In fiscal 2014, we visited nine new suppliers and 103 existing suppliers, a total of 112 companies. In fiscal 2014, we visited 74 existing suppliers to monitor QCD and confirmed improvements were being conducted at 29 of these companies. After explaining monitoring results, we asked suppliers to make improvements in areas receiving a low evaluation. In fiscal 2015, we will continue visiting new and major suppliers to conduct evaluations. 107 Preservation of Global Environment The NGK Group is engaged in ongoing environmental conservation efforts by improving manufacturing processes through the development and introduction of innovative manufacturing technologies and the development of products and services that contribute to reducing environmental impacts. NGK's Core Policy on the Environment Recognizing that protecting the environment is a vital issue that all of humanity must face, the NGK Group formulated its Core Policy on the Environment in April 1996 based on Environmental Philosophy and Environmental Action Guidelines in order to bring its corporate activities into harmony with the environment. On the basis of this policy, the NGK Group works to reduce the environmental impact of business activities, and actively strive to help protect the environment by developing products and technologies to that end. NGK's Core Policy on the Environment Environmental Philosophy Given its corporate philosophy– NGK products and technologies must create new value and contribute to the quality of life –NGK will contribute to tackling environmental issues through its Triple-E business segments of ecology, electronics, and energy to create a comfortable environment for future generations. Guidelines for Environmental Action 1. Strive to develop, design, and manufacture products that contribute to the environment and products with low environmental impact. 2. Work to reduce the environmental impact arising from business activities. Conduct design reviews to scientifically study and evaluate the environmental impact of business activities. Promote energy conservation measures for all processes and facilities, and make efforts to control CO2 emissions. Promote resource saving and recycling, and make efforts to control the generation of by-products. Through the appropriate use and control of chemical agents, work to reduce the risks inherent in toxic substances. Give precedence to environmentally friendly materials, parts, products, and facilities in procurement and purchasing, strengthening cooperative alliances with our business partners. 3. Enhance environmental management systems from a global perspective while continuously reducing our environmental impact. 4. Not only abide by environmental laws, regulations, and other requirements, but also institute voluntary standards and work to improve our own environmental conservation. 5. Provide environmental information to the public at the appropriate time and pursue dialogue with all stakeholders. Proactively develop social action programs. Also, engage in education and publicity in order to improve employees' environmental consciousness. 108 Preservation of Global Environment Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact The diagram below shows inputs and outputs in business activities conducted by NGK. It shows inputs of raw material and energy and outputs in the form of manufactured products and services, as well as substances that are discharged into the atmosphere and into water. In line with expanded production activities, the NGK Group output of substances impacting the environment (CO2 and other discarded materials, etc.) is on the rise. However, efforts to introduce the latest manufacturing processes and improve the management of facilities have resulted in the rate of increase for emissions that impact the environment being lower than the rate of increase for products and services (net sales) provided to customers. Activities Covered NGK Headquarters/Nagoya Site/Chita Site/Komaki Site/Ishikawa Plant (does not include Tokyo Main Office, Osaka Branch and six other sales offices) Domestic Group companies: 12 manufacturing-related consolidated subsidiaries Overseas Group companies: 16 manufacturing-related consolidated subsidiaries 109 Preservation of Global Environment Five-Year Environmental Action Plan Fiscal 2014 Initiatives Within the Third Five-Year Environmental Action Plan (2011-2015) The NGK Group promotes environmental initiatives based on the formulation of Five-Year Environmental Action Plans. The Third Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, which was launched in fiscal 2011, aims to reduce environmental impacts on a global scale resulting from the expansion of overseas manufacturing sites, promoting these activities by establishing reduction targets for CO2 emissions and discarded materials overseas. Fiscal 2014 targets and results, as well as Five-Year Plan targets, are stated below. 110 FY2014 environmental performance Five-Year Management Categories Items Plan Objectives items Targets Achievements Self-evaluation❊1 (Fiscal 2015) 10% reduction from Domestic CO2 183x103 metric fiscal 1990 emissions 185x103 metric tons tons or less (190x103 metric tons or ❊2 less) Reduced 13% Reduce 13% Reduction of Domestic basic compared to compared to 20% reduction from CO2 from unit per net previous fiscal year previous fiscal fiscal 2010 production sales (23% reduction year activities from fiscal 2010) Global Reduced 18% warming Increased 4% Overseas compared to prevention compared to 5% reduction from basic unit per previous fiscal year previous fiscal fiscal 2010 net sales (31% reduction year from fiscal 2010) NGK basic unit Reduce 1% Reduction of Increased 5% per transport compared to 1% reduction each CO2 from compared to volume previous fiscal year logistics previous fiscal year ❊3 year Reduced 15% Reduce 23% Domestic basic compared to compared to 10% reduction from unit per net previous fiscal previous fiscal fiscal 2010 sales year(21% reduction year Reduction of from fiscal 2010) discarded materials Reduced 19% Reduce 9% Overseas compared to compared to 5% reduction from basic unit per previous fiscal previous fiscal fiscal 2010 net sales year(34% reduction year from fiscal 2010) Improve domestic Domestic Group Domestic Group company company recycling 99% or higher recycling rate Effective use recycling rate rate was 99.2% of resources Promotion of Set and manage resource Ascertain Established scope recycling rates recycling Overseas appropriate of appropriate established with recycling rate recycling rate for recycling rate in consideration for the each location each location conditions in each country Confirmed no water Create standards for Effective use of Plan progress Assess water risks risk situations are efficient usage based water resources rate at all locations serious at all on water resource locations usage status survey Establish Established Improvement in appropriate appropriate level of Upgrade chemical Plan progress management of operations by Ensuring chemical substance rate upgraded regularly conducting chemical substances management systems management voluntary substances management systems confirmation management Promotion of Formulate quantitative Create collective environmental standards for degree of evaluation method Reviewed collective contribution environmental for our eco evaluation method through contribution from Plan progress products products products rate Provision of eco products Promotion of (Completed Green Supplier certifications Complete green green in fiscal 2012) supplier certification procurement Robust Promote activities Promoted activities Continue and expand environmental Plan progress in conjunction with in conjunction with activities related to contribution rate regional regional Promotion of regional communities activities communities communities 111 Promote Conducted Environmental corporate seminars Partnership and next-generation Organizing Club environmental (EPOC) event education Conducted position-based training, Conduct employee environmental professional training environmental communication and environmental education lectures Continue and expand Improvement in Promote environmental environmental Fully implemented participation in education,information awareness the Eco Point environmental disclosure system, promoted events eco proposals and participation in green curtain and other activities Note: Figures noted in the Third Five-Year Environmental Action Plan are targets established each fiscal year. ＊1. Self-evaluation standards for achievement level: Target achieved, 80% or more of target achieved, Less than 80% of target achieved. ＊2. CO2 conversion factors (kg-CO2/unit) used in calculating CO2 emissions are as follows: Units are indicated in parentheses. Purchased electric power (kWh): 0.42, Fuel oil (L): 2.677, Diesel fuel (L): 2.64, Kerosene (L): 2.49, City gas (Nm3): 2.347, LPG (kg): 3.007, LNG (Kg), 2.70, Gasoline (L): 2.322. Sources: Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (fiscal 1990 actual figures), Ministry of the Environment. Some factors have been calculated independently by NGK. However, fiscal 2014 energy-origin CO2 emission volume for NGK on a non-consolidated basis is 147x103 metric tons when using the CO2 conversion factor provided by the Cabinet Orders of the Law Concerning the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming (revised in March 2015). ＊3 NGK basic unit per transport volume expresses in metric ton-kilometers the amount of crude oil equivalent fuel used. Activities Covered NGK Headquarters/Nagoya Site/Chita Site/Komaki Site/Ishikawa Plant (does not include Tokyo Main Office, Osaka Branch and six other sales offices) Domestic Group companies: 12 manufacturing-related consolidated subsidiaries Overseas Group companies: 16 manufacturing-related consolidated subsidiaries 112 Preservation of Global Environment Environmental Management Frameworks and Environmental Management System The NGK Group promotes environmental conservation activities in accordance with our Core Policy on the Environment through initiatives pertaining to environmental management frameworks and the Environmental Management System (EMS) implemented by global Group companies working in conjunction with one another. Consolidated Environmental Management Promotion System In addition to environmental management systems at the Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites and Ishikawa plant, we promote consolidated environmental management through a consolidated management system that includes domestic and overseas Group company business groups as activity leaders. One feature of this business group-based environmental management system is that it enables Group promotion of environmental management initiatives regarding issues such as reducing CO2 controlling discarded materials emissions and strengthening chemical substance management. In an attempt to unify Group company environmental management, in addition to annual domestic Group company liaison committee meetings, since fiscal 2013, we have also held liaison committee meetings at Group companies outside Japan and exchange information from both committees to respond to matters of concern. Furthermore, Headquarters staff visits Group companies to provide support for energy conservation diagnostics and countermeasure reviews. ① NGK Environmental Protection Committee In principle, meets twice each year. Other meetings are held at the discretion of the chairman. ◆Governing Structure 113 President makes decision in light of Executive Committee deliberations (As of June 2015, Director Chairman and Vice President) Vice Appointed by NGK Environmental Protection Committee Chairman (As of June 2015, General Chairman Manager of Environmental Management Dept.) Executive Vice President, Vice Presidents responsible for Head Office Departments, Group Executives, General Managers, General Manager of Pollution Control at each site, General Manager of Environmental Management Dept., General Manager of Corporate Strategy Office, General Committee Manager of Human Resource Department, General Manager of CSR Office, General Manager of Members Finance & Accounting Dept., General Manager of Legal Dept., General Manager of General Affairs Dept., General Manager of Purchasing Dept., General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept., others designated by the Committee Chairman ② Environmental Expert Committee In principle, meets twice each year. Meets before the NGK Environmental Protection Committee to review and discuss items to be reported to the committee. ♦Governing Structure Expert Committee General Manager of Environmental Management Dept. Chair Vice General Manager of Construction & Maintenance Dept. Chairman Persons in charge of environmental management in each division, persons in charge of main product Members Manufacturing divisions, persons in charge of Engineering Department ③ Environmental committees in each area (Nagoya site, Chita site, Komaki site, Ishikawa plant) In principle, meets twice each year in each area. Thoroughly conveys matters determined by the NGK Environmental Protection Committee, communicates and discusses issues and topics in each area (all four areas meet twice each year for a total of eight meetings) ④ Domestic Group company liaison meetings Meets once each year. Conveys the Group-wide policy on environmental initiatives to manufacturing Group companies and attempts to share each company's environmental management status and information on effective initiatives to promote the unification of domestic Group company environmental conservation activities. ⑤ Sharing information with overseas Group Companies The Environmental Performance questionnaire is used to conduct an annual survey into the status of compliance with environmental laws at each company. Main Group companies are visited every 2-3 years to ascertain management conditions through hearings. History of NGK's Environmental Activities 114 Environmental Protection Committee and Environmental Preservation Office (currently, April 1972 Environmental Management Dep.) established June 1992 Waste Countermeasures Commission established March 1993 NGK's Voluntary Plan for Environmental Conservation established December 1994 Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and 1,1,1-trichloroethane abolished February 1995 Internal environmental audit conducted April 1996 NGK's Core Policy on the Environment established December 1996 CO2 Countermeasures Commission established NGK's three production bases (Nagoya, Chita and Komaki) simultaneously received ISO 14001 March 1998 certification March 1999 Environmental Report published April 1999 Environmental accounting introduced October 1999 Green Purchasing Commission established November 1999 Environmental audits of domestic Group companies started Environmental Partnership Organizing Club (EPOC) established and active participation therein February 2000 begun Chemical Substances Safety Committee established; Chemical Substances Management October 2000 System introduced March 2001 First Five-Year Environmental Action Plan established April 2001 Compilation of environmental performance data for domestic Group companies started October 2001 Operating of Recycling Yard begun January 2002 Compilation of environmental performance data for overseas Group companies started April 2002 New Green Management three-year management plan instituted Moves made toward a full business group environmental management system; April 2003 Waste Countermeasures Commission renamed Recycling promotion Commission and “wastes” renamed “by-products.” March 2004 Three-year and long-term plans for reduction of CO2 emissions instituted March 2005 Company-wide medium-term plan for the reduction in by-products established April 2005 Environmental Action Guidelines revised; Green Procurement Guidelines revised October 2005 Third-party review of environmental performance begun April 2006 Second Five-Year Environmental Action Plan established 115 September 2006 Initiated environmental surveys of overseas Group companies May 2007 Introduction of a consolidated goal for CO2 and by-products for domestic Group companies April 2008 Establishment of the Environmental Management Department Introduction of goals to reduce CO2 by-products, and chemical substances for overseas Group January 2009 companies Expanded scope of goals to reduce CO2 by-products, and chemical substances for overseas January 2010 Group companies Formulated the third Five-Year Environmental Action Plan, April 2011 “by-products” renamed “discarded materials.” March 2012 Three NGK sites (Nagoya, Chita and Komaki) received integrated ISO 14001 certification March 2013 The Ishikawa plant received ISO 14001 certification (joint certification with three NGK sites) NGK established the Environmental Expert Committee as the authority handling matters related to CO2 discarded materials and other important environmental management items (created April 2013 through the combination of the former CO2 Countermeasures and Recycling Promotion Commission) Conducted environmental liaison meeting at overseas Group companies as part of attempts to August 2013 strengthen global environmental management February 2015 NAS Battery wins the Gold Prize at the 2015 Aichi Environmental Awards Environmental Management System (ISO14001, etc.) Initiatives The NGK Group promotes the acquisition of ISO14001 or third-party certifications meeting this standard to systematically and continuously develop environmental conservation activities in line with the Core Policy on the Environment. Three NGK sites, the Ishikawa plant, all 12 domestic Group companies and all 16 overseas Group companies have completed certification. We will make effective use of these environmental management systems going forward with the intent of reinforcing environmental management. Certification of Environmental Management System 116 No. of No. of Categories manufacturing bases bases certified NGK 4 4 Power Business 3 3 Domestic Ceramic Products Business 6 6 Group Electronics Business 10 10 Power Business 4 4 Overseas Ceramic Products Business 9 9 Group Electronics Business 4 4 The counting method of manufacturing bases was changed in fiscal 2014. Environmental Audits NGK conducts internal environmental management system audits and is inspected by third parties at the Nagoya, Chita, and Komaki sites, as well as the Ishikawa plant. Group companies also conduct these same internal audits and external reviews of the environmental management systems are conducted by external auditors at all Group companies. In fiscal 2014, no significant findings were made. In the event of a significant finding, the relevant division and Environmental Management Department work together to review and implement countermeasures as well as inform environmental committees in each area in an attempt to horizontally deploy these measures. Environmental Risk Management In addition to working to prevent environmental pollution, including atmosphere and water pollution, NGK periodically revises its environmental management framework and strives to prevent accidents. The company is also conducting emergency response training and making every effort to prepare for the unlikely event of an accident. Regulatory Compliance In addition to observing relevant regulations and agreements with control authorities, NGK has concluded environmental preservation-related and other agreements with the municipalities where its plants are located and is striving to prevent environmental pollution by voluntarily adhering to standards that are stricter than required by regulations. As a result, there were no legal violations in fiscal 2014. Environmental Patrols and Emergency Response Drills NGK implements environmental patrols in line with annual plans to prevent environmental pollution and conducts response drills based on emergency scenarios to minimize damage. In fiscal 2014, environmental patrols were conducted at the Nagoya, Chita and Komaki sites and the Ishikawa plant to prevent atmosphere and water pollution, ensure the appropriate management of chemical substances and suppress noise and vibrations. Response drills based on emergency scenarios were also conducted at these four areas. Going forward, NGK will continue to proactively engage in patrols and drills in an attempt to improve operational methods and mitigate environmental risks. 117 Noise and Chemical Atmosphere Water vibrations substances Environmental patrols 2 1 2 1 Nagoya Emergency response 3 1 -＊ 2 drills Environmental patrols 1 2 1 1 Chita Emergency response 3 5 drills Environmental patrols 1 2 1 2 Komaki Emergency response 8 8 drills Environmental patrols 2 2 2 1 Ishikawa Emergency response 2 2 drills ＊ Indicate emergency response drills were considered of low importance and not conducted 118 Preservation of Global Environment Environmental Impact Reduction Initiatives The NGK Group engages in the reduction of impacts on the environment by reducing CO2 emissions and promoting resources recycling through production activities. Prevention of Global Warming We have established reduction targets for CO2 emissions, one cause of global warming, in overseas manufacturing activities. The NGK Group promotes initiatives globally to control and reduces CO2 emissions. Domestic and Overseas CO2 Reduction Plans Progressing on Track The NGK Group is engaged in curbing global CO2 emissions mainly through manufacturing process improvements. Although the reduction of CO2 emissions* resulting from domestic production activities in fiscal 2014 exceeded reductions planned at the beginning of the year, due to production increased in response to vigorous demand and the production of more sample prototypes than initially projected, we fell slightly short of the fiscal 2014 target (emissions of 183,000 metric tons or less), emitting 185,000 metric tons (down 12% compared to 1990). Furthermore, in terms of domestic basic unit per net sales CO2 emissions, we achieved our initial target of a 13% reduction compared to the previous fiscal year. Realizing a 23% reduction in emissions compared to fiscal 2010 enabled us to achieve our Five-Year Plan objective (a 20% reduction compared to fiscal 2010) earlier than projected. At the same time, with respect to basic unit per net sales CO2 emissions overseas, taking into account factors including startup loss from a newly constructed production line, although we established a target of no more than 4% increase in emissions compared to the previous fiscal year, we were able to start up smoothly and quickly begin mass production, enabling us to achieve an 18% reduction compared to the previous fiscal year and significantly exceed targets. We were also able to realize a 31% reduction compared to fiscal 2010, enabling us two years in a row to achieve reductions that substantially exceeded Five-Year Plan objectives (a 5% reduction compared to fiscal 2010). Introduction of Green Power As part of our corporate activities aimed at harmony with the environment, NGK began introducing Green Power (energy sources such as wind and solar power and biomass fuels) in 2002, earlier than any other company. The Green Power Certification System contract we signed with Japan Natural Energy Company Limited calls for them to generate two million kilowatt hours of wind power for us each year. This is equivalent to about 60% of the power consumed annually by the NGK headquarters building, a reduction of approximately 800 metric tons of CO2 emissions per year and the annual amount of 119 CO2 absorbed by approximately 60,000 cedar trees. Adoption of Environmentally Friendly Production Processes Through the introduction of highly-efficient equipment and the promotion of the collection and use of exhaust heat and improved production efficiency, the NGK Group makes efforts to reduce environmental impacts resulting from production. Also, our Reformed Manufacturing Structures aimed at enhancing competitiveness significantly contribute to the realization of eco-processes. We will create further advanced eco-processes through our New/Reformed Manufacturing Structures . Controlling CO2 Emissions through Highly Efficient Manufacturing Processes As the NGK Group continues to expand overseas manufacturing, we are focusing efforts on manufacturing efficiency at our overseas locations in an attempt to reduce the amount of CO2 and discarded materials released. We have made steady progress as a result of introducing improvements to facilities and operations conducted in Japan to our overseas manufacturing locations and continue achieving solid results from the implementation of energy-saving activities targeting generalpurpose equipment. These initiatives aimed at highly efficient manufacturing processes at overseas locations in fiscal 2014 achieved significant results, including an Energy-saving diagnostic conducted in annual CO2 reduction effect of 26,000 metric tons (a reduction rate of conjunction with local person in charge of 4.7%). engineering (NGK Ceramics Suzhou (China)) Examples of initiatives aimed at reducing CO2 emissions 120 Categories Measures Effects Main production efficiency initiatives at overseas locations Highly efficient ·Introduction of innovative production manufacturing processes processes ·Equipment improvements CO2 reduction effect ·Management improvements Domestic: 4,500 metric tons Overseas: 25,900 metric tons Energy-saving diagnostic initiatives ·Used proprietary energy-saving guidelines Of which formulated up until last fiscal year ·Production process improvements ·Targeted general-purpose equipment and Domestic: 3,100 metric tons Group company energymanufacturing processes at Group companies Overseas: 23,100 metric tons saving diagnostics in Japan and overseas ·Conducted in conjunction with local ·General purpose equipment energy employees savings ·Identified areas for improvement and Domestic: 1,400 metric tons formulated improvement plans Overseas: 2,800 metric tons Horizontally deployed main improvements General-purpose ·Eradicated air and steam leaks from plumbing equipment energy-saving ·LED lighting activities ·Eliminated wasteful air conditioning CO2 reduction effects Emissions: 3,400 metric tons, Main initiatives in logistics 11% reduction year-on-year Reducing CO2 in logistics ·Promoted modal shift mainly on large projects Basic unit: 0.0414 KL/ thousand ·Expanded adoption of returnable packaging metric tonkilometers, 5% increase year-on-year Promotion of Resource Recycling To boost yield from manufacturing process improvements, NGK Group reuses in-process materials in an effort to curb discarded materials while also focusing efforts on recycling to reduce final disposal volumes to promote resource recycling. Discarded Material Reduction Plans are Proceeding on Track in Japan and Overseas In fiscal 2014, discarded materials in Japan decreased 15% on a basic unit per net sales basis compared to the previous fiscal year, a significant improvement. However, the launch of new products not planned at the beginning of the fiscal year and the impact of increased sample production that did not contribute to sales prevented us from reaching the initial target (a 23% reduction compared to the previous fiscal year). Nevertheless, we did achieve a 21% reduction compared to fiscal 2010, clearing the Five-Year Plan objective (10% reduction compared to fiscal 2010) ahead of schedule. In terms of discarded materials overseas, we substantially exceeded the initial target (a 9% reduction compared to the previous fiscal year) with a 19% reduction in basic unit per net sales. We also achieved a 34% reduction compared to fiscal 2010, clearing the Five-Year Plan objective (5% reduction compared to fiscal 2010) ahead of schedule for the second year in a row. Going forward, we will further promote manufacturing process improvements, higher yield rates through more efficient use of resources and the reuse of raw materials within processes in an effort to reduce the amount of discarded materials generated. 121 Promoting Recycling at all NGK Group Companies Through systematic sorting, separating and the quest for new recycling methods, NGK focuses efforts on reducing discarded materials and promoting resource recycling. Discarded materials derived from ceramics raw materials are used in cement and as roadbed materials, while waste plastic is recycled as raw material for plastic and solid fuel. Consequently, the fiscal 2014 recycling rate was nearly the same as in fiscal 2013, as we maintained a high recycling rate of 99.8%*. In fiscal 2014, we continued improvements at domestic Group companies and were able to increase the recycling rate from 97.3% in the previous fiscal year to 97.6%. Already in fiscal 2013, NGK and its domestic Group companies achieved a combined recycling rate of 99.2%, clearing 99% of Five-Year Plan targets. Regarding overseas Group companies, where situations differ by country and region, we conduct activities in an aim to establish recycling rate targets and institute management under the Five-Year Plan that considers the conditions in each country. In fiscal 2014, we promoted strict waste separation management and disposal company searches, and in consideration of special circumstances, ascertained recycling rates with a scope appropriate for conditions at each location. NGK Group will continue to promote initiatives aimed at recycling domestic and overseas while attempting ongoing improvements and the establishment of management. Note: Due to internal standards, non-recyclable discarded materials are excluded from these calculations. Overseas Group Company Implementation Examples At overseas Group companies, waste material separation management is strictly enforced. Waste separation rules are posted where waste materials are stocked and color-coordinated containers are provided for each category of waste to avoid confusion. NGK Ceramics Europe NGK Ceramics USA NGK Group Water Resource Initiatives Water Risk Evaluation 122 Regarding water risks at manufacturing bases, including Group companies in Japan and overseas, we make efforts to ascertain the status of responses to water risks at each location through regular inspection of regulatory trends in regions where we do business, initiatives aimed at water usage conditions (overall amount and per basic unit) and the appropriate use of water at each location and use “Aqueduct”* and others to conduct analysis. Investigations in fiscal 2014 confirmed that of the 14 NGK Group manufacturing bases located in regions that are highly water-stressed, four bases have a high quantity of water withdrawal (accounting for 10% of all manufacturing bases). In analyzing conditions at these bases, it was determined that none faced any serious risks. Note: Global water risk analysis tool made available to the public by World Resources Institute (WRI). Water Usage Guidelines NGK created guidelines (an implementation status checklist) aimed at appropriate water usage and launched inspections to ascertain the efficacy of water usage at all manufacturing bases in Japan and overseas. Going forward, we will attempt to expand these guidelines through case studies from each location while promoting initiatives appropriate for bases located in highly water-stressed regions. Examples of Group Company Initiatives We strive to use precious water resources as appropriately and efficiently as possible, including the recycling of water used inside plants, at Group companies located in highly water-stressed regions. For example, at NGK Ceramics Mexico, manufacturing process waste water is filtered using reverse osmosis membranes and the recycled water is reused as coolant and boiler water or sprinkled on vegetation. Filtration device using reverse osmosis membranes Strengthening of Global Environmental Management In accordance with the Guidelines for Environmental Action, the NGK Group horizontally deploys domestic environmental impact reduction initiatives in overseas Group companies while creating mechanisms to strictly comply with amendments to environmental laws and regulations to propel our global environmental management to the next level. Mitigating Potential Risks Throughout the Group All NGK Group companies in Japan and overseas have completed acquisition of ISO14001 or third-party certifications meeting this standard and implement environmental management in line with environmental management systems. NGK shares information regarding changes in domestic environmental laws and regulations with Group companies and has created a structure to ascertain the status of responses to these changes. Overseas, NGK Headquarters is enhancing its ability to regularly ascertain the status of responses and management in terms of important legal and regulatory system revision information in the countries and regions where Group companies are located. Additionally, in fiscal 2014, NGK conducted a survey regarding past issues and countermeasures at all manufacturing bases, including those located overseas, to organize items that need confirmation aimed at mitigating potential risks. We will identify issues at each location based on these results and consider responses as necessary. Strengthening Environmental Management Linked to Business Planning The NGK Group promotes environmental management responsive to continuously evolving business plans. Initiatives aimed at reducing impacts on the environment in accordance with business plans include conducting forecast estimates and achievement evaluations in each business group, product line and global manufacturing base every six months to determine which initiatives to pursue next. These efforts include the establishment of the Environmental Expert Committee under the NGK Environmental Protection Committee, as a company-wide decision-making body. The Environmental Expert Committee facilitates discussions among managers from planning and production divisions who formulate and promote actual business planning in each business division, strengthening the company-wide environmental management system. Going forward, we will continue to strengthen management integration with the aim of promoting environmental management that combines global environmental protection and corporate growth. 123 Preservation of Global Environment Creating Products that Contribute to the Environment The NGK Group considers the provision of products and services that contribute to a better social environment to be one of its most important missions. For nearly a century since its founding, NGK has made use of accumulated technologies to develop and provide products and technologies that reduce burdens on the global environment. Contributing to the Preservation of the Global Environment through Products The NGK Group makes an effort to develop products that contribute to the environment in response to societal needs including the automobile exhaust purification and the spread of renewable energy. Expanding the manufacturing capability and global delivery of products that contribute to the environment contributes to society and the environment. Development and Manufacture of Vehicle Exhaust Emissions Control Products The NGK Group focuses on the development and manufacture of automobile exhaust countermeasure products by making full use of ceramics technologies. HONEYCERAM Catalyst Carrier for Purifying Automobile Exhaust Gas Honeycomb ceramic substrates containing catalysts that render potentially harmful substances harmless, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons (HC), found in gasoline vehicle exhaust. It is indispensable for automobile exhaust purifiers and employed by automotive manufacturers in all countries around the world. HONEYCERAM HONEYCERAM 124 Diesel Particulate Filters (DPF) Gasoline Particulate Filters (GPF) DPF removes up to 99% of particulate matter (PM) in diesel engine exhaust from buses, trucks, cars and construction equipment. They also meet new strict exhaust regulations and support the adoption of clean diesel engine vehicles. NGK also provides GPF that remove PM from the exhaust of gasoline direct injection Diesel Particulate Filters (DPF) engines. Diesel Particulate Filters (DPF) High-precision in-vehicle NOx sensor The NOx sensor is capable of measuring concentrations of nitrogen oxides (NOx) in real time at the parts per million (ppm) level. NGK was the first company in the world to successfully develop this product. High-precision in-vehicle NOx sensor High-precision in-vehicle NOx sensor NOx Sensor Wins Okochi Memorial Production Prize NGK's NOx sensor won the Okochi Memorial Foundation 61st (FY 2014) Okochi Memorial Production Prize. The world's first in-vehicle NOx sensor was recognized for the originality and innovation of its development and manufacturing technologies, and highly evaluated for the substantial contribution it has made to the spread of clean diesel vehicles. Award ceremony conducted at The Industry Club of NOx Sensor Wins Okochi Memorial Production Prize Japan (Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo) Contributing to the Resolution of Global Environmental Problems through the Design of the NOx Sensor Mika Murakami, Sensor Division, Ceramics Business Group I am in charge of design for the NOx sensor. Detecting NOx concentrations in real time and providing that information to the engine control unit controls the precision of the exhaust purification device, and enables the reduction of NOx emissions. In response to tightening restrictions on NOx in the United States and Europe, the installation rate of NOx sensors increases every year. Although responding to the needs of customers and society keeps me quite busy every day, I feel there is great meaning in doing a job that significantly contributes to the resolution of global environmental problems through the spread of clean diesel vehicles. Enhancing the Manufacturing Capability of Vehicle Exhaust Emission Control Products in Response to Market Demands The NGK Group has been expanding and upgrading its global production structure capability in response to increasing demand driven by the tightening of automobile exhaust regulations around the world and increased auto sales in developing countries. 125 NAS Battery Systems for Large-Capacity Electric Energy Storage NGK was first in the world to commercialize the megawatt-class NAS battery energy storage system. The large-capacity, high-energy density and long-lasting NAS battery is roughly 1/3 the size of a lead-acid battery, able to provide high output for long periods of time. They help with load leveling at times of peak demand, stabilize intermittent renewable energy and contribute to powersaving measures reducing the overall environmental impacts of using renewable energy. NAS battery NAS Battery Wins the Gold Prize at the 2015 Aichi Environmental Awards NGK received the Gold Prize for its NAS Battery System at the 2015 Aichi Environmental Awards held by the Aichi Prefecture. NAS batteries meet a variety of needs, including electricity load leveling, emergency power sources, control of output fluctuations from renewable energy sources, and stabilization of electrical power systems. NAS battery systems were evaluated highly for their contribution to reducing environmental impacts through resource and energy savings. The Aichi Environmental Award recognizes effective pioneering initiatives taken by companies, groups and other organizations 126 aimed at recycling resources and reducing environmental impact. This is the second time that NGK has won the Gold Prize. The first time was in 2006, when it won the prize with a group of five companies, led by NGK, and Tahara City, Aichi for a project to manufacture and recycle carbide from burnable waste. The Aichi Environmental Awards Gold Prize NAS Batteries throughout the World Developing and Providing Products Responding to Various Global Environmental Issues Safe Disposal of Radioactive Waste The NGK Group delivers incineration systems for the safe incineration disposal of combustible low-level radioactive waste produced by nuclear power plants to all nuclear power plants and several research facilities in Japan. Non-combustible low-level radioactive waste (metal, glass, concrete, etc.) must be physically and chemically stabilized when buried underground. To meet this requirement, NGK developed an induction heat melting/solidification system enabling significant reduction of waste materials. Five units have been delivered to nuclear power plants in Japan, and are operating nominally. We also provide high-pressure compression presses and dry blast decontamination equipment as disposal equipment for the large amount of radioactive waste generated from reactor decommissioning. Rotary kiln combustible solid Induction-Heat waste incinerator Melting/Solidification System Low-Level Radwaste Treatment System 127 Shortening the Solvent Drying Process, Reducing Environmental Impact The solvent drying process is indispensable in the production of high performance films used in computers and smartphones. The proprietary wavelength control drying system developed by NGK contributes to the shortening of this process and reduces impact on the environment. As opposed to the hot air traditionally used in this process, drying is achieved through bombardment by infrared light with wavelengths that have effective evaporative properties, Wavelength control drying system increasing traditional drying capabilities several times over and enabling shortened drying realizing significant energy savings times and energy savings. Removing Black Smoke from Diesel Power Generators NGK developed the CERALLEC system for removing over 99% at maximum of PM (black smoke particulate matter) from diesel power generators applying ceramic filter manufacturing technologies conforming to strict standards for vehicle exhaust gas. The system contributes to the prevention of air pollution and health hazards at power stations and manufacturing facilities around the world. CERALLEC 128 Preservation of Global Environment Biodiversity Initiatives In addition to the aim of realizing a sustainable society, the NGK Group also recognizes the conservation of biodiversity as an important issue for the company and is engaged in the following initiatives. Activities Aimed at Achieving the “Aichi Target” This section introduces activities conducted by the NGK Group in consideration of the Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren (Japanese Business Federation) and the “Code of Conduct Relating to the Conservation of Biodiversity in the Electrical and Electronics Industries” formulated by four electrical and electronic industry associations in Japan (JEMA, JEITA, CIAJ and JBMIA) with respect to the “Aichi Target” international goals for biodiversity agreed upon at The Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10: Nagoya, 2010). Aichi Target NGK Activities Employee environmental education (Eco Point System, Eco Test Target taking support), next-generation education (Guest lectures at Spread awareness 1 elementary schools, employee environmental education lecturer volunteers) CO2 reductions, reduction of discarded materials, promotion of Target Sustainable production and recycling, effective use of water, green procurement, expanding sales 4 consumption of products that promote the introduction of renewable energy (NAS® batteries) Participation in volunteer activities including maintenance of Asian Target Inhibit loss of all natural habitats skunk cabbage colonies (NGK Okhotsk), “OISCA Forest” (Aichi 5 Prefecture) forestation (NGK) Strengthen chemical substance management, management of Target Control pollution by chemical exhaust and waste water,expanding sales of products that prevent air 8 substances, etc. pollution (ceramic products to purify automotive exhaust, NOx sensors, etc.) Participation in volunteer activities including maintenance of Asian Target Conserve protected areas skunk cabbage colonies (NGK Okhotsk), “OISCA Forest” (Aichi 11 Prefecture) forestation (NGK) Participation in volunteer activities including maintenance of Asian Target Ecosystem services skunk cabbage colonies (NGK Okhotsk), “OISCA Forest” (Aichi 14 Prefecture) forestation (NGK) Specific “Aichi Target” Initiatives Plant Initiatives NGK Group production site initiatives include CO2 reductions, the reduction of discarded materials, the promotion of recycling, the effective use of water, green procurement and expanding sales of products that promote the introduction of renewable energy aimed at sustainable production and consumption. In terms of controlling pollution by chemical substances, we are engaged in strengthening chemical substance management, management of exhaust and waste water and expanding sales of products that prevent air pollution. 129 Environmental Contribution Activities The NGK Group promotes environmental contribution activities that involve regions and communities, including wetland and forest preservation activities from the perspective of biodiversity. Also, NGK provides information on its intranet regarding information on volunteering opportunities with OISCA-International, a charity engaged in tree planting and environmental protection, enabling employees to participate in tree planting and grass cutting activities. Assisting with maintenance of Asian skunk cabbage colonies (NGK Okhotsk) 130 Preservation of Global Environment Environmental Accounting As an important index of environmental management, NGK has begun conducting environmental accounting and announcing the results. In addition to announcing the costs of environmental conservation (capital investment, expenses), the economic benefits of environmental accounting, and the cost effectiveness of environmental accounting, information on the environmental efficiency of CO2 and discarded materials has been added since FY2007. The numerical values in these graphs have been rounded up. 131 Aggregate Results Environmental conservation costs on a domestic consolidated basis in FY2014 came to ¥300 million in capital investment (up 10.4% from the previous fiscal year) and ¥2.60 billion in expenses (up 5.4% from the previous fiscal year). The direct economic benefits of environmental conservation measures on a domestic consolidated basis were ¥650 million (up 15.4% from the previous fiscal year), while cost effectiveness was 25.2%, up 2.2 points from FY2013. At the same time,CO2 environmental efficiency on a domestic consolidated basis improved 16 points, while discarded material environmental efficiency improved 19 points compared to the previous fiscal year. 132 Preservation of Global Environment Environmental Education and Communication In accordance with NGK’s Core Policy on the Environment, we conduct ongoing environmental education and awareness activities through the establishment of action guidelines for educational and publicity activities aimed at increasing employee environmental awareness. Our aim is to deepen the understanding of environmental problems among each employee to inculcate an awareness of environmental conservation activities. We also provide on-site classes at elementary schools and conduct environmental events and provide information to a wide range of stakeholders including the next generation to increase environmental awareness. Environmental Education To facilitate an understanding of the aims and content of NGK's environmental policies, we conduct position-based training related to environmental management. We also conduct specialized environmental training targeting personnel in charge of environmental management. Environmental Lectures In March 2015 an environmental lecture was held to study environmental management attitude through explanations of case studies and approaches to environmental initiatives by advanced companies.This lecture invited people responsible for environmental management promotion from the Japan’s leading environmental company as a lecturer, who explained his company’s environmental vision, energy saving and resource conservation activities at factories, environmental contribution through products, social contribution activities and appeals to stakeholders using case studies illustrating environmental management at the leading corporation (approximately 150 domestic Group company employees from related divisions participated). In addition, a specialist from outside the company was invited as a llecturer to conduct environmental education on the topic of mitigating risks and the proper disposal of waste from construction work, etc., which taught employees important points with respect to avoiding risks when disposing waste generated through construction work, etc. (approximately 60 domestic Group company employees from related divisions participated). Promoting the Acquisition of Qualifications To continue conducting environmental conservation activities in compliance with laws and regulations, we make an effort to develop and increase the skills of legally qualified personnel through support in each department for the acquisition of environment-related legal qualifications targeting managers engaged in pollution prevention required for the management of each area. We systematically educate Qualified Energy Managers in the Engineering Department, Special Controlled Industrial Waste Managers and others involved in waste-related activities in the Environmental Management Department and other business divisions. Managers involved with the prevention of pollution in each business division also receive systematic training, while anyone required to study for and take qualification exams by the Environmental Management Department receives expenses provided by each divisions. Qualifications Acquired as of March 31, 2015 (NGK) 133 Pollution Control Managers Special Waste Disposal Qualified Energy Controlled Facility Technical Managers Industrial Waste Air Water Noise/Vibration Managers Managers 66 84 14 18 14 4 Support for Acquisition of Eco Test Certification NGK supports employees sitting for the Eco Test* in an aim to ensure each employee acquires a strong environmental awareness and a wide range of knowledge with respect to the environment. Company support includes the lending of reference materials to those who require them and the provision of test-related expenses. Up to now, a total of 379 people, more than 10% of employees, have passed the test. In fiscal 2014, 126 employees sat for the test and 94 passed (a pass rate of 74.6%). * The Eco test is an environmental and social certification test administered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry focused on a wide-range of environmental issues. The first test was administered in October 2006, and has been held in July and December every year since. In fiscal 2014, 25,790 people sat for the test nationwide, of which 13,028 people passed (a pass rate of 50.5%). Ecology-Related Team Building Exercises In October 2014 at NGK Ceramics Polska, around 160 employees participated in regularly scheduled team building exercises. In these exercises, teams are given specific topics through which they attempt to enhance relationships of trust and organizational capabilities. In fiscal 2014, the theme of these exercises was ecology. Teams worked together to create miniature solar and wind power generators. Various Employee Initiatives ·On-site classes on the topic of “water” For details, please see “Interaction with Society” ·NGK Eco Point System For details, please see “Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees” ·“Insect Classrooms” Taught by Employees For details, please see “Interaction with Society” ·OISCA Forestation Volunteer Activities For details, please see “Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees” 134 Connection to Society Basic Approach The NGK Group promotes social contribution activities based on the following concepts. Focus of Activities Centered on people and education, the environment and community involvement. Company Activities and Employee Involvement ·NGK provides employees with opportunities to experience activities. ·NGK proactively encourages individual activities to engender employee satisfaction and a sense of confidence in the company. Information Disclosure NGK promotes an understanding of activities and provides activity information to inculcate a social contribution mindset among employees. Social Contribution Activity Promotion Status 2012 2013 2014 346 348 331 Social contribution million million million expenditures yen yen yen Number of social contribution 9 9 8 programs Number of collaborations 2 3 5 with NPO/NGO 135 Connection to Society Provision of Scholarships and Living Assistance to Foreign Students NGK conducts ongoing support activities launched in 1997 with the establishment of the NGK Foundation for International Students. The Foundation provides housing and scholarships to foreign students visiting Japan with the aim of contributing to human resource cultivation that fosters the development of an international community. In fiscal 2014, we provided housing for 39 students from five countries and scholarships to 20 students from 10 countries. Exchange between Supported Students, Communities and Employees NGK conducts a variety of events that are opportunities for grassroots international relations among supported students, regional communities and employees. Since fiscal 2000, we have conducted language classes taught by foreign students. Since 2006, we have held cross-cultural exchange meetings where foreign students introduce their native countries. In fiscal 2014, Chinese and Korean language classes were held 20 times, while cross-cultural exchange meetings introducing foreign students from eight countries, including Sweden, Malaysia, Sri Lanka and Mongolia, were held 10 times. Learning Chinese language basics: the four tones Korean language classes, popular with the ladies Mongolian cultural exchange event 136 Swedish cultural exchange event Malaysian cultural exchange event Communication After Support Ends To maintain relationships with supported foreign students after support ends, each year, we send out a New Year’s greeting that includes a company status report to former participants and supported students. We also distribute “NGK International Friendship Club Members Cards” that include our contact information to foreign students after support ends. In fiscal 2014, we sent New Year’s greetings to approximately 300 people out of the total number of supported foreign students up to then. We also receive status reports and other ongoing communications from supported foreign students. Roundtable Discussion Facilitates Exchange between Supported Foreign Students and NPO In October 2014, NPO Shingi-Juku Network held a social event attended by NGK employees (former scholarship students) and supported foreign students where 20 participants engaged in a roundtable discussion. NPO Shingi-Juku Network is an NPO staffed mainly by corporate veterans engaged in activities aimed at cultivating the next-generation human resources and creating a better society. The exchange was conducted with the intent of thinking about Japan anew from a global perspective. The employees and foreign students in attendance expressed their wishes regarding how they want to make use of what they learned in Japan to develop society or their home countries. Participants shared experiences and thoughts in response to the questions “What good things about Japan do you want to spread around the world?” and “What Japanese behaviors or ways of thinking need improvement?” Members of the NPO noted “comments based on the foreign students’ keen powers of observation and intuitions were extremely enlightening in terms of portraying a new image of Japan.” Hendri Taufan joined NGK Swedish university student Malaysian graduate student after having been a Saez Annie Alanah Nur Izzah Binti scholarship student. “I want Norshariffudin to contribute to global environmental conservation through ceramics 137 technologies that make exhaust gas emissions clean. Approximately 20 people participated in the roundtable discussion 138 Connection to Society Social Contribution Activities in Collaboration with Regional Communities and NPOs Aiming to be a corporate citizen trusted by local communities, NGK collaborates with local communities and NPOs to engage in social contribution activities in response to regional needs. In addition, employee volunteers from NGK Group companies in Japan and around the world conduct a variety of social contribution activities rooted in their local communities. Donating Emergency Supplies, Cooperating with Foodbanks NGK promotes foodbank initiatives, including donating water and food nearing its expiration date from emergency supplies prepared in the event of a disaster, to organizations that support needy people and foreigners. In April 2014, aiming to make effective use of food and contribute to society, NGK headquarters and the Chita and Sendai Sites donated food from emergency supplies to NPO Second Harvest Nagoya. This is the second time NGK has contributed food from its emergency supplies to a support organization after having provided mineral water from the Komaki Site in March 2014. This time, mineral water and canned bread was provided. NGK plans to continue these activities in fiscal 2015 and beyond. Provided around 3,000 cans of canned bread and around 5,000 bottles of mineral water. Employee Volunteer Activities NGK employees cooperate with local citizens to engage in environmental conservation and regional invigoration activities. <In Japan> October 2014 Employee volunteers set up a booth for conducting experiments at the Nagoya City Science NGK Museum Social Soshin Electric Co., Ltd. October 2014 Musical performance volunteer activities at meetings to show respect Welfare for the aged and other events Regional NGK Ceramic Device Co., Ltd. July 2014 Roadside clean-up activities near the company Communities Environmental NGK Okhotsk, Ltd. April 2015 Maintenance of Asian Skunk Cabbage Colonies at Abashiri Lakeside Conservation <Outside Japan> International NGK Ceramics Polska Sp. z o. o. February 2015 Conducted plant tours for Nagoya Gakuin University Exchanges students Local NGK Metals Corporation December 2014 Distributed Christmas presents to children Communities 139 Introducing Some of NGK’s Social Contribution Activities Overseas Pink Ribbon Contest (United States) In October 2014, approximately 50 employees at NGK-Locke Polymer Insulators, Inc., participated in a pink ribbon contest that involved pink-themed fashion coordination. These activities, which began independently three years ago, are part of the pink ribbon campaign promoting early breast cancer screenings. Town Beautification with Flowers and Greenery (United States) In May 2014, employee volunteers from NGK Metals, located in Sweetwater, Tennessee, cleaned up and maintained the town’s flowerbeds. This activity, conducted several times a year since 2009, attempts to contribute to the region and increase environmental awareness among employees. First-Time Participation in a “Year-End Charity Drive” (Poland) NGK Ceramics Polska participated for the first time in a year-end charity drive conducted throughout Poland called the “Nobel Package.” Daily necessities such as food and clothing brought by employee volunteers were delivered to the indigent through volunteer organizations. Eighth Consecutive Annual Charity Run (Germany) In June 2014, NGK Europe GMBH participated for the eighth straight year in a charity jogging event held in Frankfurt where donations are collected and provided to organizations that support the physically challenged. 35 employees wearing matching shirts ran 5.6. km. 140 Connection to Society Support for Volunteer Activities by Employees The NGK Group proactively supports activities and provides information to create opportunities for employees to participate in volunteering outside the company. Donating Meals to Children in Africa through TABLE FOR TWO Initiatives Since September 2010, NGK has participated in the TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) program as a volunteer activity employees can easily participate in. When a meal is ordered from the employee cafeteria’s healthy menu, a donation equivalent to one school lunch (20 yen) is provided to children in Africa. All NGK cafeterias (eight cafeterias in four areas) participate in this program. In fiscal 2014, the equivalent of approximately 44,700 meals were donated. Cumulatively, 170,000 meals (equivalent to a full year of school lunches for approximately 770 children) have been donated. For the fourth year in a row, the TFT organizers presented NGK with a letter of appreciation in light of our contribution to these activities. NGK Group companies NGK Yu-Service Co., Ltd., NGK Metex Corporation and NGK Fine Molds, Ltd. contribute to the TABLE FOR TWO program through installing TFT-labeled vending machines. Group Volunteer Participation in Marathon Festival Nagoya-Aichi Approximately 60 employee volunteers participated in a group volunteer activity intended to enliven the Marathon Festival Nagoya-Aichi, in Nagoya city, a major local event held in March 2015. The volunteers supported operations by providing runners with water and maintaining the course. 141 Volunteer Participant Feedback Supporting Runners with Colleagues and Workplace Friends! Naomi Kinoshita, Environmental Management Department Motivated by the call of the company, I participated as a group volunteer because I wanted to contribute to this major local event. I supported race operations and was responsible for maintaining the course, setting up colored cones to ensure runner safety and providing guidance to avoid time loss as the runners battled for a record finish. I want to participate again next year, and will invite my colleagues and workplace friends to join me. Approximately 60 employees volunteered The race begins. Spectators are advised of traffic Through exceptional teamwork, the staff provides water restrictions to the tight crowd of advancing runners Providing Employees with Volunteer Information To create opportunities for employees to volunteer outside work, NGK provides information on its intranet pertaining to volunteer activities. Employees in Japan and overseas signed up for numerous volunteer activities, including tree-planting and grass-cutting activities, conducted by the public interest incorporated foundation OISCA International and other organizations that undertake tree-planting and environmental conservation initiatives. 142 NGK Eco Point System Employees earn points for environmental behaviors conducted at work and in the home, a portion of which is converted into cash and donated to funds such as regional municipalities (environmental funds), contributing to regional communities. This system was introduced at the Chita Site in fiscal 2012 as a trial and then expanded throughout the entire company in fiscal 2013. In June 2014, points accumulated under the Eco Point system were converted into cash contributions that were donated to environmental-related funds operated by regional municipalities in the vicinity of the Head Office, Chita and Komaki sites and the Ishikawa Plant. Cash contributions were used for greening activities and the purchase of seedlings for trees planted to control the movement of sand. Head Office: (Left) Environmental department manager, Chita Site: (Left) Manager of NGK’s Chita General Nagoya City; (right) General Manager of NGK’s AC Affairs Group; (right) Mayor of Handa City in Aichi Plant Prefecture Komaki Site: (Left) General Manager of NGK’s Komaki Ishikawa Plant: (Left) former General Manager of NGK’s Site; (right) Mayor of Komaki City in Aichi Prefecture Ishikawa Plant; (right) Mayor of Nomi City in Ishikawa Prefecture ■NGK Eco Point participants: 3,572 people ■Examples of Employee Environmental Activities Passing the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists Participating in Household Environmental Accounting Participating in green curtain activities Participating in regional cleanup activities Eco-driving, etc. 143 Connection to Society Collaborating with the Worker’s Union to Conduct Social Contribution Activities Cleanup Activities Around Plants As a member of regional communities, the NGK Group proactively participates in cleanup activities around its plants. In fiscal 2014, these activities were conducted at all NGK sites and the Ishikawa Plant, as well as at each Group company. In cooperation with NGK Yu-Service Co., Ltd., and NGK Building Services, Ltd., the NGK Worker’s Union has participated in cleanup activities around the NGK Head Office and a nearby park for the past 22 years. These activities were conducted three times in 2014, with nearly 700 people participating in park beautification efforts. Cherry Tree Planting and Recovery Support Tour In April 2014, 22 employees participated in the “Cherry Tree Planting and Reconstruction Support Tour” project created by the NGK Worker’s Union, which planted 21 cherry trees around Wakabayashi-ku in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture. From October to December 2013, the Worker’s Union called for donations internally to the “Sakura Fund,” then planned a tour to deliver the collected funds directly to disaster-stricken areas. ■The Sakura Fund This fund intends to provide economic recovery support in the form of tree planting and other programs conducted in disaster-stricken areas. Through the planting of cherry trees at the highest point reached by the massive tsunami after the Great East Japan earthquake, the memory of the disaster caused by the massive tsunami will never fade. This project is organized by NPO Sakuranamiki Network. 144 NPO Sakuranamiki Network Website 145 Connection to Society Interaction with Society The NGK Group engages in dynamic interactions with local residents through opportunities such as plant tours and regional events, as well as through opportunities for direct dialogue, making an effort to incorporate the ideas and opinions received in Group business activities and CSR activities Plant Tours Interactions with Children and Local Residents NGK attempts to interact with regional communities through plant tours to deepen interest in and understanding of NGK and manufacturing. In fiscal 2014, we conducted 13 plant tours at four sites for a total of 293 participants consisting of elementary school students and local residents. Plant Tours in Fiscal 2014 (NGK) Tours Participants Details Nagoya (Head Students from Aichi Prefectural Kariya Senior High School, Nagoya 6 124 Office) Municipal Tsukata Junior High School and others Chita Site 1 61 Tour for local residents Tour for local residents and Aichi Prefectural Kasugainishi Senior High Komaki Site 3 46 School students Ishikawa Plant 3 62 Ishikawa Prefectural Terai High School students Plant Tour for Local Residents at the Chita Site In November 2014, NGK conducted a plant tour for local residents at the Chita Site in an attempt to communicate directly with stakeholders. The tour introduced insulator and beryllium copper production and inspection processes, prompting comments and questions from local residents. This was the 31st time this tour was conducted, and many participants said they developed a deeper understanding of NGK business activities. Chita Site General Manager providing a 61 local residents participated in the plant tour and observed insulator and beryllium copper product explanation. production and inspection processes. 146 A variety of questions and comments were received, ranging from product development to NGK’s corporate philosophy, plant environmental responses, disaster measures and initiatives ensuring worker safety. Collaboration with the Mizuho Ward Industrial Culture Bus Tour In August 2014, NGK collaborated with the Mizuho Ward industrial culture bus tour by hosting a plant tour for a total of 40 fifth and sixth grade elementary school students living in Mizuho Ward participating in the bus tour. The children observed the HONEYCERAM® production process and learned about NGK as one of its local companies. The General Affairs Division manager provides an The children showed a strong interest in NGK products overview of the company. at the product display corner. Plant Tour for Students at NGK Ceramics Polska In February 2015, NGK Ceramics Polska conducted a plant tour for 10 students from Nagoya Gakuin University’s Department of Economics. As one aspect of its social contribution activities, for the past five years NGK Ceramics Polska has been accepting overseas research students from Nagoya Gakuin University. The students participating in the tour observed silicon carbide (SiC) diesel particulate filter (DPF) production, inspection and packaging. Students visit NGK Ceramics Polska NGK Holds its Annual Summer Festival In July 2014, the Komaki Site held its annual NGK Summer Festival, marking the 48th year of this event, which drew local residents, employees and their families totaling approximately 2,300 people. On stage, local Japanese drum teams performed and songs and dances were presented. The NGK Worker’s Union provided carnival booths offering goldfish scooping and other games bustling with children. The annual raffle event offered luxurious prizes including NGK C1 home-use water purifiers, liquid crystal televisions and tickets for sightseeing by helicopter, which created excitement throughout the venue. 147 Crowds gathered in front of the stage from A Worker’s Union member hands out game Offering drinks and food including fried the event opening prizes chicken and fried cutlet skewers, the refreshment booths were also popular Collaboration on Environmental Education Conducting Guest Lectures at Elementary Schools NGK collaborates with Environmental Partnership Organizing Club (EPOC)* on next-generation educational activities by conducting guest lectures for elementary school students. Up to now, NGK has participated in guest lectures presented to approximately 1,800 elementary school students. The importance of water resources is conveyed through lectures using an original textbook created by NGK, picture-story shows, quizzes and experiments. In fiscal 2014, guest lectures were conducted four times for 240 elementary school students. Going forward, NGK will continue conducting environmental education for the next-generation who will lead the future. Note: Comprised mainly of environmental opinion leaders from industries located in Japan’s Chubu region, this organization was established in February 2000 with the intent of creating the world’s leading environmentally advanced region and establishing a “recycling-based economic society” while disseminating information regarding environmental responses. Students were filled with strong interest and concern “The colored water turned transparent!” says the child when asked “Other than soil, activated charcoal and with a smiling face silica gel, what else can make water transparent?” Employee Volunteers Teach Parent-Child Insect Classes At Tsuruma Park in Nagoya’s Showa Ward, NGK employees teach “Summer Break Insect Observation classes for parents and their children (sponsored by the Nagoya City Greenery Association), introducing the various names and ecosystem of insects living in the park. Through the experience of seeing and touching actual cicada, dragonflies and other insects, the children’s eyes sparkled as they became aware of how many insects live close to them. Each year, the number of participants 148 exceeds the class capacity of 50 people. GRI Guidelines ISO26000 Comparison Table Standard Disclosures Publication Location ISO26000 Issues Web Version Full Report Print Version Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the Management's Commitment P5-6 Management's Commitment most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key Management's Commitment P5-6 Management's Commitment impacts, risks, and opportunities. Risk Management P7-12 Special Feature: New Special Feature-New Manufacturing Structural Manufacturing Structural Innovations Challenging Toward Innovations Challenging Toward 2020 2020 Realization of Higher Quality P15-18 Realizing Our Corporate Products and Services Philosophy > Providing Products Preservation of Global and Services that Contribute to the Environment Social Environment; Aiming for the Realization of High Quality Products and Services P19-20 How to Engage in Business Activities > Thorough Compliance and Risk Management P26-30 As a Member of Society > Global Environmental Conservation Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the About NGK P3 NGK At a Glance > Corporate organization. Outline G4-4 Report the primary brands, Products P3 NGK At a Glance products, and services. P7-12 Special Feature: New Manufacturing Structural Innovations Challenging Toward 2020 P15-18 Realizing Our Corporate Philosophy > Providing Products and Services that Contribute to the Social Environment; Aiming for the Realization of High Quality Products and Services G4-5 Report the location of the About NGK P3 NGK At a Glance > Corporate organization's headquarters. Outline G4-6 Report the number of countries About NGK P3 NGK At a Glance > Corporate where the organization operates, Investor Relations > IR Library > Outline and names of countries where Annual Report > Subsidiaries and either the organization has Affiliated Companies (P72-73) significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership About NGK P3 NGK At a Glance > Corporate and legal form. Investor Relations > IR Library > Outline Annual Report > Subsidiaries and P13 Corporate Governance Affiliated Companies (P72-73) 149 G4-8 Report the markets served About NGK > Corporate Outline P3 NGK At a Glance (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 a. Report the scale of the About NGK > Corporate Outline P3 NGK At a Glance > Corporate organization, including: Investor Relations > IR Library > Outline Total number of employees Annual Report > Financial Total number of operations Highlights (P1); Subsidiaries and Net sales Affiliates (P72-73) Total capitalization broken Products down in terms of debt and equity Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 Report the total number of Respect for People employees by employment and Ensure contract and gender. Comfortable Workplace Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Report the total workforce by region and gender. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization's work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report any significant variations in employment numbers G4-11 Report the percentage of total Investor Relations > IR Library > employees covered by Annual Report >Financial collective bargaining Highlights (P1) agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization's Supply Chain P24-25 How to Engage in Business supply chain. Activities > Supply Chain G4-13 Report any significant changes Special Feature-New P7-12 Special Feature New during the reporting period Manufacturing Structural Manufacturing Structural Innovations Challenging Toward regarding the organization's size, Innovations > The Global Spread of 2020 structure, ownership, or its Manufacturing and Personnel Supply Chain supply chain, including: Preservation of Global Training operations, including facility Environment P24-25 How to Engage in Business openings, closings, and Activities > Supply Chain expansions P26-30 As a Member of Society > Changes in the share capital Global Environmental Conservation structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the CSR Management P19-20 How to Engage in Business precautionary approach or Thorough Compliance Activities > Thorough Compliance Risk Management principle is addressed by the and Risk Management Respect for People organization. P21-23 How to Engage in Business and Ensure Comfortable Workplace Activities > Employee Respect Supply Chain P24-25 How to Engage in Business 150 Activities > Supply Chain G4-15 List externally developed CSR Management > Human P14 CSR Management > economic, environmental and rights initiatives Promoting Human Rights Initiatives social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations CSR Management > Human P14 CSR Management > (such as industry associations) rights initiatives Promoting Human Rights Initiatives and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance body Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the About NGK P1 Editorial Policy organization's consolidated Preservation of Global P26-30 As a Member of Society > financial statements or Environment Global Environmental Conservation equivalent documents. CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy > Environmental Conservation Report whether any entity Activities Covered in This Chapter included in the organization's consolidated financial *Environmental only statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining CSR Management P1 Editorial Policy the report content and the CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy P14 CSR Management Aspect Boundaries. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects CSR Management/a> P14 CSR Management identified in the process for defining report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report CSR Management > Materiality P1 Editorial Policy the Aspect Boundary within the Preservation of Global P14 CSR Management Environment > Five-Year organization, as follows: P27 As a Member of Society > Environmental Action Plan Report whether the Aspect is Fiscal 2014 Initiatives Within the CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy material within the organization Third Fie-Year Environmental If the Aspect is not material for Action Plan (2011-2015) all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Listed as necessary Listed as necessary the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is 151 material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder 6.2 Organizational CSR Management groups engaged by the governance organization. G4-25 Report the basis for 6.2 Organizational CSR Management > Targeted identification and selection of governance Stakeholder and Response stakeholders with whom to Policies engage. G4-26 Report the organization's 6.2 Organizational CSR Management P17-18 Realizing Our Corporate approach to stakeholder governance Supply Chain Philosophy > Aiming for the engagement, including Connection to Society Realization of High Quality frequency of engagement by Products and Services > Providing type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether a Wide Variety of Responses to any of the engagement was Customer Feedback undertaken specifically as part P21-23 How to Engage in Business of the report preparation Activities > Employee Respect process. P24-25 How to Engage in Business Activities > Supply Chain > Together with Our Procurement Partners P31-32 As a Member of Society > A Company trusted by Local Communities that Contributes to Society G4-27 Report key topics and concerns 6.2 Organizational Supply Chain > Communication P24-25 How to Engage in Business that have been raised through governance Activities with Procurement Activities > Supply Chain > stakeholder engagement, and Partners Together with Our Procurement how the organization has Third-Party Opinion Partners responded to those key topics and concerns, including P34 Third-Party Opinion; Response through its reporting. Report from NGK the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy P1-2 Editorial Policy or calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 152 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy annual, biennial). G4-31 Provide the contact point for Contact questions regarding the report or its contents. G4-32 Report the 'in accordance' option the organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-33 Report the organization's policy Third-Party Opinion P34 Third-Party Opinion and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance P13 Corporate Governance structure of the organization, governance including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance > P13 Corporate Governance > delegating authority for governance Corporate Governance Promotion Corporate Governance Promotion economic, environmental and Structure Structure social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Report whether the 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance P13 Corporate Governance organization has appointed an governance CSR Management executive-level position or Preservation of Global positions with responsibility for Environment > Environmental economic, environmental and Management Frameworks and social topics, and whether post Environmental Management holders report directly to the System highest governance body G4-37 Report processes for 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance > consultation between governance Corporate Governance Promotion stakeholders and the highest Structure governance body on economic, CSR Management environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body 153 G4-38 Report the composition of the 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance > highest governance body and its governance Corporate Governance Promotion Structure committees by: Investor Relations > IR Library > Executive or non-executive Annual Report >Corporate Independence Governance (P10); Corporate Tenure on the governance body Data (P69); Board of Directors, Number of each individual's Executive Officers and Audit & other significant positions and Supervisory Board (P70-71) commitments, and the nature of the commitments Gender Membership of underrepresented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance > P13 Corporate Governance > highest governance body is governance Corporate Governance Promotion Corporate Governance Promotion also an executive officer (and, if Structure Structure so, his or her function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). G4-40 Report the nomination and 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance selection processes for the governance highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved G4-41 Report processes for the highest 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance governance body to ensure governance Investor Relations > IR Library > Annual Report >Corporate conflicts of interest are avoided Governance (P10-16) and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: Cross-board membership Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures G4-42 Report the highest governance 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance P14 CSR Management body's and senior executives' governance CSR Management roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization's purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 154 G4-43 Report the measures taken to 6.2 Organizational CSR Management develop and enhance the governance highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Report the processes for 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance P13 Corporate Governance > Basic evaluation of the highest governance CSR Management Approach to Corporate Governance governance body's Preservation of Global P14 CSR Management performance with respect to Environment governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body's performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. G4-45 Report the highest governance 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance body's role in the identification governance Risk Management and management of economic, Preservation of Global environmental and social Environment > Environmental impacts, risks, and Management Frameworks and opportunities. Include the Environmental Management highest governance body's role System in the implementation of due diligence processes. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body's identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-46 Report the highest governance 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance body's role in reviewing the governance Risk Management > Risk effectiveness of the Management System organization's risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-47 Report the frequency of the 6.2 Organizational CSR Management highest governance body's governance Risk Management review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-48 Report the highest committee 6.2 Organizational CSR Management or position that formally reviews governance and approves the organization's sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance P19-20 How to Engage in Business communicating critical governance Risk Management Activities > Thorough Compliance concerns to the highest and Risk Management governance body. G4-50 Report the nature and total 6.2 Organizational number of critical concerns that governance were communicated to the 155 highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Report the remuneration 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance > Board policies for the highest governance of Director and Corporate Auditor governance body and senior Remuneration, etc. executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: > Performance-based pay > Equity-based pay > Bonuses > Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Termination payments Clawbacks Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body's and senior executives' economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-52 Report the process for 6.2 Organizational Corporate Governance determining remuneration. governance Corporate Governance Report Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. G4-53 Report how stakeholders' views 6.2 Organizational are sought and taken into governance account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual 6.2 Organizational total compensation for the governance organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage 6.2 Organizational increase in annual total governance compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity 156 G4-56 Describe the organization's 6.2 Organizational About NGK > Corporate P14 CSR Management values, principles, standards governance Philosophy, and NGK Group and norms of behavior such as Guidelines for Corporate codes of conduct and codes of Behavior ethics. CSR Management G4-57 Report the internal and external 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > P19-20 How to Engage in Business mechanisms for seeking advice governance Compliance Promotion Structure Activities > Thorough Compliance on ethical and lawful behavior, and Risk Management > and matters related to Compliance Promotion Structure organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 Report the internal and external 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > P19-20 How to Engage in Business mechanisms for reporting governance Compliance Promotion Structure Activities > Thorough Compliance concerns about unethical or and Risk Management > unlawful behavior, and matters Compliance Promotion Structure related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Disclosures on Management Approach G4-DMA Report why the Aspect is CSR Management material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value 6.8.3 Community Investor Relations > IR Library > P4 Business Overview generated and distributed involvement Annual Report > Financial (Consolidated) 6.8.7 Wealth and income Highlights (P1) creation G4-EC2 Financial implications and other 6.2 Organizational risks and opportunities for the governance organization's activities due to 6.5.5 Climate change climate change mitigation and adaptation G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations G4-EC4 Financial assistance received 6.6.4 Responsible from government political involvement G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level 6.4.4 Conditions of work wage by gender compared to and social protection local minimum wage at 6.8.7 Wealth and income significant locations of creation operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior 6.8.5 Employment management hired from the creation and skills local community at significant development locations of operation G4-EC7 Development and impact of 6.3.9 Economic, social infrastructure investments and and cultural rights services supported 6.8.9 Social investment 157 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic 6.3.9 Economic, social impacts, including the extent of and cultural rights impacts 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.7 Consumer issues 6.8 Community involvement and development G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local 6.6.6 Promoting social suppliers at significant locations responsibility in the of operation value chain 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development Environmental G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > volume resource use Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of Impact Environmental Impact G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P29 As a Member of Society > that are recycled input resource use Environment > Promotion of Global Environmental Conservation materials Resource Recycling > Overall Perspective of Environmental Impact > Promoting the Effective Use of Resources through Recycling G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > organization resource use Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation 6.5.5 Climate change Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of mitigation and Impact Environmental Impact adaptation G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > the organization resource use Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation 6.5.5 Climate change Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of mitigation and Impact Environmental Impact adaptation G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4 Sustainable P26-29 As a Member of Society > resource use Global Environmental Conservation G4-EN6 Reduction of energy 6.5.4 Sustainable P26-29 As a Member of Society > consumption resource use Global Environmental Conservation G4-EN7 Reductions in energy 6.5.4 Sustainable Products > Power Business > P15-16 Realizing Our Corporate requirements of products and resource use NAS Batteries Philosophy > Providing Products services 6.5.5 Climate change and Services that Contribute to the mitigation and Social Environment; NASÂ® adaptation Batteries Powering the Effective Use of Renewable Energy G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P30 As a Member of Society > source resource use Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation Perspective of Environmental > Effective Use of Water Resources Impact G4-EN9 Water sources significantly 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global P30 As a Member of Society > affected by withdrawal of water resource use Environment > Environmental Global Environmental Conservation 6.5.6 Protection of the Impact Reduction Initiatives > Effective Use of Water Resources environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habits G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of 6.5.4 Sustainable Preservation of Global water recycled and reused resource use Environment > Environmental Impact Reduction Initiatives G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, 6.5.6 Protection of the leased, managed in, or environment, adjacent to, protected areas biodiversity and 158 and areas of high biodiversity restoration of natural value outside protected areas habits G4-EN12 Description of significant 6.5.6 Protection of the impacts of activities, products, environment, and services on biodiversity in biodiversity and protected areas and areas of restoration of natural high biodiversity value outside habits protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 Protection of the Preservation of Global environment, Environment > Biodiversity biodiversity and Initiatives restoration of natural habits G4-EN14 Total number of iucn red list 6.5.6 Protection of the species and national environment, conservation list species with biodiversity and habitats in areas affected by restoration of natural operations, by level of habits extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 6.5.5 Climate change Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > emissions (scope 1) mitigation and Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation adaptation Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of Impact Environmental Impact G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse 6.5.5 Climate change Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) mitigation and Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation adaptation Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of Impact Environmental Impact G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas 6.5.5 Climate change (GHG) emissions (scope 3) mitigation and adaptation G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) 6.5.5 Climate change Preservation of Global P28 As a Member of Society > emissions intensity mitigation and Environment > Environmental Global Environmental Conservation adaptation Impact Reduction Initiatives > Prevention of Global Warming G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas 6.5.5 Climate change Preservation of Global P28 As a Member of Society > (GHG) emissions mitigation and Environment > Environmental Global Environmental Conservation adaptation Impact Reduction Initiatives > Prevention of Global Warming G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting 6.5.3 Prevention of substances (ODS) pollution 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant 6.5.3 Prevention of air emissions pollution G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality 6.5.3 Prevention of Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > and destination pollution Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of Impact Environmental Impact > NGK Group Material Balance (Input and Output) * Total amount only G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 6.5.3 Prevention of Preservation of Global P26 As a Member of Society > and disposal method pollution Environment > Overall Global Environmental Conservation Perspective of Environmental > Overall Perspective of Impact Environmental Impact > NGK * Total weight of waste by disposal method Group Material Balance (Input and Preservation of Global Output) Environment > Overall * Total weight of waste by disposal Perspective of Environmental method Impact P29 As a Member of Society > Global Environmental Conservation > Overall Perspective of 159 Environmental Impact > Promoting the Effective Use of Resources through Recycling G4-EN24 Total number and volume of 6.5.3 Prevention of significant spills pollution G4-EN25 Weight of transported, 6.5.3 Prevention of imported, exported, or treated pollution waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, 6.5.6 Protection of the Preservation of Global and biodiversity value of water environment, Environment > Biodiversity bodies and related habitats biodiversity and Initiatives significantly affected by the restoration of natural organization's discharges of habits water and runoff G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of 6.5 Environment Preservation of Global P15-18 Realizing Our Corporate environmental impacts of 6.6.6 Promoting social Environment > Creating Products Philosophy > Providing Products products and services responsibility in the that Contribute to the and Services that Contribute to the value chain Environment Social Environment 6.7.5 Sustainable Products consumption G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold 6.5.4 Sustainable and their packaging materials resource use that are reclaimed by category 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > Status of fines and total number of governance Law and Regulations Violations non-monetary sanctions for 6.5 Environment non-compliance with 6.6.3 Anti-corruption environmental laws and regulations G4-EN30 Significant environmental 6.5 Environment Preservation of Global P27 As a Member of Society > impacts of transporting 6.6.6 Promoting social Environment > Five-Year Fiscal 2014 Initiatives Within the products and other goods and responsibility in the Environmental Action Plan Third Fie-Year Environmental materials for the organization's value chain Action Plan (2011-2015) operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN31 Total environmental protection 6.2 Organizational Preservation of Global expenditures and investments governance Environment > Environmental by type 6.5 Environment Accounting G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers 6.5 Environment that were screened using 6.6.6 Promoting social environmental criteria responsibility in the value chain G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential 6.5 Environment negative environmental impacts 6.6.6 Promoting social in the supply chain and actions responsibility in the taken value chain G4-EN34 Number of grievances about 6.2 Organizational environmental impacts filed, governance addressed, and resolved 6.5 Environment through formal grievance mechanisms Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new 6.3.10 Fundamental Respect for People employee hires and employee principles and rights at and Ensure turnover by age group, gender work Comfortable Workplace 160 and region 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationship G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time 6.4.4 Conditions of work employees that are not and social protection provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention 6.4.4 Conditions of work Respect for Employees > rates after parental leave, by and social protection Promoting a Work-Life Balance gender G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods 6.4.4 Conditions of work regarding operational changes, and social protection including whether these are specified in collective agreements G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce 6.3.10 Fundamental Respect for People represented in formal joint principles and rights at and Ensure management-worker health work Comfortable Workplace and safety committees that 6.4.3 Employment and help monitor and advise on employment relationship occupational health and safety 6.4.6 Health and safety programs at work G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of 6.4.6 Health and safety Respect for Employees > Health injury, occupational diseases, at work and Safety lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or 6.4.6 Health and safety high risk of diseases related to at work their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics 6.4.6 Health and safety Respect for Employees > Health covered in formal agreements at work and Safety with trade unions 6.4.5 Social Dialogue G4-LA9 Average hours of training per 6.4.7 Human Respect for Employees > Human year per employee by gender, development and Resource Development and by employee category training in the workplace G4-LA10 Programs for skills 6.4.7 Human Respect for Employees > Human management and lifelong development and Resource Development learning that support the training in the workplace continued employability of 6.8.5 Employment employees and assist them in creation and skills managing career endings development G4-LA11 Percentage of employees 6.4.7 Human Respect for People receiving regular performance development and and Ensure and career development training in the workplace Comfortable Workplace reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA12 Composition of governance 6.3.10 Fundamental Respect for Employees > bodies and breakdown of principles and rights at Diversity employees per employee work category according to gender, 6.4.3 Employment and age group, minority group employment relationship membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and 6.3.10 Fundamental remuneration of women to men principles and rights at by employee category, by work significant locations of 6.4.3 Employment and operation employment relationship G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers 6.4.4 Conditions of work that were screened using labor and social protection practices criteria 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the 161 value chain G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential 6.4.4 Conditions of work Supply Chain > Developing CSR negative impacts for labor and social protection Procurement in Conjunction with practices in the supply chain 6.6.6 Promoting social Societal Trends and actions taken responsibility in the value chain G4-LA16 Number of grievances about 6.2 Organizational labor practices filed, governance addressed, and resolved 6.4.4 Conditions of work through formal grievance and social protection mechanisms SOCIAL (Human Rights) G4-HR1 Total number and percentage 6.3 Human rights of significant investment 6.6 Fair operating agreements and contracts that practices include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee 6.3 Human rights Thorough Compliance > training on human rights 6.6.6 Promoting social Promoting Compliance Education policies or procedures responsibility in the concerning aspects of human value chain rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of 6.3.3 Due diligence discrimination and corrective 6.3.6 Resolving actions taken grievances 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers 6.3.3 Due diligence identified in which the right to 6.3.5 Avoidance of exercise freedom of association complicity and collective bargaining may 6.3.10 Fundamental be violated or at significant risk, principles and rights at and measures taken to support work these rights 6.4.5 Social Dialogue 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers 6.3.3 Due diligence identified as having significant 6.3.5 Avoidance of risk for incidents of child labor, complicity and measures taken to 6.3.10 Fundamental contribute to the effective principles and rights at abolition of child labor work 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers 6.3.3 Due diligence identified as having significant 6.3.5 Avoidance of risk for incidents of forced or complicity compulsory labor, and 6.3.10 Fundamental measures to contribute to the principles and rights at elimination of all forms of work forced or compulsory labor 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR7 Percentage of security 6.3 Human rights personnel trained in the 6.4.7 Human organization's human rights development and policies or procedures that are training in the workplace relevant to operations 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 162 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of 6.3.3 Due diligence violations involving rights of 6.3.6 Resolving indigenous peoples and actions grievances taken 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain G4-HR9 Total number and percentage 6.3 Human rights of operations that have been 6.6 Fair operating subject to human rights reviews practices or impact assessments G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers 6.3 Human rights that were screened using 6.6.6 Promoting social human rights criteria responsibility in the value chain G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential 6.3 Human rights negative human rights impacts 6.6.6 Promoting social in the supply chain and actions responsibility in the taken value chain G4-HR12 Number of grievances about 6.3 Human rights human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL (Society) G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with 6.3.3 Due diligence Connection to Society > Social implemented local community 6.5 Environment Contribution Activities in engagement, impact 6.6 Fair operating Collaboration with Regional assessments, and development practices Communities and NPOs programs 6.8 Community involvement and development G4-SO2 Operations with significant 6.3.3 Due diligence actual and potential negative 6.5 Environment impacts on local communities 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.8 Community involvement and development G4-SO3 Total number and percentage 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > of operations assessed for risks governance Corruption Prevention Structure related to corruption and the 6.6 Fair operating significant risks identified practices G4-SO4 Communication and training on 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > P19-20 How to Engage in Business anti-corruption policies and governance Corruption Prevention Structure Activities > Thorough Compliance procedures 6.4.7 Human and Risk Management > Practicing development and Fair and Transparent Business training in the workplace Transactions 6.6 Fair operating practices G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of 6.2 Organizational corruption and actions taken governance 6.6 Fair operating practices G4-SO6 Total value of political 6.6.4 Responsible contributions by country and political involvement recipient/beneficiary 6.8.9 Social investment G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Thorough Compliance > Status of for anti-competitive behavior, 6.6.5 Fair competition Law and Regulations Violations anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 163 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant 6.2 Organizational Thorough Compliance > Status of fines and total number of governance Law and Regulations Violations non-monetary sanctions for 6.6 Fair operating non-compliance with laws and practices regulations G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers 6.6 Fair operating that were screened using practices criteria for impacts on society G4-S10 Significant actual and potential 6.6 Fair operating negative impacts on society in practices the supply chain and actions taken G4-S11 Number of grievances about 6.6 Fair operating impacts on society filed, practices addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIAL (Product Responsibility) G4-PR1 Percentage of significant 6.6.3 Anti-corruption Realization of Higher Quality P15-18 Realizing Our Corporate product and service categories 6.6.6 Promoting social Products and Services Philosophy > Providing Products for which health and safety responsibility in the Preservation of Global and Services that Contribute to the impacts are assessed for value chain Environment > Five-Year Social Environment; Aiming for the improvement 6.7.4 Protecting Environmental Action Plan consumers' health and Realization of High Quality safety Products and Services P27 As a Member of Society > Fiscal 2014 Initiatives Within the Third Fie-Year Environmental Action Plan (2011-2015) G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of 6.2 Organizational non-compliance with governance regulations and voluntary 6.6.3 Anti-corruption codes concerning the health 6.6.6 Promoting social and safety impacts of products responsibility in the and services during their life value chain cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.4 Protecting consumers' health and safety G4-PR3 Type of product and service 6.7.6 Consumer service, Realization of Higher Quality P17-18 Realizing Our Corporate information required by the support, and complaint Products and Services > System Philosophy > Aiming for the organization's procedures for and dispute resolution for Making Use of Customer Realization of High Quality product and service information Feedback in Management Products and Services > Providing and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service a Wide Variety of Responses to categories subject to such Customer Feedback information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of 6.2 Organizational non-compliance with governance regulations and voluntary 6.7.3 Fair marketing, codes concerning product and factual and unbiased service information and information and fair labeling, by type of outcomes contractual practices G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring 6.7.6 Consumer service, customer satisfaction support, and complaint and dispute resolution G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed 6.7 Consumer issues products G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of 6.2 Organizational non-compliance with governance regulations and voluntary 6.7.3 Fair marketing, codes concerning marketing factual and unbiased communications, including information and fair advertising, promotion, and contractual practices sponsorship, by type of outcomes 164 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated 6.3.6 Resolving complaints regarding breaches grievances of customer privacy and losses 6.7.6 Consumer service, of customer data support, and complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.7 Customer data protection and privacy G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant 6.2 Organizational fines for non-compliance with governance laws and regulations 6.7.3 Fair marketing, concerning the provision and factual and unbiased use of products and services information and fair contractual practices 165 Third Party Opinion It has been about ten years since corporations in Japan began adopting corporate social responsibility initiatives accompanied by the term CSR. Having formulated a number of global CSR guidelines, corporate initiatives and subsequent reporting have risen to a high standard. We can call this CSR Phase 1. The NGK Group CSR Report 2015 vividly conveys the transition from Phase 1 to Phase 2 in terms of the Group’s CSR awareness, initiatives and reporting. Phase 2 involves CSR standards rooted in the significant presence of NGK in society and the development of various activities centered on those standards. At the beginning of CSR Report 2015, the addition of “manufacturing that contributes to society and the global environment” and “utilization of ceramics technologies accumulated for nearly a century since our founding” is symbolic. It deepens the significance and clearly indicates an awareness of NGK’s presence in society and in the management activities based on this awareness, enabling us to see the strong intent behind the development of CSR activities as a cornerstone of Mr. Koichi Ikeda Visiting Professor, the report Ritsumeikan University Management School For example, Special Feature 2 presents a discussion about the “New Manufacturing Structural Innovations” mentioned in the Top Commitment, which introduces the thoughts of corporate officers focused directly on the significance of the company’s existence for the world through statements such as “Our ultimate mission is to realize manufacturing technology innovation that provides people throughout the world with a more comfortable lifestyle.” Special Feature 3 “The Global Spread of Manufacturing and Personnel Training,” introduces a wide range of sentiments from employees in Japan and around the world such as “I want to contribute to global environmental conservation through my work to increase the productivity of automotive exhaust purification ceramic products,” and “I take pride in work that is creating the future.” Throughout the world, among both managers and employees, the awareness of “contributing to the global environment and society through one’s work” increases work motivation and improves corporate performance, while at the same time contributing further to the global environment and society. Furthermore, from the “reporting” perspective of CSR activities, NGK is attempting to innovate in light of the cornerstone I mentioned above. NGK changed the CSR Report by partially reorganizing the chapters based on the establishment of CSR promotion items within guidelines for corporate behavior aimed at realizing their corporate philosophy with aim of making the report easy to evaluate from the perspective of socially responsible investing (SRI). The use of images and simple, appealing charts in a sincere attempt to express the status of environmental preservation initiatives and a wide range of other activities is a major feature of this robust report. In Phase 2, the importance of monitoring increases. As results each year act as a stabilizer of management activities, monitoring in Phase 2 CSR also plays the role of a stabilizer. I hope NGK makes increased use of monitoring in the future. Response from NGK Thank you very much for sharing your valuable opinions. All NGK Group employees are focused on realizing our corporate philosophy by fostering a constant awareness of “contributing to the global environment and society through work activities,” while listening with sincerity to the voices of our stakeholders in an attempt to rise to a higher level. Going forward, we anticipate further expansion of business overseas. Accordingly, in June 2015, we established the Global Compliance Office to build a Group-wide foundation for our compliance framework that is effective and efficient on a global scale amid increasing demands for stronger compliance with international rules. With a continued awareness of Nobumitsu Saji compliance as the lynchpin of CSR activities, and in line with international standards for Director and Senior Vice President decision-making, we will act in good faith to live up to the expectations and trust from global CSR Committee Chair society. 166 CSR Report 2015 Editorial Policy Reference Guidelines Ministry of the Environment's Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012) and the Global Reporting Initiative's (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 3.1 and 4.0). Target Organization As each example differs, data is presented individually for each article in the report. Target Period April 1, 2014–March 31, 2015 Report Content Based on CSR Promotion Actions NGK clearly states eight actions for promoting CSR defined in the NGK Group Guidelines for Corporate Behavior and establishes targets for each action every fiscal year. The CSR Report 2015 is based on these CSR promotion actions and includes chapters partially reorganized from the perspective of socially responsible investment (SRI). Full Report (Online) and Digest (Print) CSR Report 2015 is available in both a full report (online) and a digest (print) version. The digest (print) version provides an overview of NGK Group CSR activities and is easily understood by the average reader. The full report (online) covers a wider range of activities including content not presented in the digest (print) version. 167 -
