SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse. SCOR seeks to promote the protection of human rights internally, with regard to supply chain management, mainly through its procurement policy but also through the design of products and services. Moreover, in the context of the sustainability initiative of the CRO Forum, in 2014 SCOR participated in the drafting of a brainstorming paper on human rights and insurance. The purpose of this document is to build an understanding of why the insurance industry has to bring respect for human rights into its risk management framework and how it can address human rights issues in its business relationships with other corporations. The paper (“Human Rights and Corporate Insurance”) is available on the CRO Forum’s website. Implementing a procurement policy with a dedicated corporate responsibility clause With regard to its worldwide activities, SCOR endeavors to adopt best practices in each of its locations. Any employee who deals with a supplier must, before concluding a contractual partnership, ensure that such supplier gives an undertaking to comply with the requirements of the Code of Conduct established in 2012 by the SCOR Group and which apply to all its employees (or a commitment from the company that it respects equivalent requirements). The framework agreement developed by the Group’s legal department, which must be used by the Group’s various different components, thus contains a specific section on the Code of Conduct. This framework agreement also contains an appendix, the Sustainable Development Charter, which begins with a reminder of SCOR’s adherence to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, and sets out the Group’s expectations with regard to its suppliers and subcontractors in the fields of labor relations, health and safety conditions, the environment, ethics and the way in which they must integrate these expectations into the design of their products and services. SCOR’s procurement chain and outsourcing is not as complex as it can sometimes be in other industries; assistance from external service providers mainly consists of IT development and maintenance as well as maintenance and operations of the building from which SCOR conducts its activities. The criteria mentioned above are applied to these outsourcing contracts. Designing products and developing the expertise needed to push back the frontiers of insurability Amongst the aspects encompassed by human rights, the Declaration proclaims the right to social security, to the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable to human dignity and to the free development of each individual's personality. Reinsurance companies such as SCOR have a strong social value added function through their investments and through the development of risk assessment, which pushes back the frontiers of risk insurability on a global basis. Bringing insurance to people living in poverty or to people with severe health conditions and who need insurance cover in order to be granted a loan, is an efficient way to secure the basic needs that are indispensable to the free development of each individual’s personality. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 2 Bringing insurance to low income populations: SCOR’s involvement in the microinsurance industry SCOR is involved at different stages of the microinsurance industry (i.e. financing, capacity provider, scheme designer): Financing: SCOR has invested in Leapfrog, a pioneer Private Equity fund in the Microinsurance field. In addition to the investment return, this partnership enables SCOR to benefit from Leapfrog’s Microinsurance business network in Africa and Asia (more information on this initiative is available in our previous “Communication on progress” and on Leapfrog’s website). Capacity provider: as for traditional insurance, SCOR provides capacity to specialized microinsurers and general insurers. SCOR is currently involved in various schemes, on both the P&C side (mainly agricultural risk) and the Life side (health, critical illness) in emerging markets such as India, China and Brazil. Scheme designer: in some circumstances, SCOR partners with international or local institutions in order to set up innovative schemes, in particular in the agricultural risk transfer field where SCOR has demonstrated its expertise in alternative transfer schemes. Developing tailored solutions for people with severe health conditions For many years SCOR, through its subsidiary SCOR Global Life, has been developing strong expertise in the field of risk assessment through a longstanding involvement in research and development and through partnerships with the world of medical research (cardio-vascular risks, Alzheimer’s disease, etc.). This consistent approach, applied over the years, led to a new partnership early in 2011 on the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) with the team at the Université Pierre et Marie Curie at the Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital. The newly-created SCOR Corporate Foundation for Science has taken over the responsibility of some of these existing scientific research operations. This regular dialogue with medical experts enables SCOR to anticipate the consequences of factors affecting the assessment of risks, and to monitor social, epidemiological, medical and therapeutic issues. For instance, in some countries the granting of loans may be subject to the availability of death or disability insurance cover that would be triggered in the event of death or disability. People who have suffered severe health conditions may not be in the position to find a cover that meets these requirements. As the results of the research undertaken by SCOR are translated into underwriting decisions and shared through various means with its clients, SCOR is able to develop tailored solutions that further expand insurability and allow people to fulfill their projects. Ensuring fair treatment of personal data In light of technological developments, the protection of personal data is a crucial component of the respect of basic rights, as illustrated in Article 8 of the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Aside from personal data relating to its employees, SCOR’s activities may lead to the processing of other personal data, which notably implies compliance with European Directive 2005/68/EC and with the French legislation on Data Protection and Freedoms. In anticipation of the next European regulation, SCOR has appointed a Data Protection Officer (DPO), in charge of personal data protection. The Group’s four Societas Europae (SCOR SE, SCOR Global P&C SE, SCOR Global Life SE and SCOR Global Investments SE), have designated this DPO as an expert correspondent, both for the management team of SCOR in terms of its contact with the French Data Protection Authority (Commission nationale de l’informatique et des libertés or CNIL) and for those responsible for implementing data processing within the Group. The DPO independently monitors compliance with the law and is responsible for: updating a list of processed data and the accessibility of this list spreading a culture of data protection SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 3 providing information to, advising and making recommendations to those responsible for data processing sounding any alarms as necessary mediation and coordination in terms of informing people of their rights regarding access, rectification and opposition. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 4 LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. SCOR’s Code of Conduct stipulates that the company “is committed to providing a workplace environment that is free from physical hazards, all forms of discrimination and/or harassment based on gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, disability, or workers’ or union representative mandates, and from any other abusive physical, verbal or visual conduct”. As a global company which firmly believes in diversity as a real asset, SCOR has based its Human Resources policy on global, harmonized and non-discriminatory policies in line with the principles set forth by the United Nations Global Compact. These policies consist of: a homogeneous and global remuneration structure that is identical throughout the world, training and skills development accessible to all employees, through SCOR University, encouragement of sectorial, functional and geographical mobility, social dialogue based on a global approach, including employee representation on the Board of Directors of SCOR SE, the parent company, by an employee elected through a worldwide direct vote. This section of our “Communication on progress” illustrates how these policies are being embedded in SCOR’s daily operations and human resources management, in particular with regard to principles 3 and 6 of the United Nations Global Compact: freedom of association, right to collective bargaining, and employee engagement, diversity and equal opportunities, career and talent management. Information regarding SCOR’s approach to promote principles 4 and 5 is provided in the section above with respect to the promotion of human rights in the procurement chain. Indeed, these principles are fairly immaterial in the reinsurance industry when it comes to human resources management. Indeed, most of the countries in which SCOR has its offices have high social standards and SCOR’s workforce is highly qualified. Freedom of association, right to collective bargaining, and employee engagement As a Societas Europaea, SCOR has set up a European committee covering all of its European subsidiaries and branches including the one located in Switzerland, corresponding to almost 60% of SCOR worldwide workforce The SCOR Common European Companies Committee is made up of employee representatives from all of SCOR’s European subsidiaries, who meet to exchange information concerning the Group, and to maintain an on-going dialogue between employees and the management. Four European Committee meetings were held in 2015 (as it was also the case in 2014). In addition to these meetings held at the European level, social dialogue takes place at local level too. In 2015, 76 meetings (72 in 2014) were held with staff representatives (30 meetings in France, 1 meeting in Italy, 9 in Switzerland, 32 meetings in Germany, 4 meetings in Sweden). The breakdown of the meetings by location held in previous years is available in our previous Communications on Progress. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 5 9 collective agreements were signed (18 in 2014) within the Group in 2015 (6 in France, 2 in Brazil, and 1 in Germany). The list of these collective agreements is available in appendix D of SCOR’s 2015 reference document (section 1.3.2. Social relations, p. 284). Although no collective agreement related to health and safety in the workplace was signed in 2015 – as it was the case in 2014 -, 15 meetings (13 in 2014) were held with the Group’s staff representatives to discuss local health and safety conditions in 2015 (6 in France, 1 in Italy, 5 in Colombia, 1 in Argentina, 2 in Chile, 1 in Mexico, and 1 in Germany). Lastly, aside from its legal obligations and in order to secure adequate employee representation, SCOR’s employees are invited, on a worldwide basis, to elect an administrator to represent their views before the Group’s board of directors. Held in the first half of 2016, after the second ballot of this worldwide election, a new employee-elected director working in France has been elected and will be submitted to the approval of the 2016 Annual General Meeting In order to ensure that its employees are kept properly informed, SCOR has created a dedicated labor relations page on the company’s intranet. On this page employees can find information relating to the Works Council and Health and Safety Committee meetings, collective bargaining and agreements. There is also a dedicated section for European labor relations and representatives. A specific page on the intranet is also devoted to the European committee. Complementary to collective bargaining, social dialogue at SCOR encompasses other additional forms of involvement and cooperation with a view to ensuring continuous alignment between employees’ aspirations, interests and well-being with the organization’s own goals and values:  In this respect, SCOR carries out every four to five years a Global Employee Survey, and has implemented a global enterprise social network where employees can share ideas, experience and expertise while breaking geographical boundaries to allow employees located far away to communicate. Employees can also take part in several different kind of global consultation were they are invited to share their ideas about SCOR’s future with the top management. This was the case for instance in 2014 with the Open Innovation Contest (see our previous Communication on Progress) and more recently in the frame of the preparation of SCOR’s next 3 years strategic plan.  SCOR‘s employee shareholding policy is also a mean to foster employee engagement and dialogue. This policy is based on the attribution of bonus shares and stock options in accordance with individual performance to a significant share of employees. Diversity and equal opportunities For several years now, SCOR has been pursuing a gender diversity policy. While gender diversity is expected by employees and constitutes a genuine social issue, it is also a veritable driver of economic performance and helps promote social responsibility, attracting staff and increasing staff loyalty. This policy led to the implementation of several different initiatives both on a global scale and locally. Some of the local initiatives are publicized on the Group’s intranet homepage, available to all employees across the world, with a view to spreading the message across all the entities of the Group. Although the focus is on gender diversity in this section of SCOR’s Communication On Progress, the promotion of diversity at SCOR encompasses other themes such as generational and cultural diversity. Further information on these initiatives is available in appendix D of SCOR’s 2015 reference document (section 1.3.5. Diversity and equal opportunities, pp. 287-288) published on SCOR’s website. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 6 Global initiatives With a view to facilitating access of female employees to key positions, the Group pays particular attention to the number of women who are promoted to Partner within the Partnership program. The Partnership program is a major tool for motivation and career management. Through this program, SCOR recognizes the role played by its employees occupying key positions, or positions that have a specific impact on the results and the implementation of the Group’s strategy. The Partnership also aims to recognize individual performance and involvement, and is a way of retaining the Company’s key talent and resources. The appointment and promotion of Partners is conducted in accordance with an annual procedure. Candidates must have regularly demonstrated their skills and their commitment, along with a high level of performance over several years. Women accounted for 50% of the Partner” nominations during the 2016 (35% in 2015) nominations process which took place at the end of 2015. Other initiatives are undertaken by the Group to advance gender equality and professional equality on a global scale: launch of a Global Gender Diversity Day in all of its major locations in April 2015 following the signing of the European charter on professional equality between Women and Men (see below for further information on this charter). In addition to local initiatives proposed in each hub, an awareness-raising campaign, the “Hunting down stereotypes” campaign, has been implemented through the global enterprise social network, monitoring the perception of SCOR’s employees regarding professional equality between Women and Men through the results of the Global Employee Survey which is carried out every four to five years on a Group-wide basis. The latest edition took place in 2014, taking a very positive view of the constitution of virtual and real women’s groups/communities within the company directly run by the members themselves such as the “SGLA Women’s Group” in Charlotte (North Carolina) and the women’s network in SCOR’s global enterprise social network. Continental / regional initiatives Over the course of many meetings held throughout 2014, the SCOR European social partners have decided to create a European Charter on professional equality between Women and Men in the SCOR Group. This Charter covers all the European subsidiaries of SCOR (European Union and Switzerland). On 29 January 2015, the management of SCOR and the members of the SCOR Common European Companies Committee jointly signed this Charter. This Charter: fully confirms the SCOR Group’s commitment to ensuring professional equality between Women and Men, and forms the basis of the collective rights of the men and women who make up the SCOR Group. Through this Charter, SCOR undertakes to use all foreseeable means to promote professional equality, in order to ensure equal opportunities in the following priority areas: recruitment and hiring, career development, access to the highest levels of responsibility for both women and men, professional training, SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 7 pay equity for equivalent training, experience, performance and skills, work / life balance. This Charter sets out objectives and key actions to be implemented for the period 2014-2017 in the above mentioned key areas. It foresees the drafting of an annual report regarding its implementation in the European report on the company’s policy towards its employees. This report will be presented to the members of the Common European Companies Committee during one of its annual meetings. The European Charter on professional equality between Women and Men has been promoted in the Group’s intranet as well as by SCOR’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer notably during its New Year speech. Local initiatives Besides the above mentioned initiatives, concrete steps are also taken locally to promote gender diversity and equal opportunities between Women and Men. As an illustration, SCOR is a partner of the French Women in Insurance Awards (“Trophées de la Femme dans l’Assurance”) since 2014 with a view to highlighting SCOR’s female talent both internally and externally. These awards were promoted on the Group’s intranet. Other initiatives implemented locally (e.g. England, Germany, Austria, Sweden, United-States) are available in SCOR’s 2015 reference document (pp. 287-288). Career and talent management Individual career management and the development of employee skills are major objectives of the Group’s Human Resources policy and the “Optimal Dynamics” strategic plan. With a view to the development and permanent evolution of its employees, SCOR pays specific attention to mobility within the Group and has a policy of active individual career management through two major initiatives. 1. Strategic Talent Workforce Reviews: Identifying business needs and necessary skills and defining an individual development plan for each employee. Launched in 2012, the Strategic Talent Workforce Reviews (STWRs) bring together the top management and the HR department of each Company department/division. The reviews are organized by activity and are divided into three stages: Review of the organizational structure and the challenges fixed over the medium term: This stage consists in discussing developments (projects, structure, etc.) that will have an impact on the business fields and organizational structure of the company. It also involves sharing business challenges and the associated HR needs. The objective of this stage is to enable managers to have the right talent in the right place, to determine the skills that need to be developed in order to keep up with changes, to maintain expertise and to prepare for future needs. By doing all of the above, these reviews help to identify individual needs in terms of training. Individual assessment of each employee: This stage consists in analyzing current skills and outlining potential career paths, and defining HR action plans (training, remuneration, professional development, etc.) with a view to providing suitable solutions for each employee in terms of career management and professional support and assistance, in accordance with their level of progress and performance within the company. The Group’s talent and potential talent is reviewed during this stage. Validation of succession planning and departure anticipation plans: This part of the STWR enables the HR department to map employees and regularly update Key Positions requiring pre-determined succession planning. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 8 2. SCOR University: Developing skills and preparing for future needs. Created in 2013, SCOR University is designed to promote a global and dynamic approach to training, in tandem with the Group’s strategic challenges and individual career management. Thus, SCOR University is particularly committed to: Ensuring the constant development, of the knowledge, know-how and life skills necessary to advance business and adapt quickly to our environment, taking into consideration the needs expressed by the employees themselves; Adding value to a “business partner” between management and HR, which implies a single new global, common process based on the shared analysis of training needs; Aligning all of the training actions throughout the Group, ensuring global access to all training actions, while respecting cultural specificities and local practices. SCOR University is committed to developing the expertise of its employees, to anchoring a managerial, leadership culture within the company, and to supporting and assisting change in order to achieve our ambitions and respond to changes in both the environment and our fields of business. All of the Group’s training initiatives are run under the aegis of SCOR University, with an accent on courses that actively bring together employees from different countries, reflecting our business and the global ambitions of our Group. In 2015, almost 60,000 training hours were offered by the Group (40,000 in 2014. The breakdown of training hours by hub in 2014 is available in our 2014 Communication On Progress): 22,337 training hours (EUR 962,310) were offered in the Paris-London hub, 11,395 training hours (EUR 487,626) were offered in the Zurich/Cologne hub, 5,734 training hours (SGD 352,588) were offered in the Singapore hub, 20,233 training hours (USD 275,942) were offered in the Americas hub. In 2015, on average, approximately 23 hours of training were followed per employee (17 hours on average in 2014) and 85% of SCOR’s workforce was trained (70% in 2014). Through SCOR University, SCOR offers all of its employees training facilities that are as varied as they are innovative, based around 3 pillars: Pillar 1 “Technical”, Pillar 2 “Management & Leadership” and Pillar 3 “Excellence”. Pillar 1 – Technical: this pillar includes training programs based on the acquisition and development of practical skills and knowledge linked to the Group’s strategic challenges and its expertise. These programs thus deal with subjects such as actuarial science, technical developments in the various business sectors, finance, claims, asset management, and so on. This pillar also includes programs on global themes like Solvency II, enterprise risk management, legal and regulatory training, foreign languages, and tools relating to projects rolled out within the Group. Most of the programs in this pillar are developed locally, but are taught and shared on a global scale. Created in close collaboration with experts in the fields concerned, these programs rely, for the most part, on the expertise and strong involvement of internal trainers, who constitute a valuable conduit for the transmission of knowledge within SCOR. Pillar 2 – Management & Leadership: the programs in Pillar 2 deal with managerial, methodological and strategic aspects, as well as with project steering and change. Providing the same level of training throughout the Group, these programs help not just to strengthen know-how and interpersonal skills, but also to construct and share common values. For example: SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 9 Mastering the basics of management, including how to conduct Annual Appraisal and Development Interviews (ADI), Supporting and assisting the development of teams; Steering teams remotely and managing multicultural teams; Preventing discrimination and managing diversity; Mastering the basics of project management (including the SCOR methodologies developed to ensure the smooth running of project management within the company). Pillar 3 – Excellence: pillar 3 ensures high-level support for the Group’s identified talent and potential talent. It notably includes training programs leading to qualifications and diplomas, as well as individual, “tailormade” facilities such as coaching and assessment. These programs are established in partnership with internationally renowned schools and universities. They are closely linked to the identification and monitoring of talent and high potential employees during the Strategic Talent Workforce Reviews (STWR). SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 10 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental policy; Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Although SCOR is not an industrial company, the Group is very mindful of controlling its direct impact on the environment. Since 2003, SCOR has led several initiatives designed to align its activities with ten widely recognized principles, three of which relate to the environment, as part of its membership of the United Nations Global Compact. In addition to this commitment, SCOR has been associated with other leading global insurers and reinsurers since 2009 via the Geneva Association’s Kyoto Statement. Continuing this sectoral approach, SCOR strengthened its commitment in 2012 by becoming a founding signatory of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance , a global initiative announced in the run up to the United Nations conference on sustainable development (RIO+20), and created under the aegis of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI). In 2014, the Kyoto Statement became the Climate Statement, and SCOR once again confirmed its support for the principles therein. In light of the principles set out by these initiatives, SCOR has identified several areas to which environmental measures can be applied: managing our Group-wide environmental footprint, incorporating environmental considerations into SCOR’s investment and asset strategies raising awareness on climate risk related issues, enhancing modeling capabilities. As part of the French Business Climate Pledge announced in November 2015, SCOR has reaffirmed its commitment to proactively keep promoting complementary initiatives in terms of both mitigating and adapting to climate change by 2020. This includes the definition of quantified objectives in terms of both of greenhouse gas emissions and investments in green real estate and infrastructure as well as a divestment from its coal exposure. Managing our Group-wide environmental footprint The Group’s environmental policy is decentralized on a hub level and is monitored on a Group-wide level by the GREENSCOR manager, who, aside from ensuring compliance with the environmental information obligations set out by the French law on the national commitment to the environment, encourages, coordinates and federates local environmental initiatives. The Group’s initiative forms part of the continued commitments made through SCOR’s membership of the United Nations Global Compact in terms of precautions, environmental responsibility and the promotion of environmentally friendly technology. Being mindful of controlling its direct “environmental footprint”, the Group supports any initiatives which tend to minimize the environmental impacts of SCOR’s operations across the world. SCOR has set an indicative objective of a 15% reduction in carbon intensity by 2020, through the reinforcement of its energy efficiency, an increased share of renewable energy in its energy mix and the further rolling-out of environmental management systems across all of its main sites. Over the past few years, the Group has been seamlessly implementing certified environmental management systems and carrying out energy efficiency audits on its major locations. As at the end of 2015, more than 40% of the SCOR group’s employees were already working in offices equipped with a certified SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 11 environmental management system (ISO, EMAS and HQE), while the share of renewable energy in its electricity purchases reached 30%. With the acquisition of a new office building in England – Asia House, for which SCOR has achieved the Ska rating of Silver for the fit-out of the building in April 2016 – the feasibility of seeking BREEAM in-use certification is investigated for our 2 office buildings in London. Besides the roll-out of certified environmental management systems where possible, the Group has used the opportunity provided by the various office moves over the past few years to strengthen its network of high definition telepresence and/or videoconference rooms, with the objective of increasing productivity and providing employees with a means of reducing their intra-Group business trips. Other initiatives were launched in the course of 2014 and pursued in 2015 to promote the whole range of digital tools available in the company as an efficient alternative to intra-Group business trips. In 2015, the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 3% to 13,103 tons of CO2 equivalent, or 20,147 tons of CO2 equivalent when taking into account the so-called radiative force (i.e. greenhouse gas emissions due to water vapor generated by airplane engines). This decrease is mainly due to the drop in the distance travelled by plane (the number of kilometers travelled has decreased by 4.1% compared to 2014, which translates into a reduction of 2.7% in terms of greenhouse gas emissions generated by this source). Due to the global nature of SCOR’s activity, most of its greenhouse gas emissions stem from business travel, which represents around 80% of the Group’s measured carbon footprint. Of these emissions, 98% correspond to air travel. Further information on the methodology, scope and limitations of SCOR’s environmental measures is available in appendix D of SCOR’s 2015 reference document (section 2.Environmental impact of SCOR’s activity, pp. 291-292) published on SCOR’s website. Incorporating environmental considerations into SCOR’s investment and asset strategies In line with principle 9 of the United-Nations Global Compact, criteria have gradually been incorporated into the real estate portfolio and the debt infrastructure fund opened to third parties, both of which are managed by SCOR Investment Partners. Over the past 5 years, SCOR has pursued a real estate investment policy that generates value for both its shareholders and Society as a whole. Indeed, the Group has been seamlessly implementing a proactive strategy that includes the acquisition of environmentally certified offices and the implementation of farreaching renovation programs. At the end of 2015, this combination of initiatives represents a total surface area of 120,000 square meters for which SCOR has set environmental or energy efficiency targets in France. By the end of 2016, 36% of the Group’s portfolio in terms of surface area should already be greener thanks to its renovation programs. The Group also owns one of the very first large positive energy office building in France, and invests in low carbon projects through its debt funds. SCOR has invested EUR 930 million in low-carbon projects and has set itself the goal of investing more than EUR 500 million in the field of corporate real estate and infrastructure by 2020, while integrating carbon considerations into the other asset classes under its management. SCOR is also involved in investment products that could potentially contribute to the adaptation to climate change. The Group creates, distributes and invests in insurance-linked securities in the form of cat bonds. As at the end of 2015, SCOR holds commitments of EUR 180 million in such funds. Lastly, in November 2015, the Group reaffirmed its commitment to the management of climate risks and announced its divestment from companies deriving more than 50% of their turnover from coal and undertook, across its entire asset portfolio, to make no new financial investments in such companies in the future. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 12 Raising awareness on climate risk related issues, enhancing modeling capabilities By joining the United Nations Global Compact in 2003, SCOR clearly chose to promote the Compact’s ten principles amongst its employees and partners. This commitment was strengthened in 2012 with the signature of the Principles for Sustainable Insurance, an industry initiative developed under the aegis of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), which notably invites its signatories to: (i) “work together with their clients and business partners to raise awareness of environmental, social and governance issues”, and, (ii) “work together with governments, regulators and other key stakeholders to promote widespread action” on these issues. In terms of environmental issues, SCOR implements these principles at various different levels of its structure, using methods proportionate to the objectives pursued. Indeed SCOR supports a broad range of initiatives designed to advance knowledge on the impact of climate change on society, while contributing to climate change resilience. Indeed, as a reinsurer, not only does the Group contribute under certain circumstances to climate change mitigation and adaptation through its investment function, but it also, and most importantly, contributes to adaptation through climate risk understanding and modelling. To this end, SCOR closely monitors developments in the arena of climate change, notably as part of the steering of emerging risks (via the Group’s Emerging or Changing Hazards’ Observatory), but also through the enhancement of its climate risk capabilities. SCOR also supports a collaborative approach, as illustrated by its very early support for OASIS, a British nonprofit t organization developing a free, open source platform for the modelling of climate events. This collaboration is further enhanced since early 2016 by the Group’s membership of Climate-KIC, the largest public-private partnership in the field of innovation designed to combat climate change. SCOR’s Corporate Foundation is also involved in the promotion of climate research. In 2015, the Foundation organized a scientific seminar combining a range of disciplines (climate, economics, actuarial), with a keynote speech delivered by Jean Tirole, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics. This seminar was awarded the COP 21 label. Additional information can be found on scor-climaterisks-2015. The Group’s support for climate change adaptation strategies is backed at the highest level of the company. SCOR’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has co-chaired the Extreme Events and Climate Risks working group since May 2015. SCOR is also involved alongside other (re)insurance companies in the consultation surrounding the G7’s InsurResilience initiative. This project aims to increase access to insurance coverage against the impacts of climate change for up to 400 million of the most vulnerable people in developing countries by 2020, and to support the development of early warning systems. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros SCOR Group Communication On Progress – Year 2015 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery SCOR is committed to exercising its activities with a high degree of integrity, professionalism and responsibility. In line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, of which it is a member, SCOR is particularly vigilant with regard to anti-corruption measures and principles. The Group’s Code of Conduct prohibits all forms of bribery of public employees, clients, commercial partners and other concerned parties from the private and public sectors. The Group’s anti-bribery policy sets out a principle of zero tolerance regarding any attempt at bribery, including illegal facilitation payments. It specifies the prohibitions, principles and rules to respect in the following areas: (i) gifts, hospitality and entertainment, (ii) relationships with commercial partners, (iii) interaction with public authorities, (iv) charitable donations, political contributions, sponsorships (v) and the financial monitoring of payments. The policy in question also highlights dos and don’ts and red flags, whose identification requires that the General Counsel or Compliance Officer be contacted, and also outlines the roles and responsibilities of SCOR’s control function to combat bribery. SCOR maintains other relevant Group policies and guidelines supporting the Group anti-bribery policy, including amongst others Group guidelines on anti-fraud, Group fraud incident management process, Group policy on conflict of interest, anti-money laundering and combating terrorist financing guidelines, Group guidelines on reporting concerns and further operational policies and guidelines such as Group delegation of authority policy, Group fees policy, and Group travel policy. The Group compliance framework is regularly updated to reflect tightened requirements and other developments. In 2015, the Group Compliance Policy was updated summarizing SCOR’s compliance approach which includes preventive, detective and responsive measures. The Policy consolidates the overarching principles, requirements, tools and processes stated in the Group Compliance Policies and Guidelines and also contributes to SCOR’s efforts towards a more formalized/ documented approach which regulators and others increasingly require. The Policy shall also contribute to the efficient coordination of compliance activities between Group and hub/locations as it documents current practices on interactions and reporting of Group/hub and local compliance functions. To embed the Group Compliance Policy and other legal & compliance requirements (e.g. anti-fraud, antibribery, anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance, anti-trust/competition law) and the latest developments in those areas into the organization, training sessions targeted for underwriters, claims and accounting staff were also held during 2015 in most of the hubs and other locations. SCOR SE 5, avenue Kléber 75795 Paris Cedex 16, France Tél. + 33 (0) 1 58 44 70 00 Fax + 33 (0) 1 58 44 85 00 www.scor.com RCS Paris B 562 033 357 Siret 562 033 357 00046 Société Européenne au capital de 1 517 523 092.82 Euros
