GLOBAL U N I T E D N AT I O N S COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JUNE 2015 JUNE 2016 CONTENT • About this document • Contact • CEO Statement of continued support • English press at a glance • English Press Reporting to UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS • LABOUR RIGHTS • ENVIROMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION • OVERAL OUTLOOK • FEEDBACK EPL COP 2015 2016 Period covered by our communication on progress June 2015 to June 2016. In April 2012 English press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles. English Press Limited COP 20152016 is available on our website: www.englishpress.com EPL COP 2015 2016 CONTACT: Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing Printing Number Of employees : 500 UN GC signatory since : 2012/4/4 Contact Person : Mrs. Shreeti Patel / Veronica mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail : shreeti@englishpress.com / qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Phone : +254 722 509 838 +254 735 339 002 +254 702 590 992 : +254 702 590 904 +254 702 590 909 +254 702 590 919 : +254 702 590 866 EPL COP 2015 2016 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT English Press Limited continues to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in respect of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption As Chief Executive Officer of EPL; I welcome the opportunity to again reaffirm our commitment to advancing the UNGC principles not only through our direct business activities, but also within our sphere of influence. We aim to lead by example in the area of responsible business conduct by raising awareness of the importance of the UNGC principles. Respecting these principles today will ensure a better future for our company and our stakeholders tomorrow. EPL continues to strive for the highest possible standards in good corporate citizenship and sustainable business practices. As such, integrity and commitment to our stakeholders have been one of our primary focuses over the years. In all of our business dealings, honesty, fairness, equality, and ethical conduct form the cornerstone of how we conduct business. This Global Compact Progress Report provides a transparent and detailed account of how we have implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and what areas we have made progress in since the last report. It reflects the enthusiasms and the effort of the EPL family to move our business a step further. This communication progress report covers the period of June 2015 June 2016 Mr. Kalpan Patel Chief Executive Officer English Press Limited EPL COP 2015 2016 ENGLISH PRESS AT A GLANCE English Press Limited is your one stop print company, providing customers with high quality products and services including pre-press, printing, finishing, packaging and logistics solutions. Founded 80 years ago, we have grown to one of be the largest ISO certified offset print house in the continent. Located in Nairobi, and built on a strong foundation of consistent quality and service, our values have enabled us to compete in the regional and international print market. Our vision: Think of the Best...and Make it Better. By investing heavily in both our people and our technology, English Press is able to provide a quality of service that we believe to be unmatched in the market. At EPL, we firmly believe that by applying our skills, expertise and resources to different causes, we can not only make a difference in the world around us, but also catalyze other businesses to follow our lead. It HUMAN RIGHTS is a goal that we strive for through our business strategy, our values and our every-day activities. EPL COP 2015 2016 EPL COP 2015 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL actively supports the universal declaration of human rights and recognize our responsibility to uphold human rights issues within our business and within our sphere of influence. Respect for human rights is an integral part of our corporate culture. We are committed to conducting our business in an ethical and responsible manner that supports and respects the protection of human rights. We treat our employees with dignity, fairness and respect and we are guided by our shared core values. EPL favors an open and trustful environment between the top management and employees. It is our belief that personal growth and hence growth of our company prospers from an open and trustful environment. EPL has a comprehensive set of policies and procedures to ensure the protection of human rights, where the protection of rights permeates through a number of employees. We review these policies on a regular basis to ensure that we adequately address issues such as forced and/or compulsory labour, child labour, discrimination and gender equity. EPL is committed to embedding a strong ethical culture in its businesses EPL COP 2015 2016 and maintaining good corporate governance requirements of local legislation. structures. Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for Our Human Resources outlines our appreciation all. We are committed to eliminating discrimination of our responsibility to our employees, and the and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. importance of creating and maintaining a working We aim for our employees to be representative of environment where the basic rights of all employees the communities in which we operate and for each are recognized. Our human resource procedures of our people to feel respected and able to give continue to be guided by the following principles: their best. • Non-discrimination between employees or potential employees and equal opportunities IMPLEMENTATION for all; • Recruitment, promotion and development We are transparent to the outside world in what of employees based on each individual’s we do and how we do it. We motivate our staff to aptitude, abilities and skills; engage in continuous improvement, is embedded in EPL’ values, and makes us as a company more • Provision of suitable training according to role reliable and accountable. and responsibilities; • EPL’s Values are to be dependable and do • Employee pay that meets at least national the right thing; to be open to different ideas minimum standards; and cultures; and to be connected with our customers, communities, regulators and each • Excessive hours not being encouraged; other • Effective communication with our employees; • In 2015, EPL issued a Statement on Human Rights which sets out our policies and • Acknowledgement of the right of any employee commitments in relation to human rights. to join a trade union; • EPL engages with a wide range of stakeholders • Non-toleration of victimization, sexual or other including employees, suppliers, customers harassment and bullying and contractors on key topics such as human rights, ethics and the company’s sustainability Our Environment Health and Safety Policy, last strategy. reviewed and updated in 2015, identifies the key principles to be adopted to ensure that best • Protecting the health and safety of our practices are in place in EPL and at all times people and other stakeholders represents an considering the appropriate legislation. We are important aspect of our commitment to human working towards the development of company rights. health and safety standards which go beyond the EPL COP 2015 2016 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • We have developed internal standards for • In the past year EPL has not been subject to safety and security systems and have achieved any investigations, legal cases or incidents and continue to maintain OHSAS 18001:2007 involving human rights. certification—which relates to occupational health and safety. • To date no human rights issues were brought to our attention or identified as part of our • We are concentrating our efforts on stakeholder engagement process. standardizing our processes. This involves, among other initiatives, strengthening our • All human resource policies and procedures are monitoring and measuring to promote the early periodically reviewed to ensure that they are up identification of risks. to date and are in line with the Global compact principles. • Our employee induction program covers workplace health and safety policy and • The number of lost time accidents has remained procedures and manual handling. We also invest at a low rate. in a number of health and safety programs for frontline roles and those employees that are • The periodic medical examinations conducted exposed to the greatest risk of an incident. on 2016 found all examined employee without any occupational diseases and illness. • Our employees are at the heart of our business and their motivation, health and safety is a • We have taken active steps to devote financial fundamental element of our strategy. ,human and time resources to charitable and humanitarian activities • Our Incident Reporting System requires that all major injuries, significant near misses/ • We do not do business with any organization why dangerous occurrences, and cases of any by human rights are in any way compromised. occupational disease are reported upwards through the organization. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2016-2017 • Strengthen our human rights training and awareness programmes. EPL COP 2015 2016 EPL COP 2015 2016 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour: Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL supports both the international and local labour standards; we operate in a manner that is consistent with the core standards of the international labour organization. We uphold the principle of freedom of association whereby our employees have the right to choose whether they want to belong to a union. EPL recognizes the role of the unions and their representatives and discusses with them openly all issues of interest. EPL has a workforce of about 500 people, our people are the heart of our growth strategy and we believe that having a good work relationship between the management and employees is important to the company. All employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and the notice of leave. Our human resource policies forbid the use of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Our policies for the selection of sub-contractor and suppliers similarly forbid the use of forced or compulsory labour. EPL takes a proactive approach towards ensuring our people are treated with courtesy and respect and that the work environment encourages workplace participants to speak up and share opinions, whilst also listening to and respecting each other. Our goal is to eliminate all forms of discrimination. We continue to celebrate our diverse and inclusive workforce where differences are valued and respected, and which reflects the customers we support and communities we live in. We do this through our Equal Employment Opportunity Policy which promote and celebrate our differences and protect our employees from prejudice does not engage in child labour. All employees have been given the free hand to join unions. EPL COP 2015 2016 IMPLEMENTATION • Our Vision “Think of the Best...and Make it Better” and Values our represent the core principles we stand for and believe in as a company. These form part of our Performance Review so that all our employees’ performance is also evaluated in accordance to our values. • We place a high priority on employee communications and make use of a variety of channels to provide a wide range of company information, news and promote knowledge sharing and best practice exchange. • We have published eight editions of our newsletter. • In all areas of the business we invest in the development of our people’s skills. • Our goal is a working culture that is inclusive for all. We are committed to eliminating discrimination and encouraging diversity amongst our workforce. We aim for our employees to be representative of the community in which we operate and for each of our people to feel respected and able to give their best. • All EPL employees have the freedom to belong to recognized bargaining UNIONS, in accordance with the Labour Relations Act and the UNGC Principles. • EPL is confident that human rights in EPL are dealt with in accordance with its policy on human rights and labour. • Wherever employees are represented by unions or through collective bargaining units, EPL maintains constructive relationships with all of our unions, who are afforded consultative and/or negotiating powers on issues of shared interest. • Copies of the Basic Conditions of Employment Act are displayed in all work places and Formal grievance procedures are in place through which employees can raise issues. • The EPL ensures that its employees’ rights are protected by fully complying with all the relevant legislation. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • In the year 2015, EPL has not been subject to any statutory notice related to labour or health and safety. • No violations on freedom of associations have been reported in the reporting period. EPL COP 2015 2016 • Support employee and worker organizations and respected collective agreements, completed the successful negotiation of the CBA contract 2016. • We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee representative bodies. It is our policy to maintain well-developed communications and consultation with all employee representative bodies and there have been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes in the last year. • The shop stewards are allowed to hold meeting with the employees during work hours and attend union seminars without pay deductions. • Communication in EPL is characterized by respect and trust and emphasis on our company core values. • We do not hire children or young workers below 18 years old and no claims of child labour were reported in 2015. • Communication in EPL is characterized by respect and trust and emphasis on our company core values. • There is a strong record of good relations with union ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2016 • Reinforce the knowledge of labour standards in English Press. • EPL will continue to communicate with and educate employees on our policies and procedures that support the elimination of discrimination in the workplace including the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy and Harassment Discrimination and Bullying Policy. • EPL is committed to continuing to recognize and respect the role unions play in the workplace and have established processes and practices to ensure timely, thorough and genuine consultation occurs in relation to all significant change that impacts on our employees. EPL COP 2015 2016 EPL COP 2015 2016 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL is committed to understanding and addressing environmental impacts resulting from our operations and to fostering environmental responsibility among our stakeholders. We exercise uttermost vigilance in protecting the environment and seek ways to minimize our impact on the environment. We will always meet and possible exceed regulatory requirements in our environment performances. Our policy states that “English Press is committed to conducting its business operation in a manner that protects the environment health and safety of its employees, customers, suppliers, contractors and members of the general public. EPL is committed to: • Driving a culture of continuous environmental improvement with a focus on energy efficiency. EPL COP 2015 2016 • EPL is keen to ensure that materials make every endeavor to dispose our waste in procured and used in production do safe and responsible ways. not pose any health risks. To track our Performance in the sourcing, we annually Our environmental policy states that we are audit our suppliers. willing to make investments in order to improve our energy efficiency. If we identify inefficiencies, • Understanding and managing our we will invest in environmentally friendly environmental risks with the goal of minimizing or eliminating those risks. technologies in order to reduce our energy use and costs. • Ensuring the environment is considered in our investment and strategies, procurement We continue to acknowledge the importance and the products and services we offer. of EPL supporting a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives • Engaging with our customers, employees to promote greater environmental responsibility, and shareholder on environmental issues and encouraging the development and diffusion and transparently reporting on our of environmentally friendly technologies. environmental performance. At EPL waste is usually managed locally as • Complying with all applicable legal and part of ISO-14001-certified environmental regulatory requirements management systems. To decrease industrial waste, EPL follows the principle “avoid, reuse, and recycle”. To promote greater environmental responsibility, initiatives have been introduced in respect of EPL maintains continuous monitoring and energy use, recycling and disposal of waste, control of environment. transportation and procurement. These are stipulated in our environmental policy. Each year, we aim to reduce our energy consumption by efficient use and careful planning. In addition, we minimize waste and recycle materials whenever possible. Furthermore, we EPL COP 2015 2016 IMPLEMENTATION • We strive to continuously improve our paper from renewable sources environmental performance, through initiatives and best practices. Recycling of our plates • The nature of our business means that Conserving energy in our everyday operations we inevitably Recycling of plastics use significant amounts of raw materials, energy and chemicals. Recycling paper reel cores • Reducing the volumes used and better Constantly searching for new ways to limit managing our overall environmental impact environmental impact. will make our business more sustainable, reduce costs for both ourselves and our Hazardous waste is segregated and customers and ultimately help us to win labeled in the waste storage containers and retain more customer contracts. (oily rags) • All vehicles conform to the requirements of • Communication of the EHS policy through low emission zones and we always specify awareness session, poster and newsletter. the latest and most efficient engines fornew vehicles. In order to maintain tight control on our operations, we own and operate our MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES trucks ourselves. • We are on track to comply with the Energy • We conducted our annual noise surveys act which requires that large enterprises to ensure that noise emitted doesn’t exit complete regular energy audits. exposure levels. • Development of best practices in our • In our business activity we work for business by: constant reduction of any emission and energy consumption and avoid any release Waste separation of potentially harmful substance to our environment. Recycling waste paper and sourcing EPL COP 2015 2016 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • We monitor, collate and disseminate information relating to our environmental initiatives. • Promoting sustainable development through ongoing initiatives to reduce waste, increase recycling and reduce of energy consumption. • EPL has not experienced any reportable incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or persecution. • Conducted the Energy Audit in July 2015 and submitted the report for approval to the ERC and they approved the energy policy. • Through the effluent analysis conducted in 2015 there been considerable improvement in the quality of effluent. EPL COP 2015 2016 • Noise level survey results indicated that the noise levels are generally within occupational exposure limits. • The environmental audit conclusion by the external independent auditor stated that the environmental performance had not deteriorated for 2015 as confirmed by the waste water analysis, noise and air quality surveys. • We have actively encouraged environmental best practices throughout our operations. • We recycled 100% of our waste paper from our operations through our contracted paper waste collector. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2016 • Reduced energy consumption • Minimize energy costs • Raise awareness to employees to reduce energy consumption • Explore opportunities for renewable, alternate and new energy resources EPL COP 2015 2016 EPL COP 2015 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS EPL is committed to conducting its business in accordance with high ethical standards and in compliance with all applicable laws. The company’s integrated risk management system allows EPL to make risk-conscious decisions. EPL is convinced that compliant and ethical behavior in all aspects and on all levels is a precondition for a successful and sustainable future. The ethical tone must be set at the top, carry through to the middle, and be transmitted to the entire organization. EPL’s Code of Business Conduct strictly forbids any form of bribery or corruption (irrespective of whether the recipient is a public official or an employee of a private customer). The following list summarizes a selection of relevant cases or allegations that must be reported immediately through the matter management system: • Bribes, kickbacks, or other incidents of corruption, irrespective of the magnitude of the case. • Conflict of interest issues (personal or financial) causing damage to an affiliate. EPL COP 2015 2016 EPL has an anti-corruption policy stating that corruption or bribery is not acceptable in any form or under any circumstances. Hence EPL is committed to ethical and responsible business practices. We are totally committed to compliance with international and local anti-bribery corruption standards, laws and legislation. EPL promotes transparency and fights corruption, believing that this is a vital way to ensure good governance. All EPL employees are required to act honestly and with integrity, manage all conflicts of interest and report any suspicious activity. We have put in place clear guidelines and procedures that all employees are required to follow in regards to anticorruption. IMPLEMENTATION • EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance and anti-corruption. • As member of various trade and industry bodies, we work with peers, partners and independent organizations to create transparent and level playing fields. • Our code of conduct is made available to all employees, to foster an ethical culture based on our core values. • We do not and will never do business with any organization that deals with corruption, including extortion. • Strict rules are in place concerning processing of invoices and making payment where different staff is responsible this is to ensure transparency and to rule out any kind of misconduct. • Compliance with relevant legislation and regulations is monitored by both internal and external auditors. • To make sure that corruption practices are not developed EPL encourages Employees to report any suspicious activities and we have established confidential reporting channel to the HR office. EPL COP 2015 2016 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES • EPL has not been involved in any legal proceeding ,ruling or other events related to corruption or bribery in the year 2015 • EPL’s financial reporting is verified by external auditors to ensure transparency and accuracy of accounting practices ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2016 • Training on healthy business practices for senior management • Updating the code of conduct • Compliance champions EPL COP 2015 2016 OVERALL OUTLOOK English press will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched and to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period and will report annually and publicly on the progress that we are making. The importance of corporate responsibility continues to be recognized by our board of directors and it has established policies. These policies cover ethics, health and safety, environment, human resources and employees, community and continuity planning for all the markets in which we operate. We have a comprehensive incident reporting system whereby any known or potential breaches of these policies are reported to senior management and the board of directors. In addition we require that each of our Managers provide biannual confirmations that these policies are communicated throughout EPL and that they are being complied with. We care about the impact we make on the environment and this concern is aligned to the strategic objectives. This report shows our commitment to communicate our actions with credibility and authenticity, internally and externally, with hope that the reward will be a better world for today and a greater hope for tomorrow EPL COP 2015 2016 CONTACT US LET US KNOW WHAT YOU THINK As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at : qmr@englishpress.com EPL COP 2015 2016
