2015 1 2015 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG Neosys AG Gerlafingen  Bern  Lausanne 30 April 2016 2015 2 Contents Contents ................................................................................................................................ 2 Foreword ............................................................................................................................... 3 1 Our company in 2015 ......................................................................................................... 4 2 Economy ............................................................................................................................ 4 2.1 The success of our company ....................................................................................... 4 2.2 Our customers ............................................................................................................. 6 2.3 Our suppliers ............................................................................................................... 8 2.4 Innovation .................................................................................................................... 8 2.5 Management system .................................................................................................... 9 3 People and society ............................................................................................................10 3.1 Corporate structure and governance ...........................................................................10 3.2 Stakeholders ...............................................................................................................13 3.3 Business practices and anticorruption .........................................................................13 3.4 Our employees ...........................................................................................................15 3.5 Sponsoring, memberships, charity activities................................................................17 4 Environment ......................................................................................................................19 4.1 Operations-related aspects .........................................................................................19 4.2 Product-related aspects ..............................................................................................21 5 Neosys at a glance ............................................................................................................22 Appendices ..........................................................................................................................23 Corporate profile ...............................................................................................................23 GRI Content Index and notes on the report.......................................................................24 Legend..............................................................................................................................27 Our vision Our interdisciplinary team covers a broad range of services related to environment, technology, safety, risk management, social responsibility and management systems. Our aim is the sustainable success of our customers. To achieve it, we combine technical knowhow with management skills. We work in Switzerland and world-wide for businesses, authorities and organisations. We assess, consult, plan, model, measure and serve as independent trustees. Competence and objectivity are our hallmarks. We are independent of manufacturers or service providers, bound only by statutory requirements, our ethical and professional standards, and the best interests of our customers. We develop and improve our services on a continuous basis. The exchange of experiences between our different specialists is a key factor here. We also continually improve our environmental performance and contribute to the protection of natural resources. Our corporate culture is defined by acceptance, respect and trust as well as by a common commitment to success. It links us across the complexity of our projects, collaborators and stakeholders. Our employees are empowered with a high level of responsibility. 2015 3 Foreword We view sustainability as the long-term capacity for survival and development of a system or an organisation – in line with the well-known Brundtland definition. We work towards this end in the wide range of projects and instructions we carry out for our customers. We are convinced that, against a background of globalisation and rapid technical and economic development, it is a long-term necessity to recognise and tackle deficits in the ecological, social and security spheres, in order to ensure that our systems and organisations are sustainable. As the world becomes more transparent and communications more immediate and direct, it is increasingly difficult to conceal or put off these deficits. Forward-looking economic policies, an environmentally-friendly attitude towards resources and confidence-inspiring relations with all business partners and stakeholders are therefore competitive advantages that make a crucial difference. As in the five previous financial years, in 2015 we are continuing our practice of reporting on the previous financial year in the form of a GRI-compliant annual report. Although the GRI standard is primarily aimed at larger companies, a “GRI Report” provides us with the optimum link between an integral review and a report, which is in line with our management system and gives an innovative representation of our own performance. This report is also intended to provide an example of how SMEs can be actively involved in preparing sustainability reports without incurring excessive costs. This report is also the Communication on Progress (COP) for the UN Global Compact, covering the period from 1 January to 31 December 2015. I would like to address our stakeholders directly to emphasize: I am pleased to confirm that Neosys reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this COP, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary communication channels. We warmly invite you as a stakeholder in our company to join us in reviewing our activities and services during 2015. I would like to thank all our employees for their great dedication and our customers for their trust in us during the previous year! Dr. Jürg Liechti CEO and President of the Board of Directors Importance of sustainability for Neosys AG Neosys AG sees itself as a service provider for the sustainability of its customers. By that we mean all aspects of ecological sustainability and a large number of social and economic sustainability aspects (in particular safety and risk analysis). We are convinced that in the present environment of globalisation and rapid technological and economic development, it will be necessary in the long term to recognise and correct deficits in the ecological and social sphere and in safety. We align our activities to this goal. Our vision is that we are able to accompany our customers towards ecological and social sustainability and thus also contribute to their long-term economic competitiveness. The benchmarks of sustainability that we want to convey to our customers also apply to ourselves. We are a member of the UN Global Compact Initiative, we operate a management system that is certified according to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and we report in line with the GRI standard. 4 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG 1 Our company in 2015 Neosys AG is an engineering company and service provider with its focus on sustainability. Developments – Impact – Opportunities: 2015 was a very difficult financial year for our company. Despite the great dedication of our employees and good to excellent prospects in the market, for the first time in the company’s recent history we recorded a loss at the end of the year. The reasons for this have been identified and addressed in detail, in order to set us back on the road to success. They mainly lie in project errors and reduced performance by several people due to illness. Apart from these ‘internal’ problems, the developments and prospects for Neosys AG in the marketplace are very positive. In the important Legal Services Business Unit we have succeeded in once again increasing the turnover by almost 10%. In the future-oriented field of CO2 emissions, we have established a good reputation, through measures including the development of a compensation programme in cooperation with the InfraWatt association and the Klik Foundation. The niche market of chemical safety services is developing very well, and an encouraging growth in turnover has also been recorded in our energy consultancy services, a sector that is strongly politically driven in Switzerland. Finally, in the area of management systems consultancy we are confident that the revisions to standards already implemented and those to follow in 2016 (ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 45001) will generate a substantial number of new instructions. In addition, we have also pushed forward with the development of new services in the previous year. In the areas of ratings, the risks of nanomaterials, sustainability reports for SMEs, risk portfolios, conflict minerals and biodiversity we are ready to provide services that satisfy our customers’ new requirements. We are therefore looking forward to the coming years with confidence and look forward to meeting both existing and new challenges. 2 Economy 2.1 The success of our company Current status and indicators We have come through a difficult financial year with several long-term employee absences due to illness, together with an offset level that is too low overall (see Staff productivity). As a consequence, we have concluded the year with an unsatisfactory financial result (see table below with the essential indicators). For the first time in the history of Neosys AG we have recorded a loss of CHF 50,000 (EBIT). This has caused a drop in the return on sales to minus 1.6%. The precise reasons for this unsatisfactory result have been analysed in detail. Measures have been introduced by the management and their success will be monitored closely. 2015 5 Staff productivity, i.e. the performance in chargeable projects and instructions, again fell in comparison with the previous year (1.36) and is again below the long-term reference value of 1.50. The reasons for this lie with the ongoing work on our LexPlus database, which continued into the reporting year. While this represents an investment, it ties up productivity, especially within the MSC Business Unit, in non-chargeable activities. Of the individual Business Units, Technology-Environment was the only one to close the year with a profit. The net turnover (C1) thus ended the reporting year at almost 15% below the budgeted value (see table below for the essential indicators). Overall, our operating profits showed negative values for the first time in 2015, and therefore were of course substantially below the budget objectives. The cash flow was around 15% of the budgeted value. Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Gross sales, all of Neosys kCHF 3395 --3,637 3,365 HR costs, all of Neosys kCHF 2637  2730 2,637 2,378 Net sales (C1), BUs only kCHF 3096  3574 3,380 3,003 HR costs, BUs only kCHF 2281  2386 2,333 2,029 EBIT kCHF -50  286 225 163 Operating result kCHF -57  212 170 166 Cash flow kCHF 46  312 245 164 Dividends distributed kCHF 0 --85 55 EBIT rate of return % -1.6%  8.0% 6.7% 6.2% Staff productivity --1.36  1.50 1.45 1.47 The following graphic shows the breakdown of costs, as in previous years. As usual, around 80% are attributable to direct and indirect staff costs. Due to the predominance of staff costs at Neosys, the performance of the company depends on a good staff return, that is, a high offsetable utilisation of the existing staff capacities. Additionally, a comparison with the previous year shows that the percentage expenditure on staff and premises has fallen slightly, and that, on the other hand, depreciation costs represent a larger slice of the cake. These are a natural result of the high level of investments – for example, in the LexPlus database. Renovation work on our office building 6 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG has meant that the maintenance and repair costs have been somewhat higher in the reporting year. By implementing the long-awaited change of the pension fund model to a defined contribution system (effective from 1.4.2016), we have been able to eliminate some substantial risks in the area of staff costs, which has a positive effect. Assessment The financial parameters have been unsatisfactory in the reporting period. The reasons for this have been identified and addressed in detail. Measures • Personal measures for employees with chronically poor performance • Training measures for new employees, with the aim of achieving good productivity and quality of work as quickly as possible • Awareness-raising/continuous education for HR managers to promote their understanding of the necessity of offsetable performance. • Critical analysis of the products as part of the strategic process. Systematic controlling of the product yield figures. Promotion of the products that are doing well. 2.2 Our customers Current status and indicators Our customers are companies, authorities (departments and municipalities) and organisations (associations, international organisations, NGOs, etc.) in Switzerland and abroad. Our customer base has included a broad range of industries for many years. Neosys AG provides personal support and consulting services that are tailored to our customers and their requirements. Our customer relations, strongly characterised by personal contact, have provided us with direct feedback about our customers’ satisfaction with our work and the services we offer. In addition, we systematically use a questionnaire to obtain information on customer satisfaction, to enable us to continually improve. The rate of return of customer questionnaires in 2015 was around 22% of those sent out (27 out of 125), which is slightly more than last year (around 19%). 2015 7 Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Weighted Overall average customer satisfaction 0.85  0.90 0.88 0.90 percentage Overall average customer satisfaction % “very good” 65.1 67.7 71.5 Weighted Average of criteria 1-8 0.87  0.90 0.89 0.91 percentage Average of criteria 1-8 % “very good” 69.6 70.6 75.3 Customer satisfaction continues to be at a high level: in the reporting period almost all the parameters covered in the questionnaire were between 80% and 90%. However, over the past year we saw an ongoing drop in the figures. In addition, in 2015 we received three complaints from customers. Assessment This trend is unsatisfactory, as we constantly strive to provide the highest possible quality of service. Only by doing so can we satisfy the expectations of our customers. Although the figures are still high, the aim for the next year must be to reverse the downward trend. Measures For the coming year our aim will once again be to achieve a weighted percentage value in the customer questionnaire (in respect of questions 1-8) of at least 0.90. The following measures should help us to achieve this: • Structured analysis of the causes of quality problems by the company management. Discussion of complaints in the marketing and management meetings. Constant awareness-raising. • Project management training to increase the competence of HR management. This includes in particular coverage of the “magic triangle” of Time Quality Cost. • Deadline monitoring within each Business Unit. Municipality of Ittigen – CO2 balance/reduction, sustainable development in the municipality, environmental management standard ISO 14001:2015 “In order to meet the above challenges successfully, a municipality like Ittigen needs an experienced partner with well-founded and wideranging specialist knowledge and a long-term outlook on sustainability. Our longstanding cooperation with Neosys AG has proved its worth for over 20 years now. The length of our relationship speaks for itself and is a testimony to the qualities of this company’s employees. From assistance with management, the introduction of concepts and work on projects, to responses to challenging subjects such as climate change, the effective support from Neosys AG has made a substantial contribution to the credible and innovative (environmental) management activities and dedicated public relations work of Ittigen. We hope that the valuable cooperation will continue in this spirit.” Martin Pauli Environment Department Manager, Municipality of Ittigen (Canton of Bern) 8 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG 2.3 Our suppliers Current status and indicators Supplier management is of relatively low overall importance to Neosys AG, as most of the value chain comes from the work of the employees and only very little is contributed by suppliers. However it does have an important role in certain cases. For our basic operational needs, we have important suppliers in the areas of IT, mobility, office material and laboratory services. There were no negative incidents involving suppliers in 2015. Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Reviewed suppliers/service partners Number 0 --1 0 Exclusion of suppliers Number 0 --0 0 For years we have been purchasing Fair Trade coffee, recycled paper and 100% organic produce for the fruit provided for employees’ breaks. The IT products used are sourced from an electronics company that is a leader in the field of fair working conditions. In accordance with the Management Handbook, the (internal) list of criteria that relate to the sustainable acquisition of products is applied. Neosys has defined a code of conduct that includes the locally valid environmental, work safety and occupational legislation, as well as the ILO core conventions and the payment of social security contributions and taxes. Service partners and suppliers with a purchase volume in excess of CHF 1000 per annum have been informed of this code and asked to confirm their compliance by means of self-declaration. This code is currently being revised; a re-evaluation of the relevant suppliers will be undertaken in 2016 on the basis of the revised code. Assessment In the past, relevant suppliers have been assessed and evaluated in accordance with the specifications. The systematic checks will be improved by a revision of the underlying process. Measures • Completion of the revision of the Supplier Management process. • Re-evaluation of the relevant suppliers. 2.4 Innovation Current status and indicators In 2015 there were a total of seven innovation projects, which were all still ongoing at the end of the reporting period. The project for the development of the LexPlus database caused a substantial increase in the number of working hours spent on innovation projects. 2015 9 Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Innovation projects handled (as at end of Number 7  7 7 4 the year) Working hours spent on innovation Hrs 1233.0 --770.5 274.3 projects The measures specified for the previous year were fully implemented. Assessment The innovation process is being utilised and a pleasing number of innovation projects have been initiated. The expenditure on development projects has increased to such an extent that increased attention has had to be given, as part of the development control process, to whether the development work undertaken is really worthwhile. Measures • Monitoring to ensure that necessary innovation activities in the TU Business Unit are not being overlooked. • Particular attention in the controlling process to be given to the hours spent. 2.5 Management system Current status and indicators Neosys AG has an integrated management system. The company's quality management has been ISO 9001-certified since 1994. The management system is expedient and is regularly developed further. The new manager introduced in 2014 has settled in well and is in a position to introduce her ideas for optimisation. In 2015 the management system underwent a recertification audit with no reservations. We are delighted about this result, and readily take on board the auditor’s advice on continuous improvement. Our own legal compliance is monitored using the same tool that we supply to our customers; since March 2015 this has been our LexPlus legal database. The investigation in the spring of 2015 showed according to our own estimation that Neosys AG complies with the legal requirements in the areas of the environment and safety. There are no proceedings open against Neosys AG. External communication takes the form of sustainability reporting in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guideline, version G 3.1, valid to 31 December 2015. The GRI report on the 2016 financial year will be in line with GRI G4. Assessment The integrated management system has proven itself for the running of the company. It is generally well-accepted and is run efficiently. Combining the management system and the sustainability report also opens up numerous synergies for obtaining information and disseminating it to stakeholders internally (including the management itself) and externally. 10 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG Measures • Continuation of the existing instruments and further ongoing investigation of potential improvements to the IMS. • Regular holding of training courses on administrative and content aspects of project management. • A staged revision of the GRI report in line with Version 4.0 of the GRI standard. 3 People and society 3.1 Corporate structure and governance Current status and indicators At the end of the 2015 reporting period the Board of Directors at Neosys AG consisted of four people, of whom two were major shareholders and two were external parties. As an SME not listed on the stock exchange, it is our policy for our Board of Directors to be composed firstly of the major shareholders responsible, and secondly of selected external individuals who can support Neosys with their network of contacts. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is the majority shareholder and also the CEO. This constellation results from the management buyout in 2006 and is intended to help stabilise the company. It is reviewed at regular intervals. Neosys AG is divided into three Business Units. The former “Corporate Social Responsibility” Business Unit was incorporated into the “RisCare” Business Unit in September. The company management consists of the heads of the Business Units (one is also the CEO) and the Director of Finance and Administration. From a geographical perspective, the company is run from three offices in Switzerland as of 31.12.2015 (headquarters in Gerlafingen (Canton of Solothurn); Bern; Lausanne) as well as via a number of freelancers in various regions of the world. Neosys AG believes it makes sense to provide its services globally. It does not, however, have a proactive strategy for expansion, but responds to opportunities for cooperation. The market meeting has an essential role as an important committee to discuss the company’s management and organisation. It regulates the issues relating to product design, marketing and the corporate image. It comprises all employees with project manager status (excluding freelancers). The strategy committee reviews the corporate strategy on an annual basis. It has a new composition every year, which is decided by the Board of Directors, and in which at least the Board of Directors and the company management are represented. This flexibility makes it possible to adapt the participants to the current situation and to the form of the strategic meeting according to the specific situation. 2015 11 Assessment The governance structure has proved itself to date, in that it has led to the continuous development of the company and its performance. Measures No measures are planned in the area of corporate structure. 12 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG From the Neosys AG service portfolio: Development and implementation of sustainability guidelines for the company of Kolb Establishing sustainability in a company is one of the important challenges facing the management in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. As part of the process, the values of the company policy, which in many cases have become a part of everyday working life, are recorded in a binding document. This can be necessary if certain groups of stakeholders, such as customers, require a commitment of this kind because they have specified certain criteria for the business partners they work with as part of their own supplier management systems. This can include compliance with certain environmental and social standards. If a company is unable to submit the relevant documentation, it risks its business relations with that customer being terminated. On the other hand, investors or rating agencies require certain information or documents as a basis for evaluating the company or because they are a prerequisite for a specific classification. It is therefore becoming increasingly important for companies to formulate guidelines and codes, and to publish them. These can extend across the whole field of sustainability or merely certain aspects. Examples include a code of conduct for anticorruption or guidelines on the topic of human rights. Criteria for working with business partners (suppliers) may also be defined. In 2015, Neosys AG was asked to work with Kolb Distribution Ltd. in Hedingen (Canton of Zurich) to draw up a sustainability code (“Sustainability Policy Statement for KOLB Group”). Kolb is a company with around 280 employees that produces non-ionic tensides, paper processing chemicals and chemical intermediate products, and as such it depends on a number of raw materials (e.g. sustainably produced palm oil) from international suppliers. The sustainability code outlines the framework for the company’s commitment to sustainability. It covers sustainable management, human rights, working conditions, sustainable raw materials and complaints procedures. These subjects are handled, in varying degrees of depth, in three separate documents: • Human rights: “Kolb Group Human Rights Policy Statement” • Employees: “Code of Business Conduct for Kolb Employees” • Suppliers: “Code of Business Conduct for Kolb Suppliers” In order to make the codes accessible to all employees in all locations in Switzerland and abroad, the documents are produced in German, English, French and Dutch. In addition, training is to be given to all employees to introduce them to the documents and explain their content to individual groups. Jörg Schmidt & Sebastiaan Stiller Neosys AG, CSR 2015 13 3.2 Stakeholders Current status and indicators Neosys AG associates closely with numerous individuals and groups internally and externally. In 2010, as part of our strategy development, we undertook a general identification of our stakeholders to gain an initial overview of their number and variety. Based on this, in 2014 the management carried out a more detailed analysis. For both Neosys overall and our individual Business Units, this showed a very complex pattern of different groups of stakeholders. All the stakeholders identified in detail within these categories have interests in our activities that vary in nature and intensity, and exert different degrees of influence on them. In 2015 this picture was expanded at the strategy meeting and further details added. We seek to maintain an ongoing dialogue with all stakeholder groups. The instruments for this are included in our communication concept, an important instrument being our GRI reports. In 2016 we plan to determine the essential topics for the GRI report in consultation with the relevant stakeholder groups. Assessment The analysis of the stakeholders was an essential first stage in ensuring that our reporting conforms with the revised GRI G4 standard. However there is still work to do before we bring ourselves completely into line with this standard in 2016. Special care must be taken to ensure that the selected mix of instruments remains appropriate for an SME. Measures • Making contact with the relevant stakeholders and clarifying their requirements • Where necessary, specification of additional instruments for communication with stakeholders • Incorporating the requirements found into the design of the annual report 3.3 Business practices and anticorruption Current status and indicators In accordance with our corporate values we seek to ensure ethical conduct towards all our partners and stakeholders. Because it is important to our credibility and identity, many aspects 14 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG of ethical conduct have already been applied implicitly to date. Thus, for example, complaints and criticisms from customers, neighbours, social groups, employees etc. are recorded in a list and pursued by the management system manager. Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Employees who were given anti% of people 27%  75% ca. 40% ca. 57% corruption training Cases in which there was any suspected Number 0 --0 11 corruption Complaints from stakeholders with regard Number 0 --0 0 to environmental or social aspects At home, i.e. in Switzerland, we generally assess the risks connected with corruption as low. However, in the case of projects abroad we perceive an increased risk of being confronted with activities that could be described as corruption. In order to be able to counter these, we formulated and adopted an in-house anticorruption policy in 2013, including integration into the provisions of the employment contracts, specifications for the tender phase and order processing. This includes a description of the possible risk situations and the relevant preventive measures and procedures in cases of suspicion. Potential risk situations or cases that could fall under the category of corruption are dealt with as an agenda item in the monthly management meetings and a list compiled. There were no cases of this kind in the 2015 reporting period. Assessment The anticorruption policy introduced in 2013 provides a practical framework with regard to corruption and attempted illegal influence by third parties which may affect us in the course of our activities. The measures of the Management Review 2014 provided for the anticorruption training course of 2011 to be repeated, as many new employees have come to Neosys in the intervening period who have still not received this training. The reduction in the percentage level of training is determined by the continued fluctuation with many new employees joining the company. This should be rectified in 2016 by renewed training of project managers. Measures • The aim is still for at least 75% of the workforce to be trained in this: Carry out anticorruption training for employees. • Maintain the list for recording and pursuing situations that involve the risk of corruption 1 See the 2013 report 2015 15 3.4 Our employees Current status and indicators As at 31.12.2015, Neosys AG has almost 20 full-time equivalent posts (FTE) with employment contracts in accordance with Swiss law (excluding ancillary staff). As at the reporting date these posts are divided between 26 people. There are also non-time-limited cooperation agreements with 7 further people (freelancers). The number of female employees was around a third (34.0%) of the FTE, thus remaining at roughly the same level as the previous year. At the end of the reporting period the management was made up of two women out of four people (44.4% of the FTE). Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 FTE as at Staff 19.93 --16.45 16.95 31.12. Total percentage of women % FTE 34.0 --33.1 35.7 Percentage of women in management % FTE 44.4 --37.2 17.4 Percentage of women on supervisory % per capita 25.0 --25 0 board Ratio of Wage spread highest to 2.29 2.69 2.51 lowest wage Wage ratio women/men PL1 1.040  1.000 1.012 0.979 Wage ratio women/men PL3 0.864  1.000 0.921 0.906 Wage ratio women/men PL4 1.151 n.a. n.a. % FTE Fluctuation 16.7  <8 17.6 2.1 (departures) Number of Occupational accidents/illnesses 0  0 0 0 cases Absence rate (occupational % 0  0 0 0 accidents/illnesses) Total absences (excluding approved % 0.0678 --0.0242 0.0337 absences and maternity/paternity leave) Overall satisfaction Scale 0-10 7.81  7.00 7.68 7.03 Time spent on further training Hrs/FTE *J 102.0 --113.1 98.2 Once again, several employees left Neosys during the reporting year; thus in 2015 there was again a very high fluctuation of 16.7 percent. New employees (though not of the same grades) joined the company in the same period. The percentage of female employees remained about the same. The distribution of employees by age can be seen from the following diagram. The age statistics have again changed in comparison with 16 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG the previous year due to people leaving and joining the company: the percentage of those under 30 has increased from 4% to 21%. Occupational health and safety policy: Many Neosys employees are not office workers, often carrying out their activities at customers’ premises in a wide range of working environments – in foundries or power plants, at chemical works, scrap processors, building sites, etc. This give rise to health risks, which were assessed by internal Neosys safety officers. The measures required to protect employees from work-related accidents or illnesses were determined, including the need for personal protective equipment. Periodic training courses and exchanges of experience are held to enable employees to prepare themselves properly for site visits and to be aware of the risks at customers’ premises. The total absence rate was unusually high in this reporting year, with three colleagues absent due to long-term illnesses. In January 2016 a joint workshop was held on the employee satisfaction questionnaire issued annually by Neosys. As a result the questionnaire and the wording of the questions were modified and the questionnaire was sent out in its new form in February for the 2015 reporting period. The total score was 7.81, thus considerably above the target of 7. Assessment Neosys offers all of its employees modern terms and conditions of employment with opportunities for specialist and personal development, a good level of operational freedom and high delegation of responsibility. The motivation of our employees is one of Neosys AG’s most important resources, and is closely connected to employee satisfaction. We therefore measure employee satisfaction annually and it is one of the aspects we continually seek to improve. The most important instrument is the evaluation of the suggestions that are made together with the annual employee survey. Recent examples of the implementation of suggestions include the redesign/expansion of the office premises in Gerlafingen, and the training of information all employees in the company’s cost structure and basic calculation principles. The overall wage spread is low (< 3), which is typical for a Swiss SME. The salaries of male and female employees are not completely equal. The deviations from equality are being investigated. The excessive deviations for project manager categories 3 and 4 are determined by the aspects of age and experience of the employees in question and there is therefore no infringement of the pay equality law. Measures • Further detailed examination of the various responses to the employee questionnaire. 2015 17 66 is nowhere near the end… “That is the sentiment expressed in the old song by Udo Jürgens. The first year of my retirement is over, but I have the great privilege of being able to continue working in a motivated team. My part-time (50%) employment enables me to contribute my many years’ experience to demanding projects, but also gives me enough free time for my sporting activities. And last but not least, my involvement with Neosys confirms that I’ve still got a lot to contribute!” Ferdinand Glutz, Dipl. Ing. ETH Project manager at Neosys AG (accident prevention, fire and explosion protection, occupational safety) 3.5 Sponsoring, memberships, charitable activities Current status and indicators It is part of the Neosys philosophy to be active in local sponsoring and to be a member of industry and specialist organisations relevant for our company. Our expenditure on sponsorship in 2015 was substantially higher than in previous years. This was due in particular to the financial support of two specialist events in areas that are important to us, cleantech (the “Berner Cleantech Treff” – Bern cleantech meeting – in August 2015) and energy (the “Fernwäre-Forum” – District heating forum – in January 2016). The largest part (CHF 3,000) was again spent on a Christmas donation to social institutions in the local area around the company headquarters. We make further donations in support of events by local associations and organisations. Due to the company’s broad spectrum of activities and the large number of relevant associations and organisations, membership subscriptions have remained at the same level as the previous year. Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 Sponsoring, donations CHF 8,900 4,400 3,700 Membership subscriptions CHF 20,417 20,442 17,322 In addition to financial contributions, Neosys AG is also active in a number of bodies which contribute to honing society's awareness of sustainability, and correspondingly in events without any reimbursement of expenses (e.g. the Interest Group for Ecological Purchasing [IGÖB] Office, Swiss Association of Independent Safety and Security Engineers and Consultants [SSI] etc.). We look on these as platforms for networking with other specialists, gaining new ideas and raising awareness of our company and its services to a wide range of potential cooperation partners and customers. A number of our employees are active as volunteers for social issues (NGOs, politics, churches, professional associations, etc.). Neosys AG welcomes charitable and political activities by its employees. These are not supported financially or by granting work time off; however, any flexibility in working hours that this requires is granted. 18 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG Assessment The doubling of sponsorship contributions is a one-off, caused by the sponsoring of a single event. The amount should be brought back to the level of the previous year. Membership subscriptions are high. However, the associated maintenance of networks is very important for the positioning of Neosys AG in the marketplace. Measures • Continued sponsoring as provided by the budget • Checking the memberships to ensure cost/benefit balance From the Neosys AG service portfolio: Alpabern AG: environmental impact assessment for a new build project in Bern The companies Alpabern AG and Datarec AG, part of the Barec Group, specialise in the collection and sorting of waste paper, cardboard and plastic, and the disposal of confidential data carriers. With an annual throughput volume of approx. 80,000 tonnes, they are an important contractor for these services in the City of Bern and surrounding area. Now, due to the expiry of a lease contract, both companies need to leave their existing premises. An ideal new site was found in the Schermer district of Bern, in close proximity to a motorway intersection. The planning process for the new recycling centre involved numerous hurdles and obstacles to be overcome before building consent could be granted. Neosys AG supported the developers in this process. Our most important task lay in drawing up the environmental impact assessment (EIA). On the basis of the EIA, the environmental impact of the project was judged favourably by the authorities, a prerequisite for the grant of building consent. The project is immediately adjacent to the A6 motorway. Due to the noise pollution, evidence had to be submitted in the form of a noise survey to show that the building shell would provide users of the office space and occupants of the caretaker’s apartment with sufficient protection from the noise of the motorway. Model of the new building: Conversely, the noise survey also Designer: Immocoach AG had to prove that the office premises will have adequate sound absorption capacity. This requirement should ensure that the intended use as offices will be possible due to the noise levels being kept sufficiently low so as not to cause disturbance. The building consent has since been granted and the building works were begun in winter 2015-16. Neosys AG will continue to support the developers in the role of consultants on the implementation of the necessary environmental protection measures during construction. Rolf Gerber Neosys AG, Technology-Environment Business Unit 2015 19 4 Environment Our legal compliance is regularly checked as part of the environmental management system. No failures to comply with the environmental legislation have been found. The main relevance of our activities is on two levels. In terms of our own effect on the environment, the emphasis is above all on mobility, followed by the office infrastructure. The second level concerns our indirect effect, i.e. through the projects we carry out for our customers. Some of these indirect (Scope 3) effects are considerable, but difficult to determine in terms of offsetable costs. We nevertheless ask our customers the right questions and give them active support in increasing their contribution to the environment. 4.1 Operational aspects Current status and indicators Our greenhouse gas balance for 2015 is around 25.9 tonnes of CO2 and has reduced considerably in comparison with the last assessment period. The reason for this is that no journeys by air were undertaken during the year. Unit of Target Indicator 2015 2014 2013 measurement 2015 CO2 emissions, actual t CO2 25.9 --30.0 31.3 CO2 emissions, compensated % CO2 emissions 100  100 100 100 CO2 emissions per capita t CO2/FTE 1.39 --1.71 1.96 Kilometres by car km/FTE 4,190 --4,929 5,808 Train/car modal split kmB/(kmA+kmB) 0.597  >0.6 0.598 0.576 Kilometres by air km/FTE 0 --404 377 Waste generation kg/FTE 225.3 2 --52.6 59.0 Electricity consumption kWh/FTE 923 --1,098 1,219 Proportion of green energy kWhÖ/kWhtot 1.000  1.000 1.000 1.000 Proportion of self-generated electricity % 1.6 --Paper consumption kg/FTE 28.9  36.8 35.9 40.0 Water consumption Litres/FTE 10.8 --11.1 15.6 The three sources of emissions, “Heating”, “Car travel” and “Air travel” are compared in the following pie chart. All CO2 emissions attributable to Neosys are compensated for by the purchase of certificates from the Fair Recycling Foundation (Zurich). Our ‘attributable’ CO2 emissions are therefore zero. 2 High value due to disposal of old materials from the archive. 20 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG The electricity consumption for office operations and for rail travel is not calculated in the greenhouse gas footprint. This is due to the fact that we buy in electricity from 100% renewable sources and therefore do not offset the amount of approx. 24 g CO2/kWh calculated by the Federal Government for the Swiss electricity grid. The amount of waste generated was exceptionally high in the reporting year due to the disposal of old materials from the archive. The volume of ‘normal’ waste is however similar to that of 2014. Assessment The key figures in the area of the environment have shown a pleasing development, in particular with regard to CO2 emissions and the consumption of electricity and paper. The railcar modal split remains persistently below the desired threshold of 0.6. Further work needs to be done here. We are glad to report that our long-term project to establish our own solar power plant at our headquarters in Gerlafingen was realised in the reporting year. Consequently, the new indicator ‘self-generated electricity’ was measured and monitored. As the system only came into operation in the autumn, this indicator is still very low in 2015, and there is plenty of room for increase. Measures Our environmental objectives have been updated as follows for 2016: • Maintenance of climate-neutral operation (attributable CO2 emissions = 0) by as high a proportion as possible of rail travel by offsetting the remaining emissions (e.g. purchasing emissions certificates or climate tickets) • Improve the transport mode split to a rail proportion > 60% • Maintain the specific paper consumption at <30 kg/FTE • Increase our self-generated electricity to 14% of our consumption The corresponding measures consist of promoting rail travel and the electronic office, and continuing with CO2 compensation by means of reputable offset certificates. 2015 21 4.2 Product-related aspects Actual status, assessment, measures Our direct, business-related environmental impact – as indicated above – is quite low (office administration and business travel). However, we can indirectly achieve positive environmental effects among our customers by means of the services and advice we provide in the area of sustainability. Such effects are designated “Scope 3 effects”. We believe that particular significant levers among what we offer are: • Introduction of environmental and energy management systems • Legacy consulting and redevelopment • Environmental technology (waste air, noise, NIR, etc.) and CO2 projects • Waste management • Energy management • Eco-balances There are no universally recognised guidelines for measuring these indirect effects and we can only estimate them qualitatively. Assessment With regard to quality, our impact is all the greater the more and the bigger the projects we have with highly environmentally relevant clients. This situation is certainly satisfactory today. Our aim to increase this impact further goes hand in hand with our growth activities. Measures Develop and establish new, indirectly very effective products such as: Eco-balances for organisations/companies; ratings Biodiversity management for companies 22 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG 5 Neosys at a glance : satisfactory  : poor Code for achievement of objectives : good  to be monitored  Measures Unit of FINANCE 2015 Target 2015 2014 2013 measurement Net sales (C1), BUs only kCHF 3,096  3,574 3,380 3,365 HR costs, BUs only kCHF 2,281  2,386 2,333 2,029 163 EBIT kCHF -50  286 225 (2014 report corrected) Operating result kCHF -57  212 170 166 164 Cash flow kCHF 46  312 245 (2014 report corrected) EBIT – yields % -1.6  8.0 6.7 6.2 Staff productivity 1.36  1.50 1.45 1.47 Unit of QUALITY 2015 Target 2015 2014 2013 measurement Customer complaints Number 3 --0 0 Weighted Customer satisfaction 0.85  0.90 0.88 0.90 percentage Suppliers/service providers checked Number 0 --1 0 Exclusion of suppliers Number 0 --0 0 Innovation projects Number 7  7 7 6 Working hours on innov. projects Hrs 1,233.5 --770.5 274.3 Unit of EMPLOYEES 2015 Target 2015 2014 2013 measurement Staff FTE 31.12. 19.93 --16.45 16.95 Total percentage of women % FTE 34.0 --33.1 35.7 Percentage of women in management % FTE 44.4 --37.2 17.4 Percentage of women on supervisory board % 25.0 --25.0 0 Wage spread 2.29 --2.69 2.51 Wage ratio w/m PL1 1.040  1.000 1.012 0.979 Wage ratio w/m PL3 0.864 1.000 0.921 0.906  Wage ratio w/m PL4 1.151 n.a. n.a. Fluctuation % FTE 16.7  <8 17.6 3.6 Occupational accidents/illnesses Number of cases 0  0 0 0 Overall satisfaction Scale 0-10 7.81  >7 7.68 7.03 Time spent on further training Hrs/FTE 102.0 --120.5 101.3 Unit of COMPANY 2015 Target 2015 2014 2013 measurement Employees trained in anticorruption % 27  75 ca. 40 ca. 60 Suspected corruption cases Number 0 --0 1 Stakeholder complaints Number 0 --0 0 Sponsoring, donations CHF 8,900 4,400 3,700 Membership subscriptions CHF 20,417 20,442 17,322 Unit of ECOLOGY 2015 Target 2015 2014 2013 measurement Kilometres by car km/FTE 4,190 --4,929 5,808 Train/car modal split % 59.7  60 59.8 57.6 Kilometres by air km/FTE 0 --404 377 CO2 emissions (without compensation) t CO2/FTE 1.393 --1.705 1.963 Waste generation kg/FTE 225.3 --52.6 59.0 Electricity consumption kWh/FTE 923 --1098 1219 Proportion of green energy kWhÖ/kWhtot 1.00  1.00 1.00 1.00 Paper consumption kg/FTE 28.9  36.8 35.9 40.8 2015 23 Appendices Company profile 1 Name Neosys AG 2 Brands, products, Analysing, consulting, planning, calculating, measuring and drawing up services expert reports in the areas of environment, environmental technology, safety, risk management, social responsibility, management systems and legal compliance. The range of products can be viewed at http://www.neosys.ch/en/our-areas-of-expertise.html 3 Organisational Organisational chart see under http://www.neosys.ch/en/organigram.html structure Offices in Gerlafingen, Bern and Lausanne (Epalinges) (CH) 4 Headquarters Gerlafingen (CH) 5 Countries in which Neosys is fundamentally active in countries in which there are customer the organisation is orders. From a fiscal law perspective as a company and from a labour law active perspective as an employer, Neosys is only active in Switzerland. 6 Ownership structure Joint stock corporation under Swiss law. Four major and 8 minor and legal form shareholders solely from the company management, the Board of Directors and the workforce. 7 Markets A Specialist environmental tasks for companies and official authorities, audits (CH) B Environmental technology, environmental engineering for industry and construction companies (CH, EU) C Technical safety and security consulting (CH) D Advice and support for municipalities, cantons and public institutions, as well as for companies, regarding sustainable corporate management/development (incl. sustainable procurement) and CSR E Expertise and engineering services for businesses, on behalf of governmental and non-governmental organisations F Management system consulting (ISO 9/14/31/50001, OHSAS 18001 etc.) and legal services (CH, D, A) F Company management, strategy consulting, risk management (CH) H CO2 project development, CO2 audits in Switzerland and abroad 8 Size Number of employees: As per 31.12.2015: 19.93 FTE spread across 26 people, plus 7 freelancers with an estimated joint effective capacity of 0.35 FTE Net sales (financial accounting): As per 2015: CHF 3.385 million Overall capitalisation: Balance sheet total in 2015: CHF 2.03 million, of which equity: CHF 1.35 million (66.5%) Breakdown of sales according to country/region: Mainly Switzerland (>90%). No detailed breakdown obtained in 2015 Number of products/services offered: 69 pursuant to product overview 9 Fundamental The former “Corporate Social Responsibility” Business Unit was incorporated changes in the into the “RisCare” Business Unit in September. reporting year 10 Prizes received None 24 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG GRI Content Index and notes on the report Our sustainability reporting on the path to GRI G4 “With our sustainability reports we provide our partners and stakeholders with transparent information on our performance and activities. At the same time, our report provides an example for our customers of how an SME can be active in this area. The GRI guidelines have become established as the standard for the disclosure of non-financial performance. The transition phase for the application of the old G3/3.1 version came to an end in December 2015. This means that the G4 version, which appeared in 2013, is solely applicable from now on. This requires a process which ensures that the content is oriented towards the interests of the stakeholder groups. The reporting company first undertakes a stakeholder analysis to identify the relevant stakeholder groups and their interests. A materiality assessment is then carried out, in which the importance of individual subjects covered in the report is determined by the company itself and by these stakeholders. The report only covers those subjects categorised as material. The transition to GRI G4 has already been implemented in most large companies. At the same time their focus has shifted to the supply chain: they are taking an increasing interest in the sustainability performance of their customers, and thus in that of SMEs. Disclosing services and activities in the area of the environment and society is therefore becoming ever more important to SMEs – including as part of a risk management strategy to ensure they do not lose customers because the required sustainability information cannot be submitted (quickly enough) in transparent form. The way in which SMEs provide their reports can be specified to a certain extent by stakeholder groups. GRI offers a high degree of comparability. However, the requirements are substantial and can represent a hurdle for SMEs with limited resources. In all cases the GRI guidelines provide helpful orientation when drawing up a report, for example concerning the procedure and possible subjects to be covered. Having established this basis, the specifics of the report are then open to individual choice, linking it, for example, to the documentation and communication requirements of an environmental management system. At Neosys we are taking the path towards GRI GR4 in several stages. This report for 2015 is the last one to be in line with GRI G3.1. A stakeholder analysis was carried out in 2014 and a materiality assessment is planned for 2016. On this basis our aim is to report in accordance with G4 for the reporting year 2016. This will enable us to continue to pass on information from our management system to our stakeholder groups, in a way that is even more in line with their interests and requirements.” Dr. Jörg Schmidt Project manager at Neosys AG (CSR strategy and implementation, sustainability reporting) The present report covers the period from 1.1.2015 until 31.12.2015. It represents the sixth public sustainability report of Neosys AG and incorporates all departments and areas of activity of Neosys AG. The sustainability report is repeated on an annual basis. With regard to both the criteria used and the reporting process, it corresponds to application level C of version 3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, which is valid until 31 December 2015. Considerably more than the minimum number of indicators have been recorded and presented. The report has not been verified externally. 2015 25 Contact person: Dr. Jörg Schmidt, joerg.schmidt@neosys.ch, 032/ 674 45 05 The report was drawn up by an internal work group, using data from the management system. It also represents the public part of the annual review of the Neosys AG management system, which has been approved by the company management. The allocation pursuant to GRI can be found in the following table. The status is: fully reported (full), partially reported (partial), not relevant in our view (n.a.); all other indicators were not reported. Code Stat (GRI Content Chapter Comments us G3.1) Profile 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation full Foreword 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities full 1 2.1-2.10 Organisational profile full 3.1 See also Company profile, p.26. 3.1-3.12 Report profile, report scope and boundary, GRI Content Index full Here The present table. 3.13 Assurance n.a. Here No external verification envisaged. 4.1-4.10 Corporate governance full 3.1 4.11-4.13 Commitments to external initiatives full 3.5 See also Importance of sustainability for Neosys AG, p.3. 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement full 3.2 Extended stakeholder management in preparation. Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed partial 2.1 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations partial 2.1 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government partial Here Neosys does not receive any subsidies, but it does receive orders from public institutions. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based partial 2.3, 3.3 suppliers at significant locations of operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and partial 3.5, here For some associations, for ex. certain services provided primarily for public benefit services are provided that are not invoiced for, but which have marketing potential. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic partial 4.2 With regard to the environmental impact of impacts, including the extent of impacts our product and services. Environmental performance indicators EN1 Materials used partial 4.1 EN3, EN4 Energy consumption full 4.1 EN6 Initiatives to optimise the energy used in services full 4.1 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source partial 4.1 Water is only used for sanitation purposes. EN16, Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions full 4.1 EN17 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions full 4.1 Greenhouse gas carbon offsets. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination partial Here Only waste water from sanitation facilities. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method partial Here Household waste in waste incineration, paper/PET to recycling, organic waste to compost, electronic goods are returned to retail. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and partial 5.1 services EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonfull Here No fines or non-conformities, review as part monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws of the EMS. and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and partial 5.1 other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Social performance indicators 26 Sustainability report & UNGC COP Neosys AG Working practices and fair employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and full 3.4 region, broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee full 3.4 turnover by age group, gender and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to partial Here No fixed-term contracts, with the exception of temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of internships. Benefits are not dependent on the operation type of employment, but on the function. Thus, for example, management employees are given a company car or an SBB first-class railcard, employees a half-fare railcard. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining n.a. Here There are no relevant collective agreements. agreements LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and full 3.4, No occupational accidents or illnesses. absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and here by gender LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and full 3.4 by employee category LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and partial Here All employees receive a review on a regular career development reviews, by gender. basis. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees partial 3.1, 3.4 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by full 3.4 employee category Human rights HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other full 2.3 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions full 3.4, Statements on pay equality, no incidents. taken here HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to n.a. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Such occurrences are considered extremely violated or at significant risk improbable for the type of operations HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having n.a. performed by Neosys AG and as a result there significant risk for incidents of child labour has been no detailed examination. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having n.a. significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Social SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community partial 3.1 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption full 3.3 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption partial 3.3 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy partial Here The company as such is not politically active. development and lobbying Individual employees are active in various parties. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political full Here During the reporting year, support of a few parties, politicians and related institutions hundred Swiss francs was given to a regional political event. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antifull Here There are no legal proceedings with regard to trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes anti-competitive behaviour. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonfull Here No fines or penalties. monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product liability PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of full 2.2 surveys measuring customer satisfaction PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of partial 2.2 Customer data are only forwarded with the customer privacy and losses of customer data customer's consent. Sensitive data are saved so that they are inaccessible even internally. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws full Here No fines. and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 2015 27 Legend BoD Board of Directors BU Business Unit C1 Contribution margin 1 (net profit) CEO Chief Executive Officer CFO Chief Financial Officer CM Company Management CO2 Carbon dioxide, the most significant greenhouse gas CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EBIT Earnings Before Interest and Taxes EMS Environmental Management System FTE Full Time Equivalent GRI Global Reporting Initiative – organisation that produces international guidelines for sustainability reporting IGöB Interest Group for Ecological Purchasing, Switzerland ILO International Labour Organisation IMS Integrated Management System ISO 9001 International standard for quality management ISO 14001 International standard for environmental management ISO 50001 International standard for energy management MSC Neosys Management Systems and Compliance Business Unit NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NIS Non-Ionising Radiation PM Project Manager SME Small and medium enterprise(s) SNV Swiss Association for Standardisation SSI Swiss Association of Independent Safety and Security Engineers and Consultants
