Our world, a better world. Sustainability Report 2015 Our world, a better world! At OTE Group, sustainable growth is what drives our strategy and actions. Find out how and why in the following 224 pages www.abetterworld.gr Table of Contents 1.0 About this Report 5.0 Society 1.1 Report Profile 5 5.1 Management Approach 134 1.2 Message from the Chairman and CEO 7 5.2 Social products, Services and Offers 138 1.3 ΟΤΕ Group 8 5.3 Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups 1.4 OTE and COSMOTE 12 and Children 141 5.4 Supporting Education 144 5.5 Contributing to Local Well-being 2.0 Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Management and Sustainability 149 5.6 Strengthening of Entrepreneurship 151 2.1 Corporate Responsibility Strategy 16 5.7 Promoting Culture 152 2.2 Corporate Responsibility Governance and 5.8 Promoting Sports 154 Management Structure 21 5.9 Employee Volunteering 155 2.3 Corporate governance 24 2.4 Risk and Compliance Management and Policies 26 6.0 Environment 2.5 Stakeholders 31 6.1 Enviromental Strategy 159 2.6 Materiality Analysis 41 6.2 Telecommunication for Sustainable 2.7 Memberships, Ratings and Awards 46 Development 164 2.8 Corporate Responsibility Performance 2015 51 6.3 Greenhouse Gases and Other Gases 2.9 2015 and 2016 Goals 54 Emissions 165 6.4 Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 171 3.0 Marketplace 6.5 Resource use and Waste Management 176 3.1 Strategy for the Marketplace 61 6.6 Electromagnetic Fields 182 3.2 Responsible Competition 63 6.7 Other Enviromental Aspects 185 3.3 Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet 6.8 Environmental Awareness Activities 190 in Greece 66 3.4 Internet Safety and Public Awareness 68 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries 3.5 Resposible Products and Services 71 3.6 Responsible Marketing 77 7.1 Romania 195 3.7 Customers Service and Satisfaction 81 7.2 Albania 202 3.8 Data Security and Privacy 86 3.9 Business Continuity 90 8.0 Appendices 3.10 Responsible Procurement and Supply 8.1 Accountability Principles Standard Chain Management 91 AA1000 Index 207 8.2 United Nations Global Compact – 4.0 Employees Communication on Progress (CoP) 208 4.1 Human Resources Strategy 99 8.3 Greek Sustainability Code – Declaration of Conformity 210 4.2 Employment 101 8.4 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 213 4.3 Health and Safety 110 8.5 Independent Assurance Report 220 4.4 Organizational Transformation and Effectiveness 120 4.5 Employee Development 121 4.6 Employee Benefits 127 4.7 Internal Communications 129 4.8 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction 131 4 1.0 About this Report About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-3, G4-5, G4-9, G4-17, G4-18, G4-23, G4-26, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30 5 1.1 Report Profile The 2015 Sustainability Report of the OTE Group of Companies refers to the company activities of OTE SA • The AccountAbility AA1000 Principles on Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and COSMOTE SA. It is the fourth Joint Report of the two companies starting in 2012 following the separate corporate annual CR Reports published from 2005 to • The United Nation’s Global Compact Principles. 2011. The companies publish a joint Sustainability Report following the transformation of the two • The criteria of the Greek Sustainability Code companies to a joint organization. The index tables for each of these standards are provided in the Accountability Principles Srandard For the third consecutive year, the Report is published AA1000 Index, the United Nations Global Compact entirely online on a specially formulated reporting – Communication on Progress (CoP), the Greek platform abetterworld.gr Sustainability Code – Declaration of Conformity and the Global Reporting Initiative Content Index. Report Scope and Boundary In addition, the companies took into account: This Sustainability Report covers the period from January 1 to December 31, 2015 (unless otherwise • the vision and the Group strategic pillars for Corporate Responsibility as specified (presented stated). in the section CR Strategy) • The Report covers the operations and activity of OTE S.A. and COSMOTE S.A. in Greece. The two • the outcomes of the stakeholders engagement approach (presented in the section companies have their headquarters in Athens. Stakeholders) • Summary information on all OTE Group companies is included in the ΟΤΕ Group section. Moreover, • the sustainability issues materiality analysis (presented in the section Materiality Analysis) information on how the major telecommunications subsidiaries of the two Companies in Eastern Europe approach sustainability is presented in the The Companies have taken into account the OTE Group Subsidiaries section. statistical use data from the on-line microsite of the Sustainability Report 2014, and the results • This approach represents a continuation and integration of the scope and boundary approach of surveys carried out to obtain the opinion of stakeholders on the presentation of the aforesaid used in the CR reports of previous years by Report. OTE and COSMOTE and at the same time the initiation of a process of gradually providing more The Report addresses all major Stakeholder groups information on the full OTE Group approach to recognized by the Companies who are as follows: sustainability. • Customers and potential customers Report Content Definition • Companies The content of the Report is defined according to the following principles, guidelines and directives: • Science, research and education institutions • The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability • NGOs and interested groups Reporting Guidelines, GRI G4. • Media About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-22, G4-26, G4-31 6 • State / Government Institutions Compilation in Accordance with GRI Guidelines • Employees, potential employees and their representatives The 2015 Sustainability Report has been written in accordance with the core GRI G4 Guidelines, which has • Suppliers also been confirmed by the GRI. • Shareholders, bondholders, investors and analysts Full information on the fulfiilment of GRI G4 requirements is provided in the section Global The issues that the stakeholders brought up and the Reporting Initiative Content Index. Companies’ response to them are presented in the Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue Report Online Communication section. In trying to meet the needs of more sophisticated and The Sustainability Report is subject to external demanding readers and analysts the texts of the CR assurance covering the Principles of Standard AA1000 Reports are in several occassions highly technical and specific performance indicators of OTE and and detailed. COSMOTE (see Independent Assurance Report). To further improve communication of corporate Report Data responsibility performance to stakeholders, particularly to less specialized groups (okosmosmaskalyteros.gr), The data in the Report derive from the reporting OTE Group has, for the first time, created an systems of OTE and COSMOTE and comprise: independent platform (okosmosmaskalyteros.gr), aggregated financial and personnel data, aggregated where the Report is presented in a simpler and more data on customer service and summary data on understandable way. Using interactive tools, the regulatory actions. They also include environmental general public is invited to tour the most important data that are calculated according to internationally stories of the Report, which have been decoded in accepted methods on the basis of information order to guide through the reader to better acquaint provided by the Operational Divisions of both oneself with the actions of the companies of OTE Companies. In collecting and presenting data OTE Group. and COSMOTE have been guided by the definitions and parameters of the GRI Indicator Protocols. More Report Feedback information on measurement techniques and methods of assessing the data is provided in the Report. Any opinion and comments regarding the CR Report are welcome. Please send your feedback to the e-mail In certain sections, where the two Companies have not address: ote-cosmote.cr@ote.gr. yet integrated their operations, policies, initiatives and actions, the information is presented separately for each company. On some issues, due to the distinct nature of issues for fixed and mobile telephony, separate policies are maintained and reported. No major re-statement of information provided in earlier reports has been included. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-1 7 1.2 Message from the Chairman and CEO With technology and innovation OTE Group wants to create a better world for all, doing business sustainably. In 2015, we kept open channels of communication with all our stakeholders to outline needs and priorities. Based on this dialogue we drew up our strategy and implemented our sustainable development programs. Despite the difficult conditions and ongoing challenges in 2015: We achieved strong performance and enhanced our investments to the benefit of our customers and the country. We brought people closer with our advanced networks. In 2015, the population coverage of our 4G and VDSL networks surpassed 80% and 40% respectively. We responded to our customers’ need to make their lives easier, providing integrated services for communication and entertainment. To this end, we established COSMOTE as our single commercial brand for all our fixed, mobile and internet services. We enhanced our television offering. With rich content, quality propositions such as the OTE HISTORY, the only documentary channel for history and culture in Greece, and superior services, OTE TV counts more than 450,000 subscribers. We helped businesses grow with our technology. We undertook and implemented large ICT projects for both the public and private sectors. We also supported small and large businesses with our IT and cloud based applications and services we offer. We supported sensitive social groups. Despite the overall uncertainty and the extremely difficult economic conditions of 2015, we increased our social contribution that surpassed 3 million Euros. It is estimated that over 1 million people benefited from our social programs. I would like to single out our support to the Hellenic Coast Guard overwhelmed by the huge humanitarian crisis that the country and all of Europe is facing due to the extraordinary refugee flows. Our contribution, exceeding 300,000 Euros in 2015, was directed to the repair and maintenance of vessels undertaking rescue operations especially in the Eastern Aegean Sea. We mitigated the environmental impact of our operations and adapted our practices to the new conditions so as to address climate change. We continued investing in our greatest asset, our people, providing them with a safe environment to work and grow. We enhanced their skills and provided them with opportunities to develop their talents. We involved them in our corporate responsibility initiatives, recording more than 10,000 voluntary participations. Our high sustainability performance against the recession backdrop was also reflected in the international agencies’ ratings, confirming that the OTE Group is a safe choice for investors. With our vision and strategy for sustainable business, we succeeded in making 2015 a normal year in an abnormal environment. Heading towards the new digital era, we will continue to utilize technology and innovation to improve at all levels and maximize our positive influence building a better world for all. Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-17 8 1.3 ΟΤΕ Group OTE Group is the leading telecommunications provider in Greece and one of the strongest providers in South East Europe, offering its customers excellent quality products and services. The organizational structure of the Group is shown in the following diagram. 2015 OTE Group Organizational Structure The organizational structure of the Group is available in Albania. The Group is also engaged in providing on the website of OTE (www.ote.gr). additional services such as property management and education. More information on the structure of OTE Group is available in the Annual Report 2015 of OTE. The In 2015, the companies in which the OTE Group Group consists of the parent OTE SA Company and its participates employed more than 21.500 subsidiaries, offering fixed telephony services (phone, employees. Group income for 2015 amounted to data and leased line), television and mobile telephony € 3,902.9 mn, while its market capitalization stood in Greece and Romania, as well as mobile services at € 4.5 bn. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 9 In the fourth quarter of 2015, consolidated revenues quarter of 2014. The increase is due to exceptional of the Group increased by 2% compared to the fourth charges recorded in the quarter, and to the costs of the quarter of 2014, despite the difficult economic and ICT projects sold. Staff costs decreased by 10% as a competitive environment. Greece’s fixed telephony result of the voluntary retirement program implemented recorded an impressive performance, with revenues at the end of the second quarter, and are expected to increasing by 5.1% as a result of a strong performance lead to annual savings of more than € 30 million. both in broadband and ICT services, and a significant increase in the revenues of OTE TV, supported by a Because of the extraordinary charges mentioned above strong growth of subscribers and a significantly higher and the large number of ICT projects, the adjusted ARPU index. Mobile telephony in Greece recorded a Group EBITDA decreased by 6% in the fourth quarter further increase on a quarterly basis, with the reduction and stood at € 348.5 million which resulted in an of revenue standing at 0.6% in the fourth quarter of adjusted EBITDA margin ratio of 33.6% 2015, a decrease of 3.1% from the previous quarter. As a result of the strong financial position of the Group, Total operating costs of the Group, excluding the Board will propose a dividend of € 0.10 per share depreciation, amortization and charges related to the at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be voluntary retirement programs and restructuring costs, held in June 2016, compared with € 0.08 per share amounted to € 712.8 million in the fourth quarter of distributed last year. The total dividend to be paid is 2015, an increase of 6.5% compared to the fourth estimated at approximately € 49 million. OTE Group Financial Performance (million €) 2013 2014 2015 Total Revenues 4,054.1 3,918.4 3,902.9 Payroll and Employee Benefits (821.5) (697.1) (667.2) Cost of Early Retirement Program (272.4) (8.4) (100.7) Interconnections and roaming costs (468.2) (473.6) (487.0) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (842.5) (796.4) (829.4) Merchandise Costs (276.4) (300.7) (292.1) Other Operating Expenses (1,080.0) (1,119.5) (1,196.1) Total Operating Expenses (3,761.0) (3,395.7) (3,572.5) Operating Profits (EBIT) 335.4 589.1 391.1 Operating Profits before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,177.9 1,385.5 1,220.5 As % of Revenues 29.1% 35.4% 31.3% Pro Forma* EBITDA 1,456.3 1,421.6 1,343.0 as % of Revenues 35.9% 36.3% 34.4% * Excluding the impact of Voluntary Retirement Programs and Restructuring Plans About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-13 10 OTE Group Economic Contribution (million €) 2013 2014 2015 Salaries and Benefits (821.5) (697.1) (667.2) Income Taxes Paid (121.3) (137.3) (154.0) Interconnections and Roaming Costs (468.2) (473.6) (487.0) Merchandise Costs (276.4) (300.7) (292.1) Other Operating Expenses (incl. rental, third party fees, non-income taxes and (622.4) (660.1) (743.9) regulatory charges and other) Profit attributable to owners of the parent 316.7 267.4 151.9 Investments for the community 2.9 2.9 4.1 Breakdown of OTE Group Revenues Change (million €) 2013 2014 2015 2014-2015 Fixed Line Operations, Greece 1,557.2 1,511.7 1,536.0 +1.6% Fixed Line Operations, Romania 609.5 609.1 601.7 -1.2% Mobile Operations, Greece 1,336.5 1,251.4 1,228.4 -1.8% Moblie Operations, International 544.7 520.9 521.2 +0.06% Others 448.0 456.2 474.6 +4.0% Intragroup Eliminations (441.8) (430.9) (459.0) +6.5% TOTAL 4,054.1 3,918.4 3,902.9 -0.4% Other income/(expense), net 42.3 66.4 60.7 -8.6% Significant Changes/Events in 2015 • Following the approvals from OTE’s and TAYTEKO’s Board of Directors, an agreement was signed Announced: between the two parties for the restructuring of the loans OTE has granted to the Auxiliary • New Board of Directors of OTE SA Pension Fund/TAYTEKO, accepting the Fund’s request in order to facilitate the payments of the • Voluntary Retirement Programs, mainly for OTE employees who were close to retirement. The monthly installments, due to the Fund’s difficulties in repaying its obligations. The impact of this project was completed in late June 2015 when the restructuring to the present value of these loans last participating employees left the company. The was € 17.0mn (before tax) and is included in the cost, amounted to € 75,0 million. income statement of the first half of 2015. The About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-13 11 nominal amounts of these loan receivables have not been affected. • Mobile telephony through COSMOTE in Greece, Telekom in Romania, and Telekom Albania in Albania. Products and services offered include • A dividend (approved by the General Assembly of OTE shareholders) from the 2014 profits, billed and pre-paid services, as well as mobile Internet (with COSMOTE being the first company amounting to € 39.1 million or € 0.08 per share. in Greece to offer 4G services), value added and roaming services, as well as a wide range • Renaming of AMC to Telekom Albania. of mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) and accessories. • The company’s intention to establish a single trading brand aiming to continuously improve customer experience. By joining the forces of OTE • Television services, via satellite or broadband connection, offering wide channel choices and and COSMOTE, the Group is offering from October advanced services, at the most competitive prices 26, 2015 all of its products and services in fixed (OTE and Telecom Romania). and mobile internet under the new brand name COSMOTE, with a renewed logo that highlights the presence of OTE. • Advanced customized solutions and fixed and mobile services contribute significantly to increasing the efficiency of businesses • A significant cooperation between OTE and CocaCola Hellenic to install and operate a Data Center in Greece, a project with a € 43 million value. After • B2B Electronic transactions (CosmoOne). an international competition, Coca-Cola Hellenic commissioned OTE Group to operate the Data • Wholesale International telecommunications services to high-capacity carriers and multi-site Centre which serves the business computer needs organizations in the broader South East European of more than 36,000 employees in 28 countries. region (OTEGlobe). Coca-Cola Hellenic’s Data Center is one of the three largest Data Centers in the Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and one of the largest • Wireless and satellite communications, including maritime services (OTESAT-MARITEL). private projects undertaken by OTE Group. • Real estate assets management and development • Issuance of a four-year, fixed rate bond by OTE to the amount of € 350 million which opened (OTE Estate). international markets to Greek companies again. The coupon stood at 4.375% per annum. The issue • Professional training services that cover the training needs of OTE Group employees, as well was oversubscribed by 2 times. Upon completion as to needs of the wider public and private sector of the transaction, OTE achieved the extension of (OTE Academy). the maturity of its borrowing obligations and their optimal allocation over time. Main Products and Services OTE Group provides integrated products and services that meet the communication needs of both businesses and individuals, namely: • Fixed telephony and broadband service, with high VDSL speeds of up to 50 Mbps (OTE and Telekom Romania). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-7, G4-9, G4-DMA Financial Performance 12 1.4 OTE and COSMOTE It is important because… The companies' financial performance is a key priority for their management and shareholders. OTE and COSMOTE provide information on the economic value generated by the operation of companies, and the value distributed, so that the direct value added to local communities and stakeholders is better understood. OTE S.A. is the parent company of OTE Group and the main fixed line operator in Greece, offering broadband, fixedline telephony, TV, data and leased line services. In 2015, the company recorded revenues of EUR 1,536.0 million and on the 31 December 2015, it employed 8,496 employees on permanent contracts. OTE Group Ownership Structure (31.12.2015) Own Shares Private Investors 0.28% 6.67% Institutional Hellenic State* Investors 10.00% 43.05% Deutsche Telekom 40.00% * Including voting rights attached to the 4% of the share capital which has been transferred to the pension fund. COSMOTE SA, OTE’s fully-owned subsidiary, is the OTE and COSMOTE do not receive any government leading provider of mobile telephony services in financial subsidies (except from co-funding Greece, focusing on innovation, quality and customer contributions from the Greek State and the European service. In 2015, the company recorded revenues of Commission for developmental or competitive € 1,165.0 million and, on 31 December 2015, the staff projects), special tax relief or other government of COSMOTE numbered 2,008 employees. financial support. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-4, G4-9, G4-EC1 13 Financial Performance OTE and COSMOTE Financial Performance OTE S.A. COSMOTE S.A (million €) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total Revenues 1,557.2 1,511.7 1,536.0 1,281.0 1,202.2 1,165.0 Payroll and Employee Benefits (444.5) (315.1) (331.9) (98.1) (89.8) (85.5) Costs of Early Retirement Program (250.9) 0.0 (80.0) (4.2) (0.9) (4.6) Interconnection and roaming cost (140.2) (119.8) (110.7) (69.0) (64.8) (71.0) Depreciation, amortization and impairment (322.5) (279.4) (305.9) (212.8) (200.4) (200.1) Merchandise Costs (30.0) (50.3) (55.8) (155.0) (144.8) (140.1) Other Operating Expenses (384.8) (444.2) (437.6) (474.0) (473.2) (463.3) Economic Contribution OTE and COSMOTE Economic Contribution OTE S.A. COSMOTE S.A (million €) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Revenues 1,557.2 1,511.7 1,536.0 1,281.0 1,202.2 1,165.0 Operating costs (ex. Depreciation, wages and VES) (555.0) (601.5) (604.1) (697.9) (682.8) (674.4) Employee wages and benefits (444.5) (315.1) (331.9) (98.1) (89.8) (85.5) Payments to providers of capital (161.5) (168.0) (115.0) (143.3) (143.3) (62.5) Payments to the Greek government (9.7) (58.2) (9.4) (88.9) (19.4) (123.9) Investments for the Community (1.1) (1.3) (1.6) (1.6) (1.6) (1.6) Economic Value retained 385.4 367.6 474.0 251.2 265.3 217.1 Products and Services OTE Group offers Greece fixed telephony and contract and prepaid services, mobile broadband broadband services, with high VDSL speeds up to services (the first in Greece that offered 4G services), 50 Mbps, and television services, via satellite or value added and roaming services, as well as mobile broadband connection. In mobile telephony, it offers devices (smartphones, tablets) and accessories. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-4 14 In October 2015 OTE Group, established COSMOTE even more consumers ultra high speed mobile in the Greek market, as the single commercial internet, thus remaining the No.1 4G network provider brand, for all fixed, mobile and internet products, in population coverage. In early 2015, it proceeded in for all its customers to enjoy an integrated world of the commercial release of the 4G+ network with LTE communication and entertainment with ease, speed Advanced technology, providing commercial speeds and simplicity. of up to 300Mbps, while, taking advantage of the increased capabilities of the mobile network after In November 2015, COSMOTE offered a combination the acquisition of a new spectrum sector, it made of fixed and mobile services under the name available to consumers speeds up to 375 Mbps, the COSMOTE One for individuals and professionals. best in Greece and one of the best in Europe. At the In particular, with COSMOTE One, customers enjoy end of the year it offered speeds up to 500 Mbps, the internet, talk, and entertainment from any device, most in Greece and among the first worldwide. wherever they are. Respectively, with COSMOTE Business One, solutions in fixed and mobile telephony, Details of all the products and services of OTE Group internet, Cloud technology and sophisticated call are available on the website of COSMOTE. center services are integrated into a single service thus helping firms to work more efficiently, reduce OTE is the Greek Universal Service Provider operating costs and grow. The Universal Service in the Electronic In the field of pay-TV, OTE-TV continued its market Communications Sector, is the provision of a fixed set advance surpassing 445. 000 subscribers at the of basic Electronic Communications services that are end of 2015, while continuing to enrich its program available to all citizens of Greece, regardless of their and services. The acquisition of TV rights for the top geographic location and at affordable prices. OTE is European Football competitions, UEFA Champions the designated Universal Service Provider for Greece. League and UEFA Europa League, for the period This is an important responsibility that OTE takes very 2015-2018, and the agreements with major seriously and more so in these challenging times for Hollywood studios such as MGM and NBC-Universal the Greek society. for exclusive first viewing of films on television are noteworthy achievements. With more than 85 OTE TV digital channels, of which 29 with high definition, at their disposal, the OTE TV subscribers enjoy over 60 live sports broadcasts a week, more than 500 premieres and 2,000 movies in total a year, 100 TV series per year, 11 quality documentaries, 5 children programs and content for the whole family, at the most competitive prices. In fixed telephony, OTE Group continued to replace its copper network with optical fiber, providing access at VDSL speeds up to 50 Mbps to 1.6 million households and businesses, with population coverage increasing to 40%. Already, a total of 5,000 Cabins are available for VDSL services with over 3000 km of optical fiber having been installed since 2010. At present, more than 1.9 million households and businesses have access at speeds of up to 50 Mbps. In mobile telephony, in 2015, the Group expanded its 4G network to 80% of the Greek territory, offering About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 15 2.0 Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Management About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-18, G4-56, G4-DMA Economic Performance 16 2.1 Corporate Responsibility Strategy OTE Group uses technology to create a better Value Creation world for everybody. It offers its customers the best communication services, it connects people, In this Report, for the first time, there is an attempt it offers unique entertainment and it helps to capture how value is created based on the companies grow. Group’s strategy. In this attempt, we use elements from the Integrated Reporting Framework, which are It is OTE Group’s strategic goal to be a modern, based on the 6 chapters to describe the resources dynamic, customer-focused, high performance used by a corporation. The chapters identified are: organization, that holds a leadership role in the financial, human, manufactured, intellectual, natural markets it serves, providing the best quality and social. Using these 6 chapters we are thus services, the best network and the best working able to observe all corresponding resources (inputs) environment. and results (outputs) in the operating model. To achieve this goal, the Group relies on a program Inputs: The human resources, networks and of continuous improvement, having as main infrastructure as well as the Group’s financial pillars the enhancement of its leading position in resources are important inputs for the operation, telecommunications and information technology, competitiveness and success of the Group. Its its excellent customer experience, innovation and companies invest in research and innovation the development of new revenue streams, the programs to develop new technologies, products consolidation of its leading position in fixed and and services, responsibly manage natural resources mobile telephony, the optimization of operations in their operation and communicate with their and costs, and the effective management and stakeholders for an early identification of their development of human resources. needs. The Group aspires to enhance its business Output: As a result, the Group is continuously sustainbilty in all actions thus contributing to enhancing its products and the services it provides supporting society at large as well as protecting to its customers, improves its financial results, the environment. The Group’s business model aims provides new job opportunities, works with a to create value for the Group’s shareholders but large number of suppliers, pays state taxes and also for its customers, society and its employees. contributes (financially and in kind) to society. Sustainable development and corporate Beyond the economic value, the companies responsibility principles are incorporated in the provide equal opportunities and facilitate access operations of the Group. Corporate responsibility to digital world for vulnerable social groups, takes priorities are discerned in its four strategic measures to reduce its environmental footprint and pillars (the market, employees, society and the provides products and services that help its users / environment). customers reduce their environmental impact. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 17 G4-15, G4-56 18 Information for all the actions above are included in OTE Group Social Charter the relevant sections of this Report, and the main performance indicators on issues related to the OTE Group expresses its commitment to ethical environment, society and governance (ESG KPIs) of corporate governance through the new Social Charter OTE and COSMOTE for 2015 are presented in the of the Group, which acts as a behavior guide for all Corporate Responsibility Performance 2015 section. employees, investors and suppliers of the Group. OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy OTE Groups’ Social Charter, defines the working conditions and social standards under which OTE Group’s Corporate Responsibility Policy among products and services of the Group are developed other things determines: and supplied. At the same time, it sets the rules which will be followed by the entire Group on • the manner in which all Corporate Responsibility issues are evaluated as well as the areas human rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, equal opportunity, affected by it, health and safety and workers’ rights. It has been developed in accordance with internationally • the general plan of action being applied by the Group and the governance structure of its recognized standards, guidelines and regulations, the International Bill of Human Rights, the corporate responsibility. Core Conventions of the International Labour Organization, the guidelines of the Organisation This Policy sets out the basic corporate responsibility for Economic Cooperation and Development and and sustainable development principles that need the UN Global Compact. The text is in line with the to be taken into account in designing corporate guiding principles of the United Nations on Business responsibility actions, as well as the responsibilities and Human Rights. and duties of the competent bodies responsible for the development, monitoring and coordination The Charter was developed in 2014 and was of the implementation of those actions, through approved in 2015 following appropriate corporate documented procedures. The procedures described procedures. enable the recording of the performance and progress achieved, the identification of opportunities Human Rights Management for improvement and the optimal design of corporate responsibility measures to meet social OTE Group recognizes the importance of human challenges and activities. They also define the rights issues and reinforces its strategy both governance structure of corporate accountability, through the Group’s Social Charter as well as and identify the areas of responsibility and tasks by developing a comprehensive approach to as well as the forms of cooperation between the managing these issues. Particular attention is different actors in Corporate Responsibility issues given to the employees’ rights, to freedom of and the Group’s central administration and its association and collective bargaining, to diversity subsidiaries. and equal opportunity (see Employment section). In an effort to protect human rights outside its own The Policy was developed in 2014 and was strict operating limits, OTE Group asks suppliers approved in 2015 following appropriate corporate to respect and ensure human rights (see Supplier procedures. Selection Section). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-15, G4-56 19 OTE Group respects the right to freedom of expression and privacy of data and operates according to the current legislative framework (see Data Security and Privacy Section). • Commitment to protecting human rights and grievance mechanism (Steps 1 and 2) • Risk analysis, impact assessment and integration into Group operation (Steps 3 and 4) Respect and observance of human rights are The Group is taking steps to identify the potential embodied in the fundamental policies of OTE risks of human rights abuses associated with Group, such as the Code of Conduct and the Social activities, products and services, and to assess Charter. Furthermore, its Corporate Responsibility their impact. The Guiding Principles of the United Policy states that the Executive Director Nations require companies to mainstream human Compliance and Enterprise Risk Management rights into relevant business areas and internal and Insurance OTE Group, has been appointed as procedures. A typical example is the integration of the coordinator responsible for issues relating to the requirements for human rights compliance in human rights. Possible complaints and queries contracts with suppliers (see: Supplier Selection). (internal and external) related to human rights are treated with the help of the existing adopted complaints mechanism procedures ( Tell me , Ask • Monitoring, communication, awareness and cooperation with stakeholders on human me and whistleblowing mechanism) (see Sections rights issues (Steps 5 and 6) Compliance Management System and Policies, Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Communication -on an annual basis – of the Diversity). Group’s approach and performance on human About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-15, G4-56 20 rights issues is accomplished mainly through United Nations Sustainable Development the Sustainability Report. The publication of Goals the Social Charter is an example of the effort to raise awareness within its stakeholders. On In September 2015, the United Nations adopted International Human Rights Day (December 17 targets for sustainable development 10), the President and CEO of OTE Group took (Sustainable Development Goals). Through its the opportunity with an internal message programs and activities the OTE Group contributes to make reference to the Social Charter and to achieving these goals. Moreover, OTE and urged employees to comply with the Group’s COSMOTE participate in the UN Global Compact commitments to human rights, both in their work, initiative for sustainable development. The and in their daily lives. A relevant text was also companies support the new objectives and will posted on the intranet. contribute to their achievement. Key Achievements in 2015 Participation in the FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 and Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 indices and recognition of OTE’s performance in sustainable development by international analysts and rating agencies Implementation of new interactive on-line presentation of this Sustainability Report in a simplified and understandable way: okosmosmaskalyteros.gr Publication of OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy Report Adoption of OTE Group Social Charter Upgrading of how human rights management Strengthening of the materiality analysis process, in accordance with the Group’s Corporate Risk Management approach About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-34 21 2.2 Corporate Responsibility Governance and Management Structure The new OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy The OTE Board of Directors is responsible for the reflects the integrated Corporate Responsibility performance of the Group with regards to Corporate governance structure, through which the integration Responsibility. According to the organizational of issues related to sustainable development in key structure, it is the competent body and represents business processes, is achieved. The subsidiaries of the interests of OTE as a whole on Corporate the Group develop and implement their own Corporate Responsibility issues. The OTE Board of Directors has Responsibility activities, which are harmonized with the assigned oversight of the Group’s sustainability and Corporate Responsibility strategy of OTE Group. Corporate Responsibility issues, to the Chairman and CEO of OTE Group. CR Responsibility Issues within OTE Group About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-34 22 All Group subsidiaries are responsible for environment management systems have been implementing standards, requirements and developed. These systems form the Integrated Group Corporate Responsibility objectives at Management System, which is overseen by the local level and at the same time for keeping Management Systems’ Steering Committee. More the Corporate Communications Division or the information can be found in the Environmental Corporate Responsibility Department informed. Management. They are solely responsible for the implementation of local organizational structures of Corporate The Corporate Responsibility Department Responsibility, for defining their own Corporate coordinates the implementation of the social and Responsibility objectives and tasks, for complying environmental actions of the Companies, through with legal requirements and Group Corporate the operation of Corporate Responsibility and Responsibility Strategy, and for implementing their Environmental Management Sections. With the aim own budget. Also, the Group’s subsidiaries are to being informed about trends and developments required to cooperate, within the OTE Group CR in Corporate Responsibility matters, staff members Managers Network, with the Corporate Responsibility of the Corporate Responsibility Department Department and participate in the International participated in 2015 in events and training Corporate Responsibility Managers Network of DT seminars on current and running issues of Corporate Group. More information on Corporate Responsibility Responsibility and sustainable development performance of the OTE Group’s subsidiaries (e.g. Advanced Sustainability Practitioner, DT CR presented in section OTE Group Subsidiaries Stakeholder Forum, etc.). For the management of Corporate Responsibility The organization structure is presented in the issues, appropriate quality, health and safety and following graph. Οrganization Structure About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-34 23 Interdepartmental Corporate Responsibility Team To further disseminate the principles and corporate responsibility actions to the different business units of the companies and in order to collect information relating to corporate responsibility and sustainable development performance, a joint OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Team was created with 50 representatives from all business units. Head of this Corporate Responsibility Team is the OTE Group Corporate Communications Executive Director. All members of the Team significantly contributed to the awareness and mobilization of the two companies staff members by strengthening the visibility and the achievement of corporate responsibility objectives within the companies whilst also creating a common corporate culture. Corporate Responsibility Indices have been incorporated in the self-assessment goals and the individual operational objectives of staff members of OTE Group’s Corporate Communications Division and members of the Corporate Responsibility Team. Corporate responsibility principles are taken into account in the annual performance evaluation process of all employees as described in the Performance Evaluation. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-34 24 2.3 Corporate Governance The term Corporate Governance refers to a system The fundamental principles of OTE’s Corporate of guidelines and principles adopted by a company in Governance system concern the following: order to maximize the performance of the company and protect the interests of shareholders and all its • Two-way communication between the stakeholders and the Management of the stakeholders. Recognizing the importance of corporate governance principles, and the benefits arising from Company their adoption, OTE, as a listed company, complies with legal obligations on Corporate Governance, follows • Transparency and control of the Management international practices and standards in this area and opts for the systematic implementation of these • Assurance of operational efficiency principles in all its activities. OTE applies Corporate Governance standards and In particular, OTE as a large capitalization company principles, in accordance with the following four key listed on the Athens and London Stock Exchanges priorities: complies with applicable national and international law on corporate governance, incorporating regulations • the definition of capacity of the Members of the Board of Directors (Executive, Non-Executive and and compliance practices in its mode of operation. Independent Members) and the assigning to them At the same time, aiming at transparency, efficient of respective responsibilities administration and optimum operating performance, OTE voluntarily follows, although not required by law, best practices for compliance. In this context, OTE • the establishment of procedures for the required oversight of OTE activities complies with the Hellenic Corporate Governance Code (HCG Code) for Listed Companies in force after its revision in 2013 by the Hellenic Corporate Governance • the protection of shareholder rights Council (HCGC), a joint initiative of HELEX and Hellenic Federation of Enterprises. Also, in accordance to • the enhancement of transparency and information disclosure applicable legislation, OTE publishes its Corporate Governance Statement, as a special part of the More information is given in the section Corporate Annual Report of the Board of Directors to the General Governance of COSMOTE. Meeting of Shareholders, and justifies any possible deviations from the principles of the Hellenic Corporate It should be noted that COSMOTE also continues Governance Code (principle of comply or explain ). to comply voluntarily with the same corporate governance standards, despite the cessation of trading All relevant provisions and practices are incorporated of its shares on the Athens Stock Exchange. in OTE’s Articles of Incorporation, the Internal Regulation of Operations, the OTE Group Code of More information is given in the section Corporate Conduct and other Regulations and Policies adopted Governance of OTE. by the competent corporate bodies and apply to OTE’s operations. Boards of Directors Furthermore, OTE has established the necessary The Boards of Directors (BoD) of OTE and COSMOTE mechanisms in order to amend and update at constitute the top administrative bodies of the regular intervals the aforementioned Regulations and companies. Their aim is to safeguard the general Policies aiming to ensure its compliance with existing interests of the companies and ensure their legislation and best international practices. operational efficiency. The Boards’ responsibilities About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-34 25 include, among others, convening General Assemblies of Shareholders, preparing and submitting the Annual • the Compensation and Human Resources Committee Report and financial statements to the Annual General Assembly of Shareholders and setting and approving The above committees consist of members of the the corporate strategy, while monitoring its execution. Board of Directors. The OTE General Assembly of Shareholders is also Moreover the activity of OTE Board of Directors is responsible for appointing the Independent – Non supported by the OTE Group Compliance, Enterprise Executive Members of the Board of Directors and the Risks and Corporate Governance Committee. Members of the Audit Committee, according to the criteria set by the Law, taking into account the policies OTE’s Compensation and Human Resources Committee adopted by OTE concerning the above issues. is, amongst other things, responsible for defining the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility policies. Both companies have the same person as Chairman of the BoD, who is also the CEO as provided in Article Evaluation and Compensation 10.1 and Article 19.1 of the Articles of Incorporation of OTE and COSMOTE respectively. In 2015, there was no official practice for the evaluation of OTE’s Board of Directors or of the The Chairman of the Board and CEO requests from the members of the Compensation and Human Resources Board of Directors information and opinions of their Committee. However, (a) the Audit Committee members on Corporate Responsibility issues of both Regulations were amended to include an evaluation, companies during the annual revision of the strategic at least biennially, of the effectiveness of the Audit objectives. Committee by its members and an update for the Board of Directors in order to address any identified The Annual General Meeting of June 12, 2015 appointed weaknesses and (b) the two (2) Executive Board eleven (11) members of the Board and, following the members (of which one is the Chairman of the Board resignation of one of the members on November 2, and CEO) are being assessed by the Board for the 2015, the Board of Directors of OTE continued the purpose of determining their variable remuneration company’s management and representation with the without the presence of the Board member evaluated rest of the members in accordance with Article 9, para. in the relevant discussion and decision. 4, of the Articles of Incorporation, until 16/2/2016, date which a new member was elected in order to replace The compensation of the Non-Executive and the resigned one. On December 31, 2015, before the Independent Non-Executive members of OTE Board replacement, out of the ten (10) members, two (2) were of Directors for their participation in the Board and its Executive, six (6) Non-Executive, and two (2) Independent Committees meetings are approved by the General Non-Executive. Nine (9) of the members were male and Assembly of Shareholders of OTE. The compensation one (1) female. of the Executive Members is determined by individual contracts, the terms of which are approved by COSMOTE’s Board of Directors, on 31 December 2015, the General Assembly of Shareholders of OTE. consisted of nine (9) members, elected for a three year Respectively, the compensation of COSMOTE’s Board term by the Annual General Assembly of Shareholders of Directors members is approved by the General held on June 12, 2015. All nine (9) members are male. Assembly of COSMOTE’s Shareholders. Committees According to paragraph 7 of Article 9 of the Articles of Incorporation of OTE, the Executive members of The activity of the Board of Directors of OTE is the Board of Directors (in 2015, the CEO and the supported by: OTE Group Chief Financial Officer) do not receive compensation for their participation in meetings of the • the Audit Committee Board of Directors or its Committees. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-DMA Compliance 26 2.4 Risk and Compliance Management and Policies It is important because… The compliance of an organization with applicable regulations is a minimum requirement for its responsible operation. The Management of OTE Group and its stakeholders (including mainly the shareholders and investors, the media, the State and suppliers) essentially demand the ensuring of the Group’s compliance with laws and regulations, and a zero tolerance for corruption, extortion and bribery. Business activities are subject to uncertainty. This To that purpose, OTE Group has put in place: uncertainty may originate outside the company or result from the company’s own actions. Often, uncertainty is synonymous with the definition of risk. • The Risk and Insurance Management System (RIMS) that supports Management in its By systematically tracking uncertainty, it is possible to strategic decisions, through the identification, adopt appropriate measures early on, reduce risks and evaluation and prioritization of corporate risks. make systematic use of opportunities. For this reason, a well-functioning risk and compliance management system is a core element of value-based corporate • The Compliance Management System (CMS), to develop a program for managing management in that it supports efforts to secure the non-compliance risk and planning preventive company’s success in a sustainable way. measure for its avoidance. As part of a comprehensive compliance, risk and The effectiveness and efficiency of the above insurance management process, the Executive mentioned Systems (CMS and RIMS) is monitored Director Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management and by the OTE Group Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Insurance OTE Group supports the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Committee (OTE Group GRC and Management in the performance of their tasks Committee) 1, the Audit Committee and the Board of in managing the Group and meeting their obligations. Directors. More information about the composition The business units falling under the Executive Director and the roles of the aforementioned Committees Compliance, ERM and Insurance OTE Group are and the OTE Board of Directors can be found in the responsible for the continuous development of the Corporate Governance Report 2015. enterprise risk and compliance management systems and for the OTE Group–wide insurance strategy. The competent business unit of the Executive Director Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management 1 During the implementation of the operational integration of fixed and mobile OTE Group business units, including, among others, the Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management and Insurance unit and provided that issues regarding both fixed and mobile are submitted to the Compliance, Enterprise Risk and Corporate Governance Committee-, the amendment of the Committee’s Regulation of Operations was deemed necessary. In accordance with decision D. 829 / 24.07.2015 of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of the Company, the until that time called ‘Compliance, Enterprise Risk and Corporate Governance Committee of OTE’ was renamed as ‘OTE Group Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Corporate Governance Committee’ while, at the same time, the operation of the Compliance, Enterprise Risk and Corporate Governance Committee of COSMOTE was terminated. The abovementioned Committee manages issues related to compliance, enterprise risks and corporate governance for all OTE Group companies which operate under similar systems. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-DMA Compliance 27 and Insurance OTE Group prepares and submits and Corporate Governance Committee for review, reports, at least four times a year, to the OTE evaluation and submission to the competent Group Compliance, Enterprise Risks and Corporate corporate bodies, namely the OTE Audit Committee Governance Committee for their review, evaluation and the OTE Board of Directors. and which are then submitted to the competent corporate bodies (OTE Audit Committee and OTE In implementing the Risk and Insurance Board of Directors). Management System, the following OTE Group Policies apply: 2.4.1 Enterprise Risk and • Risk and Insurance Management Policy Insurance Management System • Policy on Pensions and Risk Benefits The Risk and Insurance Management System (RIMS) Detailed information on the RIMS, the process of at OTE Group comprises a continuous process for risk identification and management followed by the the early identification, assessment, communication Group, as well as the main achievements for 2015 and controlling of corporate risks, including all are listed in the Corporate Governance Report 2015. strategic, operational and organizational monitoring and mitigating measures used for risk management. Key Achievements in 2015 Enterprise Risk Management involves adequate mapping of business risks as a basis for a better • Presentation of 4 OTE Group Risk Reports decision making, optimizing the Group’s value. Corporate risks are categorized, critical risk areas • Application of the OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management methodology in the are identified, providing a framework for risk management within the existing approval limits set implementation of the materiality analysis (see. by the Board of Directors and Senior Management. Section Materiality Analysis) This includes identifying particular events or circumstances related to OTE Group’s objectives • Harmonization of the risk categories developed by the OTE Group Enterprise Risk (risks and opportunities), evaluating the likelihood of occurrence and the level of the risk impact Management Department, with the Compliance and determining a risk strategy for response and risk categories. These actions are part of monitoring. the effort to establish a unified enterprise risk management methodology at OTE The OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management Group, aiming at, amongst other things, the business unit facilitates and monitors the harmonization with the requirements of the ISO implementation of effective risk management 31000 standard practices by business units and assists risk managers to determine the level of risk exposure • Ongoing systematic monitoring and recording of claims and property damages and relevant and to provide adequate disclosure of relevant risk information. The tasks of risk managers include revenue loss monitoring and reporting the overall situation of the risk portfolio as well as supporting the • Configuration of a unified enterprise risk management methodology for DT Group implementation of the analysis and risk assessment methodology in the respective business units. The OTE Group Enterprise Risk Management business • Adoption of a unified method of classification, assessment and reporting of risks in all OTE unit periodically submits the OTE Group Risk Report to the OTE Group Compliance, Enterprise Risks Group companies About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-56, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-DMA Compliance 28 2.4.2 Compliance Management developed to enable employees to raise questions about the implementation of System and Policies Policies, in case they are uncertain as to how they should handle issues that come Ensuring Compliance is a priority of the Group up in their daily work in Greece and abroad. Compliance constitutes a clear commitment to the principles of integrity, transparency, fairness, professionalism, team spirit and • the detection of compliance violations, the investigation thereat and the submission of respect of the rules and principles which are essential proposals and corrective actions or measures for the management of company business units. deemed necessary. In order to provide the possibility of filing a tip-off regarding violations To this purpose, in May 2009, the OTE Group of Policies, Regulations and of the Legislation adopted a Compliance Management System (CMS), in force, the Company has established the regarding the compliance of all (personnel and Whistleblowing Policy and the relevant Management) with the legislation in force and with communication channels internal policies, aiming at avoiding of risks and other legal consequences for each company and for Each employee and / or third parties (customers, each member of personnel employees, executives suppliers, partners, etc.) can, eponymously and senior Management. The CMS has been set up or anonymously, report through the relevant in the interest of each company, its employees, its Compliance communication channels any customers, its suppliers and its shareholders. delinquent behavior or express a concern or a complaint about possible violations of Corporate The key elements of the CMS are: Policies or Legislation. • The prevention of misconduct together with the compliance with the policies, in order for the In the context of implementation of the Compliance Management System, the following Policies and company and its employees to be protected Codes have been adopted: from legal consequences due to misconduct. Additionally, the CMS contributes to reducing the reputational risks and public image of the • OTE Group Code of Conduct company and the Group. Prevention is particularly achieved through: • Code of Conduct for the protection of the Individual’s Right to Privacy in the handling of • the development of Compliance Policies and Personal Data within OTE Group Procedures • the training of employees, so that they are • Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers best informed about the risks involved in the possible violation of basic rules, such as • Whistleblowing Policy • those of corruption, fraud, misuse of personal Policy on Avoiding Sexual Harassment within data, manipulation of financial statements, OTE Group disclose of inside business information, etc • the conduct of an annual Compliance Risk Assessment, in cooperation with the business • Policy on Accepting and Granting of Benefits units, for the identification and assessment of significant risks and the determination of • Policy on Donations and Sponsorships the necessary actions and measures for their controlling and mitigation • Event Policy • the communication channels that have been • Anti-Fraud Policy About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-56, G4-DMA Anti-corruption, G4-SO3, G4-SO5, G4-DMA Compliance 29 • Insider Trading Policy • Participation of 136 employees in the Compliance Training Program which included • Policy on Avoiding Corruption and other Conflicts of Interest classroom training seminars regarding the avoidance of corruption and other conflicts of interest as well as anti-fraud for managerial and • Policy on Employee Relations within OTE Group non-managerial positions of OTE and COSMOTE. • Policy on Anti-Trust Law • Organization for the first time in Greece of the annual Compliance Event under the • OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Policy and Social Charter heading DT International Compliance Days (ICDs) with the participation of 130 DT Group Compliance Officers from 30 countries. OTE has in place the necessary mechanisms to update, at regular intervals, the aforementioned Regulations • A Group wide campaign against corruption and for human rights on the occasion of the and Policies, in order to ensure compliance with applicable legislation and international best practices. International Anti-Corruption Day (December 9) and of the International Human Rights The OTE Group Code of Conduct and relevant Day (December 10) in cooperation with the Policies, inter alia, prohibit corporate donations or Corporate Communications Division OTE Group. contributions to political organizations or persons, or the use of OTE funds or assets for political purposes. During 2015, the relevant Compliance In addition, the organization of a company event, communication channels received a total of 998 the acceptance or the rejection of a sponsorship tip offs / complaints: 134 were related to rules or donation or corporate gift, must be approved and compliance policies and 864 for customer following specific rules that are defined by the complaints on technical / commercial matters which Compliance Management System and are applicable are not related to compliance risks. It is noted to all employees. that an investigation for each one of the tip offs related to compliance issues has been carried out. Achievements 2015 It should be noted also that identifying incidents of corruption results to a series of measures’ taking • Compliance Risk Assessment for OTE and COSMOTE, which was attended by forty four (44) (in accordance with the provisions of the OTE Employees’ Internal Regulation , the internal policies executives representing 80% of their activities. In and the decisions of Management/Committee) the Compliance Risk Landscape, which is annually depending on the nature of the incident. compiled, risks related to corruption are included, namely: active and passive corruption, violation Out of the 134 cases that were related to of the Procurement Policy, embezzlement, compliance rules and policies, 66 were found theft, fraud, conflict of interest and violation of not plausible, 65 were found, upon investigation, legislation on laundering money from criminal valid and appropriate per case measures were activities (money laundering). Also, risks related to adopted (strict warning, removal from positions of breaches of personal data, violations of Anti-Trust responsibility, employment contract termination, Law, incidents of abuse of inside information, etc. submission of a Statement on Conflicts of Interest, are included. establishment / implementation of new controls or revision of existing ones). • Development of a procedure for the Integrity Check and the Compliance Business The still pending case of 2014 related to Assessment of Partners , which resulted in over Compliance issues, which was imprinted in 1,250 integrity checks of suppliers, consultants the Sustainability Report 2014 (as a case in and partners. investigation process), is a legal case for which the About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-SO5 30 Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission In addition, the Executive Director of Internal Audit made a recommendation to OTE S.A. and reserved to collaborates with the DT Group for the execution further examine it following the collection of additional of common audits on the Group’s companies and information. the successful exchange of inspectors, thereby promoting communication and the exchange of In 2015, there were four (4) cases in which further best practices. collaboration with employees of OTE and COSMOTE was terminated or disciplinary sanctions were imposed for issues of fraud and serious breach of the OTE Group Code of Conduct. There were no cases of corruption with regard to contracts with business partners, which would have resulted in the cancellation of the contract or its non-renewal thereof. Moreover, there were two (2) cases of companies which have been excluded from tendering procedures because of serious violations of the Procurement Policy. In 2015, there were no convictions by judicual authorities for corruption against OTE, COSMOTE or their employees regarding their job. Finally, in addition to investigating tip offs received via the Compliance communication channels, the competent Compliance Officers investigate also cases regarding possible violations of the regulatory framework, following a relevant request by the OTE Group Chief Human Resources Officer. More information can be found in the Corporate Governance Report 2015. 2.4.3 Internal Audit In 2015, the Executive Director of OTE Group’s Internal Audit, with a renewed organizational structure, succesfully completed audits in Fixed and Mobile operations and Subsidiaries. She agreed to the adoption of more than 800 new Administrative actions to strengthen the audit environment in the Group’s companies, contributing directly or indirectly to the optimization of costs by achieving reductions in operating costs and strengthening of relevant checkpoints. The adoption of a common methodology and harmonized procedures for the carrying out of audits, as well as the use of a software tool for the organization of audit work, resulted in the successful completion of the annual audit plan. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 31 2.5 Stakeholders OTE Group recognizes the role of stakeholders, as factors that have a direct impact or influence on its sustainable development. An ongoing dialogue with representatives of all stakeholders, without exclusions and discrimination, is a core principle for the Group. Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE redefined their stakholders and identified the subgroups that make up these groups of stakeholders in order to better and more completely monitor communication procedures and all stakeholders needs. Senior Management participated in finalizing the identification of stakeholders in early 2015, and the final list was approved by the Chairman and CEO of the Group. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 32 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE Customers and prospective Business Science, research and education customers • Youngsters and young adults • ATHEX-listed companies • CR and sustainability research • Families • Other large corporations institutions • Middle-aged people • Small and medium-sized • Public Policy and business research • Senior citizens enterprises institutions • Small and medium-sized enterprises • Trade and industry associations • Universities • Large corporations • Co-operation partners, subsidiaries • Schools • Telecommunications Service Providers • Competitors • Student organizations and university • Public authorities associations • Consumer organizations and interest • Technology and Innovation Research groups Institutions • ICT SMEs NGOs and interest groups Media State / Government entities • Humanitarian organizations and • Daily and weekly newspapers • State institutions charities • Newswires and press agencies • Embassies and consulates • Business ethics groups • TV and radio • Supervisory and regulatory • Foundations • Internet, news sites and other authorities • Environmental protection organizations interest • Communities, local authorities and • Business non-governmental • Social media and blogs their representatives organizations • Journalist associations / media • International organizations • CR related organizations groups • EU level entities • Ownership and media commercial executives Employees, prospective employees Suppliers Analysts and investors and their representatives • Employees • First-tier suppliers • Shareholders • Board of Directors • Sub-suppliers • Bondholders • Management Board • Auditors and certification bodies • Financial institutions • Management Team • Consultants • Private investors • Unions and work councils • Funds, asset managers and analysts • Applicants and prospective employees • Rating agencies • Scholars and trainees / interns • Analyst organizations and • Universities / students associations • Institutional investors About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 33 2.5.1 Stakeholder Engagement Approach Both companies operate in accordance with the principles of the ΑΑ1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard, namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. The engagement of stakeholders in this dialogue is ensured by: a) Conducting a CR stakeholder and opinion leader survey regarging sustainable development b) Developing a systematic dialogue and meetings with various NGOs and participating in events on sustainable development In 2015, meetings were held with representatives of charitable institutions, to exchange know-how and views on the management and implementation of important social initiatives and also particular issues such as employee voluntearism. All the above, as well as those listed in the Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue, show how stakeholders are involved and demonstrate how stakeholder involvement forms the basis for the evolution of the sustainable development programs and objectives of OTE Group. Responding to the concerns of NGOs for the support of programs for children in need, for critical emergency issues pertaining to vulnerable groups (refugees), for students and innovation in education and young entrepreneurship, OTE and COSMOTE: • strengthened their respective initiatives (e.g. the COSMOTE Scholarship Program , the educational programs at OTE Telecommunications Museum and the corporate volunteering initiatives) • launched new initiatives (e.g. the support of the Educational Robotics Competition for high school children and the realization of the competition BUSINESS IT EXCELLENCE ) • implemented significant refugee support activities More details on these activities of OTE and COSMOTE, presented in Society About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 34 2.5.2 Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue The following table provides an overview of OTE and COSMOTE stakeholder dialogue, the main topics raised and the way the two companies respond to them. Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE CUSTOMERS AND PROSPECTIVE CUSTOMERS OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Customer satisfaction surveys Annual CR surveys Annual Tracking studies Quarterly Call centers Ongoing • Activation of products, quality of services (in Customer account managers Ongoing relation to costs) • Technical support (e.g. Social media Ongoing web hosting, DNS services, IPVPN) Sales network Ongoing • Commercial and billing issues • Mobile telephony Companies’ websites Ongoing Marketplace operations Contributing to Local Well-being • Improving the way Key account managers Ongoing and Sustainability customer complaints are handled Electromagnetic Fields Presentations on OTE systems Ongoing • Safe use of services • EMF Companies’ mail boxes Ongoing • Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) Press releases Ongoing • Introduction of new technologies Corporate announcements Ongoing • Data security and privacy • Road reconstructions, Business Conferences Ongoing retaining walls etc. Business Customer Events Ongoing Advertisements Ongoing CR Report Annual About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 35 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE BUSINESS OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Press Releases Ongoing Economic Results Releases Quarterly • Corporate governance Roadshows Ongoing • Economic performance • Market Presence Meetings Ongoing • Procurement Practices ΟΤΕ Group • Employment OTE and COSMOTE • Joint actions to improve Corporate Governance Conference calls Ongoing the competitive Marketplace environment and influence Annual Reports Annual Human Resources the Greek state policies • Actions to reduce cost and Presentations Ongoing optimize coverage Trainings Ongoing CR Report Annual SCIENCE, RESEARCH AND EDUCATION OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Meetings Frequently Conference calls Ongoing Ε-mails Ongoing • New technology products Internet Safety and Public Dissemination activities (workshops, and services Awareness Frequently conferences, etc.) • Communication safety Research and Innovation • Technology awareness Supporting Education Conferences Ongoing Surveys Ongoing CR Report Annual About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 36 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE NGOS AND INTEREST GROUPS OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Meetings Bi-annually CR surveys Annual • Importance of adopting CR • Internet Safety public Conferences Ongoing education • Support for vulnerable groups Sustainability Report Emails Ongoing and charities (all sections) • Social Contribution Working groups Ongoing • EMF, Biodiversity • Environmental performance Consultation Ongoing CR Report Annual MEDIA OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Announcements / Press releases Ongoing • Management • HR issues Informational material Ongoing • Industry developments and market structure • Technology advances/network Events / Press conferences Ongoing infrastructure Sustainability Report • New product launches (all sections) Other media contacts Ongoing • TV market • Technology and CR surveys Annual telecommunications • Business and finance policies • Culture CR Report Annual • CR About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 37 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE STATE / GOVERNMENT ENTITIES OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Consultations on proposed laws and regulatory frameworks for Ongoing telecommunication markets • Implementation of regulatory measures applying to OTE Written or verbal communication with Corporate Governance Ongoing • Issues of effective regulatory and public sector bodies Compliance Management regulatory adjustment System and Policies • Specialized national goals Dialogue with representatives of Responsible Competition Ongoing for European Digital national and local authorities Expanding Broadband and Agenda Strategy • Transparency Mobile Internet in Greece CR surveys Annual Responsible Marketing • Governance Contributing to Local Well-being • Economic growth Attendance in associations and unions Ongoing and Sustainability • Energy and environment Environment • Infrastructure construction Systematic liaison with local authorities Ongoing and maintenance (mostly regional) • Social security CR Report Annual About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 38 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE EMPLOYEES, PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYEES AND THEIR REPRESENTATIVES OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness OTE and COSMOTE Intranets Ongoing Decisions on all important Company Ongoing issues Meetings with employees Ongoing Negotiations with unions and work Periodic • Labor cost rationalization councils and alignment Emails from the CEO-Chairman and • Organizational Periodic effectiveness General Directors • Collective Bargaining Agreements Employee satisfaction surveys Biennial • Fair employment policy (diversity, workEmployee surveys results roll out and life balance, nonPeriodic follow up process discrimination, equal opportunities) CR surveys Annual • Health and safety CR Strategy and Management • Employee development Data Security and Privacy Events Periodic • Leadership Employees • Training Employee Volunteering Performance appraisal system Annual • Performance management • Recruitment Trainings Ongoing • Talent management • Engagement and satisfaction Feedback tools Ongoing • Employees benefits • Corporate volunteerism Other surveys Annual • Strategy and all corporate information dissemination Workshops / labs Periodic • Compliance issues • Security matters Formal company policies / processes Ongoing Newsletter (electronic) Bi-weekly Internal Communication Campaigns Ongoing CR Report Annual About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 39 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE SUPPLIERS OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Consultation and dialogue on procurement policy / supplier code of Ongoing conduct issues Attendance in sector-based unions Ongoing • Tender criteria and competitions Meetings Ongoing • Communication on supplies issues • Transparency ΟΤΕ Group CR surveys Annual • Market Policy OTE and COSMOTE • Economic growth Strategy for the Marketplace Suppliers’ evaluation Ongoing • Inserting CR criteria, Responsible Procurement and including environmental Supply Chain Management Negotiations Ongoing criteria • Procurement best practices Presentation of new products Ongoing • Procurement trends Consultation and dialogue on technical Periodic issues CR Report Annual About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 40 Stakeholders ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE ANALYSTS AND INVESTORS OTE’s and COSMOTE’s Type of Dialogue Frequency Main Topics Raised Responsiveness Investor Relations Department Ongoing communication Annual General Shareholders Meeting Annual Annual, Corporate governance report and Annual CR report CR surveys Annual Participation in corporate responsibility Ongoing ratings Private meetings Ongoing • Financial performance Conference Calls Quarterly • Short and longer term outlook Meetings of executives Ongoing • Competitive environment • Cashflow Adoption and implementation of policies • Debt issuance and Ongoing Sustainability Report and principles repayment (all sections) • Dividends Daily collaboration Ongoing • Group strategy and results • Outlook on labor relations, Conferences arranged by brokers Regularly regulatory decisions, economic conditions • Climate change policy CR Surveys Annual Dedicated Website (www.otewholesale.gr) Ongoing Sales Department Ongoing OTE Systems presentations to telecom Ongoing provider Special mail box (otewholesale@ote.gr) Ongoing Press Releases Ongoing Corporate announcements Ongoing About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-18, G4-26 41 2.6 Materiality Analysis The companies worked to further strengthen From this analysis, about 74 topics emerged initially, their approach to the analysis and evaluation which were grouped into the following 10 thematic of essential corporate responsibility issues. categories: Specifically they proceeded to an initial identification of possible material issues, which 1. Governance and Managment comprised the issues list for assessment by the management OTE and COSMOTE. The two 2. Digital inclusion companies took into consideration: 3. Data Privacy and freedom of expression • The already recognized important issues for OTE and COSMOTE 4. Customer Relations • The requirements of the guidelines of GRI G4 5. Role of ICT products and services • The content of the GRI supplement for the telecommunications sector 6. Marketplace 7. Supply chain • Important issues for the telecommunications industry, stemming from the sustainability 8. Employees performance and socially responsible investments analysis 9. Society • Mapping of the main issues for telecommunications by the Sustainability 10. Environment, low carbon footprint and circular economy. Accounting Standards Board In 2015, to determine the significance and impact of • The key issues for the ICT industry as they emerged from the analysis of the GeSI each topic, a rating scale was developed based on the Group’s Corporate Risk Management approach. The initiative, in 2014 Executive Directors of OTE Group, as top management representatives, were asked to evaluate these • The major issues identified by other telecommunications companies material issues due to their knowledge of the Groups operations. The Executive Directors rated, for each of the identified issues, the probability of its occurence within the next two years and the magnitude of its impact on OTE and COSMOTE. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-18, G4-26 42 The issues to be examined included topics that may Management member responses were analyzed in constitute risks or opportunities for the operation of order to ascertain the significance of the issues for the the companies. It is important to mention that OTE sustainable operation of OTE and COSMOTE. Group’s management has assessed them, taking into account existing company practices, and therefore The 74 issues were then grouped into 28 new broader also the effectiveness of the practices, measures issues, which through an online questionnaire, were and activities already being implemented by the presented for evaluation to company stakeholders. companies. The questionnaire (in Greek and English) was available from late November 2015 to early January 2016. A Twelve OTE Group Executive Directors, or their total of 3,387 responses from all stakeholder groups representatives, participated in the evaluation covering were collected. the full range of corporate work. Participation of Stakeholders in the Materiality Assessment of OTE and COSMOTTE State / Government Employees, prospective employees entities and their representatives 15 648 Media 22 Shareholders, bondholders, investors and analysts 25 NGOs and interest groups 31 Suppliers Customers and 34 prospective customers 2464 Science, research and education 41 Business 107 The responses collected were also analyzed by each stakeholder group. The results of this analysis by management and stakeholder groups of significant economic, environmental and social issues is reflected in the chart below. It is worth noting that these results were approved by OTE Group’s Management. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-18, G4-19 43 Importance of Financial, Environmental and Social Issues for the Stakeholders 3 2 1 20 7 25 22 12 9 27 10 28 8 6 11 24 23 21 26 16 19 5 17 4 18 15 13 14 Importance of Financial, Environmental and Social Issues for OTE and COSMOTE 1. Digital Inclusion 16. Governance and management 2. Safe use of products and services 17. Responsible competitiveness 3. Data security and privacy 18. Economic Performance 4. Marketing communications 19. Business resilience 5. Enabling role of ICT products and services 20. Compliance, anti-corruption and bribery 6. Product and service quality and labeling 21. Impact to Society and the Environment 7. Privacy and freedom of expression 22. Research and Technology 8. Employment 23. Economic Impacts 9. Employee health, safety and wellness 24. Energy consumption and climate change 10. Training and education mitigation 11. Responsible labor practices 25. Electromagnetic radiation 12. Respect for human rights 26. Water and land use management 13. Stakeholder engagement 27. Environmental burden 14. Supply Chain (suppliers) 28. Waste Management 15. Materials used in products The 2015 Sustainability Report touches upon all of the above issues, while the 8 who have received higher scores by management and stakeholders are recognized as being the most material. All available data are evaluated, so as to be used in the planning of the Group’s operations and strategy. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 44 Most important issues for Related GRI G4 Issue Demarcation (inside / outside companies) management and stakeholders The issue is primarily internal and has an impact 3 Data security and privacy Customer Privacy on the operation of the companies, and is likely to affect all their stakeholders. The issue is primarily internal and has an impact Employees Health and 9 Employees health, safety and wellness on the operation of the companies, their employees Safety and their suppliers. The issue is primarily internal, has an impact on the operation of the companies, and may affect 17 Responsible Competitiveness Anti-Competitive Behavior their shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. The issue is primarily internal, has an impact on the operation of the companies, and may affect 18 Economic Performance Financial Performance their shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. The issue is primarily internal, has an impact on the operation of the companies, and may affect 19 Business resilience their shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. The issue is primarily internal, has an impact on Combating corruption and the operation of the companies, and may affect 20 Compliance, anti-corruption and bribery bribery, Compliance their shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. The issue is internal as it is dependent upon and affects the operation of enterprises, and external 25 Electromagnetic radiation Customer Health and Safety as its potential impact could affect shareholders, employees, suppliers and customers. The issue is internal as it is dependent upon and affects the operation of enterprises, and external 28 Waste Management Waste and Waste water as any potential impact can particularly affect employees, suppliers and customers. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 45 Analysis of material issues per stakeholder group NOTE: The most important issues are presented by stakeholder group. The most important topic for each group is presented in a darker colour. G4-15, G4-16 46 2.7 Memberships, Ratings and Awards 2.7.1 Memberships OTE and COSMOTE actively participate in and are informed on the trends and developments of corporate responsibility and sustainable development. In 2015, the two Companies maintained their voluntary participation, through their membership in a number of strategically important national and international bodies. An indicative list of organizations and initiatives of which OTE and / or COSMOTE are active members, is given in the following Table: Organization / Initiative Company Participation Type NATIONAL LEVEL Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Members. OTE is a member since 2001 and COSMOTE OTE /COSMOTE Responsibility since 2005. Members since 2008. OTE and COSMOTE have committed, through their CEO, to implement, disclose, Hellenic branch of UN Global Compact (UNGC) OTE /COSMOTE and promote the 10 universal principles of UNGC and to release a Communication on Progress (CoP) report annually. Federation of Hellenic Enterprises (SEV) Council COSMOTE Member since 2014. for Sustainable Development Participation since 2014, as Ambassadors of Sustainability . Initiative Sustainable Greece 2020 aims to develop a structured dialogue and the creation of Initiative Sustainable Greece 2020 OTE /COSMOTE methodologies and tools that will support Greece's course towards sustainable development at both the microeconomic and macro level. Corporate Responsibility Institute, Greece OTE Member since 2008. Global Sustain OTE /COSMOTE Member since 2007. Road Safety Institute Panos Mylonas COSMOTE Member and sponsor since 2009. Roads to the Future Alliance for safety and Member and sponsor since 2009. A Memorandum of COSMOTE courtesy on the road Cooperation has been signed. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-15, G4-16 47 Organization / Initiative Company Participation Type EUROPEAN LEVEL ETNO Sustainability Working Group • Digital Single Market • Digital Infrastructure Founding member of ETNO since 1992 and member of • Spectrum OTE Sustainability Working Group since 2007. OTE signed the • Naming, Addressing & Numbering Data Sustainability Charter in 2011. Protection, Trust & Security European Telecommunications Standards COSMOTE Member since 1998. Institute (ETSI) INTERNATIONAL LEVEL GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) OTE Member since 2010. Global Reporting Initiative OTE / COSMOTE Member and Organizational Stakeholder since 2007. Member of the World Association of Mobile GSM Association (GSM) COSMOTE Communications Services since 1997. COSMOTE actively participates in many of its workgroups. International Telecommunication Union– (ITU) OTE Associated member, since the beginning of the 90’s. CFSI (Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) OTE Member since 2010. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 48 2.7.2 Ratings The business activities of OTE and COSMOTE aim from sustainable development performance and at adding value to the sustainable development SRI analysts. Working closely with the OTE Group of the Companies. The Corporate Communications Investor Relations Division, as well as all other Division of the OTE Group through its Corporate companies' organizational units as appropriate, Responsibility Department coordinates, monitors and they respond fully to these requests for further manages the requests received by the Companies information. Since 2008, OTE meets all the requirements and is a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series. OTE remains in the index upon completion of the new evaluation in December 2015, having greatly improved its performance and receiving a 4.4 total score (ESG Rating Absolute Score with maximum degree 5) and 89 in the relevant score of the industry (ESG Rating ICB Supersector Relative Percentile Score with the highest level 100). OTE is included in two sustainability indices of Euronext Vigeo, the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120, from December 2013, and on Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70, since June 2015. Amongst leading companies in the Eurozone and Developing Markets, OTE is the only Greek company that is part of these indices. In September 2015, OTE was upgraded to a Prime company, a title awarded to companies-leaders of each sector by oekom research, in recognition of the fact that OTE negotiable bonds and shares qualify for responsible investment. ΟTE participates, since 2010, in the CDP (known previously as Carbon Disclosure Project ) on climate change, completing the respective questionnaire and notifying the required information to the platform of the CDP. During the 2015 evaluation OTE received scores of 94 on transparency / completeness of its replies to the questionnaire (Disclosure Score – with a score range of 0-100) and C for its performance (Performance Band with scores A, B, C, D and E), ranking it above the average of companies in the industry. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 49 Forum Ethibel has included OTE in its Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register since January 2014. The selection of OTE shows that the company performs better than the average company in the industry in corporate responsibility issues, and therefore is considered eligible for investments using ethical and sustainable entrepreneurship criteria. In the 2014 assessment as well as in the most recent one completed in early 2016, OTE obtained a C score (under the A, B, C, D, E and M scale used). Since 2008, OTE participates in the Corporate Responsibility Index CRI Greece, the organization which is run by the Institute of Corporate Social Responsibility, in collaboration with BITC (Business in the Community). OTE and COSMOTE’s assessment for 2015, resulted in the Diamond Distinction. 2.7.3 Awards Companies rating, OTE and COSMOTE received distinction in the following categories: During 2015, OTE and COSMOTE received a number of awards and recognitions for their performance. • BRAVO GOVERNANCE for the OTE Corporate Responsibility Report COSMOTE 2013 • In the Ethos Sustainability Awards 2015 , • BRAVO IN ACTION for OTE and COSMOTE organized by Ethos Events & Money Magazine, Sponsorship of the periodic Exhibition OTE and COSMOTE won 1st place in the category The Antikythera Shipwreck: the Ship, the Environmental Protection Action 2015 with its Treasures, the Mechanism and the New Climate Change Program. Voting for selection of Underwater Excavation in Antikythera the best companies was held via the conference website and 2,123 people voted. • BRAVO ENVIRONMENT for monitoring and reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions. • In the Mobile Excellence Awards 2015 organized by Boussias Communications and • In the Hellenic Responsible Business Awards 2015 organized by Boussias Communications ELTRUN, the Laboratory of Electronic Commerce and Marketing Week magazine, OTE and and Business at Athens University of Economics, COSMOTE received the following awards: COSMOTE received the Gold Prize in the category of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in the Mobile • GOLD in the Education Scholarships / Business Sector and the subcategory Innovative Large Enterprise category for its scholarships Mobile R & D project for the e-Call project. and education initiatives • In the BRAVO Sustainability Awards for • SILVER in the Energy Management catergory for the integrated management Sustainable Development and Responsible of its energy and emissions of greenhouse Business, organized by the non-profit gases. organization QualityNet Foundation, in the Large About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 50 • In Energy Mastering Awards 2015 organized by Plant Management of Boussias • In the BITE (Business IT Excellence) Awards 2015 organized by the Boussias Communications Communications, the companies received the netweek magazine and ELTRUN, the Electronic following awards: Commerce Laboratory and Business of the Economics University of Athens, OTE Group and • The OTE Energy Management App received Cisco received the GOLD prize in the category the GOLD award in the category Energy Extroverted Information Systems and Web Intelligence Software . Applications / Services for the implementation of • The COSMOTE Driving Performance service innovative IT and Communications solutions in the Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki. received the GOLD Award in the category Smart & Efficient Mobility . • The improved energy efficiency of the OTE and COSMOTE telecommunications network received the award SILVER in the category Telecommunications . • The integrated energy savings plan of OTE and COSMOTE received the SILVER award in the category Energy Conservation . • In the Waste & Recycling Awards 2015 , organized by the Plant Management of Boussias Communications, the action Little effort, big effect the recycling program in the OTE Group of Companies buildings received the GOLD award in the Recycling category (Compost Materials Recovery). • In the CR Reporting Awards 2015 organized by CorporateRegister.com Limited, the 2014 OTE and COSMOTE Sustainability Report was shortlisted in the best candidates of the Best Carbon Disclosure and Innovation in Reporting categories. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-8, G4-9 51 2.8 Corporate Responsibility Performance 2015 The key 2015 financial, environmental and social performance indicators for the two Companies are presented in the Table below. More information on performance analysis, computation assumptions or clarifications for the data presented can be found in the relevant sections of the Report. Main Performance Indicators Environment Society and Governance (ESG KPIs) 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMOTE Financial Performance Total revenues (mn €) 1,536.0 1,165.0 Payroll and employee benefits (mn €) 331.9 85.5 Total operating expenses (mn €) 1,321.9 964.6 EBITDA (mn€) 538.0 401.1 Pro forma EBITDA1 (mn €) 618.0 405.7 Income taxes paid (mn €) 9.4 123.9 Fees and commissions to third parties (incl. taxes other than income taxes and regulatory charges) 335.3 211.9 (mn €) Marketplace Fixed-line subscribers (number of subscribers) 2,698,912 Mobile telephony subscribers (number of subscribers) 7,398,986 Broadband subscribers (number of subscribers) 1,532,879 TV subscribers (number of subscribers) 446,499 Loyalty index (TRIM) 73 68 Total CAPEX (incl. spectrum payments) (mn €) 237.9 209.0 Evaluation, on the basis of sustainability criteria, of suppliers (% of the procurement volume) 90 94 Customer Complaints (number of customers) 219,739 117,251 Percentage of complaints received from customers that were resolved within 2 days 53 68 About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-8, G4-9 52 Main Performance Indicators Environment Society and Governance (ESG KPIs) 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMOTE Employees Employees with permanent contracts (number of employees) 8,496 2,008 Women employees (%) 29 51 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 99 92 Employee turnover as percentage of total employees(%) 7,5 3,1 Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees 60 14 Work-related non-fatal accidents (lost days) 2,4962 3403 Health and safety training (hours/employee) 0.30 0.92 Total training hours (hours/employee) 18.81 17.06 Number of employees trained 8,500 1,906 Number of complaints received regarding discrimination which led to decisions (number of 0 0 complaints) Society Sponsorships Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 1,635,031 1,628,640 Social programs (program number) 27 Voluntary participation of employees in corporate responsibility actions (number of participants) 10,699 People supported (number of people/estimated) 1,264,295 About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-9 53 Main Performance Indicators Environment Society and Governance (ESG KPIs) 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMOTE Environment Electricity consumption (GWh) 252.20 169.18 District heating and fuel consumption in buildings and installations (GWh) 14.07 14.35 Fuel consumption in vehicles fleet (GWh) 29.99 7.73 Direct (scope 1) CO2 emissions (t) 10,736.45 5,716.42 Indirect (scope 2) CO2 emissions (t) 163,678.30 109,795.11 Hazardous waste (t) 413.61 73.15 Non-hazardous technical waste from telecom operations (t) 5,768.94 130.86 Recycling of phone devices (mobile and fixed) and accessories4 (t) 12.86 9.19 Specialized measurements on EMF conducted by scientific personnel of the company and 60 independent institutions 1 The impact of Voluntary Pension Programs and Reorganization Plans is excluded. 2 The number of days lost refers to calendar days. 3 The number of days lost refers to working days. 4 The amounts collected in the Germanos Retail network are included in the quantities of COSMOTE. More information about the development of the above key performance indicators over time is presented in the file ΟΤΕ Group Key Performance Indicators About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 54 2.9 2015 and 2016 Goals 2.9.1 CR Strategy and Management 2015 Goals 2015 Performance CR Strategy and Management OTE-COSMOTE: Publishing of Annual Sustainable See Report Profile and Global Reporting Initiative Content Development Report in accordance with the GRI G4 F Index instructions. OTE-COSMOTE: New Assesment of substantive sustainable F See Materiality Analysis development issues for the companies OTE-COSMOTE: Further improvement of the online F See Report Profile and okosmosmaskalyteros.gr presentation of the Sustainability Report. Risk and Compliance Management OTE-COSMOTE: Attestation of the Enterprise Risk The need for aligning the unified OTE Group ERM Management System in accordance with the requirements Methodology with all risk assessment methodologies IP of the Standard ISO 31000 – Risk Management Principles of other business units. The project is expected to be and Guidelines. completed in Q1 2016. OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancement of risk culture through Actions to enhance the enterprise risk management culture continuous actions for training and communication to all IP through trainings and continuous communication to all business units. business units will also continue systematically in 2016. OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of the unified Enterprise F See Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System Risk Management DT Group Methodology. The survey was conducted with 58.25% participation. The OTE-COSMOTE: Employee survey regarding Compliance results showed high satisfaction for Compliance services F issues, which will be addressed to senior executives. and proposed new training issues e.g. on combating corruption. In recent years, a major transformation effort has occurred within OTE Group focusing on Customer Experience. With OTE-COSMOTE: Review of the procedures and operations innovative and creative methods it is ensured that every applied in Customer Care aiming at reducing incidents F training aiming toward better customer services becomes related to Compliance issues. a strong positive experience, which in turn is transferred to customers. Internal Audit OTE-COSMOTE: Carrying out of over 75 inspections in F See Internal Audit accordance with the 2015 annual Internal Audit program. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 55 2016 Goals CR Strategy and Management OTE-COSMOTE: Assessment of the possible aspects of the Group's strategic approaches to the Sustainable Development Goals of the UN and explore ways of convergence. • Maintain the participation in International Sustainable Development Indicators (SRI). • Further improvement of the communication of the on line version of the Corporate Sustainability Report. • Association of the Group’s Corporate Strategy with the Sustainable Development goals of the United Nations. • Participation in the Advanced CoP of the Global Compact. Risk and Compliance Management OTE-COSMOTE: Attestation of the Enterprise Risk Management System in accordance with the standard ISO 31000 Principles and Guidelines. OTE-COSMOTE: Enhancement of risk culture through training and information initiatives for all business units. OTE-COSMOTE: GAP Analysis of the existing Compliance Management System (CMS) in accordance with the ISO 19600 Guidelines. 2.9.2 Marketplace 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Internet Safety COSMOTE: Strengthening of public awareness initiatives on See Internet Safety and Public Awareness, Products and F the safe use of different technologies by children. Services for Safe Use and Raising Public Awareness Data Security and Privacy Policy OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of a system for recording actions and protection of database (Database Activity F See Data Security and Privacy Monitoring). OTE-COSMOTE: ISO 27001 Security Certification. F See Data Security and Privacy OTE-COSMOTE: Expansion of the periodic monitoring system F See Data Security and Privacy for the, not installed, secutriy patches OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening of physical security measures F 40 Stores strengthened (See Data Security and Privacy) (structural interventions / security systems) in 25 stores. 30 buildings strengthened and full support actions taken via OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening of physical security measures the installation of Access control electronic systems, Intrusion (structural interventions / security systems) in 20 critical F Detection and CCTV in the Rendi, Psychiko and Emmanouil buildings. Benaki buildings. (See Data Security and Privacy) OTE: Installation of access control system in at least 4,000 Was not achieved, as the relevant tender was repeated with N KVs and cabins. revised technical specifications. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 56 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Business Continuity OTE-COSMOTE: Registration and communications on the The recording and communications process on the risks and IP risks and their impact to Business Continuity in all Divisions. their impact has been launched and is ongoing. Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management OTE-COSMOTE: Evaluation of suppliers representing 70% See Supplier Evaluation and 90% of the annual procurement volume of OTE and F COSMOTE respectively. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved 2016 Goals Internet Safety OTE-COSMOTE: Developing initiatives in order to promote responsible and safe use of mobile phones, while driving. Data Security and Privacy Policy OTE-COSMOTE: Extension of a system for the logging of actions and Database Activity Monitoring with the addition of a system to deter website attacks. OTE-COSMOTE: Extension of the ISO27001certification of the Information Security System. OTE: Installation of access control system in at least 4,000 outdoor line distribution cabinets (KV) and cabins. OTE-COSMOTE: Extending security services to other companies. OTE-COSMOTE: Implemention of encryption in corporate electronic communications. OTE: Application of solution against piracy for TV OTE. OTE-COSMOTE: Setting up of system for information security compliance monitoring). OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening of physical security measures (structural interventions / security systems) in 23 stores. OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening of physical security measures (structural interventions / security systems) in 25 buildings. OTE: Installation of a new management system and a new access control system in 50 outdoor line distribution cabinets (KV) and cabins. COSMOTE: Installation of Video Verification solution in 25 Base Stations to provide the corresponding service from external ARC (ARC). Business Continuity OTE-COSMOTE: Updating corporate risks and Ιmplementation of Business Continuity program. Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management OTE-COSMOTE: Consolidation of OTE and COSMOTE Supplier Code of Conducts. OTE-COSMOTE: Integration in supplier contracts of the requirement to comply with the Social Charter of the OTE Group. OTE-COSMOTE: Evaluation of OTE and COSMOTE suppliers representing 80% and 90% of the annual supply volume respectively. OTE-COSMOTE: Assurance that 100% of Suppliers with contracts above € 50,000 are checked for integrity. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 57 2.9.3 Employees 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Employees OTE-COSMOTE: Development of HR with emphasis on (1) Leadership programs for each hierarchical level, and on F See Employee Selection and Employee Training (2) specially designed employee training and development programs. OTE-COSMOTE: Streamlining of costs and harmonizing of See Employment και Organizational Transformation and F procedures and policies. Effectiveness OTE-COSMOTE: Development of talent management F See Employee Selection programs for external candidates and employees. OTE-COSMOTE: Harmonization of health and safety F See Health and Safety approaches. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved 2016 Goals Employees OTE-COSMOTE: One HR: harmonization, simplification and digitization of HR processes. OTE-COSMOTE: Talent management and development. OTE-COSMOTE: Leadership Skills Enhancement for all hierarchical levels. OTE-COSMOTE: Design of Job Families Model. OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening of interdepartmental mobility (Job Rotation) of workers with a view to their professional development. OTE-COSMOTE: Digitizing of basic Health and Safety activities. 2.9.4 Society 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Society OTE-COSMOTE: Retaining of important CR initiatives to Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups and Children and F support children and students. Supporting Education OTE-COSMOTE: Implementation of a new CRinitiative in F See Supporting Education order to further support education. OTE-COSMOTE: Further actions to support local Contributing to Prosperity and Sustainability of Local F communities throughout Greece. Communities OTE-COSMOTE: Further systemization of corporate F See Environmental Strategy volunteering initiatives. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 58 2016 Goals Society OTE-COSMOTE: Continue the contribution to the humanitarian crisis, due to the refugee flows. OTE-COSMOTE: New initiative for the education of children to improve technological skills. OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening corporate voluntary activities. OTE-COSMOTE: Strengthening supportive actions related to the improvement of child care conditions in hospitals. 2.9.5 Environment 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Environmental Mangement ΟΤΕ: Extention of the scope of OTE’s Environmental F See Key Achievements in 2015 Management System in 3 new buildings. OTE-COSMOTE: Upgrade / optimization of operation of Work on system upgrade / optimization was completed. The information system developed at OTE Group to collect F upgraded system was utilized on OTE Group level to also environmental data. cover related reporting obligations. Climate Change Participation in the DT Group’s climate change strategy which sets a reduction target of 20% for the DT Group’s OTE-COSMOTE: Contribution to achieving the GHG emission CO2 emissions by 2020 (with 2008 as the base year). The reduction goals set by the DT Group level, the design and F transition to a more energy efficient network leading to CO2 implementation of energy saving actions and the reduction of emissions reduction is the first priority. In this respect, specific CO2 emissions. energy-saving and CO2 emissions mitigation actions are planned and implemented on an annual basis. ΟΤΕ: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) by CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) in 2015 were around F 13% relative to 2008 emissions. 15% lower than emissions in 2008. COSMOΤΕ: Reducing of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) in 2015 were about P by 3.5% compared to 2008 emissions 1.7% lower than emissions in 2008. Energy OTE: Reduction of electricity consumption in the Electricity consumption in the telecommunication network in P telecommunications network by 2% compared to 2014. 2015 remained practically at 2014 levels (0.3% increase). Electricity savings in the telecommunications network COSMOTE: 2% electricity savings in the telecommunications F (approximately 11 GWh) corresponds to 7% of the relevant network. consumption. OTE: Improvement of the energy efficiency of the service F See Energy Consumption vehicle fleet by 15%. COSMOTE: Improving the energy efficiency of the vehicle fleet F The average efficiency of the vehicle fleet improved by 9%. by 5%. INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 59 2015 Goals 2015 Performance Waste OTE-COSMOTE: Extended scope of integrated packaging F See Key Achievements in 2015 and Waste Management recycling program in 10 new buildings nationwide. OTE-COSMOTE: 100% recycling of hazardous and technical F See Waste Management waste. Electromagnetic Radiation COSMOTE: Installment of 8 additional measuring stations. F See Monitoring the levels of EMF Radiation INDEX KEY: F = Fully P = Partially IP: In Progress N = Not Achieved 2016 Goals Climate Change ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE: Contribution to the achievement of the CO2 emissions reduction target set for 2020 at DT Group level, by planning and implementing measures for energy conservation and CO2 emissions reduction. ΟΤΕ: Reduction of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) by 19% compared to 2008 levels. COSMOTE: Restriction of the increase of CO2 emissions (scope 1 and scope 2) to 6% compared to 2008. Energy ΟΤΕ COSMOTE: Certification of Energy Management System according to the provisions of the ISO 50001 : 2011. OTE: Reduction of electricity consumption in the telecom network by 1.5% compared to 2015. COSMOTE: Restriction of the increase of electricity consumption in the telecom network at 3% compared to 2015. OTE: Energy performance of service vehicles at about 8 lt/100 km (gasoline) and at 10 lt/100 km (diesel). COSMOTE: Improvement of energy performance of vehicles fleet by 5%. Waste ΟΤΕ-COSMOTE: Expansion of the integrated recycling program for packaging materials in 2 additional buildings. OTE-COSMOTE: Recycling of 100% of hazardous and technical waste withdrawn. EMP COSMOTE: Installation of 9 additional measurement stations. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 60 3.0 Marketplace OTE Group invests in the continuous improvement of its local telecommunications infrastructure and the expansion of its services and products using the best available technology. It operates under a customer oriented philosophy, to maximize the satisfaction of its clients but also in a responsible manner, always presenting innovative and sustainable products and services. It asks its suppliers to operate under the same principles. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Economic Performance 61 3.1 Strategy for the Marketplace OTE Group has set as its top priority, transparent and responsible business behavior. The aim of the Group is the continuation of its successful market performance, demonstrating customeroriented, innovative and competitive operation characteristics, and taking the lead in building the Digital Greece. The coordination of strategy and policy formulation on market issues affecting all General Directorates is accomplished by the Group Business Plan, the realization of which is overseen by the CEO and the Management Committee. In the planning process of the Business Plan, among other matters, market assessments, and regulatory and commercial risks and opportunities are taken into consideration. OTE and COSMOTE seek to offer responsible products and services, with appropriate labeling and information to provide to their customers, security for the lifetime of products and services and to ensure the confidentiality of their personal data. In this context, all products for sale, accessory products and services offered, are certified and carry all obligatory markings required by EU legislation, directives and regulations on the safe use, the restriction of use of hazardous substances and the reduction of electronic waste. Both companies strive to enhance reuse and recycling of materials and support the safe use of the Internet. Communication concerning marketing is carried out in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, while at the same time the Companies are constantly working to develop tools and procedures to ensure the confidentiality of personal information of customers. Finally, the two Companies are fully aware of the risks arising from their supply chain and work toward the development of socially (with reference to labor practices and human rights) and environmentally responsible practices. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 62 Key Achievements in 2015 Further development of responsible products and services. Indicatively: Business Cloud, teleconferences, corporate fleet management service fleet management, electronic applications. Participation in 28 innovative research projects through international collaborations with industry and academia. Creation of the new Program Children and Safety in Technology , aiming at informing and educating parents, and providing solutions with products and services designed exclusively for children. Information provision to over 26,000 people regarding the safe use of the Internet and mobile telephony services. Recognition of the social profile of the two companies from citizens, classifying them in the first 2 positions among telecommunications companies in Greece (source: Awareness and Social Behavior Index (A.S.B.I.) COSMOTE responded successfully to 68% and OTE to 53% respectively of complaints received, within two days. Adoption of new Binding Corporate Privacy Rules , which form the legal requirements for the exchange of personal data within the DT and OTE Groups. ISO 27001 Security Certification in stores, billing systems and the Security. Evaluation of suppliers who represent 90% (COSMOTE) and 94% (OTE) of their annual volume of supplies. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 63 G4-DMA Anti-competitive Behavior 3.2 Responsible Competition It is important because... Respecting the consumer, OTE Group focuses on contributing through its conduct to an exercising truly responsible competitive market. The Group recognizes its role, complies with the laws of free competition and proceeds with the disclosure of its business operations. 3.2.1 Competition and Regulation Post Commission (EETT) published the text of the tender for the provision of full service covering all of OTE and COSMOTE are firmly committed to comply the national territory. After a timeline modification, with national and European regulations of the the final deposition of expressions of interest to telecommunications market in Greece and the participate took place on 26.06.2015. The bidding countries where their subsidiaries operate. Moreover, process is expected to take place as planned in the two Companies are committed to working together 2016. with government agencies, enterprises and other stakeholders to ensure a regulatory framework that Additionally, in June 2015, EETT proceeded to protects all stakeholders’ interests and at the same conduct a public consultation for the analysis of time contributes to the overall welfare of society. the retail and wholesale firm access market on the basis of the Commission Recommendation OTE, since 2011, and COSMOTE, since 2006, have of October 9, 2014 regarding important product formed internal policies in order to inform their and service markets within the electronic employees about the importance of compliance with communications sector susceptible to ex ante competition rules and to systematize their relevant regulation . codes of conduct. The OTE Group Policy to comply with the legal basis of free competition, sets the In the text of the Public Consultation, EETT operating rules for the OTE Group companies and includes provisions on the introduction into the its employees, according to the free competition access network of the Vectoring technology. The legislation, came into force in 2013. adoption of an appropriate regulatory framework for Vectoring technology will allow important Regulatory Framework investments for the upgrading of the speeds currently provided broadband services of up to 100 The provision of electronic communications networks Mbps. and services in Greece is governed by both the European Union and national competition regulations, Additionally, EETT proposes the deregulation of as well as by specific rules for the electronic the retail access market but retains price control communications sector, that cover topics such as requirements for retail services under the wholesale number allocation, licensing, tariffs, universal service access markets. Imposing ex ante regulatory provision, wholesale services (unbundled local loop restrictions on OTE in connection with its retail access, interconnection, leased lines, wholesale services affects its business policy and distorts broadband access) and protection of personal data competition in retail markets, which are already issues. functioning competitively. OTE considers that, in the markets where the required level of competition OTE remains the designated universal service provider. has been achieved, the removal of regulatory In March 2015 the Hellenic Telecommunications & obligations contributes to an environment of About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-16, G4-DMA Anti-competitive Behavior, G4-S07, G4-SO8 64 regulatory certainty that promotes investment, There was one (1) hearing of OTE and COSMOTE by particularly in the development of new generation the Authority for Personal Data Protection in relation to networks. At the same time, maintaining or enforcing the register referred to in Article 11 N. 3471/06. new regulations in the markets where there is no effective competition should encourage rather than A decision was issued on the EETT Hearings against deter investments. OTE and COSMOTE regarding a COSMOTE discount program, which imposed sanctions on OTE for failing to The issuance of a relevant Decision in response to the notify EETT in advance. above public consultation is expected in 2016. In 2015, EETT did not impose any fines to OTE. Regulatory Actions in 2015 EETT imposed a fine on COSMOTE of €1.223.000 for In 2014, OTE and COSMOTE have been involved in a violating the portability regulation. COSMOTE appealed number of regulatory and administrative disputes with to the competent court seeking annulment of that fine. EETT. These relate to three (3) hearings against OTE regarding the delay in implementation of requests Also in 2015 the Authority for Personal Data Protection for provision of local loops and the interruption of has imposed a fine on OTE of €60.000; OTE appealed unbundled services access to the local loop provider to the competent court seeking annulment of that fine. because of debts. Regulatory Litigations in 2015 Actions OTE COSMOTE Number of fines 1 (from HDPA) 1 (from ΕΕΤΤ) Number of appeals 1 1 1 (recommendation Number of non-pecuniary penalties 0 from ΕΕΤΤ) Cost of fines (€) 60,000 1,223,000 3.2.2 Contribution, Formulation self-regulation and cooperation on social issues. This participation is based on the code of conduct and the and Operation of a Responsible regulatory framework, is transparent and consistent Marketplace with applicable laws. As the new telecommunication technologies are The principles governing the participation of the crucial to future economic development, social companies in the various fora, associations, initiatives participation and sustainability, OTE and COSMOTE and specialized committees come from a search play an important role in sectoral and multifaceted for a fair regulatory environment that will create a fora, associations and initiatives, both at national and level playing field for all participants and regulatory at European level to promote responsible competition, predictability for network investments. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-16 65 The most important relevant participations for 2015 are: • Greek Mobile Operators Association: COSMOTE participates in the non-profit organization Mobile • ETNO: OTE is one of 50 members and observers of the Association of European Operators Association . The Association aims to act as an advisory body regarding regulatory Telecommunications Network Operators (ETNO). procedures, to participate in decision-making and legislation preparation technical committees (at • ITU: The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) is an organization under the auspices of the international, European and national level) and to cooperate with institutions and associations United Nations for communications technology in other countries in bilateral collaborations. Its and informatics matters. objective is to modernize and develop the mobile industry. • ICT Coalition for the Safe Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU: OTE and COSMOTE participate as members of the DT Group, in this broad alliance consisting of 22 companies from the Information and Communication Technology industry. The objective of the ICT Alliance is to help younger Internet users, across Europe, to make the most of the world of the Internet and address all possible challenges and risks. • European Memorandum on safe use of mobile phones by children and teenagers: COSMOTE, is actively involved in consultations under the auspices of the European Commission to create a European Memorandum on safer use of mobile phones by children and adolescents. COSMOTE was the first Greek company to sign this European Memorandum, in February 2007, together with 15 other European mobile operators and content providers. • The National Code of Conduct for mobile phones and protection of users: COSMOTE has collaborated with other mobile telephony providers in Greece, in order to develop a common code of conduct for value-added services via mobile phones and for the protection of underage users. The aim of this Code for the mobile telephony industry self-regulation process is to provide a uniform level of protection for underage users, in line with the practices in other European countries. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 66 3.3 Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece Despite the fact that the availability of broadband connections for fixed and mobile telephony services has reached almost 100% of the Greek territory, the penetration rate mainly in fixed broadband lines connections, is still a constant challenge as the country remains below the EU average. Broadband connections in July 2015 totaled 3.330.143 (30.3% penetration of the population), compared to 3.156.071 in December 2014 (28.7% penetration). The increase during the quarter was 174.072 lines. Greece as of December 2014 was in 13th place among EU countries in terms of broadband penetration, according to the statistics of ΕΕΤΤ. Evolution of broadband lines 400 3,350 3,600 Number of broadband lines (in thousands) Number of broadband lines (in thousands) 3,156 3,027 3,200 2,913 2,797 2,689 2,560 2,800 300 2,464 2,352 2,253 2,400 2,000 200 1,600 1,200 100 800 400 0 0 Dec. June Dec. June. Dec. June. Dec. June. Dec. June. 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 Increase of broadband lines per semester Broadband lines (total) Source: EETT based on licensees’ data Key Investments in 2015 speeds of up to 50 Mbps VDSL are available already in 1.6 million households and businesses. In mobile OTE Group is the leading national investor in new telephony, OTE Group is a pioneer. It is continuously technologies and infrastructure, with investments developing its 3G network which covers more than in Greece exceeding € 2 billion in the last five years 98% of the population and is No1 in population only, whilst implementing a current four-year € 1,3 bn. coverage (almost 80%) for 4G in Greece. Also, first investment plan, mainly in new generation networks. in Greece and among the first in Europe, it provided mobile internet speeds of up to 375 Mbps through the In Greece today, the telephone network covers the 4G+ network to its consumers. whole country and even in the most inaccessible places, broadband ADSL services are offered in more OTE Group has the capacity, expertise and financial than 95% of the existing telephone connections, and base, to continue to invest in upgrading and expanding About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 67 the telecommunications infrastructure in Greece, The Group’s investments are mainly implemented by helping to achieve the objectives of the Digital Agenda the Commercial and Technology Divisions, according 2020 and the country’s transition to the new digital era to the needs of the market, its customers and for the society and the citizens. society. OTE Access Lines and Traffic Statistics Change 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 2014-2015 PSTN connections 2,532,008 2,413,174 2,311,396 -4.2% ISDN connections (BRA and PRA) 358,446 333,533 308,514 -7.5% Other (MSAN) 8,688 15,066 79,002 +424% Total OTE access line connections 2,899,142 2,761,773 2,698,912 -2.3% Of which wholesale line rental (WLR) connections 47,082 35,325 14,521 -58.9% Total OTE Broadband active subscribers 1,286,228 1,389,871 1,532,879 +10.3% OTE TV Subscribers (IPTV and satellite) 255,912 353,482 446,499 +26.3% OTE Broadband active retail subscribers 1,261,590 1,367,388 1,506,909 +10.2% Unbundled local loops (active) 1,907,303 2,015,940 2,047,268 +1.6% About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 68 3.4 Internet Safety and Public Awareness The role of OTE and COSMOTE does not stop at providing safe products and at offering top • Parental Control Services are also offered by OTE TV, for subscribers via both broadband and quality services, but also extends to informing satellite. With these services, subscribers have the customers and the general public on the safe option to set the parental control level they prefer use of the technology. Recognizing that the and block access to specific programs based on ways children access the world of technology the degree of suitability of the respective program. are many and full of innumerable possibilities Additionally, satellite subscribers can block access for knowledge, entertainment and creativity, but to specific channels of their choice. Regarding the sometimes accompanied by certain risks, in 2015 optional Adult Pack (which includes channels with the Children and Safety in Technology Program adult content), it can only be accessed by adults. was created. This new integrated program is to In order for a subscriber to rent a film with adult inform, educate and give helpful advice to parents, content from the OTE service Cinema on Demand , offering solutions in products and services designed they need to enter their personal PIN code which exclusively for children. was given to them when they purchased the service (with information on how to keep it safe from children). All these instructions are available 3.4.1 Products and Services for in the service manuals and on the help screens in the website of the service. Safe Use OTE Group provides a range of services and products specifically designed for children aiming at 3.4.2 Raising Public Awareness the safe use of technology. In 2015, under the program Children, Safety and • COSMOTE Smile: This service was designed specifically for children so they are able to enjoy Technology , the www.safekids.gr site was created through which parents can learn about how technology the capabilities of mobile and tablet devices can become more usable and safer for children, safely and securely. Through this service, the providing tips and answers to issues that concern possibility is given to parents to choose the them. This website includes information about usage limit, the allowed incoming and outgoing the online world of social media, online gaming, calls, the applications and websites that their applications and many more topics. child can use and visit. In addition, parents can trace on the map the location of their child via Moreover, OTE Group implements integrated actions the mobile device and be updated during any and awareness initiatives for parents and children relocation. and collaborates with prestigious and recognized institutions in order to inform and sensitize parents, • COSMOTE Secure: This service offers a complete computer protection solution that includes Antichildren and teachers. Specifically: Virus, Anti-Spam, Firewall, Browsing Protection, • Educational activities for the safe use of the Internet in the OTE Group Telecommunications and Parental Control services, offering safety in navigation for children online. Through the Museum service, parents can filter and restrict access to websites with inappropriate content, but can The program addresses the best and safest also adjust the level of protection depending on ways to meet the challenges of the digital the age of the children. world and takes place in the OTE Group About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 69 Telecommunications Museum since 2010. The briefings are performed interactively by • Support of workshops and conferences of the Cyber Crime Unit in 2015 specialized and recognized scientific partners. During the period September 2014 August For a fourth consecutive year OTE and COSMOTE 2015 over 400 people attended the program. supported workshops for safe navigation on the Since November 2015, a new cooperation Internet, organized by the Cyber Crime Unit of between the Museum and the Cyber Crime Unit the Hellenic Police. The workshops, implemented of the Hellenic Police started. Specifically, Cyber nationwide, are aimed at informing the public Crime Unit representatives, conduct monthly about the safe use of new technologies, especially information sessions for high school students at the Internet. OTE Group’s Telecommunications Museum. During the meetings, the children are informed on the In addition, OTE and COSMOTE, supported the 4th best and safest treatment of Internet challenges, Conference for safer internet navigation, organized reinforcing the belief that the Internet is a vast by the Cyber Crime Unit. world of knowledge, expression, discovery and creation, if used safely. In 2015, more than 10.000 people attended the workshops and Conference that was organized by • Theater Performances at OTE Group Telecommunications Museum the Cyber Crime Unit. For yet another year, the OTE Telecommunications • Support of the Mobile Unit of Information, Education and Technology Odysseas Museum hosted the play The Internet Farm , which is aimed at pre-school and elementary school For a second consecutive year COSMOTE and children. In 2015, the 975 people (children and Germanos Stores supported Odysseas , the teachers) that attended the play in the Museum first Information Education and Technology were educated on the safe and responsible use Mobile Laboratory , which is an initiative of the of the Internet, through the stories of the young Organization The Smile of the Child and is under heroes of the farm . the auspices of the Greek Ministry of Education. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 70 Under this program, presentations are made to students, parents and teachers on issues such as the safe use of the internet. In 2015, 219 interactive interventions were implemented through which The Smile of the Child offered prevention services to over 5,000 students. 3.4.3 Participation in initiatives for self-regulation Of particular importance to OTE and COSMOTE is their participation, via DT Group, in the alliance of companies ICT Coalition for the Safer Use of Connected Devices and Online Services by Children and Young People in the EU . At the same time, COSMOTE, together with all other mobile operators, has undertaken self-regulatory initiatives at European and national level, as mentioned in section Contribution, Formulation and Operation of a Responsible Marketplace. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 71 3.5 Resposible Products and Services ICT have and will continue to have, a significant needs, ensuring the required availability securely contribution to economic growth internationally, and reliably. through the development and implementation of innovative services that help increase productivity in all sectors of economic activity. • COSMOTE Business Cloud Storage & Email: services offering businesses the appropriate storage space and full control, with access OTE Group recognizes the key role of ICT in from everywhere, and enhancement of their environmental protection, in the support of society and communication through easily manageable tools. economic growth, in the contribution of the telecom sector in achieving sustainable development and in the opportunities offered for the further development of • Specialized cloud applications: covering a wide range of commercial activities for better the Group. organization and automation of business processes (Soft1 SmartWorks, Soft1 SmartPros, Soft1 SmartBiz, Megaventory, Payslip), while, 3.5.1 Products and Services for offering especially for professional sectors, such as doctors and lawyers, specialized solutions Sustainable Development (Tipoukeitos, My Health Angels). OTE Group, as a leading telecommunications provider in Southeast Europe, provides fixed and mobile • COSMOTE Cloud Video Conference: offering upgraded video teleconferencing infrastructure telephony, high quality broadband services, and with new enhanced services (based on cloud advanced technology solutions. Through specialized computing), where companies can save significant products and services they enable customers to use resources but also achieve increased efficiency broadband for the direct or indirect improvement due to the reduction of the movement of their of their activities, welfare and environmental personnel. performance. In 2015, the technologically advanced COSMOTE Fleet Management Business IT Solutions were made available to meet IT business needs. The integrated innovative • Driving Performance: is a new service designed to ensure green and safe driving and achieve technology solutions that are already provided by the OTE Group were strengthened by new ones, to increase significant reduction of operating costs (reaching competitiveness and, by extension, the sustainable up to 25%) in fuel and maintenance for the fleet of development of enterprises. the company vehicles. Business Cloud • COSMOTE e-Track: offers opportunities for monitoring and managing the corporate vehicle fleet in real time reducing fuel consumption and The Cloud technology services for businesses have CO2 emissions been enriched with new solutions aimed at improving their operation, increasing their flexibility and reducing operating costs. e-Health In 2015 the following Cloud services were launched: The services provided in the health sector aim towards a more efficient operation of hospital units, • COSMOTE Business Cloud Servers: a service that provides necessary infrastructure for business the reduction of their operating costs, but also the improvement of the level of services provided to About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 72 patients. In particular, the telemedicine services, Smart Grids allow the provision of medical aid from a distance. These are grids which utilize communication The involvement of the OTE Group in the health between machines (Machine to Machine, sector is confirmed through its large and complex IT M2M) to collect and process information (e.g. Integration projects: energy behavior of suppliers consumers) in an automated way, to improve the energy and • By adopting OTE Group e-health solutions, The Papageorgiou Hospital in Thessaloniki economic efficiency, reliability and sustainable production and distribution of electricity. According has turned itself into a smart digital hospital. to the Smarter 2030 study, about 15% of the It managed to upgrade its nursing services, GHG emissions reduction potential which can be increase its productivity and reduce its achieved with the use of ICT products and services operating costs, while at the same time improve is due to smart grids. the satisfaction of its patients. COSMOTE’s cooperation with the Hellenic Electricity • The E-Prescription project, offering better control and better planning of expenditures in Distribution Network Operator (HEDNO) for the installation and activation of 62,500 new M2M the health sector whilst also ensuring quality connections on its behalf is successfully evolving. patient care was successfully completed. COSMOTE provides comprehensive application management of all M2M connections that • The National Telemedicine Network project, which includes 43 telemedicine units that (HEDNO)can then manage through the internet, in order to achieve daily collection and processing connect health centers in the Aegean islands to of data from the meters that are gradually being central hospitals in Athens and other regions, installed throughout the country. was delivered and is already in operation. Through sophisticated chambers, residents The benefits accrued to HEDNO are related to and visitors of the islands are guaranteed increased productivity, the improvement of the tele-medicine and tele-advice in real time. efficiency of its services and the reduction of This eliminates the distance to large hospitals, unnecessary costs for maintenance and other reducing unnecessary movements and airlifts. operating expenses. 250 doctors have already completed their training, while tele-consultation and telee-Energy education services are already on offer. For the better management of companies’ energy e-Tourism consumption, solutions are offered that aim at reducing costs and creating a greener profile. In the field of tourism, services offered, aim to upgrade the operation of tourist enterprises. Specifically, the new Energy Management service provides a system for monitoring the energy These services are used in hotel energy consumption of a company in real time, with management, infrastructure management and the ability of even remote intervention. The aim maintenance of information systems, digital is to ensure a reduction in energy consumption, signage, providing value added services to guests operating in business costs, but also in its carbon during their stay at the hotel, in teleconferences, footprint. etc. In 2015, the number of large hotels throughout Greece who adopted these services increased. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 73 e-Applications with more than 400 partners, including companies, universities and research / innovation institutes from OTE Group invests in the development of Greece and other European countries. electronic applications for its clients (such as e-bill, e-payment, electronic submission of requests for The total funding to be received for the period telecommunications providers, and the service 2015-2017 is approximately € 3.7 m., without taking yourbusiness.gr ) that reduce paper consumption into account additional funding for new projects. and enable better resource management. Currently, thirteen (13) out of twenty-eight (28) active research and development projects aim at Electronic Services for the Fire Department reduction of resource use and / or environmental protection. OTE Group undertook on behalf of the Fire In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE, participated in 28 Department the implementation of an IT project, innovative technological research co-funded which is expected to contribute significantly to fire programs (LiveCity, E3NETWORK, WiSE-PON, prevention and firefighting. By installing advanced PANDA, SECCRIT, DIOGENES, FLAME, UNIFY, SPIRIT, information systems in its Control Center, the Fire NEMESYS, TEAM, EMERALD, FLEX, VIMSEN, WikiZEN, Department will be able to coordinate the firefighting INPUT, SANSA, VITAL, Smarter-EMC2, Privacyunits, both before and after the event of an incident, Flag, CREDENTIAL, VICINITY, 5G-XHaul, CHARISMA, to better manage incidents and resources while SESAME, COHERENT, i-HeERO, i-PROGNOSIS) providing continuous and timely information to through international partnerships with industry and citizens in emergency situations. academia. Energy responsible products The contribution to improving environmental performance, is also of high priority for OTE and In 2015, OTE introduced the home broadband router COSMOTE. In this context, both companies are Speedport Entry 2i to its product line, which offers involved in research activities aiming at developing extremely low power consumption of up to 47% products and services to reduce their environmental compared with older equipment with the same footprint and, thus enhancing environmental functions that do not support the Energy Efficient protection. The activities are part of both European Ethernet. In order to inform its customers, OTE Commission programs / initiatives such as the has created a short environmental guide on the 7th Framework Program for Research and routers’ compliance with international environmental Technological Development, the Horizon 2020 standards European and Regulations such as program and the 5G-PPP (Public Private Partnership) Ecodesign, CR 278/2009, etc. program, as well as national initiatives financed by the General Secretariat for Research and Technology Information on social products and services is (GSRT). Indicative research projects are presented presented in the Social products, Services and Offers. below. Information on products and services that promote SMARTER-EMC2 Smarter Grid: entrepreneurship is presented in the section Empowering SG Market Actors through Strengthening of Entrepreneurship. Information and Communication Technologies 3.5.2 Research and Innovation By increasing the penetration of renewable energy sources (RES) and distributed generators OTE Group invests in research and development, in the energy market, the aim of the project is the and in the last six years has participated in a total maximum possible contribution to environmental and of forty (40) research programs in collaboration energy sustainability. To this end, the SMARTER-EMC2 About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 74 pursues the development of new business models project budget is € 3.14 m.: for OTE it’s € 245,000, as well as the development of innovative ICT tools while the EU contribution is around 70%. that will facilitate open access and participation of the consumer in the use / incorporation of RES in the For more information, see: Http://www.privacyflag.eu/ energy market. These tools are going to be part of the infrastructure of providers of energy distribution INPUT (In-Network Programmability for networks (DSO), telecommunications and other next-generation personal cloud service third parties for the provision of Smart Grid services. support) In parallel, the project will investigate whether the existing telecommunications infrastructure is The aim of the project is to design and develop an adequate to support a wide range of emerging innovative network infrastructure, which will allow business models and smart energy services. the replacement of physical smart devices (e.g. set-top-boxes, DVD players / recorders, MP3 players, The SMARTER-EMC2, which is part of the EU Horizon IoT devices) with their images on the cloud, providing 2020 program, was launched in January 2015 and them as a service to users. The project pursues: (a) will be completed in December 2017. The total high quality service to the user at any time, wherever project budget is € 3.75 mil: for OTE it’ s € 223.000 one may be, as if one was connected to ones’ home while the EU contribution is 70%. LAN, (b) high content security, (c) development of new business models and (d) a low energy footprint. For more information see: Http://www.smarteremc2.eu/ The INPUT, which is part of the EU Horizon 2020 program, was launched in January 2015 and will Privacy-Flag Enabling Crowd-sourcing be completed in December 2017. The total project based privacy protection for smartphone budget is € 3.11 mil: for COSMOTE it’s approximately applications, websites and Internet of € 190.000, while the EU contribution it is about Things (ΙοΤ) deployments 100%. The aim of the project is to protect the personal For more information, see: Http://www.input-project.eu/ data of users when they visit websites or use apps through their smart devices or IoT type applications. i-HeERO Infrastructure Harmonized eCall The Privacy-Flag will develop a highly scalable European Pilot Project privacy monitoring and protection solution, which includes advanced monitoring systems, data The aim of the project i-HeERO is to prepare -by processing and evaluation, a global knowledge the end of 2017the Service Centre for Emergency database of identified privacy risks, a user-friendly Calls (PSAPs) to the Member States for the support interface and online services. In addition, the project (and interoperability) of eCall 1 based on the will cooperate with standardization bodies and will implementation of the 112 European Emergency endeavor to make known the findings / results of the Number. The project will also take into account work in specialized groups and the public. heavy vehicles transporting hazardous / flammable materials and motorcycles. In addition, the project will The Privacy-Flag, which is part of the EU Horizon include PSAP compliance assessments (Conformity 2020 program, is led by OTE, was launched in May Assessments), as a legal obligation to support the 2015 and will be completed in April 2018. The total eCall using 112, and advances in data management 1 ECall is a European automatic emergency call system for the car and is scheduled to be available in all new commercial vehicles from March 2018. It is estimated that, when fully developed, it will save up to 2,500 lives each year in the EU and reduce the severity of injuries by 10 to 15% (http:// europa.eu/rapid/press-release_IP-09-1290_en.htm). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 75 and the next generation 112 for eCall. The project 5G-PPP Projects will undertake studies to implement a series of pilot tests as well as plans to upgrade existing OTE Group participates in 4 out of 19 (5G infrastructure by each Member State, for a common Infrastructure Public Private Partnership, approach across Europe. https://5g-ppp.eu/ ) EU research programs concerning the design and development of new i-HeERO, which is part of the Connected Europe 5th Generation (5G) technologies, infrastructure Fund Annual Program of the European Union, was and services, considered the future of mobile launched in January 2015 and will be completed communications and which are expected to in December 2017. The total project budget is € significantly affect the future of the society and the 31 m.: for COSMOTE it’s € 250.000, while the EU economy in Europe in the next decade. contribution is around 50%. More specifically, the 5G network is expected For more information, see: http://www.iheero.eu/. to offer ultra-high internet speeds to mobile subscribers, even greater than 1Gbps, consistent i-PROGNOSIS Intelligent Parkinson quality of service even on the go , greater Early Detection Guiding Novel Supportive autonomy and energy savings of up to 90%. At Interventions the same time it will support the convergence of networks, services and equipment, and massive The aim of the project is the early detection connectivity of around 7 trillion devices / Internet of Parkinson’s disease and the improvement access systems / sensors (IoT), as one infrastructure of patients’ quality of life with supportive will be covering the increased demands in vertical interventions based on technology. Parkinson’s markets such as automotive, energy, food, smart is a chronic and degenerative disease, usually cities, governance, health care, construction and developing after 55 years of age; currently, not public transport. possible to be diagnosed via lab tests while early symptoms are often not clinically assessed. The programs OTE Group is participating in are the Combining technology with medical experience, following: i-PROGNOSIS aims at promoting the prognosis of Parkinson’s through advanced behavioral data • SESAME Small cEllS coordinAtion for Multi-tenancy and Edge services analysis, by interacting with everyday smart connected devices (smartphones, smartwatches), The aim of the program is to develop a unified as well as the management of the disease, by virtual cloud-based platform to l manage developing new health practices, by employing numerous small cells, while providing network latest technology. Expected results include patients’ facilities (i.e. self-x management and control, empowerment, reduction of hospitalization and virtualization, infrastructure sharing), low energy patients’ life improvement. consumption and support of modern highquality services. OTE is the coordinator of the i-PROGNOSIS which is part of the EU Horizon 2020 program. For more information, see program, was launched in February 2016 and will https://5g-ppp.eu/sesame/ and be completed in January 2020. The project budget http://www.sesame-h2020-5g-ppp.eu/ is € 3.9 m., COSMOTE budget is approximately € 183.000 and the EU contribution is 100%. • COHERENT: Coordinated control and spectrum management for 5G For more information, see heterogeneous radio access networks http://www.i-prognosis.eu/ The main innovation of the program is the development of an integrated management About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 76 system for heterogeneous wireless network as a unified network entity through Software Defined Networking (SDN) and flexible spectrum management, for even better quality services. For more information, see: https://5g-ppp.eu/coherent/ and http://www.ict-coherent.eu/coherent/ • 5G-Xhaul: Dynamically Reconfigurable Optical-Wireless Backhaul/Fronthaul with Cognitive Control Plane for Small Cells and Cloud-RANs The aim of the program is the design and implementation of a flexible and low-cost backhaul / fronthaul network, capable of supporting current and future optical and wireless access technologies (Sub-6 GHz, mmWave) and related services through dynamic allocation of network resources. For more information, see. https://5g-ppp.eu/5g-xhaul/ and http://www.5g-xhaul-project.eu/ • CHARISMA: Converged Heterogeneous Advanced 5G Cloud-RAN Architecture for Intelligent and Secure Media Access The aim of the program is the design and implementation of a highly secure cloud infrastructure, with increased spectral efficiency, low energy consumption and enhanced performance (network latency of less than 1ms), capable of supporting e-health and wellness monitoring services, IOT and smart cities. For more information, see. https://5g-ppp.eu/charisma/ and http://www.charisma5g.eu/ These programs started in June 2015, have a duration of 2.5-3 years, with OTE Group contribution to €1.0 m., while the EU contribution amounting to €1.2 million. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-SO8 77 3.6 Responsible Marketing OTE and COSMOTE implement responsible practices for lower rates without creating barriers to healthy in marketing and communicate in a clear, simple competition. and transparent way product pricing issues and services, bearing the appropriate markings required The transparency of pricing policies includes the by European Union legislation. immediate notification of pricing information within the prescribed time limits, as defined by the regulatory framework. Information about pricing 3.6.1 Responsible Marketing is available on the websites of both companies, is provided to the press, companies and also available Practices in all customer service centers and through brochures of the two companies. Customers are also informed OTE and COSMOTE conform fully to the applicable about the details of pricing and any changes thereof, laws and regulations for communication and through their accounts (see Cost Control Services advertising. The Marketing Communications Strategy table, bellow), and also about the number of options / Fixed and Mobile Division reviews all promotional available for controlling costs as a response to material prior to disclosure to ensure that the increased customer needs for thrift in. contact material complies with applicable laws, is appropriate, fair, sincere and respects diversity. In this direction, OTE kept its prices stable in all The two companies follow the Committee of programs aimed at residential customers, continuing Communication Control (CCC) Code of Responsible to provide them with a full range of options in airtime Marketing. and calls to all national fixed and mobile phones and in internet speeds. Furthermore, recognizing The two companies apply the Greek Code of Conduct the needs of specific audiences, such as customers for advertising and communication, in line with the seeking solutions for international calls, it made guidelines from CCC. With regard to non-compliance available a number of new packages with various cases with these instructions, in 2015 CCC adopted international destination options, incorporating, for a total of 13 decisions, at first and appeal levels, of the first time, talk time to international mobiles. which 5 involving OTE and 8 COSMOTE. In 2 cases for OTE and 2 for COSMOTE no irregularities were found, To corporate clients with double play and single while in 3 cases for OTE and 6 for COSMOTE some play programs, OTE offered reduced cost commercial modifications to advertising slogans were required. programs and enhanced services at the same price with existing ones. In 2015 no penalties were imposed by the General Secretariat for Consumers on OTE. It introduced COSMOTE Business One, a service involving for the first time (fixed and mobile) telephony, Internet (for access from anywhere and 3.6.2 Transparency in Pricing present with extremely high velocities), advanced call center and Business Cloud solutions (for managing OTE and COSMOTE have committed to a clear, simple corporate records). With COSMOTE Business One, the and transparent communication of pricing issues Group’s business customers can choose from a wide in accordance with all legal requirements, and to range of options, programs and services that best providing high quality service to their customers. The suit their needs, while ensuring the efficient, costcompanies set prices at levels that cover the costs effective and productive operation of their business of providing the service and meet market demands while benefiting directly from discounts. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 78 In addition, it created Business Market Place, telephones, and a number of unique benefits like free an on-line interface (accessed through Cloud storage, the OTE TV Go service for access to the www.cosmote.gr) in which businesses have content of OTE TV outside of one’s house, common direct and easy access to applications (cloud) to enveloping of fixed and mobile bills and a new, facilitate their operational needs (such as payroll enhanced personal service experience. needs, ERP, etc.) and reduce their operating costs. To corporate clients with double play and Information about promotions to special categories single play programs, OTE offered reduced cost of the population are presented in the section Social commercial programs and enhanced services at products, Services and Offers. no extra cost. Furthermore, through its yourbusiness.gr service, OTE continued to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain a comprehensive, easy and affordable solution for their presence on the Internet, which is free for the first six months and continue with a very low rate. COSMOTE offered its subscribers a choice between reduction in price for the trade-in of mobile phones or a reduction in the fixed cost part of the mobile telephony contracts of up to 30%. Existing programs have been enhanced with additional features at no extra cost. Particularly during the early days of capital controls, customers were given extra talk time and MB and there was flexibility in the payment of bills. For the first time the family mobile phone contracts COSMOTE Mobile Plus Family, were offered 2 mobile connections at a lower price compared to the sum of two individual contracts. Meanwhile, during 2015, a renewal of commercial logos placed all programs, products and services of fixed and mobile, provided to subscribers, under the commercial brand COSMOTE, in order for customers to be looking to a single brand for all their needs in fixed and mobile products communication. In this context, COSMOTE One which addresses fixed and mobile OTE Group subscribers was made available, providing up to 20% continued reduction in the COSMOTE mobile fixed charges due to the combination of service provision with fixed telephony. Also, a wide range of innovative services such as free communication between mobile and fixed About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 79 Cost Control Services OTE COSMOTE • My OTE Service: OTE modernized its electronic services • COSMOTE My Internet Service: In the Mobile Internet by enhancing online bill presentation, which allows sector, COSMOTE proceeded to improve the Customer registered customers to be informed on their bills free of Experience, as, with its new COSMOTE My Internet service, charge, and to check the statistical information on their the company's subscribers have the opportunity to be usage, in order to select the best services package for them informed immediately when their MBs are being used up on offer. and decide for themselves whether and how to continue • SMS notification: e bill customers are provided with a sms browsing the Internet. notification service regarding the issue and the due date • Implementation of COSMOTE Mobile Internet Anyway : of their bill in order to better budget their expenses, and Computer users with access to mobile Internet (via USB receive reminders when payments are due. modem) can be informed on use of data and make • Additional Billing Services EPA: For multimedia maximum usage limits. Customers also have access to information services, OTE informs it customers at the start previous month’s use of data. of each call with a free introductory call and determines • Auto Update Service at 80% Automatically warns their maximum duration in accordance with the provisions subscribers with a free sms, when they have consumed of EETT. 80% of their free use (free talk time, txt messages or • It Provides free barring outgoing calls to specific volume of data). categories of calls. • Check of remaining free usage service: Informs • Customer bills: OTE bills include all information on pricing subscribers with free SMS whenever they so choose, about changes in the same billing period. Bills were changed the remaining free units in their program for talk, SMS, to provide more information on usage. Customers are MMS and MB. informed through their bill for every new or renewed • Online check of the subscriber’s remaining free use service. (talk time, SMS and MBits) through the web and the My • OTE examines cases of customers with exceptionally COSMOTE App. high charges and compensates them when fraud is being • e-Bill mobile: Accessibility to statistics of connections and detected and offers customers the possibility to bar non accounts, direct information through e-mail of billing and authorized use of their phones. for direct payment. • There has been an early warning billing acknowledgment • COSMOTE Mobile Split Bill: Ability to fix in advance the to the users of yourbusiness.gr service, after the one-year amount of use for each connection in a company. In case free of charge period. of exceedance of the usage limit, a second account for that particular employee is opened with a corresponding link. • Additional real time check of the subscriber’s remaining balance through a dedicated IVR channel for COSMOTE Cost Control and prepaid use plans. • Packages of additional usage for more talk time, messages and MB when needed. • Roaming Services: COSMOTE offered the new COSMOTE TRAVEL PASS service that allows subscribers to use the free airtime, data and SMS of their programs in more than 55 countries worldwide, with a low daily charge depending on the destination country. At the same time, it extended the Travel & Surf service in countries outside Europe to secure Internet browsing with full cost control at very low rates (in more than 100 countries). Finally, it enabled the subscribers who use the 4G network to enjoy mobile internet also abroad. • Multimedia Information Services: Blocking access to Multimedia Information Services Numbers from the subscribers. In certain categories of those numbers, the subscriber can choose to block per single destination and per direction (for Premium SMS Services). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-SO8, G4-PR1, G4-PR2 80 3.6.3 Safe Customer Products with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) and Restriction of Hazardous Substances All equipment accompanying products and services, (RoHS) Regulation of the EU. It also complies offered by OTE and COSMOTE, has been certified with the associated Greek Presidential Decrees and bears mandatory markings required under that inscribe them into the Greek legislation, and EU legislation. It also complies with all directives Directive 2009/125/ΕΕ (Ecodesign) of the European and regulations regarding safe use instructions, Commission and the Council setting ecodesign restriction of hazardous substances and electronic requirements, in terms of power consumption of waste. No products or services is marketed or sold electrical and electronic home appliances and office that are subject το product bans in OTE Group’s equipment. The products are always accompanied markets or that key stakeholders or the public have inside their packaging by detailed instructions for called for their ban. OTE and COSMOTE consider of safe use. The website of OTE provided also many great importance the supplying of products that manuals in Greek and English. are safe and are produced under international conventions and standards. Additionally, OTE asks its suppliers to ensure that the equipment is marked with the distinctive CE, All mobile devices offered by COSMOTE, comply CE RoHS, recycling labeling, and markings which with EU law. The electronic and electrical equipment indicate that the equipment complies with Directive sold in its stores, is appropriately labeled (e.g. CE) 1999/5/ΕΚ (RTTE) and the EU Recommendation and meets all the regulations for electrical and 1999/519 / EC on the limitation of public exposure electronic equipment. COSMOTE is asking suppliers to electromagnetic fields (0 Hz until 300 GHz), with of components for the Specific Absorption Rate the Directive 2011/65/EU (RoHS) and the Directive (SAR) value of EMF of their devices, which are 2012/19/EU (WEEE). available to customers. The mobile devices sold in the company’s retail network, bear the special CE Suppliers are required to pay compensation for marking certifying that they have completed all any losses due to non-compliance of the supplied the necessary equipment evaluation procedures. products with the above regulations. Suppliers are Moreover, they are all within the limits of safe required to exhibit the certification on the procured exposure to electromagnetic fields, as specified equipment related to the above Directives. by the specific absorption rate, which should not exceed 2 w / kgr locally, according to Presidential In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE were accessed no Decree 44/2002 and the EU Directive 1999/5 / EC. financial penalty for non-observance of any of the In addition, they are within safe limits of exposure above obligations. to electromagnetic fields, as defined by the Specific Absorption Rates, which must not exceed 2 w / kgr local (head and body), in accordance with Recommendation 1999/519 / EC on the limitation public exposure to electromagnetic fields (0 Hz to 300 GHz). The ancillary equipment accompanying ADSL / VDSL and decoders is appropriately labelled as required by the EU (Sticker CE, restriction indication of hazardous substances RoHS, indication for the recycling of electrical and electronic waste, and indication for the recycling of packaging paper). Also, the equipment complies with the regulations of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 81 3.7 Customers Service and Satisfaction In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE joined forces in order to Furthermore, to harmonize the efforts of employees offer their customers a single service experience at with the objective of excellence in customer all points of contact with them: in Customer Service experience and the support of the trust level through a single phone number for all fixed and perceived by customers, OTE Group proceeded mobile clients (13888 for Residential Customers and to introduce customer experience objectives 13818 for Companies), in the single website www. in the annual evaluation of employees by the cosmote.gr page and in updated COSMOTE Shops. administrative group. Under a ‘best customer experience’ framework, OTE Group proceeded to simplify procedures 3.7.1 Complaints management and develop functions wishing to meet customer demands with one contact, to resolve technical Following the decision to join the two brands, OTE issues faster and enhance digital interactions via the and COSMOTE, and the need for more effective e-bill, the COSMOTE and WHAT’S UP Applications, and consistent customer support for fixed and the www.cosmote.gr webpage and the automatic mobile customers, the following key actions personalized replies at 13888. towards strengthening the Customer Experience and rationalizing operating costs, within the complaints The commitment to outstanding service and management network, were implemented: customer experience was crowned with distinctions in national competitions: COSMOTE Customer Service won 1st place in the annual contest CRM • Harmonization of fixed and mobile processes, communication tactics and customer approach Grand Prix 2014 , and the single www.cosmote.gr modes. page won seven awards in the annual competition Lighthouse e-volution awards 2016 , of which two were in the categories of Customer Experience and • Adjustments, changes, improvements in Customer Management Systems. Personalized Services for new functionalities made available in 2015. • Creation of FMC (Fixed Mobile Convergence customers who maintain fixed and mobile At the same time, the programs enhancing a connection to the OTE Group) groups for a customer-oriented culture through the BC2X single, integrated communications experience. educational program for all employees of the OTE Group, as well as the Customer Experience Ambassadors Program aimed at employee • Personalized service with an increase of telephone communications for resolving engagement in keeping the promise of our Our complaints. world is you brand, continued. OTE and COSMOTE won first place in the Customer Service Training category of the Greek Institute of Customer Service • Strengthening of First Contact Resolution. (HICS) in the National Customer Service Awards 2015 . This award is an important recognition of the • Detailed information and appropriate training for all workers in the Fixed and Mobile consistency and commitment shown by companies Management Complaints Subdivision. but also a reward of the efforts of all employees in Customer Service. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 82 Complaint management ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE 2013-2015 300,000 98% 100% 96% 95% 97% 93% 91% 80% 240,000 80% 74% 219,739 68% 211,225 193,368 180,000 60% 56% 52% 53% 159,721 131,624 120,000 40% 117,251 60,000 20% 0 0 2013 2014 2015 ΟΤΕ: COSMΟΤΕ: Number of complaints Number of complaints % solved within 20 days* % solved within 20 days* % solved within 2 days % solved within 2 days Issues raised by complaints for ΟΤΕ: Issues raised by complaints for COSMΟΤΕ: • Clarifications on Telephone bills • Billing related complaints • Activation of products/services • Commercial Policy issues • Resolution of Technical issues • Services (provisioning and technical malfunction) • Coverage related complaints * National Regulatory Authority's Code of Conduct defines the threshold of 20 days. The percentage of complaints to COSMOTE which were resolved within two days was reduced due to the increase of complaints submitted in writing and extrajudicial complaints (43% of complaints in 2015, compared with 25% in 2014) which, due to the nature of the described issues, require further action and thus require more management time. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-26 83 3.7.2 Customer Surveys Having recognized the importance of the opinion and measure customer satisfaction as well as of their customers, in reference to their experience other views, such as their view of the social role for the use of products and services as well as of companies and their perception of customer the services they receive in any contact through service, and aim to continuously improve the representatives and the existing processes, OTE customer experience and the strengthening of and COSMOTE hold customer surveys throughout the relationship of trust between company and the year. The surveys are designed to investigate customer. Index of Αssisted Αwareness of Corporate Social Responsibility Initiatives of Telecommunications Companies 80% ΟΤΕ 73,5% (1st place) COSMΟΤΕ 62,4% (1st place) 60% 47,1% (1st place) 45,6% (1st place) 40% 20% 0 2014 2015 ASBI SOCIAL BAROMETER: Research through telephone interviews of households. The study examines the social responsibility of Greek companies. The research is conducted by independent organizations. This indicator refers to the aided awareness of companies in the mobile and fixed communications industry. Citizens were asked if they have heard / read / seen something related to the telecommunications companies initiatives in corporate social responsibility. The full survey results of the ASBI Social Barometer confirm that the corporate responsibility performance, of both companies, is recognized by the Greek society. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 84 OTE and COSMOTE maintained satisfactory rankings regarding the commitment index (TRI * M loyalty index) with the relevant figures showing significant improvement compared to 2014. Loyalty Index (TRI*M) 76% ΟΤΕ 73 COSMΟΤΕ 72 72% 70 69 69 68% 68 66 66 66 66 64% 60% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOTE: Research carried out in all European countries where companies of T-Mobile (12 countries) and T-Com / T-Home (7 countries) are active. The measuring range of the index is from -66 to 134. The research was carried out on behalf of DT by independent organizations. The OTE index results from the corresponding indices for residential and business customers taking into consideration the revenue ratio. The COSMOTE index refers to household customers. The company makes me feel like I am in good hands ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE evaluation with respect to: The company makes me feel like I am in good hands ΟΤΕ Good Very Good Excellent (%) Bad Average (%) Don't know/Don't answer (%) COSMΟΤΕ Good Very Good Excellent (%) Bad Average (%) Don't know/Don't answer (%) NOTE: Data from the TRIM Domestic Customer Surveys for OTE and COSMOTE respectively implemented in 2015 (Q2 / Q4 2015). Research was carried out in all European countries where companies of T-Mobile (12 countries) and T-Com / T-Home (7 countries) and implemented on behalf of DT by independent organizations. Research is from a nationwide sample of 1,400 OTE customers and, respectivelly, of 1,400 COSMOTE customers. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 85 Social Awareness 60% 50% 46% 42% 36% 40% 33% 32% 30% 32% 31% 28% 28% 29% 20% 10% 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Good Phone Customer Support 60% 54% 50% 46% 45% 42% 43% 40% 44% 43% 41% 42% 30% 20% 10% 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Good in-Shop Customer Support 60% 53% 50% 47% 42% 40% 40% 40% 37% 36% 36% 30% 35% 20% 10% 0% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ NOTE: Research is carried out for OTE and COSMOTE by independent Organizations through telephone interviews. The geographical coverage of the research done for OTE is nationwide. For COSMOTE, the research in 2011 and 2012 only covered Athens and Thessaloniki and expanded throughout Greece after 2013. The investigation concerns the image assigned to OTE and COSMOTE respectively and not the actual experience of service in stores or experience of telephone service. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Customer Privacy, G4-PR8 86 3.8 Data Security and Privacy It is important because: Data is a key element of the operation of the OTE Group of companies and an important factor for the success of their operation in the present and future. OTE and COSMOTE offer products and services to their customers through which information moves around the world. Maintaining the safety and confidentiality of personal data is a key requirement of our customers and our primary care. OTE and COSMOTE are diligent as regards to the • Systems security security of the services and products provided and make sure that all data and information in • Company information and personal data security possession of the companies are processed purely, for their intended purpose and are protected from misuse. • Human resources security In 2015, OTE received 3 complaints from customers Data security and privacy related to the confidentiality of communications / security of customer information. COSMOTE has The companies are committed to a framework received 48 complaints about the same issues. The for the safety and protection of data. Ensuring average response time was 15 days for OTE and comprehensive security and extensive data 5.2 days for COSMOTE. OTE and COSMOTE also protection is more than just an obligation to meet received, 6 and 10 complaints respectively from the statutory and regulatory requirements; it is also an Hellenic Authority for Communication Security and explicit mark of quality for the services provided. Privacy (ADAE). In none of these cases was a breach detected. The companies have in place: Furthermore, confidentiality waiver requests • Policy for the Protection of Communications Privacy, approved by the Hellenic Authority and provision of data to the competent judicial, prosecution and police authorities were handled for Communication Security and Privacy. The if the required legal documents (Judicial Council purpose of this Policy is to ensure the privacy ruling or Prosecutorial request) were communicated of communications and the protection of the in accordance with the terms, conditions and respective data (i.e. call data), through the procedures laid down in the current privacy implementation of security controls in specific legislation. areas (e.g. logical access controls, logging and auditing, acceptable use, physical security The legal basis for dealing with requests by controls, etc.). Authorities for legal listen-ins and data provision is Article 19 of the Greek Constitution, Law • Binding Privacy Rules within the DT Group 3115/2003 on the establishment of Authority of Privacy of Communications Assurance, the • Specific policies / main safety standards, which cover areas such as: PD 47/2005 on procedures, technical and organizational safeguards to lift the confidentiality About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Customer Privacy 87 of communications and the security thereof and Law 2225/1994 on the protection of privacy and • Certification of Information Security Management System ISO 27001 in OTE and the lifting of confidentially and law 3917/2011. COSMOTE. Specifically, in 2015, OTE and COSMOTE handled requests for legal listen-ins on 2,923 telephone • Binding Corporate Privacy Rules within the DT Group are a continuation and replacement of the lines, for providing data on external communications Privacy Code of Conduct (PCoC). The new Binding on 7,700 telephone numbers, for providing personal Corporate Data Privacy Rules’ cover the legal subscriber data on 18,010 telephone numbers, and requirements for the exchange of personal data for providing personal subscriber data on 752 IP both within the Deutsche Telekom Group as well as addresses. outside the OTE Group. They contain the applicable minimum requirements under European legislation OTE and COSMOTE, do not store the content of their on the adequate protection of personal data. They customers’ communications in their systems. have been applied within Deutsche Telekom as of December 2013 and were entered into force within The Annual Report of ADAE Proceedings includes, OTE and COSMOTE as of November 2015. besides ADAE activities, the number of provisions / decisions that are issued by competent judicial These rules contain the basic conditions for the authorities, are notified to ADAE and request the processing of personal data of both the subscriber removal of communications confidentiality. In 2015, and the OTE Group employees, in accordance with the there were 45 safety audits and assessments of Greek and European legislation, and the high level security risks to critical systems and processes of protection of personal data within the Deutsche in order to ascertain compliance with corporate Telekom Group. security policies and procedures. Furthermore, access of 137.739 authorized users to data processing systems of the two companies, were • Expansion into 89 critical systems of a centralized monitoring solution of security patches checked. that have been installed on them. Safety standards for the implementation of 80 new Physical Security systems or services were established and respective audits / safety testing were carried out to confirm The following actions were implemented in 2015: their implementation. Aiming to continuously improve the level of safety • Integrated security system at the Rendi and Psychiko buildings and the Germanos educational and efficiency of data protection, companies have center in Emmanouil Benaki Str. undertaken a series of actions and projects on information security for core infrastructure, such as: • Continuation of the improvement of physical safety interventions in the Management Building in the Paiania complex with the addition of electronic • Transfer of the Physical Security Control Centre in the common OTE and COSMOTE means (access control, intrusion detection, CCTV, X-rays) for the supervision of new critical locations Security Operations Center. (Management offices, OTE TV premises, Bazaar, Central Fund, etc.). • Provision of security services to external companies (e.g. information security alarm monitoring, protection against denial-of-service • CCTV solution for the strengthening of the surveillance of the perimeter of the warehouses in attacks (DDOS). Avlona. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 88 • Realization of respective studies and structural / electronic enhancement interventions in 25 main • Recording and management of 1,014 physical security incidents of which 152 were facilities yet. characterized as serious. • Safety in 13 Base Stations, as well as design and • Issuance of 5,333 access cards (access control) and 3,855 passes to the sites. implementation of solution for tracking stolen batteries from Base Stations. • Implementation of 837 requests for granting • Preparing and conducting the tender for the procurement of a new access control system for of access rights and addressing of 146 access control system faults. all outdoor line distribution cabinets (KVs) and the cabins. • Management of 90 alarms in cabins and KVs and other exceptional events (elections, • Continuation of interventions in OTE Group owned shops in Greece, with the enhancement referendums, marches / demonstrations). of 40 additional branches, the enrichment and • Carrying out of 270 outpost inspections, 90 preventive scans for explosives, 15 preventive / or the renewal of their security systems, the installation of shutters and curtain walls and the audits in KVs, 17 checks of proper operation of implementation of additional structural safety access controls and 55 reports on the patrol interventions. surveillance system. • Compilation and addition on the contracts with • Conducting of 82 staff training sessions in the Group’s Athens branches (owned and franchise) third parties of a special Security Appendix that addresses their physical access to facilities of for physical security. the Group and which releases Group resources needed for the accompaniment of third parties • 116 inspections on the Group’s stores nationwide, 616 checks on sites for ensuring in the execution of their work, while being answerable to the demands of the Hellenic confidentiality, 31 abstractions of files from Authority for Communication Security and Privacy stores’ CCTVs and 70 studies of physical safety (ADAE). of stores Furthermore, within the overall redesign of the Awareness and education operational model for Physical Security and following the OTE Group approved strategic planning of In 2015, awareness-raising, information and physical security platforms: education activities in information security, business continuity and physical security were implemented, 1. During 2015 the design / implementations such as: relating to the interworking of physical security systems with the common IDB Physical Security • Business Continuity and Security Conference (Security Day). Platform (Integrated DataBase) and the IDM (access rights system) were continued. • Business Continuity Week BCAW 2015 , where the added value of operational 2. Amendments were implemented at the BCM tool application software (business continuity continuity was highlighted with the creation and management tool) so that physical security presentation of an electronic e-learning platform incidents are reported and communicated Business Continuity 365 . This is an innovative electronically. interactive information portal, developed inhouse for all the people of the Group. It is an Relevant Data for 2015: extremely useful tool for employees, where About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 89 they can find information, educational materials and answers to many important issues including general business continuity issues. More than 3,000 employees participated. • Useful Information relevant to physical security, information security and business continuity, in the introductory training of all new employees. • Information, education and testing of Incident Response Teams capabilities. • Training of new Building Managers groups (Building Incident Controllers) and Event Management (Incident Response Teams). • 2 Business Continuity Certification seminars were completed in the OTE Academy with specialized executives of OTE as rapporteurs, leading to the internationally recognized CBCI Certification (Certificate of the BCI Examination) • Electronic information and education related to physical security, information security and business continuity at all OTE Group stores. • E-learning training course on data protection and safeguarding of the privacy of communications addressed to OTE and COSMOTE employees. More than 5,500 employees attended. • Two online surveys related to information security and business continuity issues which were addressed to a sample of OTE–COSMOTE employees and were designed to improve safety in the Group. • Special education program by the Greek Police to all security personnel on the following topics: suspects, surveillance / counter-surveillance, explosives / mechanisms, management of threatening phone calls, evacuation plans, checking of incoming mail using XRAYs. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 90 3.9 Business Continuity It is important because... The clients of OTE and COSMOTE require from their companies to provide seamless telecommunication services of high quality as an interruption in the OTE Group network function has a direct impact on their services. For this reason, the Group invests in the development of a system with a holistic approach and in mechanisms for the early identification and treatment of conditions affecting or likely to affect the business continuity of critical operations of the Group. OTE and COSMOTE, always seem to maintain On the operation of OTE Group’s Emergency their stable development and ensure the Management Center (Situation Center), which is the continuous supply of quality telecommunication official reporting center within the Group, and the place services, including under exceptional external where all alarms for situations / incidents affecting or conditions. likely to affect business continuity end up. In 2015, 51 business continuity incidents were assessed, The Business Continuity Management System of 56 incidents that potentially could affect business OTE and COSMOTE was re-certified in accordance continuity and, in 12 cases, outbound notifications with the requirements of the ISO 22301 standard were sent to the DT Centre (providing travel safety and involves the provision of fixed and mobile instructions). technology services for voice and data calls, value added services, television, interconnection, wholesale, consulting services, service center for • Monitoring of international practices in business continuity issues. incident reporting, call center services, data center services and related points of contact for the customer for the Group’s services in Greece. • Participation of more members of the Business Continuity Subdivision on the International Organization BCI. The most important business continuity activities implemented in 2015 in order to maximize the Group’s durability while enhancing business • Cooperation with Greek authorities General Secretariat for Civil Protection. continuity in the OTE Group’s culture, included: Business continuity is considered critical at OTE • More training to groups with a business continuity management role. Group and therefore relevant actions and initiatives that cover all Group companies are designed and implemented. Specifically: • Employee communications (inductions, e-learning, newsletters). • Telekom Romania successfully completed the annual internal inspection (monitoring) of the • Drills for all staff. Business Continuity Management System in accordance with the requirements of the ISO • Risk evaluation on critical buildings. 22301 standard. • Successful incident management and reporting of business continuity issues for • The development of a Business Continuity Management System in Telekom Albania is timely prevention underway. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-12 91 3.10 Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management Supply chain management is now vital for the sustainability of all enterprises, regardless of the • maintain a dynamic communication network with all parts of the supply chain in order to ensure geographic area involved or the products / services preventive response to possible changes / threats procured. of the market. Different suppliers participate in the procurement On supply chain management issues, OTE Group also process through which the management of materials, cooperates with DT whose supply chain management products, services, and information systems that lead approach has been assessed very positively to the final product to the customer is carried out. (management of the supply chain was assessed as Best in Class ) by relevant rating agencies (e.g. SAM). Taking into account the increased pressures arising from current economic, environmental, financial Supply chain and social conditions in the global market, there is a compelling need to develop a supply chain Modern supply chains are facing a set of challenges management policy which will ensure competitive arising worldwide in a dynamically changing products of high quality, and enhance customer environmental, economic and social level, making satisfaction. A successful supply chain management strategic planning and management of their strategy is an important competitive advantage, even viability necessary. Sustainable supply chains are in the difficult current economic and political situation characterized by reduced environmental impact, of Greece. support the economic development of their partners, and promotion of social issues such as tackling child OTE Group recognizes these challenges and has labor and the emphasis on health and safety. formulated a supply chain management policy which will allow it to: The development and maintenance of a supply chain with added value for the Group, with economic, • avoid the risks resulting from contact with suppliers with unethical or illegal conduct and / or environmental and socially responsible methods and practices, is an ongoing challenge in line with the do not respect human rights. Group’s vision. • maximize the quality and value of the finished product at the lowest possible cost. The Group’s suppliers are important partners for the achievement of business objectives that will ensure its competitiveness and sustainable development, • optimize the terms and conditions for cooperation in order to improve the performance of all parties affecting not only the financial performance of the Group but its relationships with other social partners. involved. Simultaneously, the Group aims to be a preferred • work closely with the network of suppliers to identify quickly changes in technology and the partner for suppliers that adopt common values and principles, through a defined framework for economy, and formulate the corresponding cooperation, the Procurement Policy, discussed appropriate action and adaptation plans. below, and the Code of Conduct, fostering synergies and long-term relationships with transparency and • ensure the operation of suppliers according to commercial and environmental standards by respect of competitiveness, meritocracy and equal opportunities. reviewing their certifications. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-12 92 OTE Group has a list of suppliers (Supplier Register), The list of suppliers affects many different consisting of approximately 1,200 suppliers for categories / types of materials supply and services. OTE and 860 for COSMOTE, which is continually Indicative categories of suppliers are contractors, renewed towards the development of a sustainable licensees, consulting service providers, companies supply chain. It includes both multinationals and selling telecommunications equipment and services, local companies, for the purchase of materials and companies developing computer hardware / equipment or for the provision / leasing of services. software (IT). ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE supplies € 1.665 million Invoiced to Suppliers Greek suppliers (%) Foreign Suppliers (%) Promotion and marketing 4% Repair & maintenance Other services & services suppliers 5% 20% Subcontractors 5% Consulting services Fixed assets 17% 10% Network 12% Sales representatives ICT products 12% 15% 3.10.1 Procurement Policy Since December 2013, the two Companies share a common Procurement Policy, in which all terms and OTE and COSMOTE, recognize that the diffusion regulations under which supplies are procured, are of core values and ​​ standards in the supply chain specified. The main objectives of the Procurement is an important feature of responsible business Policy are: conduct. For both companies this includes efforts to continuously increase their influence on suppliers, • Optimizing the added value in terms of cost, quality and time in order to promote ethics principles, fight against corruption, ensure environmental protection and prevent child labor. • Ensuring transparency About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 93 • Complying with Deutsche Telekom Global Procurement Policy, which unifies the Groups’ common practice to support domestic suppliers. In 2015, 86% and 90% of the invoiced supplies of OTE financial results and COSMOTE respectively, came from companies registered in Greece. The common Procurement Policy pursued by both companies, does not distinguish between local The process of OTE and COSMOTE management of and non-local suppliers. However, given that the suppliers is summarized to the following graph: Companies operate in the Greek market, it is their Suppliers' Management Lifecycle About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 94 OTE and COSMOTE, despite the adverse economic amount), a pre-contractual control of their integrity conditions in Greece, aim at timely payment of their and their evaluation (Integrity Check and Compliance suppliers, as per their contracts. In 2015 the OTE and Business Assessment) is carried out, regardless of COSMOTE payment time has been integrated and it the value of the supply according to the criteria of ranged from 30-120 days depending on the type and the Regulatory Compliance. As part of this process it amount of the commission. is also verified whether or not these companies are part of the Non-Compliant List. Participation in avoiding the use of minerals from conflict zones Furthermore, the process of evaluation of suppliers’ bids and selection through a tender process, is based Valuable raw materials, such as metals, are used on the following key criteria: for the production of mobile phones and other ICT products. Some metals, including tantalum, gold, tin • technical specifications and tungsten are extracted from mines operating under inhumane and / or civil war conditions (conflict • price minerals), some of which are located in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Profits from • commercial terms the business of mining are used to finance the war. • contractual issues OTE Group is not a producer of ICT products; instead it buys these products from international manufacturers • regular auditing and either sells them in its stores as part of its services or uses them in its telecommunications • CR-related criteria (e.g. certification of quality assurance systems, and environmental and infrastructure. OTE supports the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI) since 2010. The CFSI was established health and safety management, Supplier Code of in 2008 by the GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) Conduct etc.) and coalitions of electronic producers industries (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition). The CFSI is CR specific requirements may be added to any tender the largest business initiative for responsible sourcing call, following requests of the department initiating which involves more than 300 companies. It aims to the procurement procedure. All bidding suppliers, in identify the source of minerals extraction and prevent submitting their proposals are required to declare the extraction and sale of minerals from conflict zones that they explicitly agree to adhere to the OTE Group (conflict minerals). Code of Conduct and/or the COSMOTE Group Code of Contact which codify the companies will to work with environmentally friendly and socially responsible suppliers. This intention of the Group is supported 3.10.2 Supplier Selection by its Social Charter through which the Group declares compliance with international standards, For the selection of suppliers and the corresponding respect for human rights and the compliance and determination of the relevant supplier list (long list), implementation of the Ten Basic Principles as appropriate market research takes place by the binding wherever the Group operates. In contracts relevant Operational Procurement Management Unit in with suppliers, a relative term for acceptance of the cooperation with the requesting business unit. Charter will be included. For the list of companies from the candidate suppliers The contract that successful bidders are called to with which either there has been no previous sign includes specific clauses on health and safety, cooperation (new companies) or no cooperation has anti-corruption, security policy and confidentiality occurred for over two (2) years, if the vaue of the and a gradual compliance with the OTE or COSMOTE supply exceeds the amount of € 50,000 (excluding Supplier Codes of Conduct. consultants who are audited regardless of contract About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 95 The OTE and COSMOTE Supplier Codes of Conduct services related to Certified Management Systems describe the criteria used by the Companies to of the Group (i.e. management systems according assess their suppliers in areas such as labour, health to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001) and some and safety, but also for Environmental and Ethical suppliers who did not meet the above criteria but issues. Moreover, suppliers commit to take all were proposed for evaluation from Directors of OTE, necessary actions to ensure that their subcontractors were also evaluated. comply with the provisions of these Supplier codes. The OTE Supplier Code of Conduct was approved and All the selected suppliers were evaluated by the came into force in 2013, while that of COSMOTE is in business units involved. Through this process, force since 2008. the OTE and COSMOTE Management Team are informed on the evaluations of the suppliers based A detailed section on labor is included in both on their overall performance within the Group, the Companies’ Supplier Codes of Conduct, whereby quality of products / services, their effectiveness suppliers commit to uphold the human rights of and consistency in delivering products / services their employees and to treat them with dignity and the relationship that has developed between and respect as understood by the international companies and suppliers, due to prior satisfactory community. Specifically, clauses are included on collaboration. freely chosen employment, prohibition of any form of forced or child labor and the protection of young Furthermore, the suppliers under evaluation are employees, among others. Additional clauses on requested to submit a signed Declaration of working hours, wages, fair and reasonable terms Acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct of of employment are also included, as is a clause on OTE and/or COSMOTE (those who have not signed humane treatment, non-discrimination and freedom a contract, as mentioned above) as well as a of association. filled self-assessment sustainability performance questionnaire. This questionnaire is intended to promote suppliers’ awareness on social and 3.10.3 Supplier Evaluation corporate responsibility and to enable suppliers to provide information regarding their management The active suppliers of OTE and COSMOTE, are systems and practices. This questionnaire includes evaluated on an annual basis. This process is questions on the following areas: corporate coordinated by the Department of OTE Group Process responsibility, sustainability, labor, environment, Management and Improvement. health and safety, quality, and business continuity management. In 2014, the Departments for The suppliers to be evaluated are selected on the Corporate Responsibility, Fixed & Mobile, and for basis of purchase orders (POs) issued via SAP-ERP Management and Optimization of Financial and systems, within a 12 month period. In particular, Support Services of OTE Group collaborated to in 2015, the selection of suppliers evaluated, was further improve the questionnaire by integrating based on all purchase orders issued during the period new questions that take into account the increasing 1/10/2013 – 30/09/2014 on behalf of the OTE, demands of OTE and COSMOTE, and the G4 GRI COSMOTE, Germanos, Germanos Telecom Romania Guidelines. The revised questionnaire was used in SA, eValue SA, e-Value Ltd, AMC, Telekom Romania the evaluation cycle for the period 2015-2016. Communications, COSMOTE Romania Mobile Communications and ZAPP. Thus, all suppliers with orders worth over € 2 million (for all the companies mentioned above) and all suppliers providing crucial supplies (i.e. goods and services that have a significant impact on products and services provided to customers) worth more than € 500.000, were evaluated. In addition, all suppliers of products / About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 96 ΟΤΕ and COSMOTE Supplier Evaluation 198 179 173 161 155 97 2013 2014 2015 ΟΤΕ: COSMΟΤΕ: Number of suppliers evaluated Number of suppliers evaluated % of the procurement volume evaluated % of the procurement volume evaluated NOTE: The percentage of the value of OTE supplies assessed in 2014 and 2015, as well as COSMOTE supplies for 2013, 2014 and 2015 is calculated as the value of orders evaluated on the total value of orders made between 1/10 / 2011 30/9/2012 (assessment 2013), 01/10/2012 30/09/2013 (evaluation 2014) and 01/10/2013 – 30/09/2014 (assessment 2014) respectively. The percentage of the value of OTE commissions evaluated in 2013 is calculated as the value of the invoices that have been evaluated to the total invoices issued during the period 1/10/2011 30/9/2012. They include high value procurement, product supplies and services that affect the final products / services provided to customers, as well as supplies of high-risk products as defined internally. Commissions from subsidiaries, dealers’ commissions, interconnection, roaming and sponsorships – donations are excluded. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 97 3.10.4 Rating and Development of Suppliers (Non-Compliant List) upon Decision of the Executive Director of Compliance, Corporate Risk Suppliers Management and Insurance of the OTE Group, the applicant’s Business Unit, and the relevant Business The rating evaluation of suppliers, performed Unit of Procurement Management and for a period by the operational units of OTE and COSMOTE of time that will be co-decided. involved in the process, together with the completed suppliers’ self-questionnaires, are fed into the OTE Indeed, in the context of suppliers’ audits carried Group’s Supplier Evaluation System, in order to out by the appropriate Business Unit of the obtain a quantified performance of each supplier. Executive Director of Compliance, Corporate Risk The performance of each supplier on Corporate Management and Insurance of the Group OTE, Responsibility represents 10% of the total score. The following complaints or grievances, in 2015, results are presented to the Group’s management. two companies were excluded from tendering procedures because of serious violations of the For the suppliers with a low score, the OTE Group Procurement policy (see. section Compliance management decides whether they remain in the list Management System and Policies). of the Group suppliers, whether they need to show improvement in their performance (and therefore in cooperation with them, action plans need to be agreed) or whether their cooperation with the Group is terminated (in which case the competent Group Divisions are informed). OTE and COSMOTE recognize that companies that offer high-risk products (e.g. mobile devices, computer equipment, etc.) and also operate in high risk countries (e.g. LDCs) are more exposed to risks regarding work safety and human rights. Foreign suppliers of OTE and COSMOTE, are large enterprises that are also the suppliers of DT. Consequently, OTE and COSMOTE take into account the results of the DT evaluations and controls for every common supplier. Where DT detects that a supplier does not comply with the policy of the DT Group and international standards and discontinues trade with him, OTE and COSMOTE are informed and they eliminate that vendor from the list of acceptable suppliers. In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE did not cease cooperation with any of their international suppliers as a result of DT’s ratings. Finally, it is worth mentioning that if (a) from the Integrity Check and Compliance Business Assessment of the prospective supplier (see. Supplier Selection), or (b) during the cooperation with a supplier, OTE Group companies become aware of acts or omissions which raise serious risks of regulatory compliance, then the minimum information on these companies is registered in a relevant List of Nonconforming About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 98 4.0 Employees OTE Group provides a sustainable work environment for employees, guided by its values, as expressed in the Guiding Principles. It encourages the development of its employees, recognizes good performance, ensures equality in providing opportunities and promotes collaboration. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 99 4.1 Human Resources Strategy It is a strategic objective of OTE and COSMOTE all hierarchy levels, while, for the first time, an to stand out as attractive employers and offer a internal OTE Group talent management program secure and creative working environment for their was launched. people. The formation of a common corporate culture, • COSMOTE common commercial brand In order to continuously improve customer workforce renewal and the development of the experience, OTE and COSMOTE joined their forces existing one, focused on custom designed training, and established a common commercial brand. To leadership programs and talent management communicate the new brand philosophy for the programs (internal and external), operations’ OTE Group image and the new brand values, a optimization and the introduction of modern tailor made training program was designed and organizational structures, all contributed towards delivered to all employees. achieving the 2015 human resources strategy. Operational Framework • Organizational transformation and effectiveness The basic framework for the Group’s Labour Relations Emphasis was placed on achieving greater Policy is based on respect for human rights, fair flexibility of the OTE and COSMOTE structure labour practices, non-discrimination, equal treatment and in placing end-to-end responsibility on for men and women, and combating child or forced each unit, so as to become more effective in labour. The Group’s employees are also covered by meeting current requirements. collective labour agreements. • Voluntary Exit Schemes in a socially responsible way Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for its employees, customers and partners, remains a top Aiming at the companies’ transformation, in a priority for the OTE Group. socially responsible manner, OTE and COSMOTE successfully completed Voluntary Exit Schemes The OTE Group Chief Human Resources Unit operates in 2015, with no costs to Social Insurance on a model of responsibilities and roles based on the Funds, as the companies incurred the entire following structure: cost. The implementation of these schemes helped to strengthen their competitiveness, reduce operating costs and create job • HR Competency Centers Development Centers for HR policies, systems and procedures opportunities for young people. • Workforce renewal and development • HR Business Partners – HR contact points with business units to record the needs and provide Following the Voluntary Exit Schemes, carried feedback to the competency centers and out in a socially responsible manner, more than 1,700 job positions were created within the OTE Group in the last years (2013-2015). • HR Shared Services Units for the immediate and effective management of HR issues and At the same time, both companies continued processes. to invest in developing up-to-date skills for their existing employees, through re-skilling, The OTE Group Chief Human Resources Officer, up-skilling, as well as through innovation and who is responsible for overall human resources creative thinking programs. Particular emphasis management issues, is a member of the OTE and was given to programs that develop and COSMOTE Management Team. strengthen leadership skills for executives on About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 100 Key Achievements in 2015 Occupation through direct hiring -from OTEof 2,004 OTEplus employees, in order to improve operational efficiency of the OTE Group of companies Operation of the new OTE Group employee service center MyHR . Implementation of small scale Voluntary Exit Schemes in a socially responsible manner. 2,567 training hours of health and safety issues for OTE employees and 1,864 training hours for COSMOTE employees. Implementation of the external talent acquisition program COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program and launch of the first internal talent management program for OTE Group employees. Leadership programs’ enhancement for executives, with team management responsibility. Increase of average training hours per employee of OTE and COSMOTE. In 2015, the average for OTE employees was 18.81 hours and for COSMOTE employees was 17.06 hours. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-10 101 4.2 Employment In 2015, in a diverse macroeconomic environment, In parallel, in order to improve the Group’s a socially responsible program for rationalizing operational effectiveness, the majority of OTEplus human resources was applied, in order to increase employees are occupied, since the beginning of competitiveness, reduce labour costs and improve 2015, through direct hires by OTE and COSMOTE operational efficiency through new hires. e-value. These direct hires by OTE COSMOTE e-value were implemented with a view of the Approximately 600 OTE and COSMOTE employees optimal utilization of the employees’ expertise and accepted the incentives offered and left the experience. Group. In addition to financial incentives, OTE and COSMOTE provided to employees who left the Group personalized support throughout the process, group 4.2.1 Human Resources private insurance and special offers on Group’s products and services. The annual staff cost savings is On 31 December 2015, OTE and COSMOTE estimated at over €30 million. employees numbered 10,625. ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 8,617 employees 2,008 employees Men 6,128 (71%) Women 2,489 (29%) Men 976 (49%) Women 1,032 (51%) Part-time dependent employment, of Part-time dependent Full-time dependent indeterminant term Full-time dependent employment, of employment, of 54 (1%) employment, of indeterminant term indeterminant term indeterminant term 1 (0%) 2,007 (100%) Dependent employment, of 8,442 (98%) fixed term 121 (1%) 99% of OTE employees (8,496 employees) and all of COSMOTE employees are employed on dependent employment of indeterminant term contracts. At the end of the year, OTE employed 300 (3%) people with disabilities and COSMOTE 26 (1%). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-10 102 Employees on indeterminant term contracts ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 8,496 employees 2,008 employees Administration / Retail Technical staff Network and IT applications Business 2,514 (30%) 4,781 (56%) design and development Support 307 (15%) 688 (34%) Other Secondment 151 (2%) 38 (2%) Specialists Expert 50 (2%) personnel 280 (3%) Management 51 (3%) Customer support Construction, 358 (4%) Product and services network/IT development and operations and promotion applications Finance 111 (6%) 284 (14%) 412 (5%) Customer Sales service 229 (11%) 250 (12%) In 2015, 698 employees left OTE and COSMOTE, of which 611 left through voluntary exit schemes. At the same time, the companies recruited 2,205 new employees, with the largest percentage coming from former OTEplus employees. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 103 Improving employee experience has always been a OTE and COSMOTE operate throughout Greece. priority and so in 2015, the new employee service Although the Group does not have an officially center, MyHR , was launched. MyHR manages, queries formulated policy for hiring people from local on HR issues and processes in an efficient and simple communities, in practice, locality is taken into account way, while its’ services are constantly being enhanced, in an effort to further support local communities and so as to provide a prompt and of high quality service promote employee wellbeing. It should also be noted to all employees. that almost 100% of Chief Officers and Executive Directors are Greek citizens. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-10 104 Geographical Distribution of OTE and COSMOTE Employees More human resources figures and indicators are aged 18-30, students and graduates of universities provided in the file Human Resources Performance and technological educational institutes from all over Data . Greece. Youth Employment Opportunities COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program OTE and COSMOTE are regarded as an excellent The talent selection process of the first COSMOTE employment opportunity for young people starting Graduate Trainee Program was completed in 2015. their career. In a survey running for the second The applications submitted to the program reached consecutive year and conducted by the Athens 2,500, an indication of the wide acceptance it has University of Economics and Business, in cooperation enjoyed. It is a talent acquisition program, aiming at with the career site kariera.gr , and announced in talents up to 28 year old, postgraduate degree holders, 2015, both companies were jointly ranked as the 5th with passion and dynamic personality, who stood out most desirable employers among all respondents after an extensive and demanding selection process. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 105 The Graduate Trainees became part of OTE Group In 2015, the companies participated in the following and are experiencing an exciting 18 month journey , events: with stops at the Group’s main business functions. During their developmental journey, they are exposed • BEST (Board of European Students of Technology) Conference to a modern work environment, attend contemporary training programs and undertake challenging projects. Upon completion of the program, the • JOB FAIR Graduate Trainees will be offered a job in a company of the OTE Group. • ALBA Graduate Business School Career Forum 2015 Part of the program’s advantages is gaining experience in a large organization, as well as • Career Days 2015 benefiting from constant coaching and guidance from members of the Senior Management. • DEREE Career Days 2015 Internships • Developers Day During 2015, OTE and COSMOTE provided an opportunity to 423 students (of colleges, universities, 4.2.2 Fair Employment Policy vocational training institutes) to fulfill their internship Framework requirement toward completion of their studies in the modern work environment of the OTE Group. Maintaining a workplace based on nondiscrimination, fairness and integrity is fundamental The companies offer students the opportunity to for OTE and COSMOTE. The framework of the fair apply their knowledge in a real working environment, labour policy of the companies is based on respect to gain work experience, be trained (on-thefor human rights, in accordance with the following: job training) and develop skills which will help them perform better in the future. Students were • The regulatory framework in Greece and the EU, which prohibits the use of child labour, forced placed in almost all OTE and COSMOTE business labour and involving young people in dangerous functions. During their internship, their progress is jobs. systematically tracked. At the same time, communication with universities’ • The United Nations Global Compact, signed by OTE and COSMOTE in 2008. career and internship offices was structured and development of projects, in collaboration with specialized University laboratories, commenced. • The OTE Group Code of Conduct and the Employee Labour Relations Policy, which recognize explicitly the basic freedom of Participation in career events association and the right to participate in collective agreements under national legislation, OTE and COSMOTE participated in a series of events, and expressly prohibit unlawful discrimination or organized mainly by universities, to support young harassment based on age, sex, religion, ability, people with their career planning. HR Representatives background or sexual orientation. had the opportunity to meet with students, recent graduates and young professionals and discuss In 2015, OTE Group published its new Social Charter with them possible career opportunities, inviting and systematized its approach on managing human them to express their interest in employment within rights issues (more details are presented in the companies of the OTE Group. Corporate Responsibility Strategy section). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-11 106 For any significant change in their operation (eg. the success of the Group. The core principle of all reorganization, outsourcing operation, business human resources processes of OTE and COSMOTE, interruption, expansions, new job positions, is that all decisions and actions relating to matters acquisitions, sale of all or part of the company, or such as recruitment, wages, growth and employee mergers), OTE and COSMOTE inform or consult the development and termination of contracts are most representative trade unions as appropriate, characterized by meritocracy, transparency and nonapplying each time the current legislative framework. discrimination. Freedom of Association and Collective Labour By promoting diversity and harmonious synthesis Agreements of different skills, talents and experience of employees, male and female, in all activities of In Greece, because of the national regulatory the companies, additional value is imparted and framework, there is very low risk of violating the the development prospects of the companies are rights of association and participation in collective ensured, always with due respect to the society in bargaining, or of the existence of child or forced labor. which they operate. The percentage of employees covered by enterprise As stated in the OTE Group Code of Conduct, noncollective labour agreements is approximately 99% for discrimination covers gender, age, religion, ability, OTE and 92% for COSMOTE. origin and sexual orientation. Both companies maintain processes and the communication The three-year collective labour agreement for channels Ask Me and Tell Me , through which OTE employees signed in late 2014 and valid until employees can seek advice or report their concerns 31.12.2017 and the Collective Labour Agreement for about discrimination issues. COSMOTE employees signed in March 2015 and valid until 31.12.2017, ensure jobs and regulate payroll Through the Ask me channel, information on issues, leave, benefits, compensation and employee issues relating to the Code of Conduct, the Internal working hours issues. Policies and Regulations of OTE Group is provided. Respectively, via the Tell Me channel, confidential There were two strikes in 2015 (lasting one day each), complaints about violations of laws, policies and involving OTE and COSMOTE employees, mainly due to the Group's internal procedures are addressed. changes in national social security policy. In 2015, the OTE Group Prevention, Policy and Training Department (coming under the Executive Director Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management 4.2.3 Non-Discrimination, Equal and Insurance OTE Group) received, through the Opportunities and Diversity Ask Me process, more than 650 queries from employees, including, inter alia, the approval The OTE Group Code of Conduct includes basic rules of of sponsorships / donations, and suppliers’ and conduct, principles and values such as equality, respect consultants’ integrity checks. None of these queries for diversity, integrity, ethics, transparency, personal were related to discrimination issues. responsibility, which compose an operating model and lead to the adoption of a common corporate culture. In addition, the OTE Group Compliance, Reporting and Case Management Department (coming under The Code of Conduct is the framework guide for the Executive Director Compliance, Enterprise Risk the behaviour of all OTE Group employees. It brings Management and Insurance OTE Group) received 54 together the strong commitment of the Group to complaints through the process Tell Me as shown respect laws and regulations, with the specific in the following Table: obligations relating to ethical behaviour, which, together with the five Guiding Principles, support About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 107 Communication Channel Communication Channel: Me , M Tell Tell 2015 OTE COSMOTE Total Employee Complaints 48 6 Complaints regarding Discrimination 2 0 The two (2) complaints by OTE employees on their educational level and their years of related to discrimination involved sexual employment. For the newly hired employees, new discrimination. Upon further investigation, one of salary scales have been established, including a the complaints was deemed unfounded and the minimum wage of € 755. other, following an investigation by the relevant Compliance Department and the supporting For COSMOTE, the compensation level is material gathered, could not be confirmed. determined by the level of the position held, while Nevertheless, specific measures were proposed the minimum wage level is adjusted according to and implemented by the company: the wage category the employee belongs to, as determined within the current Collective Labour • Verbal reprimands to the person that the complaint was lodged against. Agreement, with a minimum (basic) salary for high school graduates of € 755. • The employees involved were separated from each other in the performance of their duties The ratio of male / female remuneration is 1:1 respectively. In addition, during 2015, the level of the (with the internal transfer of one of them). minimum wage at OTE and COSMOTE, in relation to the national minimum wage in Greece, was higher by It should be noted that the induction program 29%. Welcome on Board for new hires of the company, includes a special education section on Parental Leave Compliance issues, the Code of Conduct, as well as on the companies’ internal policies. The companies provide maternity leave for childbirth and parental leave for childcare. Parental The high integration of Guiding Principles and leave, which is considered and paid as working the Code of Conduct is evidenced by the high time, is provided to working mothers or fathers rates achieved in the respective questions of the immediately after the end of maternity leave, who employee survey. Specifically, 84% of employees may choose one of the following options: stated that the Code of Conduct is the basis for what they do in their daily work and 88% stated that they experience and follow the Guiding • In OTE: Reduced work by two hours daily for two years and by one hour a day for the next two Principles . years, or alternatively full leave lasting nine months (twelve months for mothers of twins). Non-discriminatory Remunerations In addition, it is possible for employees hired Compensation before 2006, to take a four month parental leave with 1/3 of their salary, rather than an At OTE and COSMOTE no distinction or sex unpaid leave, as provided by the common differentiation on compensation is practiced. labour legislation. In accordance with the current OTE Collective • In COSMOTE: Reduced work by one hour daily for three years or by two hours daily for Labour Agreement, employees’ salary is based About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 108 eighteen months, if compatible with business would be held by women. On December 31st 2015, the needs or, alternatively, six months’ leave or a rate of females’ representation in managerial positions one day leave per week for eighteen months. at OTE and COSMOTE was 30% (out of a total of 1,095 positions) and 36% females were members of Men are also entitled to parental leave, provided the Management Team (out of a total of 11 members). that their spouses have not also taken parental leave, are unemployed or freelancers. In 2015, 180 female and a one male OTE employees took parental leave instead of reduced work hours, whereas 4 employees took parental leave with 1/3 of their salary. Respectively, at COSMOTE, 112 female and 6 male employees took parental leave, and 30 female employees took unpaid parental leave. All working female employees made use of the parental leave they were entitled to. One female employee resigned during paid parental leave and all others, female and male, returned to their normal duties. Moreover, in 2015, an increase of 12 days parental leave, for monitoring children's performance, was decided for OTE employees who have children with a disability of 67% or more. Gender Diversity In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE maintained the diversity of their workforce, especially in terms of representation of women in staff and managerial positions. In particular, women made up about one third of the OTE workforce and half of the COSMOTE workforce, respectively. It should be noted that OTE employs a large number of Technicians (4,781 employees), the vast majority (91%) of whom are male. Excluding Technicians, the percentage of female employees in OTE amounts to 54%. Respecting the importance of avoiding unlawful discrimination based on gender, in 2010, OTE Group introduced a quota on the employment of women, with the aim that by the end of 2015, at least 30% of the upper and middle OTE managerial levels About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 109 ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ ΟΤΕ and COSMΟΤΕ Board of Directors Board of Directors Management team Men 9 (90%) Men 9 (100%) Men 7 (64%) Women 1 (10%) Women 4 (36%) OTE and COSMOTE Females in Managerial positions Chief Officer Directors Senior Managers Section Managers Responsibility positions (including Executive Directors) NOTE: In 2015, a new management level was established between Chief Officer and Head of Division, the Executive Director. Women account for 25% of the Executive Directord. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Health and Safety 110 4.3 Health and Safety It is important because... OTE Group employees’ health, safety and quality of life constitute, for employees and management, a basic prerequisite for the sustainable development of the Group. Management and employees work systematically to ensure a safe and healthy work environment. Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for processes related to the improvement of health employees, customers and partners, remains a and safety at work. The Safety Engineer and a top priority for the OTE Group. Health and Safety Occupational Physician are part of these Joined issues are considered crucial for the successful and Meetings. OTE Group Management facilitates the sustainable future of the Group and have a direct Health and Safety at Work Committee in carrying out impact on issues such as employee satisfaction, its tasks, updating and providing all the information well-being, quality of work and the corporate that is relevant to its work and that is relevant to the culture. Therefore, the OTE Group of companies act OTE Group. The Health and Safety at Work issues proactively in this direction, taking into account the are also evaluated by the employees through the relevant provisions of Greek law and international Employee Satisfaction Survey, which is conducted standards as minimum requirements. The every two years and focuses on issues related to establishment and improvement of a healthy and health, such as mental / physical well-being and the safe environment at work, through a coordinated balance between personal / professional life. The effort of management and staff, are a key priority results and findings of the survey will form the basis of OTE, as these contribute effectively to the for actions of improvement within the companies. development and the companies’ progress. In 2015, emphasis was placed on the alignment 4.3.1 Health and Safety Policy of Health and Safety approaches due to the commitment and active support of Management for The Health Policy and Group Policy of the OTE Group the implementation of the country’s and the EU’s has as a target to support its operational units in laws and regulations, the development of values for activities related to: shaping a preventive culture for Health and Safety at work, the encouragement, training and support of employee involvement in improving health and • Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements safety and the development of partnerships in health and safety at work. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE approaches were created focusing on a • Prevention and assessment of Occupational Risk common Occupational Risk Assessment for the OTE Group (17 occupational risk studies were compiled) and a common regulatory framework with common • Certification of the OTE Group functions, according to the Occupational Health and procedures, work instructions and forms. Safety Assurance Strandard (OHSAS 18001) The Health and Safety Committees at Work which consist of elected representatives of OTE and • Consultation between management and employees COSMPOTE employees, meet every quarter with a management representative to discuss issues and • Management of accidents and incidents About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Health and Safety 111 • Systematic education and information to employees concerning the principles and practices 4.3.2 2015 Health and Safety of Health and Safety at Work Performance • Audits / inspections that safety measures are applied in the workplace and facilities During 2015, special emphasis was given to Health and Safety issues relating to the prevention and education of employees. In particular, Health • Provision of first aid, preventive medical testing and mental health support services supevision and Safety inspections continued at the same level as in previous years and, at the same time, existing educational programs • Organizing Emergency Response Teams, including regular evacuation drills were implemented regularly and new ones were introduced (see section on Prevention, Training and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues). OTE and COSMOTE Inspections for Health and Safety at Work 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 14,405 1,369 9,685 8,771 1,023 4,497 Technical inspections Occupational health Technical inspections Occupational health inspections inspections Actual inspections hours Actual inspections hours * Inspections hours per year as mandated by law Inspections hours per year as mandated by law * * Actual inspections hours are the same with those mandated by law About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety 112 Medical examinations for OTE and COSMOTE employees 2015 Clinical Musculoskeletal Spirometry Visual acuity Audiometry Vaccinations Blood collection Urine sample examination checkup checkup analysis ΟΤΕ : 15,292 examinations COSMOTE : 1,411 examinations About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety 113 In 2015, no fatal accidents occurred at OTE or of employees (26.6%). The number of accidents at COSMOTE. Compared with 2014, there was an COSMOTE remained unchanged at declining levels in increase in the number of accidents at OTE. A recent years, while the number of days lost is directly significant percentage of accidents were traffic associated with the number of absences due to traffic accidents (31.6%) and accidents outside of the accidents (43.8%). Group's facilities at the arrival and / or departure OTE and COSMOTE Health and Safety Performance Εvolution ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 70 3.000 16 400 14 14 14 60 14 350 60 2,500 2,496 340 12 300 50 2,000 10 271 250 1,853 1,884 40 Employees Work days Employees Work days 1,500 8 200 37 207 30 31 6 150 1,000 20 4 100 500 10 2 50 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Work-related accidents (work days lost) Work-related accidents (work days lost) Fatalities (number of employees) Fatalities (number of employees) Work-related accidents (employees) Work-related accidents (employees) About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety, G4LA6 114 The following table shows the performance (KPIs) of companies on Health and Safety Issues for 2015. 2015 Health and Safety Performance OTE COSMOTE Fatalities Employee Fatalities None None Contractor Fatalities N/A N/A Work Related Accidents (employees) Number of Employees Injured 60 14 Men 47 1 Women 13 13 Injury Rate 1 0.81 0.69 Men 0.89 0.10 Women 0.61 1.24 Occupational Disease Rate 2 0 0 Men 0 0 Women 0 0 Lost Day Rate 3 33.59 16.72 Men 38.57 4.25 Women 21.34 28.51 Absentee Rate 4 630.76 618.98 NOTES: 1 Injury rate = (Total number of injuries / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. The data do not include minor (first-aid level) injuries. 2 Occupational diseases rate = (Total number of occupational diseases cases / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. 3 Lost day rate = (Total number of lost days / Total hours worked) x 200,000. The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 40 hours per 100 employees. Lost days for OTE are calculated as calendar days, while for COSMOTE lost days are calculated as scheduled work days. Lost days count begins on the day of the injury or the next day, depending on the time of the day that the injury occurs. 4 Absentee rate = (Total number of missed absentee days / Total number of workforce days worked) x 25,000. The factor 25,000 is derived from 50 working weeks for 5 days per 100 employees. This rate is not monitored per gender. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety 115 4.3.3 Prevention, Training and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE continued to give special emphasis and resources in prevention, information and awareness activities. Trainings on Health and Safety Issues The development of the annual training plan on health and safety issues was based on the general evaluation of the activities of the previous year, such as the results of inspections carried out by occupational physicians and safety engineers, accidents, and the success of educational programs. Training on Health and Safety Issues ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 0.30 hours per employee * 0.92 hours per employee * 1.648 Employees trained Training hours Employees trained Training hours Health issues Safety issues Health issues Safety issues * Training hours per employee on health & safety issues were computed on the basis of the headcount average. NOTE: In addition, 30 hours of Health Issues training for 15 employees and 98 hours of Safety Issues training to 98 employees of the BITIRT team (responsible building installation / incident response team), consisting of employees of the OTE Group companies (including employees OTE and COSMOTE) occurred. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety 116 Information and training is provided to all employees to ensure the implementation of the Health and Safety • Training of climbers / pillar approach in adverse weather conditions. standards at work. In this context, a basic education program is implemented during recruitment and Briefings on Health and Safety Issues recurrent training when significant changes occur to employees’ tasks. The training covers the potential The Health and Safety Team of the Group uploads risks and the preventive measures to be taken. In articles on the corporate Intranets on everyday topics addition, employees who work in difficult conditions, but also on issues that relate to personal life and work such as those employed in outdoor field work and balance. In 2015, thirty (30) informational articles were climbers, participate annually in training programs uploaded on the following subjects: about the risks faced, the preventive measures to be taken and checkpoints to be used. • Celebration of International or European H&S days / weeks: 23 articles Seminars and information on a wide range of issues are also continually provided: • Protection from and dealing with seasonal viruses: 4 articles (e.g. heatwave conditions heat stroke In Health Issues: prevention, heat stress prevention, seasonal flu, etc.) • First Aid • Heat stress avoidance • Protection from and dealing with seasonal dangers (e.g. instructions for ice and snow, etc.): 1 article • Protection against electrical hazards • Relating to the balancing of life / health and work: 2 articles (eg Your medicine ... your food, • Special reference to technical employees in Electromechanical facilities etc. as appropriate breastfeeding). Events were conducted in cooperation with external • Protection from Physical-chemical-biological agents organizations on issues concerning: • Safety and Health to new recruits • We live better Without Cigarettes! . We live better program was based on a series of new initiatives of the OTE and COSMOTE Safety and In Safety issues: Health Group that were related to awareness, prevention and the adoption of a healthier lifestyle. • Fire safety (use of fire extinguishers) Following its initiation in 2014, the program We live better –Without Cigarettes! was continued in • Risks and work hazards in the workplace 2015, in both Athens and Thessaloniki. • Worker safety in the field / use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) • Ebola Virus, in collaboration with HCDCP (Hellenic Center for Disease Control & Prevention) • Protection against electrical hazards In addition, a new brochure entitled Health & Safety information for Visitors and Contractors was composed • Protection from Physical-chemical-biological agents to be distributed at the Satellite Communications Centres, and 12 guidelines were compiled in the following topics: • Safety and Health in new recruits • General Safety Work Instructions for Field • Worker safety in warehouses / use PPE Technicians About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Health and Safety 117 • Safe Driving for Field Technicians • Instructions for checking Personal Protective Equipment • Working Safely -in OTE Responsibility Areas • Instructions for safe Battery use • Working Safely Outdoors • Instructions for safe use of Cleaning Products • Working Safely Portable ladders Medical Clinics OTE and COSMOTE • Working Safely with wooden poles In 2015, the clinics operating in the Group's • Working Safely in Wells facilities were consolidated and now operate under the joint supervision of the OTE and COSMOTE • Working Safely in Excavations Earthworks Group medical team. They treated a total of 5,708 incidents. • Working Safely in non Responsibility Areas Incidents treated in OTE and COSMOTE clinics 2015 Surgical / Orthopedic Pathological 913 (16%) 3,965 (69%) Dental 88 (2%) Psychiatric 142 (2%) 5,708 incidents Ophthalmic 156 (3%) Otolaryngology 212 (4%) Gynecological 232 (4%) OTE Group expanded the services of its work clinics, and partnerships, as needed for a multifaceted adding to their staff a personal clinical psychologist, approach of employees. with the aim of, amongst other things, providing services to improve the balance between personal and The Service deals with various issues such as private working lives of employees. The Group’s Employee life, work, health but also issues, such as depression Psychological Support Service currently has three and extreme anxiety. The number of asking for the psychologists who regularly visit local facilities of the provision of psychological services is steadily increasing Group. Services provided include individual sessions every year. The total number of employees who have with employees, and a general framework of contacts benefited from the service in 2015, reached 186. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 118 Moreover, regular meetings have been established between Administration Executives and medical • Inspections of restaurants and canteens: team members, to serve both as a mutual • ­ number of inspections: 51 in restaurants and 174 in canteens information tool on matters affecting staff, as well as a psycho-social risk management tool relating to vulnerable employees. • ­ number of findings / comments: 224 of which 209 were addressed satisfactorily and 15 are still pending. Finally, the Blood Donation Program of the companies continued under the Health and Safety Division. In 2015, a Common Blood Bank for • Microbiological tests: OTE Group (OTE, COSMOTE, COSMOTE e-Value, • ­ 45 surface tests Germanos) was created, with the goal to fully cover the blood needs of all Group employees. More • ­ 4 olive oil sample analyses information presented in the Section Employee • ­ 225 microbiological meal/ raw material tests Volunteering. • ­ 29 water analyses Wellness Programs (Gym in Paiania building) Emergency employees response and The existence of a gym in the workplace gives preparedness employees an incentive to adopt a healthy lifestyle. Regular exercise improves overall health of people, As part of emergency preparedness and response it helps to reduce weight and blood pressure and of employees, the following actions were taken in reduces the symptoms of chronic disease. The 2015: operation of the gym in the Group's facilities in Paiania continued successfully in 2015. The number of employees registered to partake of gym facilities • Identification of OTE Group critical buildings and agreement with the concerned parties during the year amounted to 268. In the gym, group fitness programs are offered through a gym instructor. • Defining and updating the BIC Group / IRT (building installation / building incident Restaurants – Canteens response team) In OTE and COSMOTE buildings, 4 restaurants and • Specifying building meeting points 46 canteens (24 in Athens, 4 in Thessaloniki and 18 in the rest of Greece) are in operation to cover the • Creating plans for buildings escape / rescue companies’ employees needs. • Organization and implementation of Safety and First Aid education BIC / IRT (building The management of canteens and restaurants is under the supervision of the Health and Safety installation / incident response team) Team, which monitors the restaurants and canteen plannning operations, and manages the issuance • Check suitability and operativeness of escape routes (easily accessible, free of obstacles, and weekly electronic posting of restaurant menus. unlocked) In 2015, the following inspections were planned and implemented under the supervision of the Health In 2015, 17 evacuation exercises were planned and Safety Team: and performed on the Group's buildings. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 119 Business Excellence Award In 2015, the Greek Business Administration Association (HMA) awarded the HR Business Partner IT, Business Security & Continuity and the OSH Head with the EFQM certificate Committed to Excellence . The certificate indicates the successful implementation of the European Business Excellence Model used by organizations and companies and operates as a practical tool for: • monitoring, operational efficiency and improvement assessment • identification of areas for improvement • development of a common platform for the strategic design and implementation of programs • internal and external benchmarking The results achieved for the Safety and Health Unit, from its participation in the Business Excellence Model -EFQM, are best seen as the creation of development, improvement and innovation conditions and culture, with the support of a visionary and inspirational Leadership. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 120 4.4 Organizational Transformation and Effectiveness In 2015, emphasis was given on achieving greater DT One Procurement Project also began this year as flexibility within the organizational structure of an attempt to align Natco procurement procedures, OTE and COSMOTE and on concentrating end-toto adopt common language and roles, to clarify end accountability on individual units for a more responsibilities and to establish a single procurement effective response to modern day requirements. platform across all DT Natcos. The project is expected Moreover, the organizational structure was further to be completed within 2016. reviewed, in order to avoid multi-layered hierarchy and to strengthen the role of Middle Management, through position mergers and broadening of responsibilities. These changes improved the ratio of responsibility positions / number of employees in accordance with international telecommunication standards. The assessment of the OTE Group Executive positions (Executive Grading project) continued in cases of new and expanding responsibilities. Assessment of Middle Management positions was also continued in order to increase transparency in relation to job accountabilities. The alignment of Job Family Model of OTE and COSMOTE is in process. All fixed and mobile roles will be updated and enriched, taking into account recent developments both in the telecommunications market, as well as contemporary organizational and operational models. This will ensure a thorough understanding of the competencies and responsibilities of both employees and managers within the integrated fixed and mobile activities. An updated model for the design of modern organizational structures and roles and their effective staffing is crucial in order to reinforce the Group’s future operation. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 121 4.5 Employee Development The aim of the OTE Group's companies is to establish individual development plans. In 2015, a total of 367 themselves as attractive employers and provide a new managers attended this training program, and work environment where every employee is able to all OTE and COSMOTE employees (i.e. 100%) were perform at the maximum of his skills and to develop evaluated according to the process. Therefore, the professionally. The OTE and COSMOTE approach gender ratio regarding performance evaluation is the for employee development is based on the Guiding same as the overall company-wide gender ratio. Principle Best place to perform and grow. The OTE and COSMOTE performance evaluation As a modern organization focusing on the customer, system is adapted to the vision, mission, values, high the Group also supports the harmonious synthesis of performance culture, the needs of the companies skills, experience and talent. However, even the most and those of their employees. It is designed with talented people need support and suitable systems so emphasis on strengthening excellence in customer as to develop professionally. experience and is harmonized with the OTE Group Guiding Principles, the Leadership Principles, for those Evaluation and performance management, who are leading teams, and the OTE Group Code of recruitment and selection of the right candidate Conduct. It is based on parameters of specific and for the right position, re-skilling and up-skilling measurable objectives, professional competencies training programs, talent acquisition and talent and performance criteria, which are revised as often management programs, and leadership development as necessary, so as to reflect current standards in the tools for employees with managerial responsibilities, telecommunications sector and the corresponding are amongst the contemporary professional required expertise. developmental and training tools used. Emphasis is given to the creation of individual employee It should be noted that the adoption of Corporate development plans, that include specific actions for Responsibility principles is taken into account in their improvement, development and advancement. the annual performance evaluation process of all employees, by evaluating their degree of involvement As members of the DT Group of companies, OTE and and participation in the companies' efforts to COSMOTE provide their employees with international develop socially responsible behaviour towards the career opportunities within the Group, as well as best environment, society, fellow employees and the practices and knowledge sharing. market. Top Management's Performance Evaluation 4.5.1 Performance Evaluation For the first time in 2015, a multidimensional Performance evaluation is an essential tool for further holistic and transparent performance evaluation developing employee skills, for managing their career, system was introduced for the OTE Group Top as well as for recognizing their work and contribution, Management executives, titled Performance Dialog . when satisfactory business results are achieved. In cooperation with the Deutsche Telekom Group, conditions for an innovative leadership culture in the The annual performance and development evaluation telecommunications industry is cultivated. process applies to all OTE and COSMOTE employees, on all levels. All newly appointed managers, who On top of the superior’s evaluation, the process also have people management responsibilities, attend, includes the evaluee’s self-assessment, as well as prior to the annual process commencement, tailorTeam & Peer feedback. The main aim of this process made training on how to evaluate their employees’ is to support the ongoing dialogue between employees performance and how to create structured and creative and their superiors and to create a development plan About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 122 through the exchange of regular feedback. This applied to participate and, following an extensive process leads to actions relating to the areas of and demanding selection process, in which remuneration, succession and development. members of the Top Management team were also involved, 10 were selected as planned. Their Same as the employee performance evaluation development journey will begin in 2016. system, Performance Dialog is designed with emphasis on the Leadership Principles and is fully Leadership Programs harmonized with the OTE Group Guiding Principles. Aiming to enhance the skills of executives with managerial responsibilities, leadership programs for 4.5.2 Employee Selection new managers, as well as tailor-made programs based on individual needs of different executives The aim of OTE Group is to select appropriate recruits were implemented in 2015. At the same time, new for each specific position. Selection is based on leadership development programs for experienced transparent and merit based criteria and contributes executives were designed, based on their level to the profile of the Groups' companies, as modern in the hierarchy, which have been adapted to and attractive employers. The OTE Group's companies the growing and changing leadership demands seek to be a first choice employer and offer all managers currently face in their roles. candidates a positive experience, whatever the outcome. The new YouLead Leadership Programs will be implemented during 2016 and 2017. In 2015, 18 positions for internal candidates were announced, which corresponded to 74 positions in All OTE Group leadership programs are based on the total, for which 951 CV’s were submitted and 372 corporate values of the Group and are characterized interviews were conducted. The internal recruitment by a dynamic and participatory learning method, process includes internal announcement / emphasizing each leader’s personality and the advertisement, interview and final selection, and is exchange of experiences through an experiential enhanced by the application, in collaboration with an learning approach. external consultant if needed, of specific assessment / development tests. 4.5.3 Employee Training Programs to attract exceptionally talented employees Training is fundamental for employee development and satisfaction, customer service and business The talent selection process of the first COSMOTE competitiveness. At the same time, training Graduate Trainee Program was completed in 2015 constitutes the predominant means of personal and the development journey of the successful development and at the same time, an important candidates commenced (see. Section Human vehicle for communicating corporate strategy, Resources). changes and for strengthening corporate culture. Throughout 2015, OTE and COSMOTE continued to In parallel, and for the first time, an internal invest in training for the personal and professional OTE Group talent management program was development of their employees. implemented (you.grow Internal Talent Program). This is an internal talent identification, selection and development program, addressed to all young OTE Group employees, who do not hold managerial positions, but are distinguished for their enthusiastic and dynamic personality. In total, 650 employees About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-LA9 123 Participation in OTE and COSMOTE 2015 Training Programs Εmployees participated in training Women 23% ΟΤΕ Men COSMΟΤΕ Women 8,500 49% 1,906 51% Men 77% Employees participation ΟΤΕ COSMOΤΕ 16,327 Participations 3,312 Participations 74 26 58 42 Men (%) Women (%) Men (%) Women (%) 90 10 81 19 In non managerial In managerial In non managerial In managerial positions (%) positions (%) positions (%) positions (%) Product and services Specialists development and 3% promotion Administration Administration / Technical 6% 3% Retail 59% 28% Customer Securing service enterprise Other 10% effectiveness and 3% value Sales 28% Customer support 16% 3% Construction, Network and IT network/IT Expert personnel applications design operations and Customer support and development applications 3% 4% 16% 18% NOTE: Includes training hours managed through the Learning & Skills Management Department. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-LA9 124 Evolution of Average Training Hours for OTE and COSMOTE Employees NOTE: The training hours per employee were calculated based on the annual average number of employees. Included are training hours managed through the Learning & Skills Management Department Learning and Development Programs at the core of the Group's interest, providing Catalogue therefore the means to the Group’s executives to achieve high performance. Aiming to evolve the human resources strategy on training, so that programs are not determined With this philosophy in mind, the second by individual, ad hoc needs, the new learning Learning and Development 2016-2017 programs are designed to follow a more targeted Programs Catalogue was designed and approach, in order to meet specific needs of published in December 2015 and is available employee groups, and also highlight Group online, accessible by all employees. The employees’ talent, through developing their skills programs in the catalogue are classified for the future. At the same time, considering according to subject area, depending on their good past practices, the Group’s companies goal, and are continually enhanced. The subject are adopting new trends dictated by the digital areas cover topics such as retraining and large age (going digital, use of new technologies). scale re-skilling / up-skilling, talent management, Encouraging creative thinking and innovation, and leadership development, change management fostering cooperation and teamwork, always in an and engagement, creative thinking and experiential, interactive and structured way, remain innovation. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 125 Training topics knowledge on technology subjects. Its aim is to familiarize employees with the fixed and mobile The learning and skills development programs of network, through a simulated network environment. OTE and COSMOTE cover many areas and topics. In 2015, 272 employees had a unique technology The most representative programs for 2015 were: experience and, because of the very high interest in the program, it continues with great success. The Evolution SessionsCorporate Positioning BC2X – Branded Customer Experience Excellence Philosophy Program By joining forces, OTE and COSMOTE adopted, at The program for cultivating a customer experience the end of 2015, the common commercial brand culture was continued in 2015 and was attended COSMOTE . In order to communicate the new brand by all OTE and COSMOTE employees. Meanwhile, values and philosophy, large-scale training was in cooperation with OTEAcademy, over 5,000 designed and implemented, which was attended by employees had the opportunity to enhance their over 13,000 OTE Group employees. knowledge through an e-learning platform. Further developing the Branded Customer Experience Excellence Program, the innovative Experience the Customer Experience program was designed and will be implemented in 2016, through which employees will be able to gain customer experience in frontline business functions (retail shops, customer call ACT2 – Advanced Certification in centers, technology field). Telecommunications Technologies This is the first comprehensive continuous learning and skills development program in the Telecommunications Technologies. It comprises of a dynamic content of eight subject areas that evolve according to business needs and addresses Field Technicians and Telecommunications Engineers. More B2B Power Performance than 2,600 employees have attended the program to This is a comprehensive training program addressed date. to B2B employees. In order to fully cover training needs, two learning programs have been designed and are being implemented. The B2B Accelerating Account Management Skills program, which deep dives into contemporary Account Management practices and the B2B Expertise – Solutions – Simplicity program, which trains corporate sales persons in products and integrated technology solutions for corporate customers. By the end of ACT2 for Non Techs 2015, more than 200 B2B employees attended the The program ACT 2 for non Techs was created training program. in response to the need to enrich employees’ About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 126 Design Thinking Workshop Fresh your Mind This program is addressed to groups who are involved in challenging and complex projects and aim at innovation. It strengthens and encourages creative thinking in experiential and practical ways. Participants discover opportunities, connect better with their customers and create actual solutions with business benefits. The program was attended by groups of employees from the OTE TV business unit, groups supporting B2B projects and all CX Ambassadors. Digital learning OTE and COSMOTE invest in alternative learning methods, with an emphasis in digital learning. Overall, more than 3,500 employees from Retail Shops and Customer Call Centers attended courses through e-learning. Professional Certifications OTE and COSMOTE recognize the value of professional certifications from reputable institutions, with international prestige, to enhance the employability of their employees. More specifically, 158 OTE and COSMOTE employees were certified in 79 areas of specialization of Cisco, Alcatel, HP, PMI and CISA products. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 127 4.6 Employee Benefits OTE and COSMOTE provide a range of benefits and companies gave the opportunity to their employees to programs to their employees in order to support them receive a salary advance by postal order. and their families in their daily needs, to promote work and life balance and to help them to deal with The main categories of benefits are common to OTE emergencies in their lives. In this context, at the and COSMOTE employees beginning of the capital controls (summer 2015), the Main Benefits to OTE employees per category in 2015 Insurance • Health insurance program for all employees and dependents • Life insurance program for all employees Group products and services • Corporate mobile phone and handset subsidy • Fixed telephony packages, internet and OTE TV for all employees, but also ability to purchase company products at special prices • Ability to purchase products through the Group’s shops with special discounts for OTE employees Other benefits • Provision of special prices for goods and services of other companies • Offering, through a draw, of tickets to sporting and cultural events • Issuing of Food Vouchers • Staff bus for transportation of personnel to and from subway stations and commuter rail • Provision of multi-trip card or e-PASS, for employees in the Paiania building • Operation of restaurants / canteens in central buildings of the company Family • Allowance for child care and nursery costs • Saving program through the Youth Account program • Wedding gift • Financial support of employees • Financial rewards for graduation with high honors of employees’ children from public institutions of higher education or language training • Financial rewards for employees’ children who excel in institutions of higher education • Implement special policies for working mothers and people with disabilities • Special support for large families • Financial support through Fund for Mutual Help for health expenses • Christmas gifts to employees' children • Privileged mobile program for employees’ children who are students • School supplies books games at preferential prices through Cosmotebooks Free time Vacation • Through OPAKE, OTE offers its employees stay in privately owned resorts and at selected hotels in Greece and abroad. Athletics • Conducting internal championships in team sport football 5x5 and participation in external corporate championships (regarding basketball and volleyball) • Operation of fitness facilities in the Paiania building About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 128 Main Benefits to COSMOTE employees per category in 2015 Insurance • Health insurance program for all employees and dependents • Life insurance program for all employees • Pension Plan Group products and services • Corporate mobile phone and handset subsidy • Fixed telephony packages, internet and OTE TV for all employees, but also ability to purchase company products at special prices • Ability to purchase products through the Group’s shops with special discounts for COSMOTE employees Other benefits • Provision of special prices for goods and services of other companies • Offering, through a draw, of tickets to sporting and cultural events • Issuing of food vouchers • Staff bus for transportation of personnel to and from subway stations and commuter rail • Provision of multi-trip card or e-PASS, for employees in the Paiania building • Operation of restaurants / canteens in central buildings of the company Family • Allowance for child care and nursery costs • Implement special policies for working mothers and people with disabilities • Financial support of employees • Financial rewards for employees’ children who excel in institutions of higher education • Flexible working hours • Christmas gifts to employees' children • Privileged mobile program for employees’ children who are students • School supplies books games at preferential prices through Cosmotebooks Free time Vacation • Through OPAKE, COSMOTE offers its employees stay in privately owned resorts and at selected hotels in Greece and abroad. Athletics • Conducting internal championships in team sport football 5x5 and participation in external corporate championships (regarding basketball and volleyball) • Operation of fitness facilities in the Paiania building About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 129 4.7 Internal Communications OTE Group aim to maintain transparent and interactive Moreover, for the first time in 2015, electronic communication with its employees, through a range of communication tools were launched, targeting media, to promote knowledge, teamwork, participation field technicians who need more flexible ways of and two-way communication. Amongst the key tools communicating, due to the nature of their work used by the companies are the OTE intranet U-link (mobile workers). More specifically: and the COSMOTE intranet Mikrocosmos , emails, the OTE and COSMOTE e-Newsletter, leaflets and posters, personal updates, communication campaigns, • Digital Display Screens have been installed, since January 2015, on a trial basis, in 13 technology promotional activities and employee satisfaction units throughout Greece (with access to about surveys. The companies’ target to extend all internal 650 employees), which provide concise corporate communication programs countrywide was achieved information, useful notifications, summary reports by utilizing all available tools. on projects’ progress and useful information such as weather, calendar. In 2015: • A Technology Newsletter is sent to more than • Corporate Intranet sites received a total of 2,900,000 visits by OTE and COSMOTE 3,100 employees in technology, which includes news and team communications. employees. Moreover, in 2015, the following internal • On a monthly basis, an average 86% of OTE and COSMOTE employees (+6% compared to 2014) communication campaigns and promotions were implemented. Indicatively, the following are visited the U-link and Mikrocosmos intranet sites. presented: • 24 Newsletter were issued, covering more than 230 subjects (+15% compared to 2014), • Campaign in central Athens and regional buildings to extend the Recycling Program. enhancing the dissemination of information. • Two Blood Donation campaigns for strengthening • 100 articles on corporate responsibility issues in the U link and in Mikrocosmos intranet sites. the OTE Group blood bank. • Two campaigns accompanied by promotions • The Intranet Sites were utilized for the presentation of the detailed Pulse and Employee informing employees of employee satisfaction surveys and encouraging their participation. Satisfaction Surveys’ results, surveys which run in May and November 2015 respectively. • Awareness campaign about the dangers and consequences of smoking. • 50 articles, exclusively on human resources issues were published in the OTE and COSMOTE e-Newsletter. More information on health and • Campaign/Call for the participation of employees in the 33rd Athens Authentic Marathon. safety related information can be found in the section Prevention, Training and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues. • Campaign to inform and challenge young employees’ participation in the innovative YOU.GROW internal talent program, which aims at • A special microsite was created for the new commercial brand, so that employees could identifying talented Group employees. familiarize themselves with the new brand identity. • Campaign for all OTE Group employees to inform and sensitize them on Compliance issues. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 130 • Communication campaign for the new corporate brand accompanied, by promotion and rebranding of buildings with the new corporate identity. • Interactive communication programs for employees in call centers. • Renovation and branding of the Network Management Center. Also, in 2015, the following conferences were organized for employees: • HR content conferences aiming at specific business units for example: 500 B2B employees, 200 HR employees, 160 Retail Shops sales persons. • Informative Conferences / conferences aiming at disseminating corporate strategy for example: Management Team Meeting (1,300 employees), Security Day (120 employees), Compliance Day (120 employees). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-26 131 4.8 Employee Engagement and Satisfaction OTE and COSMOTE regard employee participation, business units. More than 600 OTE and COSMOTE engagement and satisfaction, as necessary ingredients employees participated in this program in 2015. for their successful operation. Welcome on Board for newly hired employees 4.8.1 Employee Engagement With the key message Welcome on board , a welcome OTE and COSMOTE believe that employee engagement program for newly hired OTE Group employees was and loyalty is crucial for the success of a company. The launched in early 2014. The strategy and corporate aim of the companies is for their employees not only values, awareness on customer experience and to think and speak positively about the companies, contemporary telecommunications technologies are but to regard, in a spontaneous and heartfelt way, the some of the main program subject areas, supported by OTE Group as an excellent environment to perform and the presence of 60 speakers from the Group’s business grow. OTE and COSMOTE also try to constantly inform units. The program aims at ensuring a climate of employees about the strategic, technological and teamwork, and a common culture and communication organizational changes made and seek employees’ throughout the Group’s companies. understanding and active participation in those. In 2015, the Welcome on board program, the duration Employee involvement and engagement is directly of which is now 5 days, was redesigned and enriched related to communication. OTE and COSMOTE aim to to include experiential learning on getting familiar create and maintain a work environment characterized with technology and customer experience (ACT2 for by an open communication and dialogue culture. Non Techs, BC2X) and visits to frontline business units (retail shops, customer call centers, technology For the dissemination of corporate goals and strategy field). Therefore, new employees are provided with to all managers, a Management Team Meeting was the opportunity to better understand, not only specific held in 2015, as well. business functions, but also the daily routine of their colleagues who work in those units. It should be noted that management style holds a decisive role in all key parameters affecting employee engagement and identification with the company. 4.8.2 Employee Satisfaction The companies encourage their employees to OTE and COSMOTE recognize the benefits of employee communicate openly, using all available means of satisfaction surveys conducted on a regular basis. communication, such as meetings and presentations, Conducting an Employee Survey every two years workshops, internal briefings and employee and a half-yearly Pulse Survey, is considered as an satisfaction surveys. important internal corporate feedback tool. In addition, these surveys are reliable diagnostic tools to identify Syntonizomaste possible changes and needed improvements and to develop action plans. Employee surveys’ results are This is an experiential program, in which employees communicated through corporate Intranets and are work together in groups and discuss creative strategy thoroughly discussed in meetings held on a business and effective collaboration. The program applies unit level, throughout Greece. to cases where business units are operationally integrated, new organizational structures are High employee participation, which reached 79% in introduced, strategic objectives are revised and in the 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey and 75% in cases where broader changes affecting one or more the Pulse Survey, show a high interest of employees About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-26 132 to participate and express their views on important employer, as well as its products and services. It issues which affect their working environment. The is worth noting that employees recognize OTE and common denominator is the high identification and COSMOTE's responsibility towards society and the engagement with the company, each of which is environment. evaluated very positively as being an attractive 2015 Employee Satisfaction Survey Indicative Results I often put more effort into my job than is required so I can help our company improve its performance. 96 3 1 I recommend the products and/or services of our company to potential customers outside of my work environment. 95 4 1 Our company is perceived as an attractive employer amongst my family, friends, and acquaintances. 91 7 2 Our company makes good on its responsibility towards social and environmental commitment. 88 10 2 I can identify with the social and ecological engagement of our company. 86 13 1 Agree (%) No opinion(%) Disagree (%) How do you feel at our company? 88 7 5 Very well (%) Neutral (%) Not well (%) The success of the feedback culture being cultivated in the companies is illustrated by employees’ participation in other surveys which also ran in 2015, such as the Data Protection Survey and the Compliance Survey. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 133 5.0 Society OTE Group, during these challenging times for the Greek economy and society, supports vulnerable social groups and communities, in order to cover directly their most pressing needs. It calls on its employees to participate by promoting volunteerism. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-56 134 5.1 Management Approach During these challenging times for Greece’s economy (LBG) was adopted by OTE and COSMOTE. Based and society, OTE Group supports vulnerable social on this model and taking into account DT and groups and local communities, aiming to cover OTE Groups’ requirements, an electronic tool directly their most pressing needs. for collection, processing and recording data of social programs and actions implemented by Specifically, the Group implements social programs the companies, was adopted in 2015. It is noted and simultaneously participates in a series of that the LBG model is aligned and compatible social initiatives, with the aim to contribute to the with international indicators and initiatives for communities where it operates. It invests in the sustainable development, such as the Dow Jones development of future generations’ skills and the Sustainability Index (DJSI), the guidelines of the enhancement of senior citizens’ digital capabilities. Global Reporting initiative (GRI) and the Social Furthermore, the Group provides assistance to Return on Investment methodology (SROI for children and young people in need, and offers special social investment performance measurement). products and services for vulnerable social groups. The costs for the application and implementation In order to improve the management of corporate of the OTE and COSMOTE social programs are responsibility issues, OTE Group systematically presented in the following table. Also, for the expands internal mechanisms and social contribution first year, support and management costs for processes. Indicatively, some of the implemented implementation of social programs (including procedures, are presented below: voluntary activities undertaken during work hours) have been calculated. • The Chairman and CEO, as well as the Senior Management monitor the goals and the Corporate Sustainability strategy and are systematically informed on the progress of the most important on-going programs. • All sponsorships and donations are approved by the Chairman and CEO, after the evaluation by the Executive Director Compliance, Enterprise Risk Management and Insurance OTE Group. • A systematic dialogue with stakeholders is ongoing. Taking under consideration the needs of interested parties, new social initiatives are proposed, while data, related to measuring the impact of programs on society, are collected. • The companies’ strategic approach, regarding social programs and stakeholder engagement, covers all (100%) of their operations in Greece. In order to optimize the design, monitoring and evaluation of the companies’ social contribution, in 2015, the measurement model for inputs, outputs and impacts of the London Benchmarking Group About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 135 Contribution 2015 (€) ΟΤΕ COSMOTE TOTAL Support in Kind 262,189 203,857 466,046 Financial Support 1,372,842 1,424,783 2,797,625 Total Social Contribution 1,635,031 1,628,640 3,263,671 Implementation costs of the actions (labor and expenses) 980,729 Employee Volunteerism during work hours 40,770 Total Social Investment 4,285,170 Only the contribution in cash and the value of companies to vulnerable social groups, children, goods and services offered for free or covered education, entrepreneurship, culture, sports and local by the companies, and not the operating costs communities have been included in the amounts for the design and implementation of actions, presented in this Report. In these amounts and in the have been calculated in the amounts of the number of beneficiaries, the relevant data relating social contribution of the two companies. To to social products, services and promotions are not better inform all interested parties, the amount taken into account (see. Section Social Products, of the contribution (financial and in kind) of the Services and Offers). Social Contribution ΟΤΕ COSMOΤΕ € 1,635,031 € 1,628,640 Sports Local Communities Sports 4% 3% Entrepreneurship 2% 6% Culture 4% Children Vulnerable Children 34% Social Groups 36% Entrepreneurship 8% 7% Culture 9% Vulnerable Local Social Groups Education Communities Education 22% 26% 16% 23% About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 136 It is a constant goal of the OTE Group to try to the opportunity to financially contribute to society. measure, where possible, results from the application It is estimated that over 60,000 people participated of these programs, in order to evaluate and review in the Group’s corporate responsibility programs and their social contribution in the future. In 2015, actions (excluding beneficiaries), such as teachers, different groups of people benefited from social parents, and representatives of bodies, with which the and voluntary programs, employee participation in OTE Group collaborated for the implementation of the corporate responsibility actions was strengthened and programs / actions. the Group’s employees and customers were given € 1,264,295 Beneficiaries Beneficiaries other issues (%) Beneficiaries media skills (%) Sports 5% Entrepreneurship Local Communities 8% 27% Vulnerable Social Groups 9% Education 11% Children Culture 19% 21% 10,699 6,432 Employees' Participations Employees' Participations in Corporate Responsibility Activities in Corporate Responsibility Activities Outside Working time working time 23% 8% Working time Outside 92% working time 77% About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 137 Key Achievements in 2015: Social contribution (financial and in kind) amounting to € 3.3 mn. with more than 1.2 mn. beneficiaries. Support of over 60 NGOs / organisations caring for vulnerable social groups and children. Discounts of more than € 2.2 mn in fixed telephony services for senior citizens and people with disabilities. More than 1,400 students nationwide participated in the 1st PanHellenic Educational Robotics Competition for primary school children. 50 scholarships, reaching the amount of €750,000, were awarded through the COSMOTE Scholarship Program. Support of the Hellenic Coast Guard for the rescue of more than 74,000 people in danger at sea. 80 local community initiatives throughout Greece were supported (financial support for local authorities, sports clubs, cultural events, etc.). More than 10,500 OTE Group employees' participations in Corporate Responsibility initiatives About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 138 5.2 Social Products, Services and Offers OTE Group contributes to improving the quality 5.2.1 People with Special Needs, the of life of vulnerable social groups, people with disabilities, senior citizens and students, through Elderly and Vulnerable Social Groups the use of new technologies. In particular, Particular attention is given in order to provide equal special technologies, services and discounts opportunities and facilitate the access of people with are provided in order to facilitate access and disabilities, through specific products, services and communication for these groups. At the same discounts. time, the Group implements and supports actions and social contribution programs, In 2015, discounts to the elderly and to people with through the use of telecommunications disabilities, in fixed telephony services, amounted to products and services. € 2,163,361. Focus Product / Service 2015 Results Fixed and mobile telephony products and accessories, specially designed for the elderly and for people with sight or hearing 20,626 units Elderly people problems Discount on fixed telephony services for the elderly (65+) 17,366 people Discount on fixed telephony and Internet services 18,588 people Instant Alert Service (includes elderly people) 744 people People with disabilities COSMOTE MobiTalk serviceoffered free of charge 371 active users 50% discount on SMS charges and video calls for customers with 244 people hearing problems Prepaid Calling Cards and COSMOTE Top up cards, with total value of 5,005 prepaid calling cards NGO/Institutions € 28,940 provided to NGOs and Correctional Facilities and top up cards MobiTalk Service for People with Sight 5.2.2 Students Disabilities Students continue to occupy a special place for the In collaboration with the Institute for Language OTE Group. The objective of the Group is to help and Speech Processing, COSMOTE offers MobiTalk students gain access to technology, providing them service to people with vision problems. The service with the necessary tools for their development: aims to facilitate the use of mobile phones by these individuals. Through the use of this software, all information shown on-screen, as • In 2015, fixed and mobile services were provided to students at attractive prices. Specifically, users navigate the various menus, is vocalized. exclusive tariff plans specially designed for This service is offered free of charge. students were provided, such as COSMOTE About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 139 Home Double Play Student, What’s Up offer for Smartphones, Tablets, Smart TV, game consoles Students, COSMOTE Mobile Cost Control Student, and thousands more gifts. COSMOTE Mobile Internet Student, as well as a 10% discount on the monthly fee of COSMOTE tariff plans for all the basic years of their study, 5.2.3 Public Helplines, Services and for the students who had signed on a core mobile Offers tariff plan. Overall, in 2015, more than 74,500 students made use of the COSMOTE fixed and For yet another year, fixed and mobile services were mobile offers. used for making free emergency calls. In 2015, the European emergency number 112, operated by ΟΤΕ • In the scope of the GET ON BOARD 2015 in Greece, received 2,392,810 calls, of which 47,983 action, OTE, COSMOTE and Germanos were re-directed to national emergency numbers (100, approached approximately 204,000 students 199, 166, 108, 197, and 1056)1. and offered them substantial discounts on telecommunications and digital products. In OTE continued to provide telecommunications addition, more than 60,000 students won gifts infrastructure and financial support for the operation such as € 1,000, through the program Instant of the following help-lines for vulnerable social groups, Win , to cover their student expenses, as well as and especially for children in need: Calls Received Helplines in 2015 SOS 1056 of The Smile of the Child NGO (16 years of support) 272,881 calls 116000 European Hotline for missing children, The Smile of the Child NGO (8 years of support) 8,852 calls 11525 Advice Helpline of Together for Children NGO, (6 years of support) 7,547 calls 1018 National Suicide Prevention Hotline of KLIMAKA NGO (7 years of support) 11,828 calls Televoting Service ΟΤΕI Offer Service NGO, and the submission of required documents. The COSMOTE subscriber, who wishes to contribute, sends an SMS, at a cost of € 1 plus VAT, to the predetermined digit For the 10th consecutive year, COSMOTE collaborated number, with a word related to the content of the with the other two mobile operators (VODAFONE and charitable purpose. The total gross proceeds from the WIND HELLAS) to provide the service I Offer , with use of the service is given to the charitable institution the aim of providing substantial support to social that made use of the service. In 2015, the I Offer institutions and NGOs. Through this service, these sevice was utilized more than 20 times and the total institutions and NGOs make use of short messages amount of money collected by COSMOTE and provided (SMS) to carry out radio and TV marathons. Specifically, for charitable purposes amounted to € 147,000 the service operates three 5-digit numbers dedicated exclusively to charity contributions. Activation of The Televoting service, provided in cooperation with the service requires filing out an application by the NGOs, amongst others, offers active and substantial 1 Note that the ability to communicate via 112 to 197 lines (Social Aid Lines) and 1056 (National Hotline for Children SOS of The Child’s Smile NGO) was operational also in previous years, but as the number of incoming calls was not large, they were not recorded separately but were added to calls to the 166 line. Since 2014, after consultation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, under whose responsibility the 112 line operates and the rise of the number of calls asking to be connected to these lines, the tracking and reporting of the 2 groups of lines is done separately. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 140 support to them. The Televoting services’ enhanced social groups, with an extremely simple and easy Service Numberseries, are also used in the mechanism, namely by sending an SMS. conduction of radio and TV marathons. Specifically, COSMOTE fixed telephony subscribers calling the In 2015, the program COSMOTE DEALS for YOU Televoting service, and listening to a recorded was further enhanced in order to meet wider needs message, are charged automatically, according to and desires of COSMOTE subscribers, both through company’s official tariffs. With the Televoting service the enrichment of the package with more exclusive the charitable work of the NGOs is supported, through offers in areas of high interest for consumers the financial support provided by the income collected such as travel, food / drink, shopping, automotive from the use of the service. In 2015, the Televoting and culture, as well as through the geographical service, was used by approximately 24 institutions expansion of the offers. The establishment of and the amount of money raised and offered by OTE the uniform commercial brand COSMOTE gave amounted to € 3,251. the opportunity to COSMOTE’s mobile, fixed and internet customers and customers of OTE TV, to Offers for Unemployed and Pensioners enjoy the unique program offerings. Furthermore, to better serve all users, password acquisition can COSMOTE, focusing on subscribers who belong to occur via voice calls for fixed telephony customers, specific social groups that are heavily affected by and via the internet for fixed, mobile and OTE TV the economic crisis, supports the unemployed and subscribers. It is worth mentioning that participation pensioners, by providing a discount on their monthly in the program is increasing year by year. In 2015, fee, since 2010. This offer was warmly received by 7% more unique users participated in the program, the Greek society, thus it is further extended in 2016. compared to 2014. More than 415,000 participants / unique users gained more than 815,000 DEALS for YOU codes, and more than 355,000 participants / Digital Solidarity unique users took advantage of the offers, through the redemption of 600,000 codes. OTE Group participated in the Digital Solidarity , with the aim of providing digital services and equipment to the citizens that requested for and were awarded the Social Dividend and residing in one of the following 8 Prefectures (Eastern MacedoniaThrace, Epirus, Thessaly, Ionian Islands, Western Greece, Peloponnese, North Aegean, and Crete). The Group’s participation proved for yet another time its commitment to the promotion of new technologies around the country. Offering free tablets or laptops, internet and home lessons for beneficiaries of the social dividend, the Group actively supported equal opportunities regarding access to new technologies for all, thus contributing to the transition of Greece to the new digital era. COSMOTE DEALS for YOU COSMOTE collaborates with leading companies in the entertainment industry and covers -in the most manner – the leisure and entertainment needs of all About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 141 5.3 Supporting Vulnerable Social Groups and Children In 2015, OTE Group supported more than 60 NGOs and organisations caring for vulnerable social groups • Melissa Girls’ Orphanage and children. The organisations were supported either through long-term programs or through financial • Center for Children with Special Needs Zoodochos Pigi support, offering telecommunications products and services, such as fixed and mobile connections, call centers, internet services, calling cards, etc. free of • Workshop of Special Vocational Training and Rehabilitation for People With Intellectual and charge, as well as by providing voluntary work (see. Associated Disabilities Panagia Elesousa Section Employee Volunteering). An indicative list of organizations that received support • Recovery and Rehabilitation Center in Penteli (former Patriotic Institute for Social Welfare and in 2015, is presented below: Awareness) • Together for Children * • Pan Hellenic Association of Parents, Guardians and Friends of visionary impaired People with • The Smile of the Child additional special needs Αmymoni • Association of Parents of Children with Cancer Floga • Institute of Child Health • Gentle Carousel • Friends of Social Pediatrics Anoixti Agkalia • Archdiocese of Athens philanthropic organization • Cerebral Palsy Greece Mission (Apostoli) • Hellenic Society for the Protection and Rehabilitation of Disabled People (ELEPAP) • Food Bank Greece • Scientific Mastological Society-Healing-Support • Association of Social Responsibility for Children and Youth (SKEP) Ε.Μ.Ε.Ι.S. • Organization Heart Doctors • Association for the care of people with Muscular Dystrophy diseases MDA Hellas • Organization METAction • Pediatric Trauma Care Association • National association of OTE employees and pensioners parents of handicapped children • Athens Municipal Creche • Panhellenic Association of Women with Breast • Elefsina Love Center Cancer Alma Zois • Lampsi Association • 50+ Hellas NGO * The Association Together for Children is an association of Charities which comprises 10 different organizations: Cerebral Palsy Greece, Children's Home Foundation, Social Work Foundation Hatzipaterion Rehabilitation Centre for Children with Cerebral Palsy, Hara Centre for Individuals with Special Needs, Merimna's Friends Foundation, Friends of the Child, Panhellenic Juvenile Diabetes Union (P.J.D.U), PNOE Friends of Children in Intensive Care, Friends of Theotokos Association, ELIZA-Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 142 Support Actions for NGO’s for Children • Melissa Girls’ Orphanage In 2015, 16 non-profit organizations for children were • Center for Children with Special Needs Zoodochos Pigi supported, through financial contribution, amounting to € 550,000 in total. This contribution helped to improve living conditions for over 150,000 children from all • Workshop of Special Vocational Training and Rehabilitation for People With Intellectual and over Greece. Associated Disabilities Panagia Elesousa Specifically, in April 2015 and with the message Regardless of what we offer to children, they will • Elefsina Love Center always offer us more , 16 NGOs caring for children, as well as their 4,700 volunteers who daily stand by these children, were honored. • Recovery and Rehabilitation Center in Penteli (former Patriotic Institute for Social Welfare and Awareness) Over the last sixteen years, through this program, 50 organizations, that contribute to improving living Finally, for yet another year, OTE Group employees conditions for children in need across Greece, have had the opportunity to vote for organizations that been supported with over € 6.5 million. were supported through this initiative. Specifically, in 2015, employees of the Group selected four non-profit In 2015, the following organizations were supported organizations from the Greek periphery and one from through this action: Attica. • Together for Children Association (association of 10 charitable organizations) Christmas Charity Bazaar in OTE Group facilities • MDA Hellas – Association for the Caring for People with Neuromuscular Diseases Following the success of the first charity Bazaar in 2014, OTE Group invited, in 2015 as well, its employees to purchase gifts of love for Christmas. • The Smile of the Child Organization In 2015, the charity Bazaar was further developed and expanded both geographically, as well as in terms of • Friends of Social Pediatrics Anoixti Agalia the number of employees reached. • Cerebral Palsy GreeceOpen Door Specifically, the Bazaar was held in three cities (Athens, Thessaloniki, Xanthi) and in 8 OTE Group • Hellenic Society for the Protection and Rehabilitation of Disabled People (ELEPAP) buildings. 18 Non-Profit Organizations caring for children participated with the goal of collecting money to support their main goals. Over 7,500 employees • Association of Parents of Children with Cancer Floga responded and as a result the 18 organizations raised more than € 30,000. • Association of Social Responsibility for Children and Youth (SKEP) Supporting Gentle Carousel Greece Gentle Carousel Greece organization is a non-profit • Pediatric Trauma Care Association organization that has trained miniature horses which visit and spend time with children and adults belonging • Lampsi Association to vulnerable social groups and aims to provide them psychological support. For yet another year, • Athens Municipal Creche OTE and COSMOTE covered the costs for the visits About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 143 of these horses to 9 organizations and institutions, in 2015. The program included three visits to each • Cooperation with Recognized State Agencies: Support of the important and of the following organizations: Hospice Center, the effective work of the Hellenic Coast Guard. Cerebral Palsy Greece Open Door, Hara Centre for Specifically, the Group contributed to the repair Individuals with Special Needs, the Society Against maintenance of 52 Coast Guard vessels Cruelty to Children ELIZA, the Hatzipaterio Cerebral which have primarily been used in the East Palsy Children Rehabilitation Center, the Association Aegean region, where the largest refugee influx Amymoni , the Vocational Training Center Margarita , occurred. By using these vessels the Coast the Ark of the World and the Association of Friends Guard was able, within five months, to respond of Children with Cancer ELPIDA . This particular successfully to 2,200 search and rescue donation to Gentle Carousel Greece contributed to incidents in the eastern Aegean, rescuing more the realization of the visits to the aforementioned than 74,000 people in danger at sea. NGOs, without any charge for them. Alleviation of the Humanitarian Crisis In 2015, the refugee crisis has been one of the most important issues for Greece and Europe. In order to provide a substantive and comprehensive contribution to this issue, OTE Group formed and implemented a strategy which includes the following action areas: • Provision of Telecommunication Infrastructure / Services: Free provision of fixed and mobile telephony products and services in the Temporary Accommodation Facility of Elaionas, Attica. Through this offer, the Group aimed to cover important telecommunications needs and to thus facilitate the operation of the Center, which hosted more than 11,500 refugees in the first half of its operation. • Employee Voluntarism: Support of the METAction NGO through the participation of 750 employees at the 33rd Athens Authentic Marathon. Specifically, the Group contributed to the needs of 71 unaccompanied minors, through the ‘Guardianship of Unaccompanied Minors’ Network and to the coverage of 95 minors’ meals in the Transit Accommodation Facility for Unaccompanied Minors in Lesvos. More information can be found in the Section Employee Volunteering. • Support for Non-Profit Organizations: Financial support to the organization ‘Food Bank Greece’ for the coverage of meals for the refugees. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 144 5.4 Supporting Education Training and development of technological skills is At the same time, the Group supports the academic essential, both for the young and for people of all community and the Universities of the country ages. OTE Group supports education, innovation and through the provision of support for research, the reduction of the digital divide, by implementing for their connection to the market, by attracting and strengthening relevant programs and actions. In talented students and by offering scholarships. this context, initiatives for the education of children Furthermore, focusing on the education of and young people in the country are being designed, children and young people and in particular on implemented and supported in order to contribute to: the information and communication technology fields, educational programs and activities for a) coping with the major educational challenges children of all ages are realized at the OTE Group Telecommunications Museum. b) the preparation for their professional and personal development, In 2015, OTE Group, not only continued the implementation of important Corporate c) the uptake of innovation at the early stages of Responsibility initiatives to support education, such education, as the COSMOTE Scholarships Program, but also developed new ones towards this direction, such d) the utilization of the unlimited possibilities of the as the collaboration with the Athens University of Information society. Economics and Business. Program Contribution COSMOTE Scholarships Program: for students 50 scholarships to support students for the whole duration of their studies facing financial and social difficulties • Financial support for the implementation of the competition Pan-Hellenic Educational Robotics • Coverage of the participation costs of 150 groups Competition • Prizes to the 3 winning teams • Promotion of the competition via OTE TV channels • Financial support for the implementation of the program Access to the Digital World Program • Provision of technical equipment for free • Collaboration in areas of common activity, exchange of know-how, and the search for business and technical solutions to upgrade products, applications Collaboration with Athens University of and services Economics and Business • Establishment of a joint Technology Innovation Lab • Joint participation in European and domestic R&D projects 10 talented university graduates with a master's degree, participate in the COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program 18-month program Educational Programs of the ΟΤΕ Group Organization of educational programs concerning telecommunications. The Telecommunications Museum programs focus on children, adolescents and the family and are offered for free Work Experience and Skills Development • Internship for 423 students at OTE Group Offered to Students • 150 pupils and students participated in COSMOTE's Students Visit program About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 145 Program Contribution Hellenic Mathematical Society Competitions Support of four national Competitions with over 95,000 elementary, middle ( Thalis , Εuclides , Αrchimides National school and high school students who participate Competition for elementary school students) PC Donation Program Computer and other technological equipment offered to schools and NGOs • Financial support for the implementation of the competition 19th Junior National Competition LYSIAS • Gifts for the 12 winners Scholarships at the Department of Banking 2 scholarships awarded to post-graduate students with demonstrated and Financial Management of the University exceptional academic performance of Piraeus In the Public Awareness additional information is time in Thessaloniki. The amount of each of the 50 presented on environmental education activities for scholarships is € 15,000. students Since 2002, when the Scholarship program was COSMOTE Scholarships Program 2015 first introduced, more than € 3.6 million have been distributed to 530 honorees. In the framework of COSMOTE Scholarships Program, which has been running now for 14 consecutive years, In 2015, more than 1,700 students applied for the € 750,000 were awarded to first-year university Scholarships Program. Besides the financial support, students, facing economic and social difficulties. the scholars received free fixedline, mobile and The Company increased the number of offered broadband services for the whole duration of their scholarships from twenty to fifty, in 2015. studies, as well as TV services, a mobile device and a tablet. The scholarships awards event, with the key message our best assets, was held for the first About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 146 Support of Pan-Hellenic Educational The Athens University of Economics and Robotics Competitions for school children Business and the OTE Group joined forces More than 1,400 primary school children from all In March 2015, OTE Group and the Athens University over Greece participated in the 1st PanHellenic of Economics and Business (AUEB) signed an Educational Robotics Competition for primary school agreement inaugurating a new era of synergies children, organized by the Non-Profit Organization between business and academia. WRO Hellas and sponsored by COSMOTE. The teams that participated in the contest, designed The agreement foresees cooperation in common and created a complete robotic construction-model, areas of action, the sharing of expertise and the which simulated the theme of the competition My seeking of solutions in technical and business Town . issues for the upgrading of products, applications and services. It also includes the creation of a During the finals of the contest, held in April 2015, joint technology laboratory in OTE Group premises, COSMOTE provided technology gifts to all members involving OTE Group executives, professors and of the three winning teams, who built a plant for students of AUEB. Finally, joint participation is separating recyclables, a cable car in connection envisioned in European and national research and with the Penteli Observatory on a theme based development projects in which the companies of the on the myth of Theseus and Ariadne, and a rolling Group will assume the role of Technology Partner. ramp. It also provides the opportunity to talented students Also, the training and education provided of the University to use their knowledge, abilities and throughout the duration of the competition, not love for technology and gain substantial experience just for students but for more than 1,150 teachers and skills that will be important for their career path. and parents, was of great significance. Utilizing an educational kit that was offered to 150 groups with PC Donation Program the support of COSMOTE, teachers and parents participated in special free educational sessions For the 10th consecutive year, COSMOTE continued for the construction and programming of robotic to contribute technical equipment of schools and models. non-profit organizations through the PC Donation Program . In 2015, 174 refurbished computers and In addition, COSMOTE supported the 2nd other technological equipment were distributed. Apart Pan-Hellenic Educational Robotics Competition from its social contribution, this action contributes for Primary School Children (8-12 years old) under to environmental protection, as the re-use of the the theme Our Galaxy and the 1st Pan-Hellenic computers conserves raw material and reduces Educational Robotics Competition for Junior Highelectronic waste. School Students under the theme Journey in Antiquity . The competitions were organized by the Access to the Digital World Program Non-Profit Organization WRO Hellas and took place under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, The Access to the Digital World program was Research and Religious Affairs. The competitions initiated in 2012, in the Municipality of Heliopolis, started in November 2015 and were completed in in cooperation with the NGO 50+ Hellas . With April 2016. this program, COSMOTE seeks to promote lifelong learning and enhance accessibility to the digital world The competitions are part of the broader effort of people 50 years of age and over, an objective for the dissemination of the new educational embedded in its corporate responsibility strategy to method STEM (Science-Technology-Engineeringsupport education and combat the digital divide. Mathematics) and its integration into the teaching and educational system of students in Greece. The program offers free courses, on the basics of About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 147 computer and internet use, to people older than 50 satellite and mobile communication networks. years old with no previous computer experience. Two and four-hour seminars are also offered on The Museums’s collection includes over 4,500 touch technology programs with smartphones and objects and rich archival material which are being tablets, but also on learning about Skype and social documented and digitized. Among other things, media (Facebook, etc.). Moreover, COSMOTE provides original phones, Morse code telegraphs, wireless all the necessary equipment such as computers, communication systems, telephoto devices, Telex, smartphones and tablets and the technical support fiber optics, a collection of old telegrams, one of the of the program. first Greek television studio and the development of mobile telephony are among the exhibits. During the 2014-2015 school year (3rd year of implementation), the program was extended to During the period September 2014 August 2015, yet another municipality and 765 persons with an 14,076 people visited the Museum, more visitors average age of 64 years enrolled, with 80% of the than any previous other year. During this period, participants completing the program with perfect the Museum implemented specialized educational attendance. 24 PC-Internet training courses were programs, and organised various events and offered involving around 20 people per class. The exhibitions, such as: course met twice a week, two hours at a time, for 6 weeks (total 24 hours). In addition, 76 hours of seminars were offered. In its fourth year of • Guided tour, at the Museum, entitled From Telecommunication inventions of the ancient implementation (2015-2016) the program is also Greeks…to the satellite and mobile telephony : being implemented in the municipality of Agioi attended by 8,526 visitors Anargyroi. • Art Workshop – The artistic side of communication (for Kindergarten to 4th year Educational programs of the ΟΤΕ Group Telecommunications Museum Elementary School children): 1,592 visitors Over the last 6 years, the OTE Group • Technology Workshop – We implement our own telecommunications circuit (for 5th year Telecommunications Museum has been designing and implementing new educational programs. Its Elementary School to 2nd year Middle School main objective is to establish itself as a venue students): 861 visitors. for the promotion of the technology world and an attractive, interactive education destination for • Awareness sessions for Internet Safety: 401 visitors many types of audiences. All programs are designed to meet different needs • Innovative educational activities for parents with children 6-16 years Ingenious, Emotional and offer a comprehensive and unforgettable museum experience to young and old visitors. Intelligence, Adolescence, Learning Difficulties : Children, adolescents, families and all social groups 1,721 visitors. can enjoy educational activities and experiments inspired by telecommunications inventions and the • The Internet Farm theatrical play for online safety: 975 visitors history of telecommunications. All programs are free of charge. • Celebrating of International Museum Day, the Museum remained open all day, for four days, Unique in its kind and among the few technology museums in Greece, the Telecommunications in which parents and children enjoyed Museum celebrated its 25th year of operation themselves, played and were entertained by by presenting the history of telecommunications participating in educational activities and tours: from the first networks of antiquity, to the modern 450 guests. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 148 • Two exterior exhibitions: From the Dial Disk... to the videophone in the 2nd Athens Science selection process. More information is presented in the Employees section. Festival, and The Telegram , in cooperation with the Museum of Photography and the Museum of Science and Technology are Protagonists in Byzantine Culture: over 34,500 visitors. the 2nd Athens Science Festival Although the majority of the Museum’s visitors are OTE Group supported the 2nd Athens Science Festival school groups, by organizing special events and on Science and Technology: from theory to practice , innovative programs in the period September 2014 which attracted more than 33,000 visitors, through August 2015, the percentage of individual visitors has the support and participation of OTE. now reached 15% of the total, an increase of 2% from the previous corresponding period. For six days at Technopolis of Athens, people of all ages, had the opportunity to discover the exciting The OTE Group Telecommunications Museum, is a world of science in an original and entertaining way. member of ICOM (International Council of Museums The OTE Group activities were among the most Greek Section), of CECA (International Committee popular of the festival. for Education and Cultural Action) and of CIMUSET (International Committee of Museums and Collections Under the central concept Entertain Your Mind , OTE of Science and Technology). TV and the National Geographic Channel provided a series of activities and interactions with themes Work Experience and Skills Development for inspired by various popular documentary series, to University Students the more than 20,000 visitors of the Athens Science Festival. The famous Illusionist DMC, the protagonist During 2015, OTE and COSMOTE provided an of the series Beyond Magic with DMC , which airs on opportunity to 423 students (from universities, OTE TV, was in Athens for a single appearance. technical colleges, vocational training institutes) to complete their studies by doing internships in the Through an interactive game of COSMOTE VDSL, modern workplace of the OTE Group. visitors were able to see the mode of operation and the advantages of the fiber optic network, which has In the same spirit, COSMOTE continued its Visiting changed the Internet experience, meeting the growing Students program. In 2015, through this program, needs for transferring large amounts of data at 150 pupils and students from two high schools and higher speeds. universities, visited the company to attend training programs on career guidance, technology and science, In addition, through a series of lectures, the audience and to be informed about the technology of Base had the opportunity to learn about the latest Stations and the operations of the company. technological developments around smart grids, as well as the possibilities offered by distance learning. COSMOTE Graduate Trainee Program Thousands of guests attended the OTE Group’s In 2015, the OTE Group hired, for a period of 18 Telecommunications Museum tour, From the Dial months, the Graduate Trainees who were chosen in Disk ... to the videophone and saw the technological the framework of the COSMOTE Graduate Trainee development of communications equipment. At Program , which started in December 2014. The the same time, hundreds of children participated program’s aim is to attract young, highly talented in 12 technological educational workshops entitled graduates, no older than 28 years old, with a We Connect ...We Communicate We create our vibrant and dynamic personality and holders of a own telecommunication circuit where they linked postgraduate degree. The Graduate Trainees were telephones of different eras in various ways to selected through an extensive and demanding understand their function. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 149 5.5 Contributing to Local Well-being and Sustainability OTE Group seeks to improve the living conditions OTE Group covers nearly 100% of identified and the viability of local communities in which it needs of local communities, of which about 10% operates. The approach of the Group is twofold: address the needs of vulnerable social groups. on the one hand to try to meet the needs of local communities and on the other, to assume as Programs at the Periphery its primary responsibility the protection of local communities from any negative impact that In 2015, OTE Group further supported local may result from its activities, particularly those communities, maintaining the same amount of concerning environmental issues. To protect and funds that are provided for the implementation of support local communities, the Group endeavors, relevant actions, as 2014. Also, the Group stood so far as possible, to measure the positive and by the victims from natural disasters. negative effects of its overall operation and activities on them. In order to meet the increased requests from local communities to contribute to the All possible impacts associated with the activities improvement of the living conditions of the of OTE and COSMOTE, are addressed through the residents of Greek rural areas and the viability of Environmental Impact Assessments which are local cultural identity, 80 local community events prepared and submitted by the two companies were supported. The following table provides an for approval by the competent authorities. Public indicative sample. consultation is one of the stages of the licensing process and all the comments received during the consultation, receive full and appropriate attention. OTE Group seeks the local communities’ involvement in all its activities and strives to maintain and expand its presence in local communities across the country. In this context, the Community Relations Section (Corporate Communications OTE Group) analyzes and assesses the needs of local communities. Following these assessments, specific sponsorship programs are designed and implemented, for the financial support of local authorities, sports clubs, cultural events, etc.. In addition, training sessions for issues related to mobile telecommunications, electromagnetic fields and the role of telecommunications in modern society are being organized and conducted. These seminars are designed for secondary school and university students, associations, local communities and municipalities. So far, more than 5,680 residents of 35 cities throughout Greece have attended these sessions. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 150 Organization Event Description / Impact Pan-Cretan Association of Support of the efforts of the Municipality of Chania and the Pan-Cretan Association of Friends Friends of Mikis Theodorakis, of Mikis Theodorakis in organizing events for the 90th birthday of Mikis Theodorakis and his Chania Crete overall contribution to the Greek culture. Festival Maronia Sapes, Support of the Maroneia Festival, for the first time. The festival includes numerous events Sapes Thrace (concerts and theatrical performances) taking place at the ancient theater of Maronia. Support of the music festival 7th LAKE FESTIVAL Lake Trichonida (Etoloakarnania), for the Lake Festival, Trichonis Lake second year. An event that draws audience from Agrinio, Thermo, Messolongi, Patra and Nafpaktos. Support of the Sitia Music Friends Association which is organized in the town of Sitia, together with the 3rd Mediterranean and the 2nd Sitia Radio Festival (2-5 July 2015). This is an Sitia Mediterranean Festival ambitious project that unites, culturally and digitally, Sitia, Crete and its culture with the other countries of the Mediterranean Sea. Support, for yet another year, of the Festival of Philippi which is an important international 58th Festival of Philippi, event. It is one of the biggest festivals in the country which draws audience from Eastern Kavala Macedonia and Thrace, and a constantly expanding circle of visitors, that includes neighboring countries. Salamis Social Solidarity Support of the Social Solidarity Clinic Salamis which has been standing by the Salamis residents Clinic in need. Support for Victims of Natural Disasters costs for calls and data usage incurred from 25 April and for the next 30 days. Additionally it offered a gift of In 2015, OTE and COSMOTE, provided their support € 50 to prepaid and CostControl plan subscribers who to their subscribers who were affected by earthquake were at that time in Nepal, ensuring the fulfillment of in the Lefkada region, helping to satisfy their their special telecommunication needs. increased needs for communication. Specifically, COSMOTE offered to all mobile consumer and Support of Rescue Organizations business subscribers (with contract, CostControl plans, or prepaid) 500 minutes free on voice calls to In 2015, COSMOTE supported, for another year, the all national fixed and mobile networks and 500MB work of the Greek Rescue Team to meet the needs to surf the internet, for the period 23/11/2015 for rescuing victims of natural disasters and refugees. until 28/11/2015. This provision was automatically The company provided free mobile telecommunication activated their 28,473 subscribers, who were informed services for operational coordination and rescue by text message. centers across the country. Furthermore, OTE and COSMOTE put into operation COSMOTE offered free mobile telecommunication four cardphones in different villages in Lefkada for services for the protection of Samaria National Park, free calls to all national fixed and mobile networks, from fire and for the rescuing of tourists who visit and took care of the unhindered communication the park. Also, satellite phones were supplied, for the of their affected subscribers by ceasing the barring response to extreme natural phenomena (snowfalls, processes of fixed and mobile connections in the floods, rescues) in the region of Central Greece. Lefkada-Ithaka regions for the two months that followed. COSMOTE has supported the Volunteer Firefighters Group of Vyronas and the Volunteer Firefighter and In the same context, after the earthquake that took Rescue Team of Rodopoli, for firefighting and forest place on 25/04/2015 in Nepal, COSMOTE supported protection of the wider Attica region, and especially its subscribers who were there, by covering roaming the protection of Hymettus and Parnitha mountains. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 151 5.6 Strengthening of Entrepreneurship Recognizing the needs of modern business, the OTE business efficiency, and to strengthen entrepreneurship Group provides the most effective and integrated by highlighting new businesses. communication solutions, but also a well-organized network of personalized service. In this context, efforts The contest lasted three months and the prize for the are constantly made to enrich its portfolio with new winning company was advertising exposure worth of telecommunications solutions, to meet their specialized € 30,000 and a chance to cooperate with OTE Group. and increasingly demanding business needs. Through the tendering process, the participating companies were able to advance their solutions beyond Furthermore OTE Group supports and strengthens youth the Greek market, into 7 other European countries entrepreneurship through innovative programs, supports (Austria, Germany, Croatia, Hungary, Fyrom, Romania and small businesses by developing specialized services to Slovakia). At the same time, an opportunity was offered meet their needs, and promotes relevant initiatives and to companies wishing to vote for their preferred solution conferences. to become Supporters and earn advertising exposure worth of € 20,000. Some of the conferences that were supported in 2015, are: The Winner was Tourismart , an IoT solution for hotels, while more than 230 companies functioned as • The 17th Greek ICT Forum on the theme Information and Communication Technologies: the antidote to Supporters , supporting 131 competing solutions which received a total of more than 16,000 votes. recession. Through the contest BUSINESS IT EXCELLENCE and the • The 17th InfoCom World 2015, on the theme Digital reboot: Act and disrupt! . relevant campaign, the Internet of Things achieved wider dissemination, as related videos exceeded 600,000 views on YouTube alone. • The conference Internet of Things of Naftemporiki newspaper, where COSMOTE presented innovative An experience beyond bounds at the TEDx technologies such as the 1,8GHz and 3,5GHz Kalamata spectrum combination to increase mobile network capacity, 4G + up to 500 Mbps speeds and hybrid In June 2015, COSMOTE supported the organizing of access to fixed mobile networks in Greece. the 4th TEDx Kalamata event under the title First Step . The event, held at the ancient theater of Messina, was • The 10th Greek Summit Conference on Customer Service of the Greek Institute of Customer Service attended by important personalities from around the world. (HICS). COSMOTE, as a major sponsor of the event, covered all • The Greek-American Chamber of Commerce annual two-day conference on the theme the the telecommunications needs of the organization. As part of the upgrade of its network, OTE Group designed and implemented a special project to develop broadband Greek Economy contributing to the strengthening access in Ancient Messina, providing fixed broadband and promotion of applied innovation and healthy services of high quality that reach even the most entrepreneurship in Greece. inaccessible and small settlements of the wider region. BUSINESS IT EXCELLENCE Competition At the same time, COSMOTE enhanced its mobile network in the region, providing high transfer rates that COSMOTE held the contest BUSINESS IT EXCELLENCE reached up to 75 Mbps. OTE TV, as media sponsor, in order to inform the business world about the limitless promoted the event through its communication channels opportunities of the Internet of Things (IoT), to identify and provided a live broadcast (live streaming) of the fresh and innovative ideas that contribute to increasing event via the OTE Group network. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 152 5.7 Promoting Culture The preservation of cultural heritage, the promotion Underwater Excavations off the Coast of of the contemporary art of Greece and the Antikythera provision of advanced technological infrastructure, services and expertise to cultural institutions and Support continued for the underwater excavation organizations across the country, are amongst the expedition off the coast of Antikythera in September OTE Group’s main objectives. and October 2015. The international team of scientists, carrying out the excavation, came from the The aim is not only the material support of Hellenic Ephorate of Underwater Antiquities and the cultural initiatives, but also the dissemination and Ministry of Culture, in collaboration with the U.S. Woods development of a mind-set that embraces culture, Hole Oceanographic Institute. COSMOTE has continued contributes to national prosperity, and strengthens to provide uninterrupted communication in Greece society, and places mankind and its achievements in and abroad to meet the team’s telecommunication the spotlight. and publicity needs, as it had equipped the island of Antikythera with permanent new-generation telecom In 2015, the OTE Group expressed and infrastructure, in 2014. demonstrated this commitment through its many sponsorships nationwide, implemented with the Restoration of National Observatory of expertise and the innovative products of the Group. Athens Telescope, Lofos Nymfon, Thissio Below are indicative cultural sponsorships, provided in 2015. A Greek island at the Gateway to the East Exhibition at the Archaeological Museum of Rhodes Rhodes Archaeological Museum hosted an exhibition entitled A Greek island at the Gates of the East from the Louvre, featuring treasures from the island of Rhodes from the 15th to 5th centuries BC. Forty-eight unique and rare loan items, which were collected from many museums around the world, were exhibited in their birthplace. Through An important contribution of the OTE Group towards this sponsorship, COSMOTE offered 3G / 4G services the preservation of Greek cultural heritage, was the and Wi-Fi for guests of the museum and any further restoration of the building and the historic Dorides necessary coverage in the surrounding area of the Refracting Telescope, located at the National historical Palace and Knight’s Castle. Observatory of Athens in Thissio and built in 1870. The well-trained group of technical personnel provided At the same time, a pilot sightseeing tour expertise and undertook the restoration of all electrical was created for mobile phone users, and the and mechanical parts of the historic telescope and transportation and nutrition needs of 150 school also repaired the structural problems of its housing students from remote villages touring the exhibition building and of its dome, and the lighting on the path were covered. that leads to it. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 153 From May 2015 on, guests have the unique Hall. The program includes concerts of well-known opportunity to observe and explore the planets and and appreciated artists performed in the unique the Attica sky through the lens of the most historic atmosphere of the famous green garden of the telescope in Greece, as 113 years of scientific history Concert Hall. It is a memorable experience in the city have come back to life. center, in the heart of summer. Promotion of Contemporary Art at the OTE Αthens Choir Onassis Cultural Centre The OTE Athens Mixed Choir, 48 years after its The OTE Group supports the extensive activities of the inception, continues to chart its own course in the Onassis Cultural Center, which has staged more than artistic map of the country. A completely renewed 90 productions of plays, music, visual arts, lectures ensemble was created in 2012, under the guidance and conferences aimed at the promotion of Greek of conductor Dimitri Bouzanis, and has performed culture, education programs with tours, interactive contemporary works by Greek and foreign composers. games for children, workshops and seminars for adults, school groups, young people and families. In 2015, the choir participated in a series of concerts and festivals throughout Greece, including, indicatively, Support for the application entitled Soundscapes the following: Landscapes which takes visitors on a poetic guided walk with sound and images around the city streets of New Cosmos neighborhood continued in 2015, via the • The 1st International Choir Competition and Festival of Kalamata, where the new synthesis of use of tablets and smartphones. the OTE Athens Mixed Choir, under the direction of conductor Dimitris Bouzanis, received: Moreover, in 2015, COSMOTE supported the interactive digital arts exhibition Digital Revolution , which was • SILVER DIPLOMA-Level IX Prize in the category Mixed Choirs which was the highest hosted at the Onassis Cultural Centre after appearing award in that category and at the London Barbican Arts Centre and in the Museum Tekniska Stockholm. The exhibition showed the • SILVER DIPLOMA-Level IX Prize in the influence of digital technology in the development category Sacred Choral Music a cappella . of the arts, design, music, fashion, film and video games (videogames), reflecting the evolution of digital technology in the most revolutionary manner. For the • In the Philip Tsalahouris Opera Julius Caesar at the Athens Concert Hall. first time, in the same space, an eclectic range of artists, filmmakers, architects, designers, musicians and game developers, who use digital media to expand • In the 31st Choral Festival of Thessaloniki in the Ceremonial Hall of the Aristotle University of their creative horizons, were presented. In November Thessaloniki. 2015, under the Corporate Responsibility Program, more than fifty children from the NGOs Center of Love Elefsina , The Smile of the Child , Association of Parents of Children with Cancer Floga , Friends of Social Pediatrics Anoixti Agkalia , were hosted by COSMOTE and attended the educational program of the exhibition. Cultural Events at the Gardens of the Athens Concert Hall In 2015, COSMOTE remained the sponsor of the cultural events in the gardens of the Athens Concert About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 154 5.8 Promoting Sports OTE Group actively supports Greek athletics and International Offshore Sailing Race Aegean major sports clubs and institutions, aiming to promote Regatta and COSMOTE ERYTOS2 participation and a healthy competitive athletic spirit. In 2015, a total of 22 sports teams, clubs and sporting COSMOTE supported the 15th International Offshore events in Attica and nationwide, were supported. In Sailing Race Aegean Regatta , held in August 2015, order to cover the full sports spectrum it supported involving 77 vessels and 700 sailors. The race started football, basketball and handball teams, as well as on August 22 from Limnia Volissos on Chios Island and chess, ski and fitness clubs, swimming academies, was completed on August 28 in Lipsi Island, including bicycle races and initiatives aimed at encouraging stops in Vathi and Pythagorio in Samos. people to cycle. Among the crews who excelled was the crew of Program Podilatodraseis COSMOTE ERYTOS2, commanded by Kostas Manthos and manned by his accomplished sailors, which ranked From its beginning until December 2015, the second in the category ORC International. Podilatodraseis’ program and through Bike Sharing, the automated bicycle rental system operating in five Along with the race, COSMOTE gave the opportunity municipalities throughout Greece (Komotini, Karditsa, to children of the islands to sail on the COSMOTE Kavala, Ioannina and Rethymno), more than 78,000 ERYTOS2, to drive and learn the basic functions of a bicycle leases were made and more than 1.235 million sailboat, offering them unique sailing thrills. Children of kilometers were travelled, a distance equal to 30 times the Progressive Cultural and Social Union Vrontathon, the circumference of the globe, and as a consequence the Nautical Clubs of Chios and Samos, the more than 170 tons of dioxide carbon (CO2) have been organizations Ark of the World and Friends of Social saved. Pediatrics Anoixti Agkalia , with the help of ERYTOS2 crew, got a taste of the unique sport of sailing and had Furthermore, OTE and COSMOTE continued to support the best impressions. organizations and events that promote the use of the bicycle, such as the Athens Bike Festival, the most important event in Greece for the bicycle, which brings together more than 30,000 participants each year. In 2015, during the Athens Bike Festival, cyclists of all ages rode for a good cause in the specially designed area of Podilatodraseon . With the help of a Bicycle Simulator they managed to convert more than 650,000 kilometers into a € 5,000 donation to the MEDITERRANEAN SOS Network , for the protection of the environment. The young friends of the bicycle decorated their bicycles with the help of an expert decorator and made drawings on a special floor surface using chalk trail attached at the back of the bikes. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 155 5.9 Employee Volunteering The support, development and promotion of demonstrated, through corporate and individual corporate volunteering programs and actions actions, their sense of responsibility to address current from the OTE Group, provided its employees the social problems. Overall, in 2015, the OTE Group opportunity to actively express their social solidarity. employees' participations in corporate responsibility With their positive attitude and contribution, they initiatives exceeded the 10,500. Participation of OTE and COSMOTE Employees in Corporate Responsibility Activities 12,000 10,699 10,000 8,000 6,000 6,182 4,905 4,000 3,603 3,421 2,000 2,339 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The total number of the employees’ participations as well as to achieve the best possible outcome for the in corporate responsibility activities increased community. In 2015, the Group changed its approach significantly compared to previous years, mainly to organizing voluntary initiatives. Specifically, more due to the large participation of employees in the targeted and greater in number voluntary actions Christmas Charity Bazaar (see. Section Supporting were implemented on a regular basis, in order to Vulnerable Social Groups and Children). The employee substantially meet the specific needs of organizations participations in volunteer activities amounted to which support children and contribute to environmental approximately 3,200. protection. Although these voluntary actions require a small number of volunteers, employee interest was so OTE Group strives to provide the appropriate means large that it led to a draws for the final selection. These both to motivate volunteerism amongst its employees, monthly voluntary actions, started in September 2015, About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 156 in collaboration with environmental and charitable Blood Donation Program organizations. The Blood Donation program for employees Also, in 2015, the OTE Group organized the 52nd began in 1976. In 2015, a total of 2,360 units of and 53rd blood donation campaign with the main blood were collected from employees of OTE and message, Your Participation ‘Saves’ , participated in COSMOTE, of which, 1,459 units are allocated to the 33rd Athens Authentic Marathon with the main meet the needs of employees and their families, message Running for a Good Cause and helped with the remaining 901 allocated to meet spread the message on climate change by actively nationwide needs. participating in Earth Hour . Blood Units Collected 2015 2,360 2014 2,912 2013 3,136 17,656 2012 2,845 Blood Units 2011 3,189 2010 3,214 NOTE: OTE and COSMOTE figures 33rd Athens Authentic Marathon the Non-Profit Organization METaction which is associated with the safe escort of unaccompanied OTE Group invited its employees to take part in refugee children from temporary detention centers the 33nd Athens Authentic Marathon and run for to appropriate accommodation structures, and to a good cause. Over 750 employees responded, the charitable organization Heart Doctors which by voluntarily participating in all races. The supports poor families and children of Athens by record participation resulted in the collection of providing them with First Aid items and medical the amount of € 15,000 which was donated to examinations. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 157 Monthly Voluntary Activities 2015 Aiming for an integrated approach in its support of organizations caring for children and the environment, OTE Group, in cooperation with public welfare and environmental groups, enabled its employees to participate in at least one voluntary action per month. From September until December 2015, the Group’s employees had the opportunity to participate in monthly volunteer activities organized by NGOs for children and the environment, such as ‘Make-A-Wish’ Greece, MDA Hellas, the Friends of the Child and the environmental organization Callisto for Wildlife and Nature. Employees responded to the message Be a Volunteer and participated in the reforestation of Parnitha Mountain and in charitable events and bazaars organized by Non-Profit Organizations for children in order to raise money to enhance their goal. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 158 6.0 Environment OTE Group aims at reducing the environmental impact of its activities, at providing products and services that contribute to environmental protection also in other sectors of the economy, and at raising public awareness to adopt a more responsible attitude to environmental protection. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-56, G4-DMA Effluents and Waste, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety 159 6.1 Environmental Strategy The OTE Group acknowledges that businesses with The objective of the OTE and COSMOTE environmental a leading role need to combine financial growth with strategy is to reduce the environmental impacts environmental responsibility in all aspects of their from their activities while providing products and operations. services that enable increases in productivity and environmental protection in other sectors of economic The OTE Group realizes fully that, though low, there are activity, and in parallel to raise awareness of all environmental impacts associated with Information citizens on acting more responsibly on the issue of and Communication Technologies (ICT) activities. environmental protection. At the same time, ICT products and services offer a number of opportunities for supporting sustainable development and production in many activities and sectors. Enviromental Strategy About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-56, G4-DMA Effluents and Waste, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety 160 To this end and in the framewark of the Integrated Management System, an environmental policy • The Environmental Management Officer and the EMS Team members, among others, identify and management scheme with common structure the environmental aspects of the activities, and approach has been formulated that includes products and services of OTE and COSMOTE, the Environmental Management Systems (EMS) identify the environmental programs, monitor certified according to ISO 14001:2004 standard at their effectiveness and propose remedial actions OTE and at COSMOTE. Utilizing the framework of for improvement and analyse the data needed to the Environmental Management System, OTE and determine the environmental performance of OTE COSMOTE analyze all activities, products and services and COSMOTE. with reference to applicable legislative requirements and their impact on the environment, and try to improve environmental performance by setting goals, specifying appropriate key quantitative performance indicators (KPIs) and taking cost-effective actions. The commitment of OTE Group to protect the environment is stated in their integrated Quality, Health and Safety, and Environmental Policy, and is realized through measures and initiatives already implemented, adopted or planned. 6.1.1 Environmental Management The management of environmental aspects is overseen by the Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO. To assist him, a high level Steering Committee has been established in the framework of the Integrated Management System in place (Quality, Health and Safety, and Environment). The Executive Director Corporate Communications, OTE Group has been appointed as the Environmental Management Officer. The Committee is supported by the EMS Team which is composed of members of relevant OTE and COSMOTE Organizational Units. • The responsibilities of the Committee with respect to the EMS, include, among others, the approval of (a) the EMS documentation including objectives, KPIs and targets set (as well as the environmental programs to achieve these objectives / targets), (b) the EMS audit results and (c) the EMS performance results. Furthermore, the OTE Group Management System’s Steering Committee may take decisions concerning companies (subsidiaries) of the OTE and COSMOTE Group regarding the Management System’s strategic guidelines. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 161 Enviromental Management System Priorities in Addressing Environmental Impacts of OTE and COSMOTE Activities OTE and COSMOTE have established procedures for identifying the environmental aspects of their activities and assessing the associated environmental impact. The assessment takes into account the nature of the activity, the company, society and environmental vulnerability, and the frequency of occurrence and the probability for a given impact to occur in view of applicable legislative requirements and business concerns. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 162 Key Achievements in 2015 Highlights of the environmental performance of OTE and COSMOTE in 2015 include the following: Expansion of the scope of the Environmental Management System of OTE in 3 additional buildings. For the 5th consecutive year, OTE and COSMOTE have secured Guarantees of Origin (GOs) from PPC S.A., OTE Group’s electricity provider. This assures that for the total electricity consumption of OTE and COSMOTE from PPC S.A., an equivalent amount of energy has been produced from Renewable Energy Sources. A 25% decrease of OTE and COSMOTE’s total fuel consumption, compared to 2008. Electricity conservation of 10%. A 30% decrease of direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) from energy consumption, compared to 2008. Αn 8% decrease of indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2), compared to 2008. The monitoring of the indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) arising from the use of sold products and services was carried out for the first time. The management of 7,360 t waste, of which 90% was forwarded, through authorised waste management companies, for recycling. Expansion of the internal recycling program carried out in OTE and COSMOTE buildings, in nine additional key regional buildings. 14 new measurement stations were installed and became operational, in the context of the EMF measurement program Pedion 24 . The total number of installed measurement stations grew to 232. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 163 In the context of environmental management: • Environmental protection expenditures for 2015 amounted to € 630,000 and cover waste treatment, management and disposal, environmental impact assessment studies, external certification of environmental management systems and measurements on electromagnetic fields. • Efforts to ensure that OTE and COSMOTE activities are in full compliance with environmental legislation and minimize any associated fines as well as the number of non-monetary sanctions imposed have continued. The fines (related to the environment) imposed in 2015 amounted to € 47,700, while no non-monetary sanctions or complaints were brought before dispute resolution mechanisms. The aforementioned amount of fines is expected to decrease, due to administrative discounts or other available judicial procedures. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 164 6.2 Telecommunications for Sustainable Development Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) More information on the products and services have played and will continue to play a significant provided, that contribute to environmental role in global economic growth both for developed protection and the economic development of the and developing economies. Group, is presented in the section Products and Services for Sustainable Development. The fact that the increased use of ICT products has undoubtedly an environmental impact is widely acknowledged, yet it is also widely acknowledged that ICT products can enable a better environmental performance in all sectors of economy that would allow for a decoupling of emissions growth from economic growth. The Smarter 2030 study, prepared for Global e– Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), estimated that: • The footprint of the ICT sector is expected to account for the 2.3% and 1.97% of global emissions in 2020 and 2030 respectively. • ICT can enable a 20% reduction of global GHG emissions. • The exploitation of this potential could generate over $ 11 trillion in economic benefits per year by 2030. • ICT offers additional, to reducing GHG emissions, benefits that include increasing agricultural crop yields by 30%, saving over 300 trillion liters of water and saving 25 billion barrels of oil per year. The agreement reached at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris (Paris Agreement, December 2015), provides that the Parties should hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C, and pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. In this, realizing the available ICT potential becomes imperative, as significant emissions reductions are required at global level (in the order of 40% to 70% by 2050, compared to 2010, according to the latest assessment of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-EN15, G4-EN18 165 6.3 Greenhouse Gases and Other Gases Emissions OTE and COSMOTE recognize that climate change heating increased by 375 t CO2 eq as a result of is a global environmental problem, the impacts of the unfavorable weather conditions in the winter which affect their operation and stakeholders, and of 2015 compared with 2014. The increase of the whole range of anthropogenic activities (see emissions from road transportation (504 t CO2 Annual Financial Report 2015). In this context, OTE eq) was due to the extensive transportation work and COSMOTE implement a comprehensive program for the maintenance / expansion of the telecom for inventorying greenhouse gases (GHG) and network (both fixed and mobile) and the promotion other gas emissions in line with the principles and of the products and services provided. methods described in the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). On the basis of the program results, priorities are set and emission reduction measures are planned and implemented. More information on climate change related risks identified can be found in the latest (2015) response of OTE to CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). In 2015, total GHG emissions (direct emissions from energy consumption and f-gases use, and indirect emissions from energy are included) were estimated at 304,253 t CO2 eq, presenting a marginal decrease of 0.4% compared to 2014. GHG emissions intensity (defined as total GHG emissions to total revenues) in 2015 was estimated at 113 t CO2 eq/mn €, i.e. it remained at 2014 levels (ΟΤΕ: 122; COSMOTE: 101). 6.3.1 Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions OTE and COSMOTE direct GHG emissions (scope 1) from energy consumption in 2015 were estimated at 16,684 t CO2 eq, presenting an increase of 15% (2,174 t CO2 eq) compared to 2014. About 60% of this increase is attributed to the extended operation of electricity generators that was necessary to cope with the frequent power disruptions caused by the cold and prolonged winter of 2015 (and the associated extreme weather events). Space heating and road transportation contribute 20% each to the total emissions increase. Emissions from space About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-EN15 166 Direct GHG Emissions from Energy for OTE and COSMOTE 6,833 GHG emissions (in t CO 2 eq) ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ Network 12% Vehicles 34% Buildings 18% Vehicles Buildings Network 70% 3% 63% NOTES: 1. Buildings include fuel consumption for space heating and small quantities of diesel used for electricity generators. 2. The CO 2 emission factors applied have been agreed within the DT group to facilitate harmonized reporting, and derive from the GHG protocol. 3. The non-CO 2 (CH 4 and N 2O) emission factors derive from Tier 1 methods described in the 2006 IPCC guidelines. 4. As of 2015, fuel consumption for space heating in buildings where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is not allocated on the basis of their staff share at that location. The allocation is applicable only for 2013 and 2014. 5. Global Warming Potential (GWP) values applied are those included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19 and derive from the 4th Assessment Report of IPCC. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 167 With respect to other air emissions (non–GHG) the • Transformers and capacitors which could following are noted: have been a significant source of PCB (Polychlorinated biphenyls) emissions due • Emissions of typical air pollutants (NOx, SO2, PM10 and VOCs) are mainly related to road to leakage, have been decommissioned, disposed of and replaced by new ones transportation (main source for OTE) and the use that do not contain PCB, in line with the of electricity generators to support the operation of provisions of Directive 96/59/EC. the telecom network (main source for COSMOTE). • Lead emissions decreased from 22.4 kg in • Emissions of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) and Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) are of minor 2008 to 7.1 kg in 2015 as a result of the gradual renewal of the vehicle stock. importance for OTE and COSMOTE as Other Gas Emissions for OTE and COSMOTE in 2015 5,000 ΟΤΕ 4,772 COSMΟΤΕ 4,000 4,077 3,000 2,000 1,696 1,623 1,563 1,000 861 487 160 0 ΝΟΧ SO2 PM10 VOC (*10 Kg) (Kg) (Kg) (*10 Kg) NOTES: 1. SO 2 emission factors for oil products derive from national legislation. 2. The emission factors for NO x , PM10 and VOC derive from the EMEP/EEA air pollutant emission inventory guidebook (http://www.eea.europa.eu/publications/emep-eea-emission-inventory-guidebook-2009). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-EN16 168 6.3.2 Indirect GHG Emissions from consumption, OTE and COSMOTE have secured Guarantees of renewable Origin (GOs) which, when Energy taken into account, reduce the effective scope 2 GHG emissions to about 56,500 t CO2 eq. OTE and COSMOTE indirect GHG emissions from Energy (scope 2 emissions due to electricity In total, if GOs are not taken into account, OTE consumption and district heating) for 2015 were and COSMOTE scope 2 emissions decreased by estimated at 274,700 t CO2 eq (OTE: 164,448 t 8.4% from 2008 (OTE: -13.6%, COSMOTE: 0.8%). CO2 eq, COSMOTE: 110,252 t CO2 eq), presenting a Changes in scope 2 GHG emissions depend on decrease of 2.2% compared to 2014. The majority changes in electricity consumption but also of OTE and COSMOTE scope 2 GHG emissions are reflect changes of the fuel mix used for electricity attributed to the operation of the fixed and mobile generation in Greece. telecom network (about 86% of total emissions). To cover scope 2 emissions due to electricity Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy (Scope 2) for OTE and COSMOTE without GOs Secured 350 ΟΤΕ: Buildings 300 12.4 Fixed telecom 22.3 14.3 13.6 network 22.3 25.3 12.8 100.0 12.4 27.5 COSMΟΤΕ: GHG emissions (in kt CO 2 eq) 250 98.9 99.4 26.5 95.5 Buildings 97.8 Mobile telecom 200 network 172.2 150 161.5 156.8 145.2 137.9 100 50 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOTES: 1. The term Buildings describes Offices, Data Centers, Warehouses and Shops. 2. For consistency reasons among the DT Group companies, CO2 emissions are estimated on the basis of the emission factors developed by the International Energy Agency. 3. The non-CO2 (i.e. CH4 and N2O) emission factors for electricity refer to 2013 and are applied for 2015. These factors derive from the latest Greek National GHG emissions inventory and EUROSTAT data on gross electricity generation. 4. As of 2013, electricity consumption in buildings where joint occupancy of OTE and COSMOTE occurs, is allocated (after subtracting consumption items directly related to either company) between the two companies on the basis of their staff share at that location. This applies to the Central Administration building and the new office complex in Paiania. 5. Global Warming Potential (GWP) values applied are those included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19 and derive from the 4th Assessment Report of IPCC. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 169 6.3.3 Other Indirect GHG Emissions • Use of sold / leased productsnew. GHG emissions from the use (electricity consumption OTE and COSMOTE are extending the scope of their in customers’ premises) of services (lease emissions inventory so as to include estimates for contracts for internet and TV services provided the major sources of indirect (scope 3) emissions by OTE) and products sold (routers, media associated with their operation, and to get a better receivers, phone devices, tablets and netbooks) understanding of their overall emissions profile. from COSMOTE and GERMANOS (only for lease contracts) retail stores. The indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions of OTE and COSMOTE for 2015 were estimated at about 217,000 t CO2 eq. The emission sources quantified are the following: • Business air travels. This category includes all travels made on behalf of OTE and COSMOTE. The utilization of teleconference infrastructure developed, represents a major action for reducing transportation activity and the associated environmental impacts. • Other business travels. GHG emissions from road (car rental and busses) and maritime transportation are included. • Overnight stayings, in hotels during business travels. • Employee commuting. For the estimation of GHG emissions from employee commuting, a questionnaire was developed and uploaded to the intranet of both companies (2014) in order to determine the transport means used and the average distance needed. The 2014 analysis results were considered valid for 2015. • Solid waste disposal. Treatment and disposal of municipal, industrial and other solid waste is not only related to land availability but also produces significant amounts of methane (CH4) due to the gradual decay of the degradable organic component of the waste disposed. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 170 Indirect (Scope 3) Emissions for 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ Indirect (Scope 3) emissions: Indirect (Scope 3) emissions: 210,261 t CO2 eq 6,588 t CO2 eq Solid waste disposal 416 (0.2%) Other Other business travels Employee commuting business travels 10,762 (5.1%) Solid waste disposal and hotels and hotels 108 (1.6%) 510 (0.2%) 208 (3.2%) Air travels Air travels 949 (14.4%) 813 (0.4%) Employee commuting Use of sold / Use of sold / leased products leased products 3,571 (54.2%) 197,759 (94.1%) 1,753 (26.6%) NOTES: 1. For the calculation of scope 3 emissions, harmonized emission factors are used at DT group level, unless it is otherwise specified. 2. The emission factor proposed by GHG Protocol is applied for calculating emissions from maritime transport (http://www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/Emission-Factors-from-Cross-Sector-Tools-(April%202014)_0.xlsx). 3. GHG emission from solid waste disposal are calculated according to the Tier 1 approach described in 1996 IPCC Guidelines, using country specific parameters for the national inventory of GHG emissions of Greece. 4. GHG emission estimates for solid waste disposal and use of sold products may be considered as indicative of the expected emissions during the lifetime of the waste disposed and the products sold respectively. Use of sold / leased products and services (and make all reasonable efforts to achieve the power especially internet and TV services) represent targets set (targets are subject to consultations the major source of scope 3 emissions (about between signatories every two years), for at least 92% for OTE and COSMOTE). Aiming at reducing 90% new-model items introduced to the market. GHG emissions across its value chain, and thus contributing to climate change mitigation, OTE The new residential gateway Speedport Entry 2i voluntarily participates in an initiative established provided (as of 2015) to new high speed internet by the European Commission for maximizing energy subscribers (also available through the COSMOTE efficiency of broadband equipment ( Code of Conduct and GERMANOS retail stores), complies with the on Energy Consumption of Broadband Equipment , BB CoC and offers low electricity consumption, up BB CoC) both on the customer and the network side. to 47% in comparison to older equipment with the With the general principles and actions resulting same interfaces but without the Energy Efficient from the implementation of the BB CoC, electricity Ethernet functionality. More information is presented consumption could be limited to 25 TWh (from 50 in the section Products and Services for Sustainable ΤWh for 2015). Signatories of the BB CoC agree to Development. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-EN5 171 6.4 Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction 6.4.1 Energy Consumption In 2015, total energy consumption of OTE and COSMOTE amounted to 487 GWh, representing an The operation of the telecom network is the most increase of 4.5% compared to 2014 (467 GWh), as energy intensive activity of the telecommunications a result of the increased activity (as evidenced by sector. The expansion and modernization of the the number of active subscribers and volume of data telecom network, the number of active subscribers transferred) and the expansion modernization of the (and especially those of internet and TV services) and network. the intensity of products and services use (i.e. volume of data transferred) are the main determinants of energy consumption. OTE and COSMOTE Energy Consumption in 2015 (in GWh) Road transportation 37.7 Electricity generators 18.5 Space heating 9.9 Electricity in buildings 59.7 Electricity i Electricity for 150.1 mobile network Electricity for fixed 211.6 network NOTES: 1. Energy consumption is based on actual consumption data for most months of 2015, which are extrapolated to the end of the year due to data provision arrangements within the DT group. 2. Road transportation includes service and company vehicles. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-EN3, G4-EN5 172 In 2015, total energy consumption of OTE amounted to 296 GWh, representing an increase of 2.7% • In 2015, the energy consumption of the electricity generators (used as the main compared to 2014 (288 GWh), while total energy electricity supply in isolated areas where grid consumption of COSMOTE (191 GWh) increased connection is difficult or impossible and / or by 7.4% compared to 2014 (178 GWh). Detailed as back–up units in cases power disruptions) information on the energy consumption of OTE and operated by COSMOTE increased by 17% (from COSMOTE for the period 2008 – 2015 are provided in 11.7 GWh in 2014 to 13.6 GWh in 2015). This the file Environmental Performance Data Energy . increase is attributed to the extended operation Energy intensity (defined as electricity consumption of electricity generators that was necessary to total revenues) in 2015 was estimated at 156 to cope with the power disruptions occurred in MWh/mn €, presenting an increase of 4% compared 2015. to 2014 (ΟΤΕ: 164; COSMOTE: 145). • Electricity consumption for network operations makes up the largest part of the total energy 6.4.2 Renewable Energy Sources consumption of OTE (211 GWh) and COSMOTE Reduction of electricity consumption growth rate (150 GWh). and its eventual transformation to a reduction of • The total electricity consumption of OTE the electricity consumption to the extent that is technically and economically feasible, as well as in 2015 (252 GWh) increased by 0.5% compared to 2014, and is below the 2008 covering electricity demand directly or indirectly electricity consumption value. The electricity by Renewable Energy Sources (RES) represent key intensity of data transferred (i.e. electricity priorities of OTE and COSMOTE. In this context, OTE divided by data volume in bits) was improved and COSMOTE: by 10% during the period 2013 – 2015. • For COSMOTE, electricity consumption of the • Have secured, for the 5th consequtive year, from PPC S.A., their electricity provider for 2015, network operation (base stations and backbone Guarantees of Origin (GOs), assuring that for network) in 2015 (150 GWh) increased by 8% the total electricity consumption of OTE and compared to 2014 (due to the installation of COSMOTE, from PPC S.A., an equivalent amount new base stations, the upgrade of existing of energy has been produced from Renewable infrastructure and the unfavorable weather Energy Sources. conditions in the winter of 2015 compared with 2014), while electricity consumption in buildings (including data centers and shops) • Are systematically investing in increasing their RES capacity: increased by 2.6% compared to 2014 (from 18.6 GWh in 2014 to 19.1 GWh in 2015) as • COSMOTE has installed PV and small wind a result of the increased load of data centers turbine systems in order to support base and the unfavorable weather conditions in the stations located in remote rural areas not winter of 2015. connected to the grid and operating with diesel generators. In 2015, 16 base stations • Road transportation represents the largest (non– electricity) fuel consuming activity of OTE. Fuel were supported by PV and small wind turbine systems. Total electricity generation consumption for the OTE vehicle fleet (30 GWh) from these systems amounted to 251.6 increased by 7% compared to 2014, due to the MWh. increased transportation activity for technical and commercial purposes. At the same time, the • COSMOTE has installed Batteries Hybrid systems in order to support base stations renewal of the service vehicle fleet resulted in located in remote rural areas not connected significant improvements in vehicles efficiency to the grid and operating with diesel (gasoline: 35%; diesel: 44%), overachieving the generators. In 2015, 28 base stations were target set for 2015 (improvement of 15%). supported by Batteries Hybrid systems. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14 173 • OTE operates two roof-top photovoltaic As a result of the measures OTE and COSMOTE systems of 222 kWp total capacity (172 kWp have adopted since 2008 (base year for OTE and at the facilities of the central warehouse in COSMOTE, under the DT climate change strategy) Parnitha and 50 kWp at an OTE building in and implemented in 2015, electricity conservation Ilioupoli, Athens). Electricity generation from reached 50.6 GWh and diesel oil conservation (for these PV systems amounted to 300 MWh in electricity generators and space heating) amounted 2015 (equivalent to avoiding CO2 emissions of to 6.5 GWh. The avoided GHG emissions associated about 195 t). with the energy conservation achieved is estimated at 35,000 t CO2 eq (about 12% of scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions of OTE and COSMOTE in 2015). The 6.4.3 Energy Conservation overall economic effect (benefit) of the measures implemented on the operational cost of OTE and Energy conservation and rational use of energy COSMOTE is estimated at € 6.8 million. represent key options for economically feasible improvement of the environmental performance of OTE and COSMOTE. Interventions can be grouped in to the following three broad categories: • Energy conservation in Telecom Networks, aiming at the transition to a more energy efficient network. • Energy conservation in Buildings, Data centers and Stores. Interventions in the office complex in Paiania are representative of the actions prioritized for buildings. It is the first building in Greece that has been awarded with LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification at gold level. Reduced energy consumption and improved working conditions are among the associated benefits. • Energy conservation in Transport, focusing on the renewal of vehicles fleet but also on the monitoring of transportation activity. The effect of measures designed and implemented is evident (given that services provided increased in 2015 compared to 2014) in the performance of OTE and COSMOTE, as: • Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) from energy consumption in 2015 decreased by 7,500 t CO2 eq compared to 2008 (a reduction of 30%). • Indirect GHG emissions from energy (scope 2) in 2015 decreased by 25,200 t CO2 eq compared to 2008 (a reduction of 8%). Given the developments in the ICT sector (4G / 4G+ mobile network, VDSL lines, TV services, etc) this result is quite significant. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 174 Energy Conservation and GHG Emissions Avoided Effects of energy conservation measures Energy conservation (GWh) GHG emissions avoided (kt CO2 eq) Energy conservation 57.1 GWh per activity 2015 Electricity for mobile network 27% Electricity in buildings 10% Space heating & Electricity for Electricity generators fixed network 11% 52% Indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) avoided are estimated at 2,800 t CO2 eq. This reduction was estimated taking into account paper recycling, reduction of paper use and teleconferences for internal operational needs. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 175 Energy Conservation Measures Measure Scope Result Smart metering systems in base station Telecom network 420 systems were installed by the end of 2015 (COSMOTE). sites with large energy consumption The total number of such systems already installed is 1,680 Free cooling systems Telecom network (COSMOTE). In 2015 OTE and COSMOTE replaced 48 and 141 old rectifier Replacement of old equipment Telecom network units respectively. On average, efficiency improved from 75% to 96%. The installation of these systems aims to reduce energy Indoor Power Supply Units with A/C consumption through the increase of internal temperature of Telecom network direct to battery cabinet Base Station (set point from 26oC to 30oC). The total number of systems installed at the end of 2015 was 245 (COSMOTE). The transformation of the fixed network to VDSL, the removal of PSTN ports and the deactivation of associated equipment Modernization of OTE telecom network Telecom network including AC units is in progress. Although the switch to VDSL will increase electricity consumption, a positive net benefit is expected. Consolidation (geographical and spatial) of the hardware Rational use of buildings and space Telecom network necessary for network management. consolidation Buildings In 2015, the building area used by OTE was reduced by about 1% compared to 2014. COSMOTE implemented a maintenance program for 689 generators (for both 24–hour and emergency operation), Maintenance of electricity generators Telecom network aiming to ensure their proper operation. The program for the electrification of remote base stations is ongoing. Emphasis is given in the selection of materials with improved thermal characteristics and in the installation of energy Energy retrofit of buildings Buildings / Stores efficient equipment. Remodelling of the OTE retail stores. Energy conservation measures aiming to improve the Energy retrofit of Data Centers Data Centers performance of the installed equipment. In 2015, 1,000 new diesel vehicles were purchased while 800 Fleet renewal Road transport aged vehicles (mainly gasoline vehicles) were removed from the vehicles fleet. In 2015, 6,000 audio conferences and 26,000 video Teleconferences Mobility conferences were held. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Effluents and Waste 176 6.5 Resource Use and Waste Management Why it matters The rational and efficient use of natural resources and the proper management of waste generated by adopting appropriate recycling practices, contribute to the efficient operation of OTE and COSMOTE and to the control of their operational cost. Furthermore, proper waste management minimizes the impact on the environment, health and ecosystems from uncontrolled solid waste disposal and ensures the companies' compliance with environmental legislation. OTE and COSMOTE recognize the scarcity of natural resources and consider a more efficient use of these resources a priority for sustainable development. In order to achieve this, the principle Reduce – Reuse – Recycle is followed, aiming to reduce the production of solid waste that inevitably emanate from any corporate activity. Monitor Material Used In addition, OTE and COSMOTE: • Develop products and services that contribute to sustainable resource management and the • Aim at the enhancement of public awareness to increase participation in recycling practices. reduction of waste generated. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Effluents and Waste, G4-EN23 177 6.5.1 Waste Generated Solid waste generated by the activities of OTE and COSMOTE are classified into: • Waste considered hazardous thus requiring specific treatment (e.g. lubricants, stationary engine batteries). • Technical waste associated with material and equipment used for the provision of telecommunication services and products (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and telecommunication equipment) and used products (e.g. phones and related accessories, portable batteries, etc.) collected through the COSMOTE retail network. • Paper. • Residual waste that include typical municipal solid waste from OTE and COSMOTE buildings but also packaging materials from warehouses and waste related to office operation (e.g. ink cartridges). • Other waste (waste streams not included in the above-mentioned categories, such as end of life vehicles). Total solid waste generated in 2015 amounted to 7,360 t. It should be noted that interannual changes of waste generated vary, mainly, with equipment lifetime and the schedule in place for the modernization of fixed telecom network. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-DMA Effluents and Waste, G4-EN23 178 OTE and COSMOTE Solid Waste Generated 2011 2015 Quantities (in t) Hazardous Technical Paper Residual Other ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ 6,994 t 369 t Residual Other 4.8% 1.6% Paper Hazardous Technical 5.2% 19.8% 35.5% Hazardous 5.9% Paper Residual Technical 22.3% 22.4% 82.5% NOTE: The category Hazardous includes technical and non-technical hazardous waste About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Effluents and Waste, G4-EN23 179 6.5.2 Waste Management generated. No spills (from the management of lead batteries and lubricant oils) occurred in 2015. OTE and COSMOTE have developed a widespread Detailed information on the waste generated / network for the monitoring, collection, storage managed for the period 2008 – 2015 are provided in and management/recycling, which covers all the file Environmental Performance Data Waste , their activities nationwide (including the recycling while more information on the recycling program program for mobile phones, fixed line phones, phone implemented in COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail accessories, home batteries and ink cartridges network is presented in the section Public Awareness. implemented in the retail network) and they work together with certified waste management companies 1 to ensure (a) the proper management 6.5.3 Resource Use of generated waste and (b) the recovery of the materials contained (e.g. copper, iron and steel, OTE and COSMOTE are not actually manufacturing etc.) that can be used as raw materials for the any products but provide telecommunications production of other goods resulting in conservation services and therefore use of materials is restricted of natural resources. All activities related to to paper and packaging materials (for the products waste management are managed through the placed in the market). Environmental Management System of OTE and COSMOTE, which is certified according to ISO In order to reduce paper consumption, OTE and 14001:2004 standards 2. COSMOTE develop and implement IT applications for intra OTE and COSMOTE operations as well as for With a view to expand the lifetime of the equipment services provided to customers. Initiatives such as: provided to customers but also to ensure the proper management of terminal equipment, contracts for fixed telephony, internet and TV include lease • the option of sending electronic bills to customers, terms for the equipment provided (assuming that the customer chooses to purchase the necessary equipment from OTE). According to these terms, • the use of customers’ electronic signature at COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network the equipment is under a warranty as long as (for contract renewals, address changes, the contract is active, while the customer has deactivations etc.), where available, the obligation to return it after the expiration of the contract. Therefore, OTE is the owner of the equipment which enables, inline with its • the option to renew air time by using e–voucher offered to COSMOTE pre–paid customers, waste management policies in place, the proper management of the discarded equipment through the waste management companies with which OTE • the electronic submission and handling of applications made by telecommunication cooperates. For 2015, all new contracts (residential operators (1.34 million applications) and and commercial customers) included lease terms for terminal equipment. • the program Work Force Management (WFM) concerning Technical Field Operations Existing recycling programs cover the whole of hazardous and technical waste. Solid waste resulted in savings of 150.5 t paper. disposed accounts for less 10% of the total waste 1 Waste lubricant oils from vehicle maintenance are collected and managed by the associated car service companies. 2 Quantities collected (and forwarded for recycling) in COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network are not limited to OTE and COSMOTE products, while OTE and COSMOTE products are also collected in collection points established within other retail outlets, and therefore it is not possible to estimate the percentage of products sold that are actually reclaimed. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 180 In 2015, office paper consumption amounted to 220.3 t (OTE: 182.7 t; COSMOTE: 37.7 t), while paper recycling reached 183.5 t (OTE: 155.7 t; COSMOTE: 27.8 t). In addition, necessary arrangements (started in 2015), so that by the end of 2016 all bills sent to customers are printed on FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper, are in progress. With respect to packaging materials, OTE and COSMOTE are implementing a product packaging monitoring program for their products distributed in the market, and participate in systems for the management of packaging materials waste as foreseen by national and European legislation. Therefore, it is not possible for OTE and COSMOTE to know the actual quantities of their packaging materials reclaimed and recycled, as it is the responsibility of these systems to do so. Paper, cardboard and plastic are the packaging materials used by OTE and COSMOTE. In 2015, • the average weight of OTE packaging was about 94 g per unit (Paper Cardboard: 188,980 kg; Plastic: 38,590 kg) • the average weight of COSMOTE packaging was about 4.3 g per unit (Paper Cardboard: 19,500 kg; Plastic: 11,460 kg) Emphasis is also given in the management of ink cartridges due to the potential hazardous substances that they may contain and to the slow decomposition rate of their constitutive parts. In this context, use of refilled ink cartridges accounted for 68% (for OTE) and 93% (for COSMOTE) surpassing the targets set (50% and 40% respectively). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 181 Recycling Program in Buildings OTE and COSMOTE implement (since 2013) an internal recycling program in buildings. The program, which encourages the recycling of waste generated in offices, is based on the sorting–at–source principle, with centralized waste collection and management. Through the implementation of the program, OTE and COSMOTE contribute to the achievement of the national targets for packaging materials recycling, in a documented way, while raising environmental awareness of their employees. The scope of the program covers about 7,000 employees in 15 buildings and in 2016 it will be expanded in two buildings more, covering 600 additional employees. The equipment that has been installed up to now includes 178 recycling stations and 2,940 paper recycling bins. When designing the expansion of the program (June 2015), a survey was conducted in the 6 buildings that were then participating in the program. The scope of the survey (in which more than 600 employees participated) was to find out the employees’ opinion on program implementation issues, with a view to identifying good practices as well as areas for improvement and corrective actions. According to the results of the survey, more than 96% of the participants consider the program significant in raising awareness regarding recycling and its benefits. In addition, 81% of the participants is well aware of the scope and the characteristics of the program, while 93% evaluates positively the functionality of the equipment installed. In 2015, 91.5 t were recycled, of which 77.7 t paper, 7.6 t plastic, 300 kg aluminum, 2.1 t ink cartridges and 3.8 t other packaging materials, as well as 388 kg home electric and electronic devices. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-PR1, G4-PR2 182 6.6 Electromagnetic Fields Why it matters Potential health effects of man–made electromagnetic fields (EMF) have received particular attention during the last 30 years. In this context, international scientific organizations have issued guidelines regarding exposure to EMF and a relevant legislative framework has been developed. OTE and COSMOTE pay particular attention to providing products and services that not only meet the increasing needs of their customers but are also safe and manufactured under international conventions and standards. OTE Group has adopted and implements an EMF policy in which its commitment to contribute to • The levels of electromagnetic fields, in all Base Stations, comply with the suggested limits of the public protection through actions aiming to increase World Health Organization and the International transparency, awareness, participation and scientific Commission on Non–Ionizing Radiation Protection knowledge, is set out. Issues related to EMF are (ICNIRP), which are already approximately 50 managed through the Environmental Management times stricter than the levels recommended by the System of OTE and COSMOTE, which is certified scientific community, as well as with the latest according to the ISO 14001:2004 standard, and national limits set by Law 4070/2012 which are all relevant procedures for monitoring, review and only 60–70% of ICNIRP limits, in all points with adopting corrective / preventive actions if necessary, free public access. are applicable. • For every OTE wireless telecommunication station and COSMOTE Base Station, a radio emission 6.6.1 Following by Design the study and an electromagnetic background study (in some cases) is conducted by specialized OTE and Precautionary Principle COSMOTE personnel, for an area of up to a radius of 50 meters and 300 meters respectively to OTE and COSMOTE recognize public concerns about ensure that all OTE and COSMOTE Stations operate potential consequences of electromagnetic radiation within legal limits. The corresponding studies on health issues. Even though: form part of environmental impact assessment studies (where needed) or the so-called Standard • relative research, conducted and assessed by the World Health Organization did not indicate any Environmental Commitments, conducted and submitted to responsible authorities. such correlation for telecommunications equipment and The amount COSMOTE spent on programs concerning EMF in 2015 was about € 250,000. • certified measurements estimate the percentage of EMF intensity attributed to mobile telephony In addition, all products placed in the retail network Base Stations to be less than 30% of the total bear all necessary labels foreseen by national and EMF background in populated areas EU legislation while all phones sold operate within electromagnetic field safety limits (expressed in it is the policy of OTE Group (based on Transparency, Specific Absorption Rate – SAR units). A list of SAR Information, Participation and Promotion of Science) values for all handsets is available in printed version to respect and adopt the precautionary principle and at all network stores. apply it in a number of practices. Thus: About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-PR1, G4-PR2 183 6.6.2 Monitoring the levels of EMF Public exposure safety limits were not found to be exceeded in points of free public access, in any Radiation of these measurements, while the measurements made by the Greek Atomic Energy Commission Α continuous EMF measurements Program, (to a sample of at least 20% of the base stations called Pedion24 , has been developed by the operating in urban areas, annually) led to the same Laboratory of Mobile Radio Communications of conclusion. the National Technical University of Athens, the Radio Communications Laboratory of the Aristotle The COSMOTE Environmental Electromagnetic Fields University in Thessalonica and the ICT Laboratory Measurement Laboratory has been accredited of the University of the Aegean, with the support of according to EN ISO / IEC 17025 standards since COSMOTE. 2012. The objective of the program is to continuously The EMF measurement laboratory of OTE developed and openly inform the public about the levels of an Antenna Anechoic Chamber, in order to analyze electromagnetic fields in the vicinity of mobile the effect of EMF radiation in the wireless (WiFi) telephony Base Stations, including all other EMF interface of the xDSL broadband terminals, to sources such as radio transmitters, televisions, evaluate the resilience of the above terminals to radars and other telecommunication applications. EMF radiation interference and to carry out EMF The program initiated at 2005 and has been fully measurements of the wireless interface on physical operational since 2006. In 2015, the Internet and level. Telecommunications Systems, Services and Security Laboratory of the University of Piraeus joined the program. The program utilizes a full set of measurement equipment and leading edge technology measurement stations (with suitable detectors for electromagnetic fields) covering all Greece. The measurement stations operate on a 24 hour basis. Measurements are obtained and stored on–line and are accessible to the public at the program’s website (www.pedion24.gr). The public’s interest in these measurements is high as evidenced by the high visitation rates of the Pedion24 program website (200 visits per day on average). The number of stations has increased every year since 2006 (initially 22 measurement stations), and 14 new stations were added in 2015 bringing the total to 232. Of the nearly 62 million measurements taken in the last decade, none has been found to exceed legal limits. In 2015, 46 further ad hoc measurements were conducted by specialized scientific personnel of COSMOTE (scientific personnel of Environmental Electromagnetic Fields Measurements Laboratory), and 14 more by independent institutions (Universities, Greek Atomic Energy Commission) at COSMOTE request. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-14, G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety, G4-PR1, G4-PR2 184 Pedion 24 Program Measurement station (number) Measurement in excess of the limit (%) Ad hoc measurements (number) NOTE: Ad hoc measurements: Measurements by ISO 17025 certified laboratories, in which the partial contributions of base stations, broadcasting transmitters or other sources to the EMF background are shown. 6.6.3 Informing Society and Universities. In 2015 such briefings were conducted to 150 students, as well as to 500 employees of OTE Employees Group. With a view to raising public awareness on potential Overall more than 1,600 leaflets were distributed consequences of electromagnetic radiation on health at information events to students, NGO’s, local issues, COSMOTE issued and distributes through its communities, customers, etc. commercial network the following leaflets: • Pedion 24 – Continuous Measurements of Electromagnetic Radiation Program , where the To improve outreach, an e–mail address, for questions regarding electromagnetic fields information, is available in the COSMOTE’s corporate website way the respective measurement and assurance (emfinfo@cosmote.gr). program functions are described. The leaflet was distributed to over 800 citizens. Information regarding mobile telephony, especially • How mobile telephony works , distributed to over 1,500 citizens. issues regarding EMF, is also routinely disseminated to OTE and COSMOTE employees so that they are fully aware of the issues and take them into consideration in the performance of their duties and in contacts with Briefings and presentations were also conducted the customers and the general public. by staff employees to students from schools and About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-EN15 185 6.7 Other Environmental Aspects 6.7.1 Ozone OTE and COSMOTE are replacing old cooling systems Currently, hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) blends are utilized operating with ozone depleting substance (ODS) as either for substituting ODS or for installation in new refrigerants, in accordance with legislative provisions cooling systems. The quantity replenished for 2015 in force. Fire suppression systems already use was about 6.4 t of refrigerants, which is equivalent to suppressants with zero ozone depleting potential GHG emissions of about 12.9 kt CO2 eq (increased by (ODP). In 2015, a process was initialized for the 30% compared to 2014, due to the equipment aging substitution of ODS in its installations (1,000 kg R22 and its continuous operation). These emissions account were removed, i.e. 51% of R22 stock in equipment), for about 4.5% of the GHG emissions from energy use while OTE has in place relevant procedures, in line (both scope 1 and scope 2). With a view to repair any with legislation in force. In 2015, there was no R22 potential leakages, a monitoring and maintenance replenishment in OTE and COSMOTE facilities. program is in place. Quantities of Refrigerants Replenished 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ΟΤΕ R22 (kg) 2,981.33 731.00 718.00 70.00 0.00 R407C (kg) 3,077.50 3,990.00 4,197.80 2,865.00 3,451.34 R410A (kg) 258.00 515.00 596.50 40.00 83.98 R134a (kg) 22.60 211.00 21.00 30.00 R417A (kg) 2,590.00 2,346.00 2,801.00 1,490.00 1,996.70 R422 (kg) 209.50 416.00 145.00 220.00 R404 (kg) 367.00 20.00 COSMOTE R22 (kg) 266.00 337.00 273.00 226.10 0.00 R407C (kg) 681.00 471.60 362.00 346.80 330.40 R410A (kg) 433.00 191.00 122.00 126.70 224.00 R134a (kg) 0.00 R417A (kg) 6.00 14.00 81.30 R422 (kg) 48.00 NOTES: 1. Ozone depleting potential (ODP) is measured as R11 (CFC-11) equivalent. The ODP value for R22 is 0.055. 2. Global Warming Potential (GWP) values applied are those included in the Annex III of Decision 24/CP.19 and derive from the 4th Assessment Report of IPCC. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 186 6.7.2 Water consumption Since telecommunications operations have no specific Thus, water sources are not significantly affected by need for water use, OTE and COSMOTE consume water OTE and COSMOTE activities. (acquired solely from public water companies which are responsible not only for water supply but also for Water consumption in 2015 was 151,726 m3, which the sustainable uptake of water from the available corresponds to a 10% decrease compared to 2014 water resource systems) exclusively for employees’ (167,913 m3). hygiene, plant irrigation and office / stores cleaning. Water Consumption 250 25 20.19 200 20 18.32 Water consumption (in thousands m3) Water consumption (in m3) per employee 28.3 16.16 21.8 26.3 21.3 150 25.6 15 14.69 13.64 13.64 12.89 12.66 10.28 100 10 9.94 50 5 144.1 147.6 144.9 141.6 126.2 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ΟΤΕ COSMΟΤΕ Water consumption per employee Water consumption per employee Wastewater from OTE and COSMOTE operations refers to domestic wastewater, which is directed to the available wastewater networks and is treated according to area–specific processes in the municipal wastewater facilities. No planned or unplanned water discharges to the environment as well as no significant spills occurred during 2015. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 187 6.7.3 Biodiversity reference is made to protected areas (NATURA, SPA, RAMSAR, CORINE, IBA) and areas of high OTE and COSMOTE are aware of the high biodiversity value that are near to OTE and value of biodiversity for Greece and recognize COSMOTE activities. The contents of these the close relationship between biodiversity, studies and the approval process, that includes sustainable development and human well–being. a public consultation phase, are specified in the At the same time, the provision of high quality relevant legislative acts. These studies, on the telecommunication services everywhere and at any basis of current scientific knowledge, conclude time necessitates the operation of a geographically that impacts on biodiversity are not material, extensive network of telecommunication and therefore there are no protected and / or installations (base stations and wireless restored habitat areas that are affected by the communication stations) including, inevitably, in operation of OTE and COSMOTE. NATURA 2000 sites. • The majority of the installations are small, without permanent personnel and with limited In 2015, there were 493 COSMOTE base stations and 186 OTE base stations installed in 190 and transportation activities at the operational 95 NATURA sites respectively, and covering a stage. total area of 2.465 ha and 25.01 ha respectively. More information on the Greek NATURA 2000 sites (e.g. location, maps, area, protected species, etc) can be found in the website of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. All stations operating in NATURA sites are fully licensed by the Hellenic Telecommunications and Posts Committee and listed in its website. All buildings / installations / telecom lines that are currently in use and / or installed by OTE and COSMOTE are also registered and relevant information can be found at DG Technology and Operations offices. In this context, OTE and COSMOTE are committed to minimizing any potential impact that their activities (fixed and mobile telecommunication installations and offices) might have on biodiversity. In this vein it should be noted that: • Potential impacts are mainly related to the operation of installations in isolated areas necessary for the reliable provision of telecommunication services (energy consumption, EMF emissions) and infrastructure works for upgrading / maintaining telecommunication network (waste generation). • All potential impacts are addressed in the Environmental Impact Assessment studies carried out and submitted for approval to the designated authorities as foreseen by national legislation in force. In these studies, special About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 188 Number of OTE and COSMOTE Base Stations in Natura Sites per Administrative Region Sterea Ellada ΟΤΕ COSMOTE Peloponnese Southern Aegean Crete Central Macedonia Ionian islands Thessalia Epirus Western Macedonia Western Greece Northern Aegean Attica East Macedonia & Thrace 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 6.7.4 Visual Impact • For the installation of new telecommunication infrastructure necessary for the provision of Telecommunications companies have relatively communication services, all efforts are made, small visual impact on the environment. However, to to the extent that is technically feasible, to minimize whatever impact may exist: minimize the visual intrusion produced, especially in urban areas by appropriate arrangements and • The size of new Base Stations being built now has been decreased constructions that blend well with the surrounding environment • Efforts are made to collocate Base Stations in • Appropriate modifications are also applied to existing telecommunication infrastructure common installations with the other two mobile telephony companies so as to reduce overall visual impact of mobile Base Stations Number of 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 New base stations 1 323 119 107 145 166 New base stations collocations 25 0 2 1 0 Special constructions OTE 2 2 42 42 42 COSMOTE 147 82 70 114 150 1 Information for licensed COSMOTE Base Stations in Greece is available at the EETT website. 2 Concrete foundation for satellite antennas. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 189 6.7.5 Noise In general, the noise impact from OTE and COSMOTE activities is insignificant, as it is restricted to (a) the operation of electricity generators that are necessary in cases of power outage or when there is no reliable electricity supply, (b) ventilation systems (e.g. supply and exhaust units) and (c) the outdoor air-conditioning units located in building roofs, facades and open spaces (e.g. cooling towers). • The operation of electricity generators in urban areas is in line with the provisions foreseen by legislation. In special cases, where sound levels from generators should be reduced, OTE and COSMOTE make soundproofing constructions or install hybrid systems, to reduce the operating hours of the generators, or replace old units with new, more advanced ones that operate at lower noise levels. • In order to reduce noise levels from ventilation and/or cooling systems to the levels foreseen by legislation, soundproofing constructions are placed or old units are replaced with new, more advanced ones that operate at lower noise levels. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 190 6.8 Environmental Awareness Activities 6.8.1 Employees’ Awareness • The reception program for new employees (entitled Welcome on board ) that includes a OTE and COSMOTE aim to enhance awareness and specific section on Corporate Responsibility and increase engagement of their employees in initiatives Environmental Management. In 2015, 278 new toward the common objective of environmental employees attended the program. protection and sustainable development. • Participation in WWF’s Earth Hour . Examples of such initiatives in 2015 include: • On the occasion of the World Environment Day: 6.8.2 Public Awareness • The results of the Environmental Programs in An important objective of the environmental strategy place were announced in OTE and COSMOTE in place is to increase customers’, and the society Intranets. Emphasis was given on the programs in general, awareness on ways to reduce their concerning climate change and energy as well own environmental footprint, through their active as on the recycling programs in buildings and participation. stores. • Employees and the public participated in a In this context, the implementation of the recycling series of environmental activities organized program for batteries, ink cartridges and phone devices by 42 employee cultural centers of OTE in (fixed and obile with their accessories) implemented various areas of Greece for the 6th consecutive in the COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network was year, such as cleaning beaches, lakes, forests, intensified.On the occasion of the World Environment etc., as well as bike rides, races, tree–planting, Day a promotional campaign took place in the collecting and sorting waste into recyclable COSMOTE and GERMANOS retail network. It lasted for and non–recyclable categories for further 2 weeks and customers who visited our retail network action. in order to recycle their old mobile devices could buy their new smartphone / tablet with a discount of up to • The implementation of informative, awareness and training actions with a view to enable the efficient € 20. operation of the recycling program in buildings: • With a view to identifying good practices as well as areas for improvement and corrective actions, a survey was conducted about the employees’ opinion on program implementation issues (see Waste Management). More than 600 employees participated in the survey. • Informative and training activities for all groups involved in the program implementation were carried out (July and December 2015), aiming at enhancing cooperation and improving the functionality of procedures established. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 191 Recycling Initiatives in Stores 60,000 50,000 50,224 44,861 40,000 41,527 41,797 36,516 34,595 30,000 30,338 23,855 23,029 22,048 20,000 10,000 3,087 3,691 1,066 1,771 1,246 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Phone devices & accessories (kg) Home appliances batteries (kg) Ink cartridges (pieces) NOTES: 1. GERMANOS retail network is included 2. As of 2013, the initiative for ink cartridges recycling concerns all stores 3. Phone devices and home batteries collected from customers at COSMOTE retail network are included in the category Technical waste following reporting arrangements within the DT group 4. The category Phone devices and accessories also includes quantities collected by the OTE technical staff during on–site visits (maintenance and service) to customers. At the same time, OTE and COSMOTE actively activities, and providing support to participate in events addressing and enhancing significant bicycle–oriented organizations environmental responsibility. (Bike Festival). For more information see section Promoting Sports. • With the aim to making the bicycle part of citizens’ daily activities in the city centers, During the Athens Bike Festival 2015, visitors OTE and COSMOTE systematically implement used the Bicycle Simulator installed there, (as of 2012) the Podilatodraseis program. and more than 650,000 kilometers were It is an innovative program which includes translated into € 5,000 that were donated development of infrastructure necessary to support implementation of the program for the advancement of bicycle usage (Bike Climate Action! Together we are one with Parking and Bike Sharing), educational children run by Mediterranean SOS Network. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 192 • The national volunteering initiative Let’s do it Greece was sponsored in 2015 (as in 2014). The NGOs (Philodassiki Enossi Athinon and Callisto– Environmental Organization for Wildlife and scope of the campaign was to raise awareness Nature, Wildlife and Nature Conservation Society), about volunteerism and to coordinate, in one and also supported the educational program of day (26/4/2015), clean-up activities of citizens, Mediterranean SOS Network. Additional support voluntary teams, sports clubs, municipalities, to the activities of the first two NGO was provided environmental NGOs, schools, etc. all over Greece. through the recycling program in the COSMOTE The participation of more than 48,500 volunteers and GERMANOS retail network, as OTE and in one day exceeded all expectations. COSMOTE donated to both NGOs €1.000 for every ton of mobile and fixed phone devices (including • In order to increase schoolchildren environmental awareness, OTE and COSMOTE supported, their accessories) collected during the first year of the program implementation (15 t for the period in 2015, educational initiatives through the 01.06.2014 – 31.12.2015). continuation of strategic partnerships with two Schoolchildren Awareness on Enviromental Protection NGO Environmental educational programs In the context of the 2015 environmental education programs, more than 1,500 adults and 2,500 children participated in activities such as reforestation, cleaning up forest roads and paths, maintenance Philodassiki Enossi of the Aesthetic Forest of Hymettus, pruning and preparation of trees in the olive grove in the Aesthetic Athinon Forest. Education programs and volunteering initiatives contribute in raising environmental awareness but also in developing team spirit. • The educational courses The forest animals go to school and We and our forest were attended by 25 schools (903 students). Callisto-Environmental • The educational seminars Man and mammals. Conflict and coexistence and The issue of poisoned Organization for baits were attended by 203 children. Wildlife and Nature • Twelve environmental education workshops for teenagers 15 – 18 years old were co-organized with the The Association of Friends and Volunteers of the Society for the Protection of Minors (7 to 10 participants per workshop). As part of the educational program Climate Action! Together we are one with kids 1,241 school students had the opportunity to learn about climate change and its impacts, renewable energy sources MEDITERRANEAN SOS and their development prospects, and their contribution in climate change mitigation. Teachers had at Network their disposal a complete training package, which is available through the educational website of the Mediterranean SOS Network on Climate Change (www.climateactions.gr). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 193 7.0 OTE Group Subsidiaries About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 194 OTE Group Corporate Communications Division works on building and implementing the OTE Group CR strategy and framework for all OTE Group companies active in fixed-line and mobile telephony operations, as put forth in the CR Strategy and Management sections. In this context, OTE Group fixed-line and mobile telephony subsidiaries are tasked with implementing OTE Groupwide CR strategy and goals. They bear responsibility for deciding on their own CR organization structures, developing and performing their local CR activities, and reporting on their performance. OTE Group international operations are focused in Romania and Albania. In Romania, OTE Group offers fixed-line and mobile telephony services mainly through Telekom Romania. Full details on Telekom Romania two operators, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications and Telekom Romania Communications, performance are available on their website. In Albania, OTE Group offers mobile telephony services through Telecom Albania. Full details on the company’s performance are available on its website. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 195 7.1 Romania Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications, jointly operating • Everything in one place for all fixed and mobile communication needs: One Stop Shop, one Call under the brand Telekom Romania, provide a full Center, one bill, one MyAccount (including one range of telecommunication services that include mobile app); 3G and 4G mobile voice and mobile data services, traditional fixed telephony, high speed internet of up to 1 Gbps and television on multiple technology • 10 seconds average waiting time in the call centre for customers of integrated fixed and platforms, including IPTV, as well as high quality mobile services; and exclusive content in order to offer a complete entertainment experience on all screens. For business customers, Telekom Romania provides access to • Entertainment and exclusive broadcasts (mainly sports competitions such as UEFA Champions complete telecommunications and turn-key IT&C League and Euro 2016 matches) on all screens solutions, which support companies of all sizes to (TV, tablets, laptops, smartphones). become more competitive. On the mobile segment for residential customers, At the end of 2015, Mr. Miroslav Majoros was Telekom Romania introduced several unique appointed CEO of Telekom Romania Communications features, such as unlimited communication even and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications, without available credit, the concept of guaranteed starting January 1, 2016. for life , including the online dedicated platform Tadaaam targeting the younger customers. On The Boards of Directors are responsible for taking any the fixed segment, the rollout of fiber optics (FTTx) decision regarding the administration, management, throughout the country is bringing to customers resource utilization and any other issue, which up to 1Gbps speed for Internet and interactive may assist in achieving the companies’ corporate technology (IPTV). objectives. The Boards of Directors oversee the organizations’ activities on economic, environmental Technology wise, the efforts of Telekom Romania and social performance, including relevant risks and continued to focus on the roll out of high end opportunities, and adherence or compliance with technologies such as FTTx for fixed and 3/4G for internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct mobile. Also, the group of companies participates in and principles. an EU funded project to deliver Internet access to 783 localities in Romania. In 2015, Telekom Romania pursued further its strategic development, focusing on delivering the In terms of innovation, Telekom Romania is focusing best possible customer experience and aiming on multi-faceted solutions for smart cities, such at offering best in class technology. A major step as smart lighting, smart transportation, smart in this was the launching of MagentaONE, a new parking, and others, including telemedicine. These commercial concept for integrated fixed and mobile solutions are based on the Internet of Things , bundles, addressing both residential and business which utilize mainly Machine-to-Machine solutions, customers. many of them already present in Telekom’s portfolio (GPS Tracking, vending machine monitoring and a By the end of 2015, over 208,000 customers had smart office type solution, as well as a new SIM chosen one of the integrated offers, proof that management platform offering to M2M customers MagentaONE launch provides a substantial edge advanced SIM management functionalities). over the competition. MagentaONE offers for more Additionally, Telekom Romania is supporting the user-friendly and simpler communication packages, local startups community by providing several namely: business support tools. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 196 CR Strategy and Management in its decision making process in its daily operation. Both operating entities have developed a business Telekom Romania’s objective is to operate in a process model based on eTOM (enhanced Telecom responsible way, to be accountable for the potential Operations Map) and hold several management impact of their operations and at the same time, to system certifications in the areas of quality, improve its competitiveness and ensure its growth. environment, health and safety, information security, business continuity etc. The CR strategy of Telekom Romania is aligned with those of Deutsche Telekom and OTE Group. Telekom Romania has identified its group of Telekom Romania coordinates with DT Group stakeholders and monitors closely their opinion, Corporate Responsibility and OTE Group Corporate through internal and external surveys. Communications Divisions to ensure a common approach, understanding of and engagement in CR by Telekom Romania through its two legal entities all employees and stakeholders. Telekom Romania’s connected to the brand received wide recognition in sustainability efforts, as do DT’s and OTE Group’s, 2015, for its achievements, namely: comprise five pillars: Strategy and Management, Marketplace, Human Resources, Society, and • Telekom Romania was awarded twice in the Romanian CSR Awards, first place in the category Environment. Community Support for Teimplici.ro project, Since May 2015, Telekom Romania is a member of and second place in the category Internal CSR the Global Compact Network Romania, and its CEO is campaigns with Recycle and Innovate project a member in its Steering Committee. Thus, Telekom (April 2015). Romania is formally committed to respect the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (in the • Telekom Romania was awarded the Greenest company in Romania , at the Forbes Romania’s areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption). Gala, for social responsibility and involvement in collecting and recycling waste (November 2015). Corporate Responsibility, from the organizational perspective, is part of the remit of the Corporate • Telekom Romania received The Silver Award for Excellence , for the campaign Recycle and Communication Romania Division, which reports directly to the CEO. Innovate, at the Romanian PR Awards, 23th edition (November 2015). Employees of both companies have to follow the Compliance Management System and the Code of • Telekom Romania was ranked 1st in the IT&C industry and 6th nationally in the Romanian CSR Conduct of the OTE Group. Awareness and training campaigns regarding the Compliance Management Index 2015, a ranking based on disclosure of System components, targeting all employees, are non-financial data according to Directive 2014/95/ deployed on a yearly basis. In 2013, Romtelecom UE, GRI G4 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index (currently Telekom Romania Communications) received 2014. The CSR assessment includes the Top 100 a certification for its Compliance Management System, most valuable companies in Romania (as ranked which was also acknowledged, within OTE Group, as a by Ziarul Financiar, most prestigious financial best practice on integrity checking. In 2014, Telekom newspaper in Romania (December 2015). Romania Communication was certified under IDW PS 980 (German standard) for compliance to anti-trust Telekom Romania contributes to the DTClimate practices law. Change Strategy, which calls for expanding the use of green technologies throughout its stakeholders’ Telekom Romania aims to integrate principles of range to help slow climate change by reducing the CO2 responsible operation in its management practices, in emissions. The target is to reduce at Group level the order to ensure that they are taken into consideration CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 (compared to 2008). About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 197 Both companies of Telekom Romania provide data The key CR performance indicators of Telekom for DT and OTE Group indicators, and qualitative Romania operating entities’ performance in 2015 are and quantitative information to be included in the presented in the following table. respective sustainability annual reports. Telekom Romania Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Communications Financial Performance Total revenues (mn €) 601.7 438.5 Payroll and employee benefits (mn €) 87.6 Non Disclosable Total operating expenses (mn €) 671.2 467.4 EBITDA (mn €) 101.5 85.8 Pro forma EBITDA1 (mn €) 118.4 87.1 Marketplace Fixed-line subscribers (number of subscribers) 2,178,870 Mobile telephony subscribers (number of subscribers) 5,754,109 Broadband subscribers (number of subscribers) 1,203,545 TV subscribers (number of subscribers) 1,452,499 Employees Employees with indeterminant term contracts (number of 5,344 1,024 employees) Female employees (%) 37 53 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 100 0 Employee turnover as a percentage of total employees (%) 4.93 22.52 Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees) 0 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees) 4 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents* (lost days) 360 0 Health and safety training (hours/employee) 20.10 11.59 Total training** (hours/employee) 26.11 20.73 Employees trained (number of employees) 5,411 962 * Lost days are counted as calendar days. ** The training developed by Human Resources or reported to Human Resources, plus Health and Safety. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 198 Telekom Romania Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Communications Society Sponsorships Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 362,744 250,986 Volunteering projects (number of projects) 11 11 Voluntary participation of employees in corporate 220 51 responsibility initiatives (number of participations) People supported (number of people estimated) 208,241 198,187 Environment Electricity consumption (GWh) 135.13 79.91 District heating and fuel consumption in buildings/telecom 28.06 1.85 network (GWh) Fuel consumption in vehicles fleet (GWh) 34.06 7.34 Direct (scope 1) CO2 emissions (t) 11,859.08 2,218.04 Indirect (scope 2) CO2 emissions (t) 50,793.11 28,447.74 Hazardous waste (t) 49.41 0 Non-hazardous technical waste (t) 2,881.59 179.85 Recycling of phone devices and accessories (t) 0.20 0.08 EMF measurements (number of measurements) 35 19 Data for the years 2013-2015 are available in Telekom Romania adheres to the OTE strategy in ΟΤΕ Group Key Performance Indicators offering information to assure a safer internet for children. In this respect, it runs communication Marketplace campaigns for internal and external audiences and participates in events to promote the safer use of The companies’ objective is to follow a internet. In addition, both companies participate management approach based on the principles in the CEO Coalition to make the internet a better of transparency and ethics, while, at the same place for kids , as members of the Deutsche time, to contribute to the responsible operation of Telekom Group and strive to implement protective the marketplaces where they conduct business. measures for children. Protection of children They focus on the following Marketplace areas: using communication technology is extremely Corporate Governance, Responsible Competition, important in a world where mobile and fixed line Responsible Marketing, Responsible Procurement, communication is constantly advancing, both Public Awareness, Customer Satisfaction, and Data technologically and in the services provided, thus Security and Privacy. becoming easier and more attractive to them. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 199 To ensure that the companies’ communication innovation in technology and entrepreneurship in material is consistent with legal requirements, Southeast Europe, and engages in pilot projects for appropriate, fair and sincere, accurate and applications or accelerators. respecting people’s differences, in terms of age, gender, race, religion and physical or mental status, Employees the Brand and Communication Division Romania reviews all advertising messages and campaigns, The companies’ objective is to create a workplace before releasing them to the public. which is safe, fair and facilitates the professional and personal development of their employees. They focus Telekom Romania, in view of its legal obligations on the following Human Resources areas: Health and and corporate responsibility, makes all efforts to Safety, Fair Employment, Labor Rights, Employee ensure its business continuity, so as to be able Development and Workforce’s Benefits. to provide services at an acceptable level, even when facing unanticipated events. To this end, the Telekom Romania employs 6,368 people, while companies have implemented Business Continuity through its business activity it has indirectly Management Systems, certified under the ISO contributed to the creation of a significant number 22301 international standard requirements. of jobs in Romania, which is an important part of economic growth. Telekom Romania is the largest group of companies in the Romanian market and, therefore, it can Having as a priority to offer its employees a safe significantly influence the responsibility of their workplace, Telekom Romania focuses on ensuring suppliers’ operations. For this reason, it strives suitable work conditions and follows health and to deploy CR principles, and having aligned its safety rules. Hence, it identifies labor risks via practices with the Suppliers’ Codes of Conduct to documented Occupational Risk Assessments. These OTE and COSMOTE guidelines, expects its partners studies allow Telekom Romania to eliminate or to and suppliers to be socially and environmentally limit the respective risks, by taking suitable actions, sensitive, operate according to respective such as training employees and applying appropriate legislation and internationally agreed regulations, corrective measures. It is worth mentioning that, and respect the principles and aspects of these during the last year, no fatal and only four non-fatal Codes. Conformity to the Codes is a criterion of the workrelated accidents occurred (which resulted in vendor evaluation and selection process. 360 lost days). In 2015, all employees from both companies took part in health and safety trainings, Telekom Romania seeks to be the preferred choice totaling 126,923 training hours. of customers by cultivating a mutual, sincere and trustful relationship with them. For this reason, To create a homogeneous corporate culture, it closely monitors its performance on satisfying Telekom Romania has established a systematic their customers through a series of surveys, which dialogue with its employees through internal are carried out via telephone interviews on a communication processes, utilizing various means, representative sample of the public. such as the intranet, TSN Group, CEO App, e-mails, weekly electronic newsletters, SMS messages, and Telekom Romania supports innovation through informative leaflets and posters. In 2015, the new numerous partnerships with hubs encouraging integrated Intranet platform was launched to provide startups and entrepreneurs. Telekom Romania a single info point for all employees of Telekom conducts international competitions such as the Romania. Among the main objectives was to align Innovation contest and the Business Wall of personnel efforts towards achieving the company’s Fame , initiated by Deutsche Telekom. In addition, vision through the Think One strategy . The strategy it participates in conferences, such as the How was promoted among Telekom Romania employees to Web , the most important event dedicated to via dedicated internal communication campaigns. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 200 Society aims to identify, through direct interaction with the employees of the 2 companies and the Telekom Romania’s objective is to couple its communities in which they operate, the areas and business success to the prosperity and the quality the social categories that primarily need support of life for all citizens in Romania. In this respect, it and to answer their real needs. focuses on the following Society-relevant areas: Social Products and Services, Social Contribution, Telekom Romania tries to involve its employees, Economic Development, Volunteering, Business customers, suppliers and business partners in Enterprising and Digital Divide. various initiatives and programs that respond to the Romanian social needs. Aiming to mobilize Telekom Romania recognizes the need to support its employees, increase their awareness of social financially social organizations which support people needs and to promote responsible and active in need, by focusing on education, children’s rights, citizenship, it cultivates volunteerism through communities’ development and sports. The total various actions, such as planting of trees, sports spending in 2015 exceeded € 600,000. events, blood donations and volunteering for children’s hospitals. In 2015, 271 employees In 2015, Telekom Romania developed a new volunteered for such events. edition of the Teimplici.ro project, which focused on identifying projects implemented in communities The companies also offer support to Romanian through the use of new information technologies NGOs for fundraising, through the operation of SMS in the areas of education, health, environment, and telephone lines, where customers can text or innovation, development and social protection. Noncall to offer monetary support for humanitarian governmental organizations submitted 133 projects causes, thus facilitating relief for thousands of following the call on Teimplici.ro platform, and 20 people in need. projects were selected to be presented to a jury, to select 10 to be sponsored in 2016. Telekom’s involvement in the community also included sponsoring the Robbie Williams concert Telekom Romania developed a new edition of in Bucharest, in July, as quality entertainment and the Telekom Scholarships program aimed at implicitly music was an important part of Telekom’s supporting young people with outstanding academic strategy for 2015. Furthermore, Telekom became achievements, by granting 10 scholarships of the main sponsor of the National Romanian 10,000 lei in total value each. So far 85 young Football Team as supporting sport activities is also people have benefited from such excellence one of the key priorities for Telekom. scholarships through the Telekom Romania programs. In addition, a project was put in place in In 2015, Telekom Romania, in partnership with the summer of 2015 co-funded by EU that enabled SmartAtletic and Getfit, organized the fifth edition of 200 students to enter an internship program in the Biggest Sports Hour event in Bucharest, Brașov Telekom Romania. and Mamaia. In total, over 50,000 persons took part at the sports classes as active participants or Telekom Romania Foundation is a non-profit supporters. organization that supports different categories of people with special circumstances, social Environment causes, children diagnosed with serious illnesses, and talented young people, and answers to Safeguarding the quality of the environment is humanitarian calls in case of natural disasters. The a major concern of Telekom Romania. In that Foundation is the continuation of the Romtelecom respect, it strives to minimize the environmental Foundation for Romanians, launched in 2008, and impact of its operations and to raise awareness is the link between Telekom Romania and the of its employees and fellow citizens on acting community in which it operates. The Foundation more responsibly on the issue of environmental About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 201 protection. Environment areas of concern and attention Tree can be used for charging mobile phones, tablets, include: Energy Use and Climate Change, Resource Use laptops, multimedia players, while providing free Wi-Fi and Waste Management, Ozone, Water, Environmental internet to the users in public areas. Awareness, Biodiversity, EMF, Visual impact and Noise. Telekom Romania monitors the levels of Within this framework, Telekom Romania analyzes electromagnetic fields (EMF) in its respective networks its main activities and operations with regard to their and locations, and it is in the process of streamlining impact on the environment and tries to improve its its EMF Policy with that of DT. environmental performance by setting programs with specific goals, implementing them and monitoring their progress. Additionally, it collects and recycles various materials, such as paper, plastic, lubricant oils, IT and telecommunication equipment, mobile phones, accessories, batteries, cables, ink cartridges, etc. In parallel, Telekom Romania companies implemented actions to encourage stakeholders to reduce, reuse and recycle resources. Telekom Romania’s commitment to protect the environment is also expressed in the companies’ environmental policies, and through the application of environmental management systems certified according to ISO 14001. In 2015, an information campaign was developed for employees to increase their awareness regarding the Environment Management System (EMS), its programs, environmental targets and key performance indicators. In October 2015, within the Children Forest program, Telekom Romania volunteers, along with volunteers from the ViitorPlus organization planted 1,800 oak and linden saplings in an area in Drăgănești-Vlașca village in Teleorman County. In November 2015, 100 Telekom Romania volunteers planted 7,000 saplings near the city of Ploiesti; an initiative that was organized within the Adopt a forest program and developed together with MaiMultVerde Association. Telekom Romania has supported forestation programs, for more than 7 years, in partnership with environmental NGOs. Since 2009, over 900 Telekom employees and volunteers have planted 50,500 saplings. Furthermore, Telekom Romania planted the Strawberry Tree, the first solar energy-based public charger in the world designed for mobile devices, making the most of the benefits that renewable energy sources offer in crowded public spaces. The About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 202 7.2 Albania OTE Group operates in Albania through Telekom In 2015, Telekom Albania launched its fourth Albania offering mobile telephony operations. generation technology service, providing speeds of up Telekom Albania is in the process of developing its to 150 Mbps and enabling high speed transmission annual 2015 CR Report, to be published in 2016. of large data quantities and in this manner numerous useful applications in everyday life. The products and CR Strategy and Management services of Telekom Albania are offered via the biggest retail network in Albania. In 2015, the company offered Telekom Albania, as reflected in its everyday 15 new services and over 145 new and improved operations, abides by a well-established CR strategy. offers and packages. As the first telecommunications company in Albania to implement a Quality Management System (ISO Telekom Albania participates in the OTE and DT CR 9001), an Occupational Health and Safety System Managers’ Network, as well as in the local CR network (OHSAS 18001), and an Environmental Management of companies. Its Corporate Affairs Department has System (ISO 14001), and to be recognized for its full responsibility for Telekom Albania CR related Business Excellence and Social Contribution, Telekom sponsorships and projects. Albania is committed to conducting its business in an environmentally sustainable manner. In 2015, several campaigns, such as the campaign to save water and reduce energy consumption, and In 2015, after 20 years of success and innovation in the campaign to recycle all items with AMC branding, the telecommunications market, it started to offer have aimed at increasing the awareness of Telekom its services under the Telekom brand identity which Albania employees of CR activities. In addition, several stands for competence, innovation and simplicity. communications to the network of outlets have helped Under the new brand, in line with its new slogan to improve recycling of all paper and plastic in the Moments that connect us it provides its customers shops. with anytime, anyplace connectivity and superb overall service. The Company’s overarching aim is to The key CR performance indicators of the company’s offer enhanced value to both its subscribers and the performance in 2015 are presented in the following entire society. table. Telekom Albania Financial Performance Total revenues (mn €) 82.7 Payroll and employee benefits (mn €) Non Disclosable Total operating expenses (mn €) Non Disclosable EBITDA (mn €) 20.6 Pro forma EBITDA (mn €) 20.6 About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 203 Telekom Albania Marketplace Fixed-line subscribers (number of subscribers) Mobile telephony subscribers (number of subscribers) 1,730,075 Broadband subscribers (number of subscribers) TV subscribers (number of subscribers) Employees Employees with indeterminant term contracts (number of employees) 446 Female employees (%) 59 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (%) 0 Employee turnover as a percentage of total employees (%) 5 Work-related fatal accidents (number of employees) 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents (number of employees) 0 Work-related non-fatal accidents* (lost days) 0 Health and safety training (hours/employee) 2.34 Total training (hours/employee) 5.52 Employees trained (number of employees) 67 Society Sponsorships Donations (incl. in-kind) (€) 194,537 Volunteering projects (number of projects) 7 Voluntary participation of employees in corporate responsibility initiatives (number of 0 participations) People supported (number of people estimated) 5,770 * Lost days are counted as scheduled work days. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 204 Telekom Albania Environment Electricity consumption (GWh) 19.99 District heating and fuel consumption in buildings/telecom network (GWh) 7.37 Fuel consumption in vehicles fleet (GWh) 1.21 Direct (scope 1) CO2 emissions (t) 2,262.69 Indirect (scope 2) CO2 emissions (t) 139.90 Hazardous waste (t) 50.91 Non-hazardous technical waste (t) 63.14 Recycling of phone devices and accessories (t) 1.61 EMF measurements (number of measurements) 4 Data for the years 2013-2015 are available in Employees ΟΤΕ Group Key Performance Indicators . In 2015, employees of Telekom Albania participated Marketplace in a series of training programs that increased their performance capabilities. The training offered covered The Supplier Evaluation Process is an annual process project management issues, sales techniques, utilization carried out by the OTE Group, of which Telekom Albania of the Oracle Database features, programing with PL/ is a part. Its aim is to evaluate not only the performance SQL, Business Continuity Management, ISO 22301 of the suppliers based on the quality and efficiency of features and implementation, and Health and Safety their products or services, but also on their commitment topics including tower climbing and rescue rehearsals. in the areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability, labor relations, ethics, environment, health and safety, Of particular importance is the continuous training on and business continuity management. privacy and data protection awareness. In 2015, 55 local suppliers and 20 global suppliers The Sales personnel attended 1,635 hours of training, on have been evaluated. The evaluation process covered topics such as basic sales principles and techniques for all suppliers who had received orders above €2 m, all new employees, the use of available tools (software like suppliers of important commodities with orders above EPOS, SMPOS) in everyday business transactions, training €500,000, and selected local suppliers (at the request of on new products and offers launched, including some the respective corporate budget owners). by suppliers such as Samsung, and refresher courses on existing products. Through the Supplier Evaluation Process, Telekom Albania Management Team receives a complete Employee satisfaction is measured via the Employee quantitative assessment of each supplier’s performance, Survey, which is organized at DT Group level. In this which is taken into consideration in any future survey, Telekom Albania employees have been found to relationship with that supplier. With suppliers rated have the highest participation rate and their satisfaction as conditional and with an active contract in place, rating is consistently high. The Employee Survey meetings are held and appropriate actions are initiated findings are considered by Management at its highest with the intention of resolving any identified issues as level, as crucial feedback in order to identify areas for quickly as possible. improvement. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 205 Society of experts in the fields of economic development, education, and social responsibility of businesses, from Telekom Albania is committed to the long term support international institutions and a representative from of people with the Down Syndrome. On World Down Telekom Albania selected the best three green ideas, Syndrome Day, Telekom Albania participated in the including the Zejtaret e Veriut project, which aims at colorful sock campaign of the Down Syndrome designing and producing handmade apparel solely from Centre Albania to raise awareness. Its employees wore recycling materials . colorful socks bought by themselves or the company to raise awareness and consciousness in support of Environment people with the Down Syndrome. The proceeds from the purchases went to support the treatment program In the framework of its commitment for a better of about 30 children aged 0-13 years, which includes environment, Telekom Albania has already implemented speech, physical, developmental and occupational an Environmental Management System. With its therapy, music, etc. In addition, in October, the month assistance, the company decided to expand, as of of awareness for the Down Syndrome, Telekom Albania January 2015, its mobile phones recycling program to supported once again the Buddy Walk campaign. cover all its shops and headquarters. This provided an opportunity to also initiate a plastics collection system To enable children hospitalized at the Mother Teresa in all its shops and buildings by placing recycling bins University Hospital Centre in Tirana to follow the basic and reorganizing the logistics of its collection system for school educational programs of the educational system these waste categories. The response to both programs of the Republic of Albania, Telekom Albania donated has been very satisfactory. twenty tablets. The tablets include instruction programs for children 5 to 16 years old that cover all subjects, Aiming to reduce its energy consumption, Telekom explained by teachers and illustrated by video, movies, Albania carried out detailed measurements of its images, documents and maps. Moreover, Telekom electricity consumption of both office facilities and data Albania has also equipped the Hospital Children’s centers. Based on these results, it is in the process of Pavilion with books, so that children can spend their free identifying measures for energy conservation in all its time reading, learning and discovering. operations. Telekom Albania, in cooperation with Red Cross in As part of Our world, You campaign, ideas were Albania, at the start of the new school year, distributed a invited from the general public on how to improve their full package of school supplies to 100 orphans. local environment aiming at a larger involvement of the general public in decision making, and enhancing Telekom Albania has also contributed to the the company’s social image. Of the many proposals improvement of infrastructure of the Pediatric Hospital submitted, the following were selected for support and surgical ward by providing patient beds, furniture and IT were implemented: infrastructure. In April 2015, for the third year in a row, Telekom • Rehabilitation of the Muharrem Collaku school yard in Pogradec, which included the improvement of Albania in collaboration with the independent nondrainage system and the creation of a sports area profit organization Partners Albania organized the for the pupils. Green Ideas 2015 national competition. The purpose of the contest was to involve, through a competitive process, civil society organizations, social enterprises • Construction of a playground for people with special needs by the The Door organization in an ecological and small businesses in the identification, selection and farm in the region of Shkodra. support of innovative green ideas aiming at sustainable development. Seventeen finalists presented their project-ideas during the two days of competition, which • Renovation of the schoolyard of the Vasil Sota school in Fier to add benches and green areas. was open to the public. An evaluation panel consisting About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 206 8.0 Appendices About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 207 8.1 Accountability Principles Standard AA1000 Index Principle applied Methods Report location CR Strategy and Management Materiality Analysis Identification of key stakeholders and Stakeholders Inclusivity dialogue to understand key issues Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue CR Strategy and Management Materiality Analysis Identification of issues which are important Stakeholders Materiality to the company and its stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue CR Strategy and Management Materiality Analysis Responsiveness to key issues and Stakeholders Responsiveness transparency on performance Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 208 8.2 United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress (CoP) In a tough economic environment and with the humanitarian crisis further intensified by the extraordinary refugee flows in our country, adhering to the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact is of critical importance for the protection of human rights and society’s needs. With these Principles as a guide and with our technological potential, OTE Group seeks to create a better world for all. Michael Tsamaz Chairman and CEO of OTE Group Since 2008, both OTE and COSMOTE support the The 2015 Sustainability Report includes a detailed UN Global Compact, the largest voluntary corporate presentation of the Companies’ priorities, activities, citizenship initiative in the world, and abide by its ten goals and outcomes, structured in a four pillar universal values in the areas of human rights, labor approach, concerning the employees, the market, the standards, the environment and anti-corruption. environment, and the society. UN Global Compact 10 Principles: Actions recorded in 2015 Sustainability Report Principle Report location Human rights CR Strategy 1. Support and respect protection of internationally Compliance Management System and Policies proclaimed human rights Fair Employment Policy Framework CR Strategy Compliance Management System and Policies Procurement Policy 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses Supplier Selection Supplier Evaluation Rating and Development of Suppliers Fair Employment Policy Framework About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 209 Principle Report location Labour standards CR Strategy Supplier Selection 3. Uphold freedom of association and effective Supplier Evaluation recognition of right to collective bargaining Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements CR Strategy Supplier Selection 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Supplier Evaluation labour Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements CR Strategy 5. Effective abolition of child labour Supplier Selection Fair Employment Policy Framework 6. Elimination of discrimination in employment and Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity occupation Environment Enviromental Strategy Greenhouse Gases and Other Gases Emissions 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction challenges Resource Use and Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields Other Enviromental Aspects Enviromental Strategy Telecommunications for Sustainable Development 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Greenhouse Gases and Other Gases Emissions responsibility Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Resource Use and Waste Management Enviromental Awareness Activities Resposible Products and Services 9. Encourage development and diffusion of Telecommunications for Sustainable Development environmentally friendly technologies Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Anti-corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms including Compliance Management System and Policies extortion and bribery Contribute to broader development goals Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece Internet Safety and Public Awareness Resposible Products and Services Society About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 210 8.3 Greek Sustainability Code – Declaration of Conformity OTE Group, a Sustainability Ambassador of the initiative Sustainable Greece 2020 , participated, in 2015, in the development process of the Greek Sustainability Code that was launched in April 2016. The OTE group declaration of conformity with the 20 criteria of the Code is presented hereafter. The 20 criteria of the Greek Sustainability Code: Actions recorded in 2015 Sustainability Report Criteria Report location Strategy 1. Strategic analysis and action CR Strategy 2. Materiality Materiality Analysis 3. Objectives 2015 and 2016 Goals Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain Management Procurement Policy 4. Value chain management Supplier Selection Supplier Evaluation Rating and Development of Suppliers Process Management 5. Responsibility CR Governance and Management Structure CR Strategy 6. Rules and procedures Compliance Management System and Policies CR Governance and Management Structure CR Performance 2015 7. Monitoring Environmental Management Independent Assurance Report CR Governance and Management Structure 8. Rewarding schemes and motives for sustainable Corporate Governance development Performance Evaluation Stakeholders 9. Stakeholders engagement Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholdeer Engagement Dialogue Resposible Products and Services Products and Services for Sustainable Development 10 Responsible products and innovation Research and Innovation Energy Consumption Energy Conservation About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 211 Criteria Report location Environment Energy Consumption Renewable Energy Sources Energy Conservation 11. Use of natural resources Waste Generated Waste Management Resource Use Other Environmental Aspects Energy Consumption Renewable Energy Sources Energy Conservation 12. Management of resources Waste Generated Waste Management Resource Use Other Environmental Aspects Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy 13. Climate relevant emissions Other Indirect GHG Emissions Ozone About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries 212 Criteria Report location Society Human Resources Fair Employment Policy Framework 14. Employment rights Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Employee Training Human Resources Performance Data Human Resources Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Health and Safety 15. Equal opportunities Health and Safety Policy 2015 Health and Safety Performance Prevention, Training and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues Employee Training Human Resources Employee Development 16. Qualifications Employee Selection Employee Training Human Resources Performance Data CR Strategy Procurement Policy 17. Human rights in the supply chain Supplier Selection Supplier Evaluation OTE and COSMOTE Expanding Broadband and Mobile Internet in Greece 18. Corporate citizenship Management Approach Contributing to Local Well-being and Sustainability OTE and COSMOTE 19. Initiatives and political influence Memberships Contribution, Formulation and Operation of a Responsible Marketplace 20. Corruption prevention and fighting Compliance Management System and Policies About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 213 8.4 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index OTE and COSMOTE Sustainability Report is based on the requirements defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI has confirmed that the GRI content index of 2015 Sustainability Report of OTE and COSMOTE is accurate, and all included disclosures are labeled correctly in the Report, in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines. 8.4.1 General Standard Disclosures General Standard External Report location / Notes Index summary description Disclosures Αssurance Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior G4-1 Message from the Chairman and CEO decision-maker of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Report Profile Name of organization G4-4 OTE and COSMOTE Brands, products, and services G4-5 Report Profile Headquarters location G4-6 ΟΤΕ Group Countries of operation ΟΤΕ Group G4-7 Ownership and legal form OTE and COSMOTE ΟΤΕ Group G4-8 Markets served CR Performance 2015 Report Profile ΟΤΕ Group G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization OTE and COSMOTE CR Performance 2015 Human Resources Employees by contract, region and G4-10 Human Resources Performance Data gender Employees covered by collective G4-11 Fair Employment Policy Framework bargaining agreements Responsible Procurement and Supply G4-12 Supply chain of the organization Chain Management Significant changes in reporting G4-13 ΟΤΕ Group period About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 214 General Standard External Report location / Notes Index summary description Disclosures Αssurance CR Strategy CR Governance and Management Structure Risk and Compliance Management and Policies Enterprise Risk and Insurance Management System G4-14 Health and Safety Policy Precautionary approach Environmental Strategy Greenhouse Gases and Other Gases Emissions Improving Energy Efficiency and Emissions Reduction Resource Use and Waste Management Electromagnetic Fields Externally developed economic, CR Strategy environmental and social G4-15 Memberships charters, principles, or other initiatives Memberships Memberships of associations G4-16 Contribution, Formulation and Operation and national or international of a Responsible Marketplace advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List all entities included in the Report Profile organization’s consolidated G4-17 ΟΤΕ Group financial statements or equivalent documents Report Profile Process for defining report G4-18 CR Strategy content and aspect boundaries Materiality Analysis G4-19 Materiality Analysis Material aspects Material aspects boundary G4-20 Materiality Analysis within the organization Material aspects boundary G4-21 Materiality Analysis outside the organization Effects and reasons of restated G4-22 Report Profile information Significant changes in Report G4-23 Report Profile scope, boundary, methods Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Stakeholder groups engaged by G4-24 Overview of Stakeholder Engagement the organization Dialogue About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 215 General Standard External Report location / Notes Index summary description Disclosures Αssurance Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Stakeholder identification and G4-25 Overview of Stakeholder Engagement selection for engagement Dialogue Report Profile Stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement Approach Overview of Stakeholder Engagement Approaches to stakeholder G4-26 Dialogue engagement Materiality Analysis Customer Surveys Employee Satisfaction Stakeholder Engagement Approach Topics and concerns raised by G4-27 Overview of Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders Dialogue Report Profile G4-28 Report Profile Reporting period G4-29 Report Profile Date of most recent report G4-30 Report Profile Reporting cycle G4-31 Report Profile Contact point about the Report G4-32 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index GRI Content Index G4-33 Independent Assurance Report External assurance policy Governance CR Governance and Management G4-34 Structure Governance structure Corporate Governance Ethics and Integrity CR Strategy Organization’s values, Compliance Management System and principles, standards and norms G4-56 Policies of behavior such as codes of Management Approach conduct and codes of ethics Enviromental Strategy About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 216 8.4.2 Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard External Index summary Report location / Notes Omissions Disclosures assurance description ECONOMIC Material Issue: Economic Performance OTE and COSMOTE Disclosure on G4-DMA CR Strategy Management Approach Strategy for the Marketplace Direct economic G4-EC1 OTE and COSMOTE value generated and distributed ENVIRONMENTAL Material Issue: Effluents and Waste Enviromental Strategy Resource Use and Waste Disclosure on G4-DMA Management Management Approach Waste Management Waste Generated Total weight of waste Waste Management G4-EN23 by type and disposal Environmental method Performance Data Waste SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Issue: Occupational Health and Safety Health and Safety Health and Safety Policy 2015 Health and Safety Disclosure on G4-DMA Performance Management Approach Prevention, Training and Awareness of Health and Safety Issues 2015 Health and Safety Occupational diseases, G4-LA6 Performance lost days and fatalities About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 217 Specific Standard External Index summary Report location / Notes Omissions Disclosures assurance description SOCIAL: SOCIETY Material Issue: Anti-corruption Risk and Compliance Management and Policies Disclosure on G4-DMA Compliance Management Management Approach System and Policies Total number and percentage of operations assessed Compliance Management G4-SO3 for risks related to System and Policies corruption and the significant risks identified Confirmed incidents of Compliance Management G4-SO5 corruption and actions System and Policies taken Material Issue: Anti-competitive Behavior Competition and Regulation Contribution, Formulation and Disclosure on G4-DMA Operation of a Responsible Management Approach Marketplace Legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, G4-SO7 Competition and Regulation anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Material Issue: Compliance Risk and Compliance Management and Policies Disclosure on G4-DMA Compliance Management Management Approach System and Policies Competition and Regulation Fines and sanctions for Responsible Marketing G4-SO8 non-compliance with Practices laws and regulations Safe Customer Products About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 218 Specific Standard External Index summary Report location / Notes Omissions Disclosures assurance description SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Issue: Customer Health and Safety Information on EMF is presented as it is a material issue that is related to customer health and safety Disclosure on G4-DMA Enviromental Strategy Management Approach Electromagnetic Fields Following by Design the Precautionary Principle Safe Customer Products Product and service Following by Design the categories assessed G4-PR1 Precautionary Principle for health and safety Monitoring the levels of EMF impacts Radiation Safe Customer Products Non-compliance with Following by Design the regulations concerning G4-PR2 Precautionary Principle the health and safety Monitoring the levels of EMF impacts of products Radiation and services Material Issue: Customer Privacy Disclosure on G4-DMA Data Security and Privacy Management Approach Substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 Data Security and Privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-32 219 8.4.3 Other Specific Standard Disclosures for Non-material Issues Externally Assured Specific Standard External Index summary Report location / Notes Omissions Disclosures assurance description ENVIRONMENTAL Energy Energy Consumption Energy consumption G4-EN3 Environmental Performance within the organization Data Energy G4-EN5 Energy Consumption Energy intensity Emissions Direct GHG and Non-GHG Emissions Direct greenhouse gas G4-EN15 Environmental Performance emissions (Scope 1) Data Energy Ozone Indirect GHG Emissions from Energy indirect Energy G4-EN16 greenhouse gas Environmental Performance emissions (Scope 2) Data Energy Greenhouse Gases and Other Greenhouse gas G4-EN18 Gases Emissions emissions intensity SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Training and Education Employee Training Training per employee G4-LA9 Human Resources by gender and category Performance Data About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-33 220 8.5 Independent Assurance Report Independent Limited Assurance Report to • Effluents and Waste (DMA and Indicator G4EN23) the Management of OTE S.A. and COSMOTE S.A. • Occupational Health and Safety (DMA and Indicator G4-LA6) KPMG Advisors A.E. was engaged by Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. (further referred to as OTE ) and COSMOTE Mobile • Anti-Corruption (DMA and Indicators G4-SO3, G4-SO5) Telecommunications S.A. (further referred to as COSMOTE ) to provide limited assurance over selected aspects of the Greek version of their • Anti-Competitive behavior (DMA and Indicator G4-SO7) joint sustainability report 2015 titled OTE Group Sustainability Report 2015 (further referred to as the Report ) for the reporting period 1 January 2015 31 • Compliance (DMA and Indicator G4-SO8) December 2015. • Customer Health and Safety referring to EMF issues (DMA and Indicators G4-PR1, G4-PR2) Scope of our assurance engagement Our engagement was designed to provide limited • Customer Privacy (DMA and Indicator G4PR8) assurance in accordance with ISAE 30001 and the requirements for a Type 2 assurance engagement under AA1000AS (2008)2 on the following aspects of 4. The reliability of the following Specific Standard the Report (assurance scopes): Disclosures for the Non Material Aspects marked with the symbol √ in the GRI Content Index table 1. The application of AA1000APS (2008)3 principles, of the Report: G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15, G4as described in section 8.1 of the Report. EN16, G4-EN18, G4-LA9. 2 The reliability of the General Standard Disclosures The nature, timing and extent of evidence-gathering required by GRI G4 for the Core option marked procedures for limited assurance is less than for with the symbol √ in the GRI Content Index table reasonable assurance, and therefore a lower level of the Report. of assurance is provided for the data and objectives under the limited assurance scope. Readers should 3 The reliability of the following Specific Standard note that moderate level of assurance in AA1000AS Disclosures for the Material Aspects , as they (2008) is consistent with limited assurance in ISAE have been identified by OTE and COSMOTE and 3000. their stakeholders, marked with the symbol √ in the GRI Content Index table of the Report: Our work for the above scopes concerned the operations and activities of the parent companies OTE • Economic Performance (Disclosure on Management Approach DMA and Indicator and COSMOTE in Greece. We have not been engaged to provide assurance over any prior reporting period G4-EC1) data or information presented in the Report. 1 International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Accounting Standards Board. 2 AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), issued by AccountAbility. 3 AA1000 Principles Standard (2008), issued by AccountAbility. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-33 221 Reporting criteria used by OTE and As explained in more detail at the section COSMOTE Responsibilities , we conducted our engagement in accordance with the Code of Ethics for Professional OTE and COSMOTE apply the AA1000APS (2008) Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards criteria for the three principles of inclusivity, materiality Board for Accountants (IESBA) which requires, among and responsiveness as described in section 8.1 of the other things, the independence of the members of the Report. assurance team and of the assurance organization, including not being involved in writing the Report. The For the Report, OTE and COSMOTE apply the Code contains detailed requirements regarding the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the GRI integrity, objectivity, confidentiality and professional as declared in section 1.1 of the Report as well as competence and behavior. KPMG has internal systems relevant internal guidelines. and processes to monitor compliance with this Code and to prevent potential conflicts regarding independence. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate Our engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary application of the abovementioned criteria. team with extensive experience in sustainability (including environmental, social and financial aspects) Exclusions from the scope of our assurance and sustainability assurance. engagement Work performed to reach our conclusions The scope of our work did not include the financial data of OTE and COSMOTE contained in the We planned and performed our work to obtain all the Report, which are subject to the statutory auditor’s evidence, relevant documentation, information and responsibility. Where financial information (text and/ explanations that we considered necessary in relation or data) subject to the statutory auditor’s scope has to the above scope. Our work included the following been utilized within the scope of our work, KPMG’s procedures using a range of evidence gathering work was limited to the reliability check of the transfer activities which are further explained below: of these text/ data from the audited and published Financial Statements 2015 of OTE and COSMOTE to the relevant -within our agreed scopesections of the • Inquiries of management to gain an understanding of OTE’s and COSMOTE’s processes for determining Report. To obtain a thorough understanding of OTE’s the material issues for its key stakeholder groups and COSMOTE’s financial results and financial position, inclusive of an evaluation of the results of OTE and the 2015 audited financial statements should be COSMOTE stakeholder consultation processes and consulted. their methodology. The scope of our work did not include the review / testing of the operating effectiveness of the • Interviews with senior management and relevant managerial staff of OTE and COSMOTE concerning information systems used to collect and aggregate sustainability strategy and policies for material data in relation to the agreed assurance scope. issues and the implementation of these across the business. Assurance standards we used • Interviews with relevant OTE and COSMOTE staff responsible for providing information in the Report, We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 and the requirements for a Type 2 during which we also reviewed on a sample assurance engagement under AA1000AS (2008). basis, systems and/ or processes for information A Type 2 Assurance Engagement covers not only the management, internal control and processing of nature and extent of the organization’s adherence the qualitative and quantitative information, at the to the AA1000APS (2008), but also evaluates the Company level (OTE, COSMOTE). In this context, reliability of selected sustainability performance we tested on sample basis, the reliability of the information. underlying text and/ or data references mentioned About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-33 222 in the General Standard Disclosures and the Specific Standard Disclosures of our agreed • In relation to the principle of materiality, OTE and COSMOTE should maintain the current procedures assurance scope. capitalizing on the investment they have already made regarding the incorporation of Enterprise • Enquiring, on a sample basis, about OTE’s and COSMOTE’s assertions within our agreed Risk Management principles into sustainability materiality assessment. assurance scope through evidence collection, covering internal and external documentation such as correspondence, minutes of meetings, • In relation to the principle of responsiveness, OTE and COSMOTE could further communicate in the reports, presentations and research and survey sustainability report, their approach of addressing results. different expectations and/ or conflicting stakeholder interests. • Visits to the central offices of OTE and COSMOTE in Athens, which were selected on the basis of a Assurance scopes 2, 3 and 4: On the reliability risk analysis including the consideration of both of the General Standard Disclosures and the quantitative and qualitative criteria. Specific Standard Disclosures (for the Material Aspects and the Non Material Aspects ) • A media analysis and an internet search for references to OTE and COSMOTE during the marked with the symbol √ in the GRI Content Index table of the Report (limited assurance): reporting period. Based on the procedures performed, as described • Review of the Report and in relation to the assurance scope mentioned above, to ensure above, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the General Standard Disclosures and the Specific there are no material disclosures that are Standard Disclosures (for the Material Aspects and the misrepresented or inconsistent with our findings. Non Material Aspects ) marked with the symbol √ in the GRI Content Index table of the Report, are not fairly Our conclusions stated in all material respects. The following conclusions should be read in Without prejudice to our conclusions for all the conjunction with the work performed and scope of assurance scopes, as presented above, we provide OTE our assurance engagement described above. and COSMOTE management with an internal report presenting in more detail specific findings and areas for Assurance scope 1: On the AA1000APS improvement. principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness (limited assurance): Responsibilities Based on the procedures performed, as described OTE’s and COMOTE’s Management are responsible above, nothing has come to our attention to suggest for preparing the Report, and the information and that OTE’s and COSMOTE’s description of their statements within it. They are responsible for the alignment with the AA1000APS (2008) principles in identification of stakeholders and material issues, section 8.1 of the Report, is not fairly stated in all for defining objectives with respect to sustainability material respects. Without affecting our conclusion, performance and for establishing and maintaining the following are recommended: appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which reported information is • In relation to the principle of inclusivity, OTE and COSMOTE could further enhance their derived. current approach to stakeholder engagement Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance by considering the introduction of focus groups, engagement and to express a conclusion based on in the context of maximizing their capacity to the work performed for the agreed scope, as described engage. above. We conducted our engagement in accordance About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries G4-33 223 with ISAE 3000 and the requirements for a Type 2 assurance engagement under AA1000AS (2008). ISAE 3000 standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether selected aspects of the Report are free from material misstatement. KPMG applies ISQC 14 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our assurance report is made solely to OTE and COSMOTE in accordance with the terms of our engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to OTE and COSMOTE those matters we have been engaged to state in this assurance report and for no other purpose. We do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. and COSMOTE Mobile Telecommunications S.A. for our work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. KPMG Advisors A.E. George Raounas, Partner Athens, May 13th 2016 4 International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1): Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Statements, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. About this CR Strategy and Marketplace OTE Group Employees Society Environment Appendices Report Management Subsidiaries Hellenic Telecommunications Organization S.A. COSMOTE-Mobile Telecommunications S.A. 99, Kifissias Ave., 151 24 Marousi, Athens, Greece www.cosmote.gr
