BALDHA GROUP Communication on Progress YEAR 2016 • About the company • Message of the CEO • PRINCIPLE 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • PRINCIPLE 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies • PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery About Baldha Group Baldha is an Italian Word; it means ‘The Best and the self-confident’. In the memory of The Baldha Garden which is located in the old part of city of Dhaka, Bangladesh (1909); the Company started its Journey in January 1st 2010. Empowering the strategy followed by integrity and efficiency the company has been growing very successful businesses in sectors ranging from garments to agriculture, Telecom, media, publication and Properties.Each successive venture demonstrates our devotion to pick the right market and the right opportunity.Our companies are part of a family rather than a hierarchy. We want to make our dream into solution which is the growth and development of businesses for mankind. Mission We want to support mankind through our innovation, strategy and business platform. Vision We want to be known around the world for our values and extraordinary creation. From the CEO From near and far tree gives us shadow, fruits,and flowers: she does all these for us not for her. Just like a tree I would like to build my organization Baldha Group as an icon to serve others.In Todays world business should be based on humanitarian purpose not only for profit . In 2015 the United nations adopted 17 global goals that world leaders have committed to achieve by 2030 .The goals were created to • End poverty • Fight injustice and inequality • Combat Climate change As Baldha Group we believe it is important to take responsibility for how people , the environment and society are affected by our operations and , ultimately the operations of our clients .We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the environment and society are affected by our operations and ultimately the operations of our client .We actively strive to reduce our own impact on the environment ,and we conduct dialogue about what is important from a sustainability perspective .Within the SDG with the new business platform we are facing new challenges in terms of security , transparency , resource and employment . The SDG agenda gives us the opportunity and enormous boosts to make business a force for good . I am pleased to confirm that Baldha Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption.Global Compact’s ten principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication . Sincerely Farah Mazid Saddha CEO Baldha Group We support UN Global Compact Human Rights Baldha Group should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights And make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group follows the local and international legislation regarding the aspect of human rights. The values we support are concern for our customers, employees, partners and shareholder. Our aim is to influence our employees, all our business partners and stake holders to understand and respect the fundamentals of Human rights.We wanted to make sure that all the employees of our organization are treated equally and they do not become the victims of their race, nationality, ethnic background, language, religion, social status, sexual orientation. These procedures are periodically updated by the members of the managerial team and by the team in the Quality Assurance department. Our employees have the right to equal salary for equal work, to an equitable and satisfying remuneration, right to medical care, to social security and to social services. Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the human rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Through the educational projects developed in partnership with our nonprofit organization NGO ANDRA we share fundamental moral values and we make sure that all our business serves the man kind. ACTIONS TAKEN in this year from Baldha group of companies for Human rights SDG 5.Gender Equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Kaler Jatra publication Ltd has emphasized on the women’s rights and gender equality by publishing articles and news to create awareness for the greater mass.The articles about freedom for women and My agony for college is to help the women to understand their rights and the importance of education . ! About Kaler Jatra Publication Ltd Kaler Jatra strives to be an author friendly publisher, treating its authors as full partners in the highly competitive publishing business.Kaler jatra means the journey of time and we preserve this time with the touch of our knowledge .We do multifaceted jobs like editing, consulting, designing, producing, distributing, promoting and marketing. It is the publication which is aimed to bring change in the literature world. Our recently published books are Princess of the tide, The Global rose Literature Magazine kaler jatra and belong to the world .We also own an online news portal kaler jatra.com Actions Taken places • This year in our Monthly meeting we not only have discussion about human rights among the team but also we have included a mandatory email update from each of our employees about the awareness . • We have submitted an hand out to all our Employees and stake holders About human rights . • This year We have published another book ‘ Belong to the world ‘A research and articles based on Human rights http://www.kalerjatra.com/ cat_view.php?news_id=1090 More and more articles and news published on gender equality • Freedom for women http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php? news_id=1062 • We have increased the share of women on company board and on senior roles . • We have given the opportunity to other authors and journalist to publish articles on gender equality . ! • Participated Local Network :Ring the Bell for Gender Equality : A Seminar was held for the addressing the gender issue from the local net work in Bangladesh . This convention also held to celebrate the international women's day and the human rights principles of United Nations Global compact . News at Kaler jatra.com http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php? news_id=6544 SDG 4. Quality education Our Educational articles like Agony for Education created the platform for Quality education and the importance of education . Read the article on http://www.kalerjatra.com/cat_view.php? news_id=6966 RESULTS There was no reported case of human rights abuse ! Environment • PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • PRINCIPLE 8 ENVIRONMENT Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • PRINCIPLE 9 ENVIRONMENT Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Company policy Baldha Group supports the UNGC principles on the Environment. The principles have been included in our CSR policies and our Code of Conduct. As leader on the media, our company assumes responsibility towards the environment, by promoting good practices in environmental issues and cultivating these values through its policies of partnerships, through involvement in programs developed by organizations from the business environment and our nongovernmental sector Andra. ! About Baldha Agro Limited The main purpose of the corporation is to develop and market new health products ALOE VERA products. All derivatives of these products are becoming very popular not only in the United States and Western European countries, but also in the Southeast Asian countries such as China, India, Bangladesh, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, and other Pacific Rim areas.The main reason of popularity of the Aloe Vera derivatives is the perception of natural ingredients is used in the finished product. Aloe powder, gel, vitamin tablets, shampoo and other Aloe cosmetics are being produced from the plant and no other chemicals are being used as ingredients, except some preservatives and artificial perfume. ! ! ! SDG 3. Good health and well being Ensure healthy lives and promote well being at all ages Actions taken places ! Our marketing team has promoted and created the following awareness of Aloe Vera for the following purposes . • Aloe Vera is beneficial for cracked and dry skin. • Aloe Vera is helpful for frostbite, burns, insect bites, blisters and allergic reactions. • Aloe Vera is used for treating various skin conditions such as eczema, burns, psoriasis, inflammations, wounds etc. • Aloe Vera is useful for preventing the aging of the skin. • Aloe Vera gel is used as a medicine for treatment of diabetics , obesity ,Canker sores (aphthous stomatitis) Our company’s vision to manufacture and promote Aloe Vera products is not only targeted for profit, introduction of such natural products to the consumers will enhance health consciousness as a whole SDG 15. Life on Land TargetProtect restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems , sustainable manage forests , combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Action We have taken the initiation to protect nature • camping the slogan to save the nature • Plant more trees ! • Educating our next generation to plant trees •Encourage our stake holders and employees to go paper less •Motivate and aware on the climate issues Result o Environment risk has been reported Labour Rights • PRINCIPLE 3 LABOUR STANDARDS Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • PRINCIPLE 4 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • PRINCIPLE 5 LABOUR STANDARDS the effective abolition of child labor • PRINCIPLE 6 LABOUR STANDARDS the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Company Policy Our company encourages equal opportunities. Neither employee is subject to any form of discrimination based on gender, race or physical abilities, or religion. Any form of physical or verbal harassment is strictly forbidden. . All employees are free to be part of any association or nongovernmental foundation. ! Every employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary Our shareholders, suppliers, partners and collaborators respect the Labour rights. In the relations among employees, we encourage integrity and honesty. Baldha apparel Ltd Baldha Apparel Ltd is a marketer, manufacturer, and distributor of high quality branded knit, woven and sweater apparel. Company specializes in selling a variety of wear tops and bottoms, for the ever-changing apparel market.Baldha Apparel mission is to become a recognized manufacturer, importer and distributor of high quality apparel and textile products to the USA Canada and Europe at the lowest possible price and with delivery times superior to any in the industry. It is equally committed to always exceeding the customer expectations and shareholder value. SDG 8 Decent work and Economic Growth Promote sustained , inclusive and sustainable economic growth , full and productive employment and decent work for all Action Taken • When we place any order to the factories we make sure that factory is complaint with the international labor rights.We make sure our employees have decent work environment to be productive . ! • During the manufacturing Process we always make sure that the workers are paid for over time, receive the sick leave and treated with respect. • We promote high standards of health and safety in our manufacturing facilities • We invest in technologies that reduces the risk of human error and accidents in production . • We always arrange monthly team meetings to share our employees about their expectations,contributions and ideas for the future road maps of the organization • All employees have benefitted from private medical insurances and annual medical check up • At the company’s premises have been arranged facilities necessary to disabled persons • We prioritize the eradication of modern day slavery and child labour ! in production supply chains . • We provide targeted internships for young people from disadvantage back ground in order to promote social mobility .which also enhancing company performance through increased work force diversity . Result No conflict or discrimination report has been submitted PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMPANY POLICY Baldha Group fights against any forms of corruption including bribery, political influence, external pressure or extortion. SDG 16 Peace , Justice and Strong institutes Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development , provide access to justice for all and build effective , accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels . . ACTIONS TAKEN • We have developed and updated the company’s anti-corruption manual; every employee is trained and audited for knowing and applying it. • The possibility for signaling any corruption act was made available to all employees ! ! • We have promoted among our partners, customers, and public to aware about corruption and held seminars on ‘zero corruption’. • We have designed and implemented a robust anti bribery and corruption compliance program . • We have demonstrated ethical leadership by publishing a statement on human rights consistent with the UN guiding principles on business and human rights and shared with our stake holders and employees . . ! • This year we have participated the UN Leadership summit in UN head quarter to learn and participate in the new Global Business goals and making global goals into local business . • This seminar was helped us to implement and understand the SDG industry matrix into our real business solution • This conference was also useful to meet other business partners and associates around the globe . RESULTS No employee has been involved in corruption actions How will we publicize this information? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, mass media, as well as to the large audience on our website www.baldha.com Contact person Farah Mazid Saddha CEO Baldha Group +8801729860251 ceo@baldha.com ! The End Thank you .
