Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Hard work & heart-felt passion Statement from the CEO Based on gumption, and not least a heart-felt pliers of quality countertops, Jakob Bressendorf I came to HORN with a strong belief, that the sible business practices. passion to succeed, Karl Nielsen and Ove joined the development as CEO in 2015, with a organisation as a whole had a world of opportuJørgensen founded HORN Bordplader strong ambition to position the future HORN as nities, to change the way the industry do busiThis being our first communication on progress, (Tabletops) in 1992. the green solution, to a market known for being ness. To do so, we however need to be cooperatexpress our outmost support and engagement mostly cost-focused. ing actively with our suppliers, customers and to the UN Global Compact, and indicate current Through hard work, they managed to embed other stakeholders to implement sustainable and future initiatives within the Ten Principles HORN as an unconventional manufacturer of Today HORN is among the leading European solutions. in areas of Human Rights, Labour Rights, Envisome of the markets best countertops -With the countertops specialist. Social responsibility, This work do not come easy, and while we interronment and Anti-corruption. widest range of design and creative solutions. environmental friendly-, quality focusedand nally have endeavoured to create the necessary innovative solutions are the cornerstones of our structures and determination to create new opOn behalf on HORN, I would like to thank you Their enthusiasm and strong technological infuture market offerings. portunities -And not least made CSR an elemenfor the interest you are showing in this report vestments made the company grew steadily tary part of our future mission, we find a need and thereby our organisation. over the years. To stay among the leading supto invest further in business development to be prepared to address future challenges, and continuously evolve as a responsible business. Enjoy reading –I wish you a most pleasant day! It is therefore with great pleasure that HORN confirms its dedication and promotion of the UN Global Compact, which constitutes a good founJakob Bressendorf dation for our future work and focus on responCEO HORN Bordplader A/S Background During the last years, HORN has evolved from development of products, actually fulfilling being a traditional Danish family owned prothese specifications, have not had its breakduction company, to an international counterthrough yet, with the consequence of standards top-specialist, delivering some of the markets not being met. We wish to influence this develbest solutions to leading European retailers. opment, and the speed of which environmental correct standards is being implemented –Both With the growth comes increased responsibility among suppliers, customer and at a political in terms of production methods and employee level. welfare. We know, that our success is based on Though the focus on environmental and social well-qualified employees, their expertise and responsibility matters have increased, we find it comprehensive material-know how –Ranging challenging to establish and prioritise our infrom Corian®, GetaCore®, ceramic, granite, tentions into measurable actions and concrete steel etc., and least FSC®-certified laminate frameworks. We perceive this Communikation and wood, originated from all over the world. on Progress a valuable internal method to inIt is therefore most important, to secure the crease transparency on efforts taken to implerights of all workers along our value chain, and ment the ten principles. to enable continued personal development of our internal employees. We intent to advance the principles within our influence, and engage further in collaborative Within the industry, we find a growing interest projects, to ensure a comprehensive organisain doing business based on environmental benetional understanding of the principles, at all ficial specification and standards. However, the organisational levels. 2 3 Value systems HORN Environmental Certifications During the last couple of years our leading internal strategy, became an objective of developing To ensure market transparency, it is our objeca mutual cultural value-system. tive, that all of our products is to be certified To ensure this, we have been working active among our colleagues, management and boardwithin applicable environmentaland health members, to put already experienced values into well-defined systems to create a solid foundastandards –So that any purchase decision can tion for the future of our company. be done without risk of damaging the overall health of the end user, and make them confiThe following values is subject for further development within the organisation, to make sure dent that their purchase has went through susthey defined -and redefined accordingly to what our employees characterize as the HORN identainable supplychain. tity. The current certifications are the following: FSC® INDOOR AIR COMFORT Respect We acknowledge all individuals and respect their difference –We trust this to be the approach Certified wood GOLD for general work happiness. The first step HORN made towards being more In 2015 we got our first collection emissionenvironmental friendly was the decision that all tested at the Danish accredited ‘Technological wood-procurement, and to the extent possible Institute’. However, to fulfil all of the markets Trustworthiness some of our chipboards and laminate surfaces, statutory declared emission limits –We got the We are loyal, honest, engaged and dedicated -We believe this make us trustworthy in all of our were exclusively FSC®-certified, to take recollection further tested with ‘bravour’ within relationships. sponsibility for both the environment, animals all applicable European specifications during and people along our supply chain. the summer of 2016. The new Indoor Air Comfort – Gold certificate ensures the end-user Development Today this decision mean, that we have the that our GREEN COLLECTION countertop soWe are developing our business and products in relation to future market requirements –We largest selection of FSC®-certified tabletop collutions, deduce even less than what the strict are certain that these will be transparent responsibility. lection within the entire industry. market specification requires. As a further mark of quality for the Indoor Air FSC® is an international membership organiComfort certificate, we opted for the ‘Gold’ ediCooperation sation that sets standards for responsible fortion meaning that all GREEN COLLECTION We have a mutual aim to make HORN the preferred countertop solution within the industry est management, and is supported by a broad solutions have went through a Factory ProducWe know that the method for this, is cooperation both internal and external with our partners. range of stakeholders. It works through 10 tion Control, guaranteeing that the tabletops is global principles for good forest management produced from the highest internal standards. that apply anywhere in the world. We therefore found it to be the best possible method to influThe certification method is applicable to the Commitment ence the industry as a whole, to consider the European market as a total, which in other We feel, live and own the HORN identity. use of wood-materials, and the health and safewords, guarantee that the collection complies ty of forest workers while looking after prewith all current standards, laws and requirecious forest wildlife. ments in the European market. 4 5 Global Compact Principles In order to indicate our intents, we chose to take part in the UN Global Compact. With the commitment, it is in our foremost interest to make the principles an active part of our general company strategy, organisational culture and general day-to-day operations. A key element of future CSR work, will be the formation of a Code of Conduct, to ensure the Global compact principles are uphold throughout our value chain. Further information on current initiatives to support the Global Compact principles, is found on the following pages. 6 7 Human Right Principles Labour Principles HORN Bordplader supports and respects the how we as an organisation can support and At HORN we find it most important, to continucurement is exclusively FSC®-certified, is indiprotection of internationally declared human promote responsible business fare. ously be aware on how we, as an organisation, rectly securing that labour principles is uphold rights. Up-stream in our value chain we have made can improve our employees ‘joy in work’ and upstream in our value-chain. In relation to the the decision, that all of our solid wood-supply general wellbeing. We therefore wish to estabforegoing Human Right principle, it is our obTo support local community activity, we have is exclusively FSC®-certified from accredited lish a greater focus on social responsibility jective, to implement an on-going supplier made an active choice to keep all of our busisources, which meet strict standards that are Especially in relation to our employees. monitoring procedure, to minimize the risk ness facilities in the small Danish village; Auenvironmental appropriate and socially benefithat any sub-components, for the finished lum. We therefore naturally comply with Dancial –Meaning, that they protect indigenous Progress: countertop solution, come from questionable ish legislation, which fulfils international conpeople, maintain community relation and enAs we are well aware that our success is based sources that exceeds human rights and/or exventions. hance forest workers right. on our competent employees, we have initiated ercise forced labour, child labour or discrimiIn relation to the principles regarding labour, a training programme starting primo 2017 to nation. the Danish legislation makes us further subject Goals: our production workers, within their expertise to the Confederation of Danish Employers Based on our commitment and general value and craftsmanship. As an internal objective, HORN is working to(DA). The confederation adds a comprehensive systems, we expect that all of our business wards being an attractive workplace, where focus on employment policy, occupational partners strive to act in responsible matters. Moreover, we are at present working on a funthe wellbeing of our employees is a paramount. health and labour law including a strong focus However, to further ensure that we do not comdamental policy regarding our employees’ The first step towards this is finishing the on wage and security. Cf. Labour policies we, plicit in human rights abuses, we plan to set up health, welfare and security. Internal proceabove-mentioned comprehensive occupational however, strive to advance our employees a code of conduct regarding protection of hudures within this manner is therefore being health and welfare policy including a strong terms of employment to ensure the best work man rights and anti-corruption, for all our further developed into organisational policies, focus on staff development. environment . business partners to sign. to secure the individual employee in case of Among others we will during the forthcoming During this process, we will further inform our both physical and mental related illness. The year be focused on how we motivate employees Progress: partners about the relevancy and communicate end-result of the initiatives will be a handbook to bring up their ideas. We are certain that this Being a countertop manufacturer, the majority our knowledge about initiatives within the infor employees to refer to regarding their rights, will encourage an even greater work environof our procurement is wood from all over the dustry. We hope that this will evoke a process development and expectations. ment, and not least affect product and process world; Africa, China, Brazil and most of the of active dialogue and knowledge sharing. innovation, by securing knowledge sharing European countries. To ensure that none of Goals: throughout all of our business layers. our components is manufactured under condiOur overall goal is to eliminate human & lations that disrespect internationally probour rights violations throughout our operaclaimed human rights, we have during the last tions. couple of years been increasingly focused on The choice, that our all of our solid wood pro8 9 Environmental principles Anti-corruption Within recent years, environment has become HORN furthermore support environmental and HORN is strongly opposed to, do not accept a strategic focus at HORN. social responsibility principles by trading only and have a zero tolerance for corruption, exWe find that we can do the most impact reFSC®-certified wood. Cf. page 5, we are howtortion or bribery in any form. This is our curgarding the UN Global Compact environmental ever incorporating an even greater focus on rent principle –And will be in the future as principles, as our business, and industry in certified sustainability, to ensure transparency well. general, is able to influence and support a prefor the end-user. cautionary approach to environmental chalProgress: lenges. Goals: We recognize the need to secure that we act Based on clear improvement, transparency Cause to a new partner-cooperation with a loaccording to high ethical standards. For this and environmentally responsible management, cal social enterprise, we see an opportunity to reason we integrated trustworthiness to our we therefore aim to reduce environmental imreuse and recycle all spare-elements from our internal values, governing the way we choose pacts throughout all of our operations. countertop production. The primary internal to present our self in all our actions. We expect objective with this cooperation is to ensure a all of our employees to embrace antiProgress: better use of all of materials, but in relation to corruption as a natural part of trustworthiThrough our strategic planning, we are implethe human right principle, we likewise find a ness. menting an increased environmental focus in desire to engage in socially beneficial purposboth our internal and external communication. es. Anti-corruption is upstream secured through This initiative is perceived as a primary step We will continue the improvements within enprocurement of only FSC®-certified wood. towards educating and promoting a greater ergy-efficiency, and initiate new tests to furenvironmental responsibility within an industher reduce our consumption. Goals: try, known for being primarily cost-focused. Cf. principles regarding both human rights and We furthermore aim to encourage a national labour, we plan to set up a code of conduct for Internally we have been focused on minimizing development of environmental friendly building all our partners, regarding protection of huour energy consumption and waste. standard. We will initiate this development by man rights and likewise anti-corruption. This By implementing a monitoring-system we have involving in supporting partnerships with our will serve as a method for supplier control, and been able to identify energy-inefficient procecustomers, and by informing and educating an active reflection of our anti-corruption dures, machines and previous blind spots – stakeholders about the relevancy. standpoint. Which have already improved our electricity In relation to this we plan to get all of our prodconsumption with 7%. To our waste challenge, ucts certified within applicable environmentalInternal the anti-corruption principle will bewe have set a new measurement standard, and health standards, as we believe that this come an active part of our policies. which enables us to use 10% more of our woodwill make a huge difference by requiring more boards, while we furthermore will be engaging of the industry, making the purchase decision in partnerships, to whom our waste can be retransparent and not least protecting the enddesigned to new product solutions. user from harmful substances. Within the following year it is our objective to In relation to establishing a greater industryget, at least one new collection tested and sefocus, we have initiated the work of gathering cured against emission of various toxic subdatasheets from all of our suppliers, as a methstances, to protect the general welfare od to trigger a greater comprehension of each amongst our customers, and actively make an individual component, and the value of obtaineffort to prevent e.g. cancer and lung diseases, ing the right certifications within the industry. which is greatly influenced by such emission. By doing this we have already found a method to assembly all laminate-solutions with a nonformaldehyde based glue. 10 11 Ending note In this Communication on Progress, we defined some of our actions already taken towards the ten principles, including our goals for the coming year, to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact into our business, strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders, through our communication channels. 12
