2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEX 3 About Report 4 Statement of Our CEO 5 Pioneer in the Sector 6 Corporate Promotional Pen Market 7 Management & Organization 8 Customer Satisfaction 9 R & D and Innovation 10 Environmental Friendly Products 15 We Need “Reform” 16 Social Value of our Products 17 We Reduce our Impact on the Environment 18 Working Conditions in Steppen 19 Get in Touch ABOUT REPORT Steppen Sustainability Report, is the forth publication that is prepared within United Nations Global Compact of which we have been signatory in 2008, and purposes to submit for our stakeholders’ information the sustainability performance of our company in social, environmental and economical areas in accordance with the transparency principal. T his year, our disclosure took the name of “Sustainability Report” and along with the UN Global Compact COP criteria, it is prepared in line with the application level C of GRI G3.1 Reporting Standard which has worldwide recognition in this field. Subjects that form the Report content have been defined through a workshop where all corporate units were represented and systematic methods in line with materiality approach followed The results obtained are completed with expert opinions. As a result of the work realized, Steppen’s material issues are determined as “Environmental Effects of Product and Production Processes, Impacts on Local Community, Informing the Consumers about Products and Customer Relations Management”. As part of the same work Steppen Sustainability Report intended audience is determined as “Customers, Incentive, Credit, Finance and Insurance Companies, Public Institutions, NGOs, Local Authorities and Audit Companies”. Information disclosed in this report is prepared with the data oriented to all operations that Step Yazım Gereçleri ve Kalıp Sanayi Ticaret Limited Șirketi realized in 2015, under the company’s absolute supervision, and did not include the datas towards the supply chain. However, with regard to our stakeholders to hold a more holistic view about company activities and sphere of influence, the report is included also this kind of data. Unless otherwise provided, the specified data are prepared in accordance with the scope, boundry and disclosure criteria determined in the GRI Standard. This Report has been designed as a notebook and published in limited numbers in order to inspire sustainable business ideas that our audiences will create. Through www.steppen.com.tr and www.unglobalcompact.org you may reach to PDF version of the Steppen Sustainability Report 2015 and GRI Index which compiles detailed information on report content and its use. 3 STATEMENT OF OUR CEO Dear Stakeholders; The most important feature of Steppen, which was established as a family corporation in 1992, is its capacity of adaption to the necessities of the period. Over the course of the adventure of progress we have been passing since our foundation, only priority that has not changed is our commitment to be reliable, transparent and responsible to our stakeholders. With this understanding, Steppen took its place among the business partners of choice for corporate companies in its market. As one of the firms pioneering its sector, Steppen bases its success on the value given to the innovation and design, capacity to supply fully customizable, high-quality products in rapid delivery terms thanks to the local production, highlevel of after sales services and the perception of company accountable for the environment, people and community. Nowadays, as the environmental problems, especially the climate change, become more evident and begin to affect our living conditions socially, economically and environmentally, Steppen chose to “be a part of the solution, not the problem”. With this purpose we have initiated R&D studies in 2008 and after achieving successful results, we broke a new ground in our market orienting all our plastic pencil production to ecofriendly bio-soluble products. By this means, we suppressed the very hardly evanished waste creation problem as the most important environmental effect of plastic products with an eco-friendly solution. With our seedy pencils, we turned our environmental effect from negative to positive. The large number of prizes that our products and our customers’ interest encourage us to success the better. The development activities we started upon environmental responsibility had got a different extent as we became a party of UN Global Compact in the year of 2008. With the reporting activities that we realized, we recognized our development points. Today, Steppen’s most important target is to continuously increase its profitability and efficiency with an eco-friendly, socially responsible, sustainable, working model and reach a corporate company structure in our journey that we began as a family corporation. In this objective of ours, commitment to the UN Global Compact principles will always protect its importance. We made a significant progress during the reporting period through our practices carried out with this understanding. On one hand we improved variety in our green product portfolio and efficiency in production processes; on the other hand we strengthened relations with various stakeholders, primarily with NGOs. In the period, we received recognition of various entities with our products and management understanding. Successful completion of the supply chain audits of the companies that follow responsible procurement practices carries a great importance to us because not only it reflects commercial success improvement of our activities that we conduct with a green business model, but also a recognition to the accuracy of our business understanding. By maintaining our projects that will provide our commercial success and organizational development in further periods, without losing our understanding which carried us to these days, we will keep creating value for our stakeholders, starting with our employees, customers and business partners. By this means, we thank and present our compliments to all our associates who contributed efforts on our accomplished success. Tuna YETKİN CEO 4 PIONEER IN THE SECTOR Steppen is a family firm which was founded in 1992 with the purpose of operating in plastic product and cast manufacturing field. While it has been operating in the corporate promotion products market, Steppen focused on plastic pen production since 1995. Thus, by delivering high.-quality product, customer satisfaction for globally competitive prices, it became one of the business partners of choice for corporate companies from divers sectors. Steppen has broke a new ground by starting to use bio-degradable plastic in its plastic pen production as of 2011. It is the unique Turkish company that can still realize all its production with eco-friendly bio-degradable raw material. Except for refills, metal components and springs, Steppen realizes all mould and piece production, coloration, pressing and assembly processes at its own facility with 2.500 m2 indoor space located in Istanbul. Through its annual production capacity of 12 million units, Steppen products are exported to more than 30 countries apart from the Turkish market. 5 CORPORATE PROMOTIONAL PEN MARKET Pharmaceuticals Many actors operate in the promotional plastic market. China and India are the Finance major exporters. Importers forming the %31 %31 majority of the firms operating in Turkish Advertising Agencies market, generally, realize their purchases in these countries. Hotels Due to the amounts, promotional plastic Communications pen manufacturing is a laborintensive sector. While all the parts are produced with machines, assembly is realized Food %2 mostly by handwork. High amount of production and cheapness of handwork %3 Industrial %9 are the factors which give Chinese and %3 Indian firms competitive edge. Local Administration %5 Promotional plastic pen is a sector where %7 %9 Others its customer and consumer are different. Organizations purchase these for using on their corporate communication activities and distribute to their stakeholders. This is why the customers are sensitive to the product prices. These characteristics made the Turkish market import-intensive. Nonetheless, the advantages of imported products rely on economy of scale, raw material and labor costs. Increase in costs due to the liabilities for the entry of foreign origin products into Turkey, directs importer companies to the products which does not have copyrighted design, produced in low-quality norms and from row material which is harmful to environment and human health. While these products are demanded due to cost advantage, these circumstances return as currency, tax and employment losses to the local economy; not to mention compromising environment and consumer safety. Steppen is one of the limited number of manufacturers that makes local production. Except for refill and metal components of plastic pen products and VIP product series, all design and production processes are conducted by Steppen. These circumstances provide Steppen the ability of product development fulfilling the customers’ expectations, rapid and qualified delivery, and to give postsales service. Beside product quality and branding, through value-added generated by green and consumerfriendly features our customers obtain additional advantages. While there are sales practices realized from various retail outlets such as; Metro Group which has a sales network across Turkey, B2B sales form the majority of Steppen’s product sales. During the reporting period, for more than 800 customers annually, Steppen, produced 4.4 million units in 2015 thus generated approximately 4 million TL turnover. Among Steppen’s further development strategies there are, developing project based productions and preventing seasonal quantity fluctuations by more efficient use of retail opportunities, and developing sales volume in export markets with the business partnerships established. 2500000 2331510 Bio-Pen with Metal Components 2000000 Bio-Plastic Pen 1500000 1229265 Paper Barrel Pen 1000000 836602 Paper Pencil 500000 150200 49910 Bio-Eraser 0 6 MANAGEMENT & ORGANIZATION Steppen’s, which was founded as a family firm in 1992, transformation venture first initiated with its product portfolio, also left positive influences on our management understanding after being a party of UN Global Compact. Our restructuring process which we started in 2012 covers several areas including our organization structure, job definition and performance management, and, in further periods, will form the most important focus of our administrative development activities. As a general principle, Steppen commits a full compliance to legal regulations, business ethics, principals determined by international initiatives to which it is a party, especially UN Global Compact, and business contracts. It stands strictly against all types of corruption such as bribe, perpetration, forgery, and cannot be a party to these in any manner. It respects to intellectual properties and realizes proceedings of the rights that it owns. Up to the present, Steppen has not received any complaint or penalty about the aforementioned subjects . CEO Man. Assistant Board of Directors Legal Adviser Managing Partner Managing Partner Finance -Accounting Marketing Accounting R&D Import & Export Human Resources Production Sales & IT Factory Manager Graphic Design Production Manager Injection Moulding Dyehouse Quality Control Vision & Mission * Establishing a productive, profitable, and sustainable business model which is open to improvement through an eco-friendly and socially responsible approach., * Being a business partner of choice for our customers through innovative products and services, * Providing customers with responsible procurement options with reduced supply chain risks through innovative and high-quality products manufactured with a societal focus; and without any negative impact on environment and people. 7 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer satisfaction is an indispensable priority to us. The fundamental objective of our customer satisfaction, beginning with design process and supported by post-sales services, is to solidly meet the expectations of our customers. Our ability of local production is of great importance in achieving outstanding success on customer satisfaction. First of all, we establish a transparent and honest communication with our customers. We establish a high variety of designs that will completely meet their expectations. We follow our customers’ works and produce creative projects for them. We apply our designs by customizing upon customer demands. We rapidly deliver requested number and form of products in a peerless quality. We inform our customers during the entire process and fulfill their post-sales demands. Thus, we become a business partner for our customers, rather than a supplier. The only product feature that we cannot customize by customer demand is the raw material that gives our products their ecofriendly characteristic. As the responsible procurement practices develop globally, customer satisfaction gains a different scope. Steppen, with its socially responsible and eco-friendly approach, takes place in global supply chain portfolios of multinational companies who adopt responsible procurement practices. In this context, our products, production processes, environment and human rights practices are approved through regular audits carried out by independent institutions. For incoming periods, Steppen has two basic objectives aimed at the development of customer applications. First of our operations of which we are executing the research phases is to establish IT infrastructure for customer relations management processes. The other is oriented to product responsibility and informing practices which will ensure that our customers minimize the supply chain risks by choosing our products. 8 R&D INNOVATION Steppen is the first company that spring to mind when it comes to innovation. Our R&D activities, besides the product, material and production processes, also cover social innovation studies such as development of working models which create societal and environmental benefit. Briefly, we have 4 innovation focuses: 1. Develop useful, ergonomic, economic and original product designs on forms which will gain appreciation of our customers and consumers, 2. Produce selections applicable to our products which are functional and formed of environment and human-friendly such as, bio-degradable plastic and recycled paper, 3. Increase safety, efficiency and green practices in production processes, 4. Develop business partnerships and models oriented to that our product and production processes produce values in social and ecologic manner beside business value. The qualified model, design and brand portfolio that we established ensure Steppen’s competitive edge, and our products are rewarded by gaining appreciation of various institutions. After receiving İSOSME Green Product Award in 2009 and Design Turkey Good Design Award in 2010, Steppen has been awarded with the First Prize in the Stars of Export Award Creative Product Category in 2011, and acknowledged as a Finalist of KOSGEB Turkish Entrepreneurs Award Innovative SME Category. Our biggest pride is that we represented Turkey in 2 categories in the European Business Awards 2011 and 2013 competition in two years in a row. Nonetheless, the biggest success for us is that our products are preferred by our customers. Our product models being imitated is a promise of the success in our designs; and that Steppen products are preferred instead of imitated products is a sign of that we produce more than a plastic pen. 9 EVIRONMENTAL FRIENDLY PRODUCTS Steppen as of 2011, started to produce all of its products with eco-friendly raw materials and functions. Pioneering its sector in this regard, Steppen still is the only manufacturer which realizes its whole production with bio-degradable and eco-friendly raw materials in Turkey. A long research process and a decisive responsibility consciousness underlie this formidable transformation. Why Did We Transform Our Product Portfolio? This is the question that our stakeholders ask when they meet Steppen for the first time: How did we decide to produce with eco-friendly raw material when no-one was obliging us to? To be able to answer this, we must speak of products and raw materials. Plastic promotional pens are purchased by institutions and distributed for communication purposes. Thus, end-users reach a few number of products free-ofcharge. They are easily expendable as they are manufactured from plastic; recycling or reusing by refill change is generally not considered. Purchaser institutions, however, do not have the opportunity of recycling as the product went out of their possession. Therefore, the lifecycles of plastic pens generally end in landfill. As a result of our researches, we saw that 2,000 tons of plastics in average are used for 200 millions of pens consumed annually in Turkey. Steppen, however, to produce 7 millions of pen in average each year, uses 70 tons of plastics. Our understanding of responsibility was requiring us to act as a part of the solution instead of being a part of this problem which arises inconveniences with regard to environment and human health. So, in 2008, we initiated R&D studies to reduce the environmental impacts of our products. What Kind Of Meterial Is Plastics and How Can It be Eco-Friendly? Plastics are useful materials that we use frequently in daily life. It is produced to be a perdurable, sanitary and cheap raw material and accomplishes this mission in a very stable manner. However, for very same reason, it stays many years in the nature without evanishing. This is also the reason which creates the biggest harm of plastic for the environment. Some resources remark that plastics can stay in the nature without evanishing for 5,000-1 million years depending on its type. However, these are results which are obtained in laboratory environment. Thus, maybe it can protect itself without disappearing for much more years. 10 This feature of plastics also arises some perceptions that they do not deserve. For instance, plastics increasing crude oil consumption is a wrong judgment. Yet, refineries do not process crude oil to produce plastic. Standard plastic is produced from bi-products which arise when it is processed in refineries to produce fuel. Thus, as it is produced from the waste of a valuable material consumed for other reasons, it provides material efficiency. Nonetheless, this does not mean that it does not have any environmental impacts yet plastic production is energy intensive. Hence, we should use plastic materials in a strictly careful and responsible manner. Within years, plastic production technology has made great progress. Especially in the last 10 years, developing alternative raw materials, additives, production and consumption techniques, it is aimed to reduce the environmental impacts of plastics. The most eco-friendly use of plastics is unquestionably reusing. This way, plastic is consumed in compliance with its purpose. For instance, we also recommend our consumers to reuse our pens by changing their refills. Nonetheless, this is hard with a product which is distributed free-of-charge. Recycling is also an effective method. That way other products are produced by recovering used materials. However, due to plastic’s structure, recycled plastic will not carry the same character. Another practice is to produce plastic from biological matters which are obtained from various agricultural products, without using petroleum products. Therefore, these are called bio-plastics. However, obtained plastics may not be in sufficient stability for some products. If it is paid attention, these practices provide efficiency in material. However, when considered its thousands of years of life, it is obvious that there is no solution for the waste problem. Therefore, there have been developed some additive materials. The first of these is “oxo-degradable additives”. With this admixture, plastic loses its integrity within 2-3 months after aeration. In other words, it breaks down into invisible particles. Waste volume decreases but the material does not evanish. This application, seeming eco-friendly, actually produces a total adverse effect. Thus, plastic creates pollution as it breaks down and mixes with soil, water and air. Furthermore, as it rends in a short time, its lifetime is short and becomes non-recyclable. Characteristically, it reduces efficiency in the recycling processes. Nowadays, the plastic bags frequently appear in the market which are called eco-friendly are produced with these additives. “Bio-degradable” based additives developed as an alternative to oxodegradable products, are added to plastics in small quantities. The bacteria which exist in its composition, use the plastic as nutriment after finding a favorable environment and consume it within 2-3 years. Only residue which has a characteristic of fertilizer and a small quantity of methane remain. For that matter, it is very suitable for the modern understanding of inert waste management and being disposed in landfills. Thus, producing electricity from the methane which arises in the landfill is a developing practice. Moreover, plastics in which bio-degradable additives are used do not have a different characteristic than the standard materials, it can be reused for years, and can be recycled completely. The material which creates real bio-degradation only starts working after the product is landfilled. 11 Which Techniques Are Used In Steppen’s Products? In the R&D practices that we started to mitigate environmental impacts of our products, we have carefully examined all the raw material methods. In accordance with the results obtained, we started our product applications. Firstly, we started with trying the bio-plastics derived from the starch-batch. However, we saw that this material did not give results correspondent with our products’ quality norms. We also evaluated the oxo-degradable additives. Nonetheless, this material, characteristically, was not providing a proper storage-time, even its eco-friendly characteristic was not convincing us. In 2011, the results of the study that British Environment Agency published, which evaluated all the life-cycle from production of supermarket bags to waste process showed, as an effect on climate change when standard plastic was used, it had a more ecofriendly feature than cotton bag, paper-bag and bio-plastic, which is known as eco-friendly when used as a bag. Because of the energy used in their production, 1 paper-bag can produce environmental impact equivalent to 9, bio-plastics to 12 and cotton bags to 393 plastic bags. The investigation demonstrates that oxo-degradable shows performance behind all other options. Bio-degradable additives were not yet included in the research in that period. We saw that, while it is possible to reduce the environmental impacts of plastic materials via more than one method, all of them have their own pros and cons. What is needed to do is to determine the most proper options fitting to the product characteristics. And we started out right this way. The material which was going to be used supposed to provide required quality norms and applicability for the production, to enable extended life-time and reuse, to be recyclable, and to degrade harmlessly to environmental and human health after landfilling. We started production using the biodegradable additive which gathers all of these features. From our new raw material, we got the same results as standard plastic material. Further Reduction of Enviromental Impacts? The results obtained from the plastic raw material which was used in the body of the product, encouraged us to create additional values from our products. For this matter, we also made changes in refills which are used in our products but that we obtained via our suppliers. We started to use eco-friendly plastic, refills produced from composite which didn’t involve heavy metal or toxicants. In the dyes that we used for printing and coloring, we preferred options that did not contain halogen matters or lead, mercury and such harmful materials. We started to use recycled paper for our paper bodied products. We ensured the raw material characteristics that are used in production, such as bio-degradation, eco-friendliness and not producing negative effects on human health, through certification in accordance with internationally valid standards by recognized institutions. Therefore, we carried our products’ eco-friendliness to a more integrated extent. Thus, the whole product portfolio of Steppen became of reduced environmental impact products and “Life Supporting Product Series” was born. 12 A Steppen Discovery: Seedy Pen While our raw material oriented R&D studies were continuing, we started functional design practices. Our objective was to develop products which reduce material consumption to minimum, but without losing from its ergonomics and attraction. We thought that, actually, we can transform our products’ environmental impacts from negative to positive with an innovative practice which also would prompt our consumers. Thus and so, the generously awarded “Seedy Pen” idea of our head designer Ümit Altun was born. The Seedy Pencil, while carrying all the characteristics that was expected from it, the consumers can, on the other hand, use its seeds which are situated in its special reservoir, by planting them, for afforestation. This application has been supported by our staholders and has become one of our most successful products. Upon demand, we started to produce these products on various forms and with different plant seed contents. Seedy Pen was awarded in the Design Turkey 2010 Competition as the Best Design, and in the Stars of Export Awards, as the Most Creative Product. 13 70 kg of waste paper, that can be reused 5 times can save one tree One big tree can meets the need for daily oxygen of 72 people’s. 14 WE NEED “REFORM” Innovation is a culture. You can never stop when you have it, always try to produce better. We, also, developed a new product group with the continuing alternative product and material development studies. Steppen is a company with experience and capacity to produce different types of products. This gave us the idea that we could produce pens from materials other than plastic or different plastic products. Our only unchangeable principal is to develop environment and human-friendly products. With this understanding, we started, firstly, to produce different stationary equipments from biodegradable plastics, such as pen racks, card holders, etc. Eraser is another product for which plastic material is used. Erasers, as requires its consuming characteristic, spread away, breaking down into smaller pieces. As a result of being a product which can harm the environment and human health if produced in low-quality standards, we decided to produce an eraser which is bio-degradable and non-toxic. Our “Bio-Eraser Which Doesn’t Erase the Environment” product was born with this understanding. Pencil is a frequently used writing material. However, pencils produce environmental impact as they are produced from trees. We aimed to develop an eco-friendly option by directing our product development studies into this problem. Accordingly, we developed the “Recycled Paper Pencil” product in which recycled newspapers are used as body instead of trees. 70 kg of waste paper can be reused for 5 times, thus a tree can be saved. 1 grown tree provides daily oxygen need of 72 persons. Our Recycled Paper Pencil, with this characteristic, has become an important part of our Life Supporting Product Series. We aim to develop our product portfolio in future terms with new highquality products supporting life and nature with functionality, creating values for our consumers and orienting them to make responsible choices. 15 SOCIAL VALUE OF OUR PRODUCTS We are increasing our business value by developing business models that create social values, meanwhile, we are creating values for the society that we operate in and supporting local economic progress. We are working together with NGOs and initiatives that support social innovation. Supporting Civil Society with Sales Models: NGOs need financial support in order to put their activities into practice. To support the NGOs for constant fundraising, Steppen is creating various cooperation models based on product sales. While making donations to NGOs by producing private-brand goods on some projects, long-term business cooperations with organizations such as Turmepa (Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association) and TEMA (The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats) provide the income from product sales. During the reporting period, 9.280 pens were donated within the collaboration with NGOs, and 6.375 TL worth of products have been sold within the profit sharing business model. Support to the Local Economy: Our workforce is Bio-Eraser Which constituted entirely from the local employment sources. Assembly, which is an important process Doesn’t Erase the Environment of the production, is generally handled by outsource services. In order to provide a social added value through this process which is performed outside the company, Steppen follows a positive discrimination practice in favor of the groups that face obstacles for employment because of socio-cultural or physical reasons. Within this scope, women living in our area and with no access to a conventional job opportunity are prioritized. With this practice, stay-home mothers with no prior professional experience are given a higher chance of employability and an opportunity to generate income through a training that also provides project based and target oriented work culture as well as technical knowledge. Non-PVC, Non-Toxic, Bio-Degradable 16 WE REDUCE OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT Considering the full life-cycle of the final products, all production activities of Steppen evaluated within the light industrial production, create environmental impact on a minimal level. However, the sensibility displayed on reducing the environmental impacts of the products is also shown during the production process. Steppen carries out its production activities in a facility with 2,500 m2’s of space in an industrial zone in Istanbul. Due to its location, activities carried out by Steppen have no significant negative impact on water resources, soil, protected areas or species, and bio-diversity in general. Within the activities carried out by Steppen during the reporting period, 48 tons of plastics, 8,6 tons of metal raw materials and 80kg of additives in total to provide the products with biodegradability have been used. Product weights are reduced to an optimum level as a result of the design models created within the product improvement studies. Besides, 8 tons of recycled paper has been used in the body production and the packaging of the Seedy Pen™ and Paper Pen product groups. On the other hand, plastic waste and burr generated during the production are recycled and reused in the production of black plastic pens. However, the amount of plastic waste does not reach to a significant level. All raw materials and consumables considered, the use of recycled material in production is above 10%. Energy consumption, major input in our production activities, forms the most significant chapter in terms of environmental impact. Within the production activities held during the reporting period, approximately 148 GJ’s of direct and 815 GJ’s of indirect energy have been used. Electricity is used as the main energy source in production, while natural gas is preferred for heating and diesel is used for transportation and other needs. Although it is insignificant in terms of raw materials used in production, we care about using the water efficiently. The water is withdrawn from the municipal supply, not from underground or surface sources, and used majorly for cleaning, maintenance and domestic %5 Diesel Fuel purposes. Due to the same reason, no wastewater that could %15 have been harmful to the environment is generated and all of the wastewater is discharged to the sewage system of the industrial zone according to the appropriate quality norms. Natural Gas During the reporting period, 780m3‘s of water has been %80 withdrawn from the municipal supply and an equal amount of wastewater has been discharged to the wastewater sewage system afterwards. Electricity The only type of waste that can reach a significant level during our production processes is waste paper The small amount of plastic burr that is generated during the production is reused as raw material before being ruled out as waste. 1 ton of paper, which is 100% of the total solid waste generated during the reporting period, has been disposed by recycling. The practices that we have carried out during the reporting period in order to improve the environmental performance of our activities are changing the machines with more efficient ones and purchasing the necessary additives to make our products biodegradable. Within this scope, Steppen has spent around 85,000 TL on environmental expenses during the reporting period. 17 WORKING CONDITIONS IN STEPPEN Steppen, which is a family firm, cares about creating an intimate, fair and responsible level of communication with its employees. Due to our work norms based on expertise, experience and consciousness; the persistence of our workforce plays a major role on the quality level that we obtain. We believe that everyone is equal and have right to live decent life. The fundamentals that we adopt are the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and United Nations Global Compact. We form our work environment according to this understanding, we never tolerate any kind of violation of the human rights nor become a party of one. Our employees are using all of their legal rights based on remuneration, leaves of absence, work safety, overtime and other business relations, and all of them benefit health and retirement insurance, from the legal social security system. From the job application until the termination of the business relationship, they are never exposed to discriminating applications. Suggestions and complaints of our employees, who can directly communicate with the senior management, are taken into consideration and actions to increase the employee satisfaction are carried out. 2 14 4 5 Steppen never employs child labor and doesn’t adopt any kind of forced or 0 5 10 15 20 25 compulsory labor practice. Employees are not Blue Collar (Women) White Collar (Women) ordered to work in different tasks without Blue Collar (Men) White Collar (Men) their will. They are notified about the changes on the working conditions according to the notice periods stated in legal regulations. Working hours and overtimes are applied 8 7 7 according to the legal regulations and nobody 6 5 4 4 is forced to do extra work. 4 3 3 2 1 0 Steppen respects the union rights and Employees Hired (Women) Employees Resigned (Women) doesn’t have any kind of opposing practice. Any employee who prefers to be a member of Employees Hired (Men) Employees Resigned (Men) the union is free to do so. However, within the reporting period, we don’t have any employees with collective agreements. Steppen avoids applications that would risk the health and safety of employees and takes the necessary precautions. As a result of this understanding, just like the previous periods, no significant accident or occupational disease case has occurred; no work-day has been lost during the reporting period. In order to maintain our long standing zero-accident performance in the future, we still continuing our improvement project since 2013, that will contain the evaluation of the risks of the occupational accidents, employee trainings, process improvement and standardization. 18 GET IN TOUCH To obtain more detailed information about Steppen Sustainability Report and our company practices, and to state your opinion and suggestions; Fırat Yetkin Marketing Manager marketing@steppen.com.tr /steppentr Step Yazım Gereçleri ve Kalıp Sanayi Ticaret Limited Șirketi @biokalem Alemdağ Cd. Deniz Sanayi Sitesi D Blok No: 25 Ümraniye – İstanbul T: +90 216 634 20 27 @biokalem F: +90 216 632 90 10 info@steppen.com.tr www.steppen.com.tr company/steppen Design Lokum Dijital www.lokumdijital.com 19 www.steppen.com.tr
