Responsible growth AAK Sustainability Report 2015/2016 The first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions Responsible growth Scope At AAK, sustainable development is fundamental to our busiThis report covers AAK’s entire organization, including proness. Hand in hand with financial growth, social and environ­ duction plants, administrative offices, sales offices, innovation mental responsibility is key to our continued development centers, and sourcing operations. The environmental data is and future success. This is what we mean by “responsible restricted to the production plants. growth”. The 2014 acquisitions of the Belgian oils and fats business We believe that building sustainability into our everyday CSM Benelux NV in Merksem and Fábrica Nacional de activities helps us achieve our vision of being the first choice ­Grasas S.A. (FANAGRA) in Colombia are included in this in value-adding vegetable oil solutions. report. Data from our Brazilian factory in Jundiaí, São Paulo, AAK’s model for responsible growth covers the five focus whose production started in April 2015, and our factory areas Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace in Zhangjiagang, China, which is scheduled to be up and and Community. running in late 2016, are not included. Similarly, data from acquisitions and partnerships established in Belgium, India, Japan, and USA during 2015 and 2016, are not included. Global team effort Throughout the report, AAK colleagues share stories about some of our many CSR initiatives. Top managers also share The annual production and release of our GRI Report is a their thoughts and insights in relation to their specific areas global team effort involving staff from various functions at all of responsibility. This report aims at providing a clear picture sites. of how we at AAK work with sustainability – our drive towards In line with this, our Sustainability Report is a global team responsible growth. achievement that includes statements, initiatives, projects This report is available in English and Swedish. It can and views from the entire organization. In addition, it docube downloaded as a PDF-file at www.aak.com. To obtain a ments – for both stakeholders and ourselves – that Corporate printed copy please contact Corporate Communications at Social Responsibility (CSR) is firmly anchored within our comm@aak.com. organization. AAK in 60 seconds We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil solutions AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years in close collaboration with our customers, enabling them to of experience within oils & fats. With our headquarters in achieve long-lasting business results. Malmö, Sweden, 20 production facilities and customization We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats plants, and sales offices in more than 25 countries, our more within food applications, working with a wide range of raw than 2,700 employees are dedicated to providing innovative materials and broad process capabilities. value-adding solutions to our customers. Through our unique co-development approach we bring So no matter where you are in the world, we are ready to together our customers’ skills and know-how with our capahelp you achieve long-lasting results. bilities and mindset. By doing so, we solve customer-specific needs across many industries – Bakery, Chocolate & We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Confectionery, Dairy, Foodservice, Infant Nutrition, Personal Care, and more. Key figures 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (SEK million unless otherwise stated) Net sales 16,695 16,911 16,537 17,814 20,114 Adjusted operating profit (EBIT) 918* 1,003** 1,127* 1,242*** 1,411* Operating profit (EBIT) 914 975 1,117 1,262 1,409 Operating profit per kilo (SEK) 0.64 0.66 0.69 0.73 0.77 Earnings per share (SEK) 14.72 15.66 17.87 21.15 22.17 Return on Capital Employed (%) 13.30 14.20 16.50 16.00 15.70 * Adjusted for acquisition costs ** Adjusted for acquisition costs and the effects of Hurricane Sandy costs *** Adjusted for acquisition costs, a net positive impact related to the acquisition in Belgium, net profit from the divestment of Binol and non-recurring cost for production optimization in Europe III AAK in the world Production plants Customization plants Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer innovation centres Our reason for being AAK’s core business is the production of vegetable oils and with essential fatty acids that our bodies are unable to synfats solutions based upon natural, renewable raw materials. thesize. However, following the rise in obesity and obesityProduced in our plants in Europe and the Americas, our related diseases, fat is often seen as harmful and something solutions reach global markets through our sales offices in to be avoided. key locations throughout the world and our close network of At AAK, we work continuously to develop healthy types of agents and distributors. oils and fats that meet the requirements of customers and We use raw materials, such as rapeseed, soya bean oil, consumers. shea kernels, sunflower oil and palm oil, primarily sourced in Northern Europe, West Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin Part of daily life America. Some raw materials – seeds and kernels – are Close customer cooperation is central to our work, whether crushed and the oil is extracted at our production plants, identifying the right solution for an application or developing while others are bought as crude oils or semi-refined oils, new products. As a supplier to a wide range of manufacturwhich we then process and refine further. ers of branded goods in the food, cosmetics, animal feed Drawing on our extensive knowledge and experience, we and technical industries, we interact with very different utilize and add value to the natural properties of vegetable customers who have very different needs. oils and fats, and this has been our speciality for more than However, all our customers have one interest in coma century. mon: applying value-adding vegetable oils and fats in their products. As a result, vegetable oils and fats from AAK are A vital ingredient present in many of the products we all use and consume on Fat is essential to human life. We need it for energy, to a daily basis. absorb vitamins, to produce hormones and to provide us IV Contents CEO statement by Arne Frank.................................................................................................................................................... 2–3 Responsible growth at AAK............................................................................................................................................................ 4 The Global Compact – AAK, a member since 2002....................................................................................................................... 5 Global CSR achievements 2015................................................................................................................................................ 6–7 Marketplace............................................................................................................................................................................... 8–13 Supply chain............................................................................................................................................................................ 14–31 Environment............................................................................................................................................................................ 32–41 Workplace............................................................................................................................................................................... 42–47 Community.............................................................................................................................................................................. 48–53 CSR approach........................................................................................................................................................................ 54–56 CSR organization.......................................................................................................................................................................... 57 Global CSR objectives 2016+................................................................................................................................................. 58–59 Global Reporting Initiative G4 Index....................................................................................................................................... 60–62 Reporting criteria........................................................................................................................................................................... 63 1 CEO and President: Responsible growth – a fundamental part of our business model Large pressure on natural resources, an ever-increasing demand for food, and a climate that seems to be rapidly changing. The challenges that our planet is facing are many. Responsible behavior is both a shared and an individual obligation, and as a global company AAK takes this very seriously and we strive to do our parts to the highest possible standards. In this Sustainability Report, AAK’s seventh, we present our CSR objectives, activities and achievements. Our main purpose at AAK is to create value-adding vege­ environmental challenges in the supply chain. Our Supplier table oil solutions together with and for our customers. To Code of Conduct addresses important areas such as labour succeed with this purpose we use our company program and human rights, environment, and corruption, and is today AAKtion to guide us. AAKtion is built upon our model for implemented with all of our direct raw material suppliers. responsible growth. We define responsible growth as actAAK continues to support and be fully engaged in the ing responsibly towards all of our stakeholders – investors, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). The RSPO global and local customers, suppliers, employees, and the requirements have by some been criticized for not effectively local communities in which we operate. addressing deforestation itself and the GHG emissions All of our CSR policies and codes are based on the UN caused by deforestation and plantation on peatlands. Global Compact (UNGC) of which we have been a member AAK’s own sustainable palm oil policy anyhow outlines our since 2002. To drive CSR progress, we focus our efforts commitments on sustainable palm in general and specifically in five areas: Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, requirements for no deforestation and no development on Workplace and Community. We set and achieve objectives peatlands. We are very satisfied with the strong progress continuously within all of these areas based on market analyon the implementation of our policy, and especially on our ses, our stakeholders’ objectives and our own ambitions and traceability to mill, our supplier risk assessment process, and priorities. our commitment to help to transform the supply chain. Corporate social responsibility plays a more significant role today than ever before and we see an increased focus on Responsible sourcing of shea kernels business practices. Some of the recent sustainability trends Our persistent work in West Africa towards a more that have gained a lot of attention include responsible and sustainable and efficient supply chain benefits both AAK transparent supply chains, reductions of GHG emissions, and the hundreds of thousands of women collecting shea and labour rights – hugely important challenges that are all kernels. Our Kolo Nafaso program, which started out as addressed in this report. a project in 2009, focuses on support, interest-free micro credits, training and trading directly with those women, Trusted supplier and the program continues to progress. During the season Food safety is a top concern for our customers and their 2015/16, more than 90,000 women joined, exceeding our stakeholders, which is consistent with our own priorities. expectations by more than 20,000 women. We will continue AAK’s production sites are food safety audited and certified to develop this very successful program and enroll more in accordance with one or more internationally recognized women in the upcoming years. food safety standards. Ethical supply is another key priority for our customers as Resource efficiency well as ourselves. We share our ethical information and ethiDespite shifting our focus to more specialized and advanced cal audit reports through the Sedex platform. products that in general require significantly more resources per produced unit, our overall resource efficiency has imResponsible sourcing of palm oil proved markedly for a number of years now. 2015 was no There is a very strong request from our customers that the exception. sourcing of raw materials is done responsibly, particularly the Energy consumption, calculated per MT produced, palm oil. We continue to increase our focus on social and decreased by 5.8 percent while water consumption was 2 down by 4.0 percent. Furthermore, carbon dioxide emissions Being a good neighbor from fossil fuel per MT decreased by 4.8 percent and Contributing to, and engaging in, the different communities waste sent to landfill only represented 1.3 percent of total in which AAK operates is essential to us. We do so primarily waste disposals, leaving 98.7 percent disposed for reuse, by creating jobs, paying taxes and doing business with local recycling or recovery, exceeding our 2015 global objective. enterprises. But we also strive to be a good corporate citizen All these very impressive achievements were delivered by by taking issues such as health and safety, diversity, labour a very dedicated and highly responsible global operations standards, and our environmental impact seriously. organization. At the same time, we realize that there are many other different ways to engage actively, and I am very pleased to A safe and educational working environment see our employees contribute to their local communities. At our production sites, Lost Time Injury Rate very The initiatives presented in this report are only a few of those unfortunately showed a slight increase in 2015 after a conducted by AAK employees. significant decline in 2014, as did Lost Day Rate – a measurement of the severity of incidents. This is being Responsibility going forward addressed with further initiatives from our Global Safety We are very proud to share with you, in our Sustainability Team that relentlessly is striving to make AAK a zero Report, the significant progress we continue to make across injuries workplace. Despite these slight increases it is very all of our five focus areas. There are still many challenges encouraging to see that more than half of our production ahead of us, continuing to work towards full sustainability in sites did not have any Lost Time Injuries at all. the entire palm oil industry probably being the most important At our sourcing sites in West Africa, where conditions and one. challenges are very different, both Lost Time Injury Rate and Going forward, we will continue to grow our business in Lost Day Rate decreased significantly. This is, amongst other a responsible manner, not only by applying our model for initiatives, the result of a widespread safety training aiming to responsible growth, but also by developing it as we acquire change the culture into a “safety first” mindset. new knowledge and as environmental and social priorities Educational efforts are not only being made within the change. safety area. To internally promote awareness and knowledge of corruption, which remains a common risk throughout the Arne Frank world for all companies, we have rolled out two e-learning CEO and President modules addressing anti-corruption topics. The modules are mandatory for employees at increased risk of encountering corruption. By the end of 2015 both modules had been passed by all target group members. 3 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Responsible growth at AAK Responsible growth is the key objective of our AAKtion strategy, and is essential to our vision of being the first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. For us, responsible growth is about our responsibility towards all of our key stakeholders – the local communities where we operate, our customers, our employees, our investors and our suppliers. Based on our strategy, input from our stakeholders and market trends we have developed a model for responsible growth to guide our global CSR work. The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a solid platform and a behind all of this is our global CSR organization, established broad concept based on ten universal principles within Huin 2007. man and Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. To be transparent and share information with stakeholders It enjoys participation by all of the major players in global is also part of our approach. Sedex facilitates the sharing business and CSR, including the GRI (Global Reporting of information with customers. Our Sustainability Report Initiative), ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative), ICC (International shares information globally, primarily with investors in AAK, Chamber of Commerce) and OECD (Organisation for and via the web with all stakeholders. Partnering with other Economic Cooperation and Development). AAK has been a businesses, NGOs, and governmental agencies is a key member of the UNGC since 2002. element of the Global Compact concept, and we are proud AAK’s CSR policies and codes are based on the UNGC, to participate in several partnerships. The RSPO, the Global and apply globally to all AAK business activities. So are the Shea Alliance, Danida in Denmark and the British organizapolicies and codes of many of our customers, which enhanction TREE AID are a few examples of these. es our strategic alignment. Our CSR system is not static, adjusting instead to input We have defined five CSR focus areas – the ‘pillars’ – that from such stakeholders as customers, investors and employare important to our business. These provide an overview ees. We monitor new and upcoming legislation. We follow and help us focus our resources. To maintain momentum trends in our communities, and benchmark our CSR pracand drive improvement, we define objectives within each of tices against those of retailers, customers and competitors. the five focus areas. Further, we monitor many other indicaOur overall objective is to grow AAK responsibly and tors internally, based on the GRI guidelines. The engine achieve sustainability as a whole. 4 AAK, a member since 2002 The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With more than 12,000 signatories in 170 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. The principles are: Principles Examples of AAK commitments Human Rights Businesses should support and AAK Code of Conduct is understood, respect the protection of internationally ­accepted and signed by all AAK proclaimed human rights; and employees (page 12). make sure that they are not complicit AAK Supplier Code of Conduct is an in human rights abuses. integral part of the approval system for suppliers and all direct raw material suppliers have approved and signed it (page 15). Labour Businesses should uphold freedom of AAK Code of Conduct regulates interaction association and the effective recognition with both our customers and suppliers of the right to collective bargaining; (page 12). the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour rights addressed in our Palm Oil compulsory labour; Policy (page 20). the effective abolition of child labour; and AAK monitors labour rights issues globally the elimination of discrimination in respect (page 45). of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionLocal resource efficiency projects completed ary approach to environmental challenges; at all production sites (pages 36–41). undertake initiatives to promote greater AAK decreased its energy consumption by environmental responsibility; and 6 percent during 2015, and net direct CO2 encourage the development and diffusion emissions by 5 percent per produced unit of environmentally-friendly technologies. (pages 35 and 37). Anti-corruption Businesses should work against Two e-learning modules addressing ­ ­corruption in all its forms, including anti-corruption have been passed by all ­extortion and bribery. members of the target group (page 45). 5 Global CSR achievements 2015 The achievements for AAK for 2015 are presented below in brief. The achievements are further commented in more detail in the five sections to which they apply, ­namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. Global CSR objectives 2015+ Marketplace Global CSR achievements 2015 Anti-corruption training 2015: Module 1 passed by 100 percent of all relevant employees We achieved 100 percent passed Module 2 passed by 100 percent of all relevant e­ mployees We achieved 100 percent passed AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors 2015: Implemented with minimum 80 percent of AAK agents and distributors We achieved 80 percent implementation Global CSR objectives 2015+ Supply chain Global CSR achievements 2015 Palm oil traceability 2015: Maintain strong progress towards full 100 percent traceability to mill for palm oil at origin. trace­ability to supplier mills Overall traceability including palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives was 99 percent Quality risk assessed for all suppliers; geospatial risk 2015: Risk assessment ­completed for 100 assessment completed for all high-risk percent of ­supplier mills supplier mills, and to be completed for all mills in 2016 2017: All palm oil supplies 100 percent Collection of data has begun traceable to plantation level Shea supply chain 2015: Include at least 70,000 women in More than 90,000 women included, our Kolo Nafaso project exceeding our target by 28 percent 6 Global CSR objectives 2015+ Environment Global CSR achievements 2015 Resource efficiency 3-year resource efficiency process driven by local e ­ fficiency teams at all sites: 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least one project initiated Efficiency projects completed and documented 2014: Resource efficiency projects at all sites for all sites in this report (Environment section) delivering according to plan 2015: Resource efficiency results documented at all sites Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed Objective exceeded by 0.2 percent resulting in 98.7 as reused, recycled or recovered ­percent disposed as ­reused, recycled or recovered Global CSR objectives 2015+ Workplace Global CSR achievements 2015 Safety Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR): Any work-related injury is unaccept­able and AAK is ­constantly working towards a zero Production sites: LTIR at0.6, an increase from 0.5 in 2014 injuries workplace. We monitor and report Lost Time Injury Rate globally West Africa: LTIR at 1.2, a significant improvement from 4.2 in 2014 Global CSR objectives 2015+ Community Global CSR achievements 2015 Local engagement All sites are engaged in relevant local community 2015: Engaging in local projects and activities ­activities in a variety of ways Additional global CSR achievements 2015 Relentless efforts to use resources more efficiently resulted in additional achievements in 2015, such as: AAK responsible growth CSR organization 4.8 percent reduction of net 5.8 percent decrease in Objectives and GRI direct CO2 emission per processed unit energy used per processed unit Stakeholders Transparency Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships 4.0 percent reduction of water 44.0 percent Group CSR policies and codes consumption per processed unit reduction of waste to landfill UN Global Compact 7 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements RSPO supply chain certification Percent of production sites* 100 90 90 92 80 80 60 60 60 40 20 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 *Sites processing palm oil Sedex members Percent of production sites 100 80 82 80 73 70 69* 60 60 40 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 *Including new sites Food safety certified Percent of production sites 100 100 100 90 91 91 80 80 70 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Marketplace This section covers all areas in which AAK interacts with customers. It includes products, product development, food safety, product information and market ­communication. Interaction with customers is based on sound business ethics and a deep understanding of the company’s responsibility for safeguarding customer brands. As a supplier of ingredients for some of the world’s best-known brands, AAK recognizes its role and its customers’ expectations and sees these as key ­elements in the way the AAK company program, AAKtion, is executed. Over the years, AAK has established longstanding relationOils and fats from AAK perform valuable functions in ships with customers built on mutual respect and a detailed customers’ products. They may ensure the right meltdown understanding of customer needs. Knowing your customers property, carry flavour, supply essential fatty acids, provide means knowing your markets, and that gives AAK a head structure and much more. In each case, AAK’s understandstart when responding to market trends. From time to time, ing of customers’ requirements is key when developing the AAK even has set new trends through the development of right solution. This is why close cooperation is so important. leading-edge solutions. In cooperation with our customers’ key people, AAK’s experts test applications, develop solutions and explore new production methods. Marketplace achievements 2015 AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors After successfully having implemented our Code of Conduct with all employees, and our Supplier Code of Conduct with our raw material suppliers, we launched our Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors in May 2014. We were aiming to achieve an 80 percent implementation in 2015 which we accomplished. The implementation does not include agents and distributors related to 2015 acquisitions. % 100 80% 80 60 41% Anti-corruption training 40 Even though we already address anti-corruption in our Code of Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct and our Code of 20 Conduct for Agents and Distributors, we have decided to in0% 0 crease the awareness and knowledge of the topic internally. 2013 2014 2015 To that end we launched two e-learning modules addressing anti-corruption topics during 2014. At the end of the modules there is a multiple choice test that needs to be passed by all employees at increased risk of encountering corruption. By the end of 2015 we had reached our objective of a 100 percent completion of both modules. 9 ” Sustainability – a value driver and a value creator Sustainability has for many companies gone from being a What are some of the recent sustainability trends that AAK tick-in-a-box activity to becoming a critical business activity. has encountered in its dialogue with customers? How integrated is sustainability in AAK’s everyday business Clearly we see that the scope and definition of sustainability operations? has both broadened and deepened. Many years back it was The public demand for a more sustainable world has siglimited to, allow me to simplify, “protecting the rainforest”, but nificantly increased in the course of the last years and has now the dialogue has expanded to include waste reduction indeed resulted in greater efforts across the food value chain across the whole chain, improving living conditions, making in order to increase sustainability. Whereas sustainability sure child labor isn’t used, fair pay, better upfront communiwas often not on the agenda or merely an afterthought at the cation, improved education and better health. Our conversaend of a business meeting, it is now a standard agenda topic tions include all supply chains to make sure we preserve, when customers and suppliers meet. protect and better utilize the arable land available, efforts to We witness that the industry is operating in two distinct reduce energy, water consumption and CO2 emissions in our ways – companies that lead and companies that follow. operations, as well as inbound and outbound logistics. What Leadership of thought and being bold when it comes to takis very encouraging is that the spirit of these conversations is ing responsibility is necessary to deliver on sustainability. At very collaborative, and we know that we AAK we take our leadership role both seriously and personcan only improve by working together. ally as it is through personal commitment and engagement that we can improve. Sustainability can be seen as an add-on cost or as a value driver and value creator. We have chosen to see it as the latter. Jan Lenferink President AAK Europe ” Strong focus on healthy and sustainable food There is an ever-growing consumer awareness of healthy How does the increased consumer awareness of sustain­ food. How is this reflected in AAK’s innovation pipeline? able food affect AAK’s new product development? Being a producer of vegetable oils and fats, probably the Development of sustainable food is a complex process, covmost discussed food ingredient and nutrient in relation to ering the full chain from idea generation via sourcing of raw the health of the general population, AAK has always had materials to the final processing. At AAK we have a strong a strong focus on healthy food, especially in regards to the focus on the functionality of the final ingredients, applying the specific composition of vegetable oil formulations. In recent full spectrum of available raw materials and unit operations. years we have, however, seen a widening of the scope of In regards to raw materials, sustainable and responsible healthy food. This scope – covered by the term “well-being” sourcing is an integrated part of all our sourcing activities on – suggests that a healthy human being is not only defined by any raw material we apply. In regards to unit operations we the weight, blood pressure and serum lipid composition, but apply all available operations, and in our process developalso by the person’s perception of food and health, including ment team we continually strive to the perception of natural food, clean and clear labeling and a optimize our processes to reduce the transparent supply chain. One of the focus areas in AAK’s inuse of processing aids, and to reduce novation strategy is “Health and well-being” which promotes waste and energy consumption. project ideas focusing on these very important issues. Karsten Nielsen Chief Technology Officer 10 Sharing knowledge with our customers In interaction with customers, knowledge sharing is of great importance. AAK is focused on customer co-development where one important part is to run trials at the pilot plants at our customer innovation centers. This is done in order to offer the best possible solution for the customer. Both the AAK Academy and our customer magazine Insight are useful tools for sharing knowledge and to give the latest information available. AAK Academy – the knowledge center for lipid technology and Vegetable oils and fats application Handbook The AAK Academy is a unique training concept, exclusively Complete for customers. The Academy cultivates a good understanddocumentation ing of lipid technology and its role in food and other appli­ Participants receive comcations that guides customers in the search for the most plete documentation of suitable solution for a given product. The Academy is a very all lectures. In addition, they get a copy significant contributor to AAK’s promise – being the Coof the publication “Handbook – Vege­table oils and fats”. The Development Company. handbook is written by experts from AAK and contains both The AAK Academy offers a wide range of courses, and theoretical and practical knowledge relating to oils and fats the format is highly flexible, with lecturers selected from the and the application of these within the specific industries. experts among AAK’s staff. The Academy’s basic courses Since the beginning, in the early 1990s, AAK has educated on oils and fats technology give a comprehensive overview thousands of customers in lipid technology. For those cusof relevant topics. The important role of oils and fats in the tomers who do not have the possibility to come to AAK, the diet is reviewed from different standpoints. Soft processing Academy is held at customer sites. The goal is to continumethods and their enhancement of quality and functionality ously expand the Academy and make it possible for even are described, together with food safety. At the Academy it is more customers to be educated in this lipid technology. also lectured how to select the right AAK solution based on the characteristics of the specific customer application. InsMaiggazhinet Insight A AK Mag Insight – AAK’s customer magazine AAK The Co-Develop ment Company The Co-Dev elopment az ine Company #2, May 2016 2015 #1, December At AAK our aim is always to inspire our customers and give them an insight into our capabilities and solutions. One way of doing this is through our customer magazine Insight. AAK grow Customer th markets – a closer The content of the magazine varies over time, but usually 3–4 Co-Develo look, page production, pages pment from s 3–11 on in chocolate Lead gene east to west a tropical revoluti ration throu TROPICAO – , pages 12–1 ™ ny, pages 8–9 gh innovation elopment Compa awards, page 3 AAK – The Co-Dev in 2016, pages 10–13 15 What to expect Global food trends: includes features which for example shed light over market dynamics, and stories in which we go behind the AAK scenes to explain how new products have been developed. The magazine is highly appreciated among customIn every edition there is a section providing customer sucers, and investors also see it as a good way of receiving cess stories originating from our unique co-development ­information about AAK. It is available both in a printed approach. We also include stories from external sources that version and as an e-book that can be found at our website, may relate to trends or scientific publications which impact www.aak.com. It is distributed globally and is used as a our value proposition to the market – the delivery of value­marketing and sales tool in the dialogue with our customers adding ingredients. – at trade fairs, exhibitions or regular customer meetings. 11 ” A matter of trust Long-term partnership based on dialogue and transparency AAK Code of Conduct When it comes to meeting customers’ needs and expectations, trust is just as important as products. AAK customers What does the partnership between Ferrero must be able to rely on AAK as a safe supplier, and parand AAK look like? ticularly upon the company’s commitment to working in an AAK is one of Ferrero’s strategic and long-term suppliers. ethically sound manner. At Ferrero we have always preferred to establish long-term The AAK Code of Conduct, which is understood, accepted commercial relationship with suppliers of raw materials, and signed by all AAK staff, regulates interaction with both based on dialogue and transparency. One of the mutual customers and suppliers. The Code is based on the same initiatives between Ferrero Group and AAK was to enter a standards as the supplier codes that customers expect AAK long-term project partnership on sourcing sustainable and to follow, encompassing ILO conventions, human rights, traceable shea in West Africa. OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. The AAK Code of Conduct is AAK’s guarantee to customers that the What is the purpose of this project partnership? company acts responsibly, right across the organization. The purpose is to empower the women’s groups in West ­Africa by educating them to handle and treat the shea Food safety kernels in an optimal way from collection to storage. The Food safety is another area of customer concern. To satisfy ­purpose is also to improve the livelihood of the families in the requirements of customers as well as national and West Africa by generating more income from producing international legislation, AAK’s production plants are certified higher quality and through the direct trade of traceable shea in accordance with recognized standards, and subject to kernels with the women’s groups. regular audit by third parties. AAK’s Quality Control functions ensure and document that each and every delivery lives up The objective of this long-term project partnership is to: to specifications and all food safety requirements. 1. Increase the volume of traceable shea through direct trade The AAK Group vision is to be the customers’ first choice with the women’s groups based on transparency and fair in value-adding vegetable oil solutions. To achieve this vitrade principles. sion, it is important to show customers that AAK is a respon2. Improve health conditions and livelihood in selected sible, trustworthy supplier that would never compromise their ­villages in West Africa by supporting the NGO Progetto­ brands. Mondo Mlal in educating the rural communities in ­recognizing malnutrition and promoting good cooking practices with locally available ingredients. Third-party certification of AAK Ferrero and AAK will in close collaboration follow the ­production plants ­ rogress of this initiative and report accordingly. p AAK is committed to endorse Ferrero in meeting the 100 percent of AAK plants are certified to one ­Ferrero Palm Oil Charter. What is the purpose of this? or more i­nternationally recognized food safety The purpose is to further strengthen the responsible sourcing standards (FSSC 22000/ISO 22000/BRC) of palm oil. The ten criteria within the Charter address crucial elements in responsible sourcing such as no deforestation 92 percent of sites handling palm oil have RSPO and no exploitation, and Ferrero will, in close collaboration Supply Chain Certification with our suppliers, commit to meet the targets. 69 percent of sites are members of Sedex and have AAK is one of our key partners in supporting the implemenpassed the ethical audit SMETA tation of the Ferrero Palm Oil Charter and the criteria within the Charter are very well aligned with AAK’s own policy on 54 percent of sites are quality management palm. certified ­according to ISO 9001 In 2016 AAK participated in Ferrero’s suppliers’ CSR 38 percent of sites are environmentally certified evaluation program. AAK obtained a score that was higher according to ISO 14001 than 62/100, and for this reason AAK was awarded a gold recognition level. This excellent result includes AAK among In addition, various production plants are also certified the top 5 percent performers evaluated by EcoVadis. ­according to other standards such as national energy ­standards, the KRAV organic standard, feed safety, health and safety, Halal and Kosher production. 12 Substantial product information for our customers The minimum requirement for product information is usually Quality & Product Safety Sheet contains additional instipulated by legislation and stated in the standard contracts formation related to the product such as allergens, GMOs, used in our business. Requirements for further information contaminants, country of origin, raw materials and additives, depend on the type of delivery. For example, they vary actypical fatty acid composition, etc. cording to whether the product is standard or highly refined, and whether an ingredient or a final consumer product. For some products, a CerAAK’s product information sheets sometimes have differtificate of Analysis accompanies High ent names in different countries, but in general, three types each delivery. The certificate is performance puff pastry of information are available: produced by solutions the relevant Company The Co-Development Product Information Sheet/Product Specification speciAAK laboratory fies the physical and chemical properties of the products and and ­confirms Akonino ® – The natural is often part of a contract. compliance with choice for healthy development agreed product The Co-Development Company Material Safety Data Sheet relates to safety issues, often ­specifications. concerning transport. This is a legal requirement for chemicals, but not for food. However, most customers demand this information. Awards and honors October 2015 – Bidvest names AAK Supplier of the Year for 2015 was, in many respects, a very successful year for the second time AAK. It was also a year where we, on many occasions, Bidvest, the UK’s biggest foodservice distributor, named AAK were recognized for our innovative and sustainable its Supplier of the Year at its annual awards ceremony. AAK work. Here are some of the awards and honors that AAK has now won the award twice since its inception in 2010. received during 2015. November 2015 September 2015 – Sustainability Award 2015 – AAK Personal Care wins NPA Industry Champion Award AAK USA was awarded Bama’s Sustainability Award for In Baltimore, Maryland, AAK’s Personal Care business was 2015. AAK Account Manager Ken Player was presented the awarded a Natural Products Association Industry Champion award by J.K. Evicks, Environmental Manager and SustainAward. The award recognized AAK for its continued developability Champion. Bama is a US based innovator and manument of new functional ingredients and sustainable solutions. facturer of bakery products. October 2015 December 2015 – L’Oréal awards AAK Personal Care for innovative formula – AAK Kamani awarded Business ­Performer of At a supplier innovation event in Paris, L’Oréal had invited the Year 2015 ten strategic suppliers to present their five most innovative AAK Kamani was honored with a “Business Performer of the formulations. AAK presented five concepts under the theme Year” award by Abbott India Limited – a subsidiary of Abbott “Surprisingly sustainable”. L’Oréal also handed out supplier Laboratories. innovation awards for the three most innovative formulations out of the more than 50 on display during the event. AAK December 2015 was awarded second prize for its Meringue Surprise Body – Innovation awards at Food ingredients Europe Whip. TROPICAO™, AAK’s revolutionary chocolate solution, and Akopastry HP, AAK’s latest innovation within the Bakery October 2015 segment, were both recognized with innovation awards at – AAK wins Premier Foods’ Supplier of the Food ingredients Europe Innovation Awards in Paris, France. Year 2015 award TROPICAO™ was awarded best confectionery ­innovation One of Britain’s largest food producers, Premier Foods, while Akopastry HP won the award for best bakery named AAK its Supplier of the Year 2015. AAK was selected i­ nnovation. from more than 1,250 suppliers. 13 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Number of women enrolled in Kolo Nafaso 100,000 90,473 80,000 54,919 60,000 36,579 40,000 14,304 20,000 7,613 2,250 4,300 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overall palm oil traceability to mill % 100 97 99 98 95 80 78 60 40 20 0 0 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 Q2 Q4 Q2 Q4 Q2 14 Supply chain This section covers activities related to the sourcing of raw materials that AAK uses in its production plants. Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is the backbone of AAK’s business and a key element of the AAKtion program. The combination of the right raw materials and our co-development approach is key to the wide range of ­solutions offered. Just as it is vital for AAK to obtain the right raw materials, AAK places equal emphasis on sustainable growing and procurement. For this reason AAK has implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct that, among others, applies to AAK’s direct raw material suppliers worldwide. AAK Supplier Code of Conduct – a prerequisite Introduced in late 2009, the AAK Supplier Code of Conduct is now implemented with all direct raw material suppliers. The Supplier Code of Conduct is an integral part of the approval system of new raw material suppliers and compliance of the Code is a prerequisite for final approval. In West Africa, the Code has been implemented in a different way due to various linguistic and cultural challenges. Because ethical requirements in business relations are not a widespread tradition in the region, more meetings and explanations are required to achieve the necessary understanding. The AAK Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates requirements with regard to the following: Human rights Child labour Working hours Working environment Environment Forced labour Discrimination Housing Young workers Remuneration Freedom of association Corruption Notification Workplace violence Supplier management In addition to palm oil, shea and rapeseed, AAK processes a range of other raw materials. While AAK’s engagement in palm oil and shea is evident, the work to enhance sustainability aspects covers all the raw materials in the company’s supply chain. AAK’s supplier approved process is globally based on the same principles. The Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental tool for assessing suppliers. In this context, AAK has decided to work within its sphere of influence, i.e. to focus on those whom AAK has the best chance of influencing – AAK’s direct raw materials suppliers. Still, by urging suppliers to positively influence their suppliers, AAK aims to broaden the company’s sphere of influence and inspire other players in the supply chain to act responsibly. ” Responsible sourcing – an integrated part of the operations Food producers and consumers have grown increasingly What role does AAK’s Sourcing & Trading function play aware of the importance of responsible sourcing. What when it comes to responsible sourcing? implications has this had on AAK and its sourcing activities? AAK’s global sourcing entity has adopted all policies and We have increased our requirements and demands on all systems into daily routines, and periodically review practice suppliers; we have, in all areas of our sourcing operations and operating procedures. Responsible sourcing is as such globally, increased our controls; and we have been implean integrated part of our operations and all our doings that menting our Code of Conduct as a mandatory requirement we apply as our commitment. As such, we don’t see responto be qualified as a supplier to AAK. In addition, we have sible sourcing as a CSR activity, but rather as an integrated established a palm oil policy with significant and elevated part of the way we do business. requirements towards plantations and the upstream supply chain. This constitutes a certain set of procedures, including AAK’s work with shea kernels in West Africa has over the audits which take place in collaboration with Proforest. last couple of years shown an incredible development, As for AAK’s shea sourcing operations in West Africa, particularly in regards to the company’s women’s groups we have been upgrading our people’s health and safety program. Where do you see the program within the next practices through training and improved awareness. Further, two or three years? we are expanding our women’s groups programs in both The program will keep increasing in importance for the local Burkina Faso and Ghana, with significant contributions to the communities. We have seen a well-accepted model across local communities. the region. It is a unique model that is improving as we operIn regards to coconut oil sourcing we follow a tight supplier ate. The size has grown to a level that provides a significant approval system to ensure there’s compliance with our Code impact. As we operate we learn and improve, while being of Conduct and quality assurance system. This could include confident that we are making a difference where it matters physical audits of our suppliers’ plantations to make sure most. We have proven that we have a superior and very harvesting is done responsibly. We also prioritize the sustainsustainable structure when it comes to future growth and ability aspect of soybean farming. improvement. Torben Friis Lange President AAK Asia and Chairman Global Sourcing and Trading 16 AAK sources raw materials from all over the world Rapeseed and rapeseed oil Palm oil Palm kernel oil Olive oil Soya bean oil Northern and Asia and Latin Asia Southern Europe US and South America Central Europe America Sunflower oil Shea kernels Corn oil Coconut oil Eastern Europe West Africa America and Eastern Malaysia and the and Mexico and Southern Europe Philippines AAK’s core business is speciality vegetable oils that meet the Raw materials are obtained from rapeseed, palm, soya, needs of the food, confectionery and cosmetics industries. shea, sunflower, olives and many other sources. Drawing on Sourcing renewable raw materials from around the globe, our extensive knowledge and more than a century of experithe broad product portfolio is manufactured at AAK’s producence, we exploit the properties of vegetable oils to add value tion plants in Europe, Asia and the Americas. to customers within our target industries. 17 ” Palm – increasing demand for sustainable palm oil Globally, palm oil is the most produced and consumed vege­ RSPO progress table oil, accounting for 30 percent of the world’s vegetable Due to the position as an intermediary in the palm oil supply oil production. Soya bean oil, at 23 percent, holds second chain, AAK is fully dependent on the availability of supply place. The oil palm has the highest yield of all oil crops – six of physical, segregated sustainable palm oil and, to some to ten times more than other oil seed crops. extent, on demand from customers. Customer requirements However, palm oil production has raised serious concerns drive the kind of palm oil delivered by AAK. relating to deforestation and the elimination of endangered In preparation for future demand, AAK production plants animals, to name two. As a consequence, WWF in 2003 initiprocessing palm oil have obtained RSPO Supply Chain ated the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) along Certification and are capable of producing sustainable palm with AAK, Golden Hope Plantations, Migros, Malaysian Palm oil as required. Oil Association, Sainsbury’s and Unilever. The organization AAK is committed to increasing the volume of RSPO certihas now worked for more than a decade to promote the fied raw material that it purchases, with the ultimate objecgrowth and use of sustainable palm oil worldwide. tive to achieve RSPO certification of all palm oil purchased. Driven by demand, 29 percent of AAK palm oil products in One recognized system 2015 were RSPO certified. Mindful of the current level of We continue to be very engaged in the RSPO, and its Board. supply and demand which varies significantly between marAAK recognizes the RSPO certification as the only estabkets, AAK has revised its time bound plan to only sourcing lished and stable systematic organization and standard for RSPO certified crude palm oil by 2018 and RSPO certified sustainable palm oil. RSPO is not perfect. However, it is palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives by 2020. important to have one well established recognized system rather than a series of individual systems and organizations, which add complexity and might prevent progress towards a fully sustainable palm oil supply chain. 18 ” Great progress for the RSPO What is the current status of the Roundtable on What are the major challenges? Sustainable Palm Oil? Working with a vision of 100 percent market The past year has brought a number of new transformation presents many challenges, as initiatives and projects for the RSPO. At the well as opportunities. Transforming the market end of 2015, the RSPO was actively involved in means embracing the whole industry to take supporting Jurisdictional Certification projects everyone on board in our sustainability journey. in the regions of Sabah (Malaysia), South This said, not all players have started from the Sumatera and Central Kalimantan (Indonesia), same spot nor are moving at the same speed, looking at ways to bring certification at scale on a and the main challenge is making sure that while regional level. Earlier this year, RSPO also launched remaining relevant for top performers, the standard RSPO NEXT, a set of voluntary add-on criteria to the existremains inclusive. We think that this year, through the launch ing RSPO Principles & Criteria (P&C) for sustainably grown of RSPO NEXT and the work done on Jurisdictional Certifipalm oil. RSPO NEXT defines advanced criteria for palm oil cation, we have found some new tools to help us overcome production in order to further the fight against deforestation these challenges. and greenhouse gas emissions from palm oil production as well as social commitments. How do you see the role of RSPO NEXT? The RSPO has also seen great progress on the traceThe RSPO NEXT is an initiative to engage with RSPO memability front, with a revised system that now offers traceability ber companies (producers, suppliers and users of palm prodback to mills for all physical supply chain models via RSPO ucts) that have met the current requirements of the RSPO eTrace. Supply chain actors who report their trades in eTrace Principles & Criteria and, in addition, through their policies will now be able to manage the list of mills which contributed and actions, exceeded them. RSPO NEXT will provide the to their stock, with the option to declare conventional sources credibility that only on-the-ground third-party verification of in its efforts to provide full transparency. actions can bring, on issues such as deforestation, peatland development and indigenous peoples’ rights. RSPO NEXT will also be a tool for companies to better engage with smallholders. Via the mandatory educational programs that RSPO NEXT members will have to provide to their smallholders, the new criteria will ensure raised awareness on sustainability issues, financial management, yields and productivity. Darrel Webber RSPO Secretary General 19 ” 2015 – a record year for GreenPalm 2015 saw GreenPalm register a record number report that every ton of volume that was made availof trades through the platform. The final volume able to trade through GreenPalm found a buyer. closed at 3,867,427 certificates, each certificate The average price of Independent Smallholder Palm representing one metric ton of RSPO certified certificates was also revealed to the marketplace production. The final volume added over 400,000 to encourage more smallholder groups to become certificates onto the total amount traded during certified. The average smallholder certificate price 2014. was USD 14.28, a significantly higher premium than The GreenPalm option continues to play a the standard palm certificate value. vital role connecting RSPO certified mills and GreenPalm continues to innovate and provide an smallholders who are unable to ship their certified production important option for RSPO certified growers and those busivia established physical supply chain routes to the demand nesses that want to support them. markets, such as Europe and the US. The number of new RSPO smallholder projects is still Bob Norman very low. GreenPalm has worked with every new group in General Manager GreenPalm providing them with a route to market. We are pleased to AAK sustainable palm oil commitments AAK’s progress report on sustainable palm oil – February 2016 AAK’s Sustainable Palm Oil Policy has been developed sigThe Co-Development Company nificantly over the past year, with contributions from various stakeholders. In a dynamic environment, commitments from customers and suppliers relating to sustainable palm oil have seen parallel development. AAK’s policy is consistent with a wider market move, and puts AAK at the forefront of palm sustainability. AAK’s progress report on sustainable palm oil AAK’s policy is founded on the following pillars: – August 2015 Company The Co-Development support for the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) AAK’s progress report traceability on sustainable palm oil – August 2016 no deforestation no development of peatland The Co-Development Company free, prior and informed consent (FPIC) AAK has clear definitions for traceability, peatland development and FPIC. For deforestation and FPIC we rely on RSPO definitions, supplementing the High Conservation Value (HCV) RSPO definition used for deforestation with High Carbon Stock (HCS), but mindful that there is as yet no common industry definition of HCS. Until a common framework has been developed, AAK will apply the HCS framework and identification tool that have been developed AAK’s policy is to communicate progress as a minimum by Greenpeace and others. annually in our Corporate Social Responsibility report. We seek constantly to improve our policy as further issues However, we report more frequently as appropriate. and demands emerge, at the same time being mindful that AAK’s progress reports and palm oil policy can be found implementation is even more important than words. at www.aak.com under Documentation/Policies. 20 Palm oil achievements as of August 2016 Traceability Traced 98 percent of palm oil, all palm kernel oil and Progress of geospatial risk assessment residuals back to mill origin Updated all mills traceability data No. of mills, % 100 Risk assessment Completed a qualitative risk assessment of all suppliers 75 Completed geospatial risk assessment of 32 percent of all supplier mills (see graph) 50 Identified mills for our on-site verification program and 32% 27% currently completed three verifications in 2016, ten in total 25 Supplier engagement 1% 0 Engaged in a dialogue with all our suppliers as regards 2014 2015 2016 (100% end of progress of policy implementation, including the signing year target) of AAK Palm Oil Policy, as well as future requirements (see graph) Percentage of direct suppliers having signed Completed our first palm oil supplier engagement AAK Palm Oil Policy based upon volumes workshop % 70 Processes and tools Developed an internal dashboard for detailed monitoring 60 of progress 50 Finalized implementation of palm oil grievance procedure 40 Strengthened palm oil competencies among our global 30 sales force through training and supportive materials 20 Customer support 10 High level of support to our customers and the retailers 0 Q4 2015 Q1 2016 Q2 2016 Has aligned Policy Signed AAK’s Palm Oil Policy 21 Traceability progress – through cooperation with our suppliers The overall global percentage for traceability to mill of palm, By working closely especially with suppliers of technical palm kernel and residual oils remains very high at 98 peroils, we are now able to demonstrate very strong progress cent. The variations in traceability data reported is due to a on this category. combination of including new acquisitions into our program In order to ensure that our suppliers are committed to work and the natural variation always present when taking a snaptowards sustainability standards, we have engaged with shot of a process. each one asking them to acknowledge and sign our palm oil The focus within the marketplace on securing traceability policy. This is now a key requirement for becoming a supplier to mill is now widely recognized and supported by more acof palm oil to AAK and will ensure that all new suppliers are tors within the upstream part of our supply chains. The chalcommitted to work towards the standard which is stated in lenge on achieving traceability to the mill level still generally our Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. concentrates around palm kernel and residuals. Since our An important lesson which we have learnt in transforming last progress report the focus on traceability has increased our palm oil supply chain has been the need for informing among our suppliers and this is part of the reason why we our suppliers why we are working towards a higher standard can keep our strong position on traceability in general. We and how this affects the way they do business with AAK. This welcome the increasing amount of transparency among we have now taken to a level beyond immediate suppliers the larger players in the marketplace, and this will for sure and in May 2016 AAK together with Proforest and a key supmake it easier for stakeholders to obtain traceability figures plier hosted our first supplier mills’ engagement workshop in needed. Malaysia. Traceability Overall progress 98% to mill status 3% 2% – August 2016 95% Palm oil from origin Palm kernel oils Palm oil – others Residuals 2% 5% 2% 2% 29% 98% 93% 71% 98% Indirectly traceable Traceable to known source 22 Review of implementation progress Implementation of the sustainable palm oil policy – driving In 2016, implementation of the Sustainable Palm Oil Policy actual change on the ground with suppliers – is the most is building upon the program of work that was rolled out last crucial, yet often most challenging part of our work. Broad year. In practice, the implementation progress during this acceptance of a policy is one thing, but changing practices year has involved a series of connected stages: in reality is what AAK is striving for. Proforest is AAK’s key partner and driver in this process. 1. Supplier-level risk assessment The direct supplier-level risk assessment is conducted anThis third category takes account of matters such as supplier nually and was updated in the second quarter of this year. It progress on certification, existence and implementation of assesses risks associated with all direct suppliers by looking sustainability policies, stakeholder grievances etc. at three main factors: Origins of volumes procured from supplier Volumes procured by AAK Supplier-level risk issues. 2. Geospatial risk assessments Geospatial risk assessments have been carried out on the mills that supply direct suppliers already identified as higherrisk suppliers. This allows us to narrow down and prioritize mills where we will aim to conduct verification assessments by identifying the relative risks of unacceptable environmental impacts such as deforestation, protected area encroachment, cultivation on peat, etc. On June 8 this year World Resources Institute released a palm oil mill risk assessment tool for their Global Forest Watch mapping platform, developed with inputs from our implementation partner, Proforest. This allows for much more rapid geospatial assessments and will enable us to evaluate all mills in our supply chain in this manner, not just the ones belonging to high-risk suppliers. Alongside this development, Proforest has also been improving its own internal capacity to run geospatial risk assessments more rapidly, using a bespoke tool that also allows us to perform more nuanced analyses where necessary. By the end of 2016 we will have analyzed all mills using Proforest’s system or the Global Forest Watch tool (see graph on page 21). 23 3. Mill and supply base verification assessments Risk assessment and capacity-building are complemented all suppliers to identify and prioritize the potentially higherby verification visits to a sample of higher-risk mills, identified risk ones based on a range of factors, including location, through the process described above, to substantiate the volumes supplied, their role and position within the supply progress of AAK’s policy implementation, identify gaps, and chain, and historic and current issues or grievances. The support the mill to develop a time-bound action plan. higher-risk suppliers are then scrutinized in more detail, At the time of publishing, three verification visits have been with geospatial risk analyses conducted on the individual carried out by Proforest this year on higher-risk mills in the mills, focusing on variables such as deforestation, peat, and AAK supply base: one in Colombia, one in Malaysia, and protected areas. From these, specific mills are selected for one in Guatemala. A further three are planned before the verification visits. end of the year. AAK and Proforest individually risk assess ” Mill verification in Colombia – a personal perspective Recently, Proforest travelled to the Colombian 2. Asking questions: A second thing a verification team region of Meta, a large province in the northeast of does is to ask lots of questions. Particularly important the country, to visit one of the growing number of are the kinds of questions that check whether what palm oil mills in this particular area, some of whom we see during the document review are played out in supply AAK. The natural vegetation in this area is reality. still forest, but much of that has long since been converted to pasture to graze cattle. 3. Observing actions: The third key activity is to observe actions. A company may have a no deforestaVerifications are very similar in practice to carrying out tion policy but you may observe evidence of forest an audit. A key preparation stage is to prepare a checkclearance in or around company plantations. list based on the requirements of the AAK Sustainable Palm Oil Policy. The checklist is broken down into So how did it all play out for this company in Colomthematic criteria around issues such as legal complibia? Like many companies around the world, it had its ance, environmental performance, social and labour strengths and weaknesses. It is a young company growconcerns, and so on. Each criterion is then broken ing rapidly, with a talented and committed team in place, down further into indicators, and it is evidence of these which puts it in a good position to improve. indicators that allows you to assess the operations of It may only be one mill, but by working together, step a company against the AAK policy. The verification is by step, we can raise standards across the supply base done on both the mill itself and its supply base. In pracnot just in Meta, but hopefully throughout the industry. tical terms there are three main activities involved: Jonathan Escolar 1. Reviewing documents: These can range from Project Manager, Proforest broad policy documents such as commitments to no deforestation and respect of human rights, to registers of FFB deliveries that ensure the mill has traceability to the supply source, and the payslips of workers to ensure they are being paid at least the legal minimum wage for a given country. 24 Supplier engagement workshops The supplier risk assessment enables the identification of workshops. AAK has together with Proforest now embarked ­priority suppliers to work with, where AAK has some leverage upon a process with a key AAK supplier in Malaysia to run to influence change. Typically, a supplier will not be an india series of workshops for the mills that supply it, in order to vidual palm oil mill, but a processor or refiner that has its own communicate the key palm oil policy commitments and how supply base of mills. An effective mechanism to engage with changes can be implemented by the mill in its own operamills is to provide awareness-raising and capacity-building tions and supply base. The first workshop was hosted by a key supplier in May 2016, also involving AAK together with Proforest. Senior representatives of 20 palm oil mills were invited to the workshop which took place in Port Klang, Malaysia. The objectives were to share with mill representatives the sustainability policy requirements, to learn about the challenges that individual mills are facing in their supply chains, and to discuss the on-going program to undertake verification assessments with a sample of the mills. The workshop provided a successful platform for future ­capacity-building with the mills, in order to ensure compliance with AAK’s policy. Subsequent workshops will complement the on-going program of verification assessments. Implementation dashboard AAK has been developing a dashboard for internal tracking, Traceability to mill; in even more details, the implementation of the Sustainable Traceability to plantation; Palm Oil Policy amongst suppliers. It will allow the internal Tracking of non-compliances raised during Palm Sustainability Task Force to assess implementation verification assessments; progress regularly against a number of headline KPIs. Initial Closure of non-compliances KPIs include: This approach is being reviewed and strengthened Percentage of suppliers with Palm Oil Policy signed; during 2016. Percentage of suppliers with RSPO membership; Grievance activities As part of AAK’s sustainable palm implementation program, lier risk assessment and is updated the grievance procedure is a guide to how grievances raised on a monthly basis, whereas the by external parties will be handled by AAK. The procedure risk assessment is more strategic is applicable to AAK palm oil operations worldwide and to all in outlook and is renewed annuthird-party suppliers. ally. AAK also takes a proactive It should be noted that AAK has a commitment to the approach to grievances, instead RSPO grievance process that it will follow in the event of of waiting for stakeholders to any grievance being raised through that mechanism. AAK’s highlight a problem or concern. This grievance procedure is an additional approach to ensure all means regularly reviewing all supplier grievances raised are approached in a timely and systematic information which is in the public domain manner. If a supplier breaches AAK policies and is not able and monitoring the RSPO complaints panel and complaints to resolve the issue related to the grievance, AAK will termitracker together with Proforest. nate commercial relations with that supplier. By being aware of issues which may affect the AAK supply The AAK grievance procedure works alongside the supp­ chain, AAK can take appropriate and timely action. 25 RSPO certified palm oil Even including recent acquisitions, 29 percent of the palm, The second target is for all AAK palm purchases to be palm kernel and technical palm oil used by AAK globally RSPO certified by the end of 2020. AAK continues to plan is RSPO certified, as shown in the most recent Annual to meet this target which was intended, and which remains Communication of Progress (“ACOP”). The previous report to be challenging, particularly included 27 percent take-up, so there is a marginal improveas AAK in many instances is a ment. secondary processor. This tarWithin the 29 percent reported, 21 percent is segregated, get is in line with the RSPO’s 6 percent mass balance and 2 percent GreenPalm certifiintention of a 100 percent cates. certified sustainable palm oil Uptake by AAK customers varies around the world, with, European market by 2020. as might be expected, much more significant levels in All significant AAK sites are Europe and the US than in other areas. RSPO supply chain certified. AAK’s target is firstly for all crude palm oil purchases to be certified by the end of 2018, noting that this will require a significant increase in demand from customers, particularly outside of Europe and the US. Smallholders Significant supplier GreenPalm option Globally, smallholders produce a significant proportion of Through the Book and Claim GreenPalm system, AAK has the world’s agricultural commodities. Palm oil is no excepbeen able to support communities of independent smalltion, with over 40 percent being produced by independent holders for whom GreenPalm has been the only accessible or schemed smallholders. These smallholdings are often a RSPO supply chain option. critical source of family income but, if managed badly, can also often be drivers of environmental and social impacts, Outreach and education including deforestation. This can mean negative impacts not Nonetheless, AAK also recognizes that smallholder inclusion only on the environment, but also on the smallholders themin supply chains is a key issue requiring action on a number selves. Such negative impacts could be biophysical, such as of fronts. Responsible production by smallholders compliant poor water quality or reduced soil fertility, but also economic with AAK commitments requires resources and know-how, due to lower yields or exclusions from global supply chains which is typically out-of-reach for an independent smallholdwhich have clear policies on deforestation, peatland, and er. Outreach and education is crucial to improve smallholder broader best management practices. performance. It can help achieve increased yields and reduce the use of expensive methods of fertilization. It is also vital to help halt the destruction of HCV areas and ensure the avoidance of planting on peatland. Smallholder support Although the ultimate aim is to support smallholders in achieving RSPO certification, some stepping stones need to be put in place. AAK is now investigating an inclusive smallholder scheme which encourages and supports smallholders to make practical, stepwise changes to best practice that will lead towards certification, without challenging them with demanding certifications immediately. Working with partners within and beyond our palm supply chain, AAK plans to initiPhoto: RSPO ate a palm oil smallholder support project in 2016. 26 Key next steps for AAK AAK will pursue its overall objective of 100 percent traceability to follow up on identified non-conformities/non-compliances mill origin for palm oil, palm kernel oil and residuals and ensure closure a.s.a.p. identify mills most at risk of non-compliance with the AAK proactively manage any potential grievance issues Sustainable Palm Oil Policy continue to increase our active engagement with suppliers • identify those origins where there is significant risk of to ensure policy compliance, including targeted workshops policy non-compliance with supplier mills • continue the geospatial risk assessment for the whole develop and initiate a palm oil smallholder support project, supply base during 2016 as we believe making a real difference with smallholders is • continue the mill verification of higher-risk mills during at least as important as raising the bar for the top perform2016 ers, with a potentially more significant impact on palm oil • focus greater scrutiny on higher-risk mills, including sustainability field-based verification Towards sustainable palm oil 2003 2008 2010 2013 2015 2018 2020 AAK founding ­ GreenPalm ­ First AAK All sites ­ 29% ­ All crude ­ All PO, member of established supply chain supply certified PO PO certified PKO and RSPO ­ AAK first certification chain derivatives segregated certified RSPO certified PO ­ 14% certified into EU certified PO RSPO Principles & Criteria Fully sustainable No deforestation, palm oil No peatland, FPIC 2013 2014 2015 2017 ­ Sustainable ­ 95% ­ 99% ­ 100% palm oil traceability traceability traceability to policy to mills to mill plantation Risk ­ Executed management risk manapproach agement approach on full supplier base 27 Rapeseed – sourcing close to home Rapeseed is an important raw material at AAK. Thanks to production of raw material to finished products. The rapelocal seed suppliers and in-house processing, AAK can offer seed meal that remains after oil extraction is used as animal oils from traditional seeds and a range of speciality variants. feed. Much of the rapeseed used in AAK’s products is grown in With a high oleic acid content, rapeseed oil has the lowSweden, where farms have increased their output in recent est saturated fat content of all vegetable oils and is high in years. Through close cooperation with the farmers, AAK is monounsaturated fatty acids. It also contains the essential able to maintain control of the entire value chain, from the fatty acids linoleic acid (omega 6) and alpha-linolenic acid (omega 3), as well as vitamin E (tocopherol) and vitamin K. Its nutritional and functional properties mean that rapeseed oil is ideal for use as a cooking oil or ingredient. Food applications range from mayonnaise and salad dressings to baby food. In margarines and bakery products, rapeseed oil ensures the right consistency and an improved nutritional profile. For high-temperature processes, high oleic acid-varieties of rapeseed are significantly more suitable. The advantages are a low saturated fat content together with good thermal and storage stability. 28 Shea – a unique raw material for AAK Shea kernels are a very important and unique raw material for AAK. The shea tree is a wild tree growing in a belt across Burkina Faso Africa south of the Sahara. Countries with the highest population of shea trees include Mali, Burkina Faso, Ghana, Ivory Mali Coast, Benin and Togo – also some of the least developed countries in the world. Due to a very long maturity period, shea trees are not grown in plantations. Over more than 60 years, AAK has gained extensive knowledge and experience of this raw material and the local communities in which AAK operates. Selected shea trees are continuously monitored and combined with multiple weather data in a complex matrix to assess the size of the next harvest, and a number of processes take place to ensure an unbroken supply chain from the collection of shea kernels Ivory Coast and early pre-treatment, to transportation to ports and wareBenin houses and then shipment to Northern Europe. Ghana Togo Cooperation with women’s groups AAK works with the women who collect the shea kernels, building capacity in local communities. AAK’s work in these areas includes interest-free micro credits and the formation and teaching of women’s groups in villages, and by doing direct business with them, the women have been able to markedly improve their livelihood. 29 ” Substantial progress for the Global Shea Alliance Five years have passed since the Global Shea Alliance was established. What is What are the main objectives and the current status of the GSA? challenges for the next year? The GSA has expanded to 408 members We need to continue outreach efforts from 31 different countries. We have made in all stakeholder categories to recruit substantial progress in our member-led new members and sustainability partinitiatives to expand shea markets and ners and especially food and cosmetic ensure the sustainability of the resource in brands. This stakeholder group has a Africa. A few key updates for the past year include: key role to play in the GSA by promoting benefits of shea in 60 members have registered as partners in the GSA products and more actively supporting producing communisustainability program and are now implementing best ties. We will also roll out new partnerships that bring together practice guidelines and projects including the provision members, donors, and governments to improve women’s of warehouses for women shea collectors and procesempowerment and tree populations. Finally, we will advance sors, cooperative development and training for women’s our policy and research activities to expand markets for shea groups, health and safety projects, parkland management worldwide. trainings, conservation initiatives, and improvement of planting materials. We have launched a 5-year, USD 13 million partnership with the US Agency for International Development to ­support promotion and sustainability initiatives. We have held four international conferences and exhibitions in Africa, the US, and the EU that were attended by more than 700 members and stakeholders. In partnership with producing countries and members, we Joseph R. Funt have made substantial progress on advocacy initiatives to Managing Director address regulatory trade barriers for shea in the US and Global Shea Alliance India. We have also launched new research initiatives to better establish the benefits of using shea in food and cosmetics. 30 ” Kolo Nafaso – women’s groups in Burkina Faso In 2009 AAK initiated a project of responsible sourcing of 100,000 90,473 shea kernels in Burkina Faso. The initial project was designed as a win-win concept between the women collecting 80,000 the shea kernels and AAK. It was called Kolo Nafaso, mean54,919 60,000 ing “the house of benefits of shea kernels”. The project grew bigger and became a program, meaning a new way of doing 40,000 36,579 business for both AAK and the women. As seen in the graph, the number of women participating 20,000 14,304 in the program has grown almost exponentially since 2009 2,250 4,300 7,613 which to us is a great indicator of its success. This season, 0 2015/16, more than 90,000 women joined the program, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 surpassing our expectations by 20,000. There are still many women who would like to join the program, and thus our aim is to further extend it next season. One of the base criteria to obtain a sustainable availability We have now started the same program in Ghana where of shea is to inform about the importance of saving both old 4,000 women, having delivered shea kernels for the first and new shea trees for future generations, creating an inseason, are enrolled. Our goal for Ghana is to broaden the come not only today but also tomorrow. Another criterion is to program for the coming season. It is, however, not only a use the shell of the shea kernel as firewood. With a possible question of extending the number of women participating, shortage of firewood in some areas we encourage the usage but also to continue to create and increase job opportunities of shells as part of the consumption of firewood. for more people, both outside and within our organization. The women’s groups program is very important to AAK We need for instance extension officers, team leaders, drivas it gives us direct contact with the parties doing the lion’s ers, warehouse keepers as well as administrative personnel. share of the work in producing good-quality shea kernels. Our extension officers are constantly educating both new The win-win concept is evident as AAK assists and faciliand old women’s groups in how to process the shea kernels tates, both financially and educationally, the women’s work in to obtain a good-quality product in order to optimize the the field of shea. As a result AAK can buy good-quality shea women’s income. kernels. Examples in the villages show us that through an increased income from good-quality shea, the women have the possibility to also work with other agricultural products as the season for shea as such is rather limited. Monika Hjorth Sourcing & Logistics Manager, West Africa AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Energy consumption Per unit processed material 3.0 -5.8% 2.85 2.5 2.57 2.59 2.44 2.52 2.37 2.0 2.25 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total direct CO2 emission Per unit processed material 160 167 -4.8% 156 150 144 120 137 124 80 40 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water consumption Per unit processed material 1.6 1.4 -4.0% 1.4 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.0 1.1 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Environment The section on Environment covers AAK’s impact on the environment in terms of consumption and emissions from our production plants. It is a clear top priority for us to minimize our use of natural resources and emissions per processed final ­product even though our stronger focus on speciality drives a higher degree of processing. We have been able to create strong results within this area over the last years and also during this year due to a strong focus on internal and external benchmarking as well as best practise sharing. To make this section easier to navigate, it has been divided into four sub-sections: Energy, Air, Water and Waste. AAK’s production plants differ in size, capacity and the types To achieve this, environmental projects are implemented, of processes used. Processing vegetable oils is both comconsumption and emissions are monitored, and best practicplex and energy-intensive. es are identified by benchmarking production plants against AAK is very much aware of the footprint that produceach other and against other players in the industry. A handtion plants leave on the environment. Therefore, the ful of AAK’s various environmental projects are described in company constantly strives to reduce its consumption of this section, presented by the employees who are directly energy and water, and to reduce waste and emissions. As involved in achieving the results. part of the AAKtion program, the aim is to become more As a matter of course, we take environmental laws and ­environmentally-friendly – and improve day by day. regulations very seriously and are proud to report that, in 2015, we recorded no incidents of non-compliance. Environmental objectives Waste Sending waste to landfill means not utilizing any of the poResource efficiency tential value that may still be present. What’s more, in many countries, a landfill tax has been introduced to reduce the A common way of measuring resource efficiency is to calcuamount of waste disposed of in this way. late the amount of resources consumed versus the producAAK’s objective was that, by the end of 2015, minimum tion output. However, AAK’s strategy of producing and selling 98.5 percent of the company’s waste would go to reuse, remore specialized, refined products means that, all things cycling or recovery. During 2015, 1.3 percent (equal to 1,400 being equal, we require more resources per unit of output. MT) of the total waste was disposed of in the least favourThis sometimes blurs the results of efficiency initiatives and able way: landfill. The remaining 98.7 percent of the waste makes it hard to paint a clear picture and give well-earned material was disposed for reuse, recycling or recovery, thus credit to the projects. exceeding our global objective. For this reason, a decision has been taken to focus on local organization, projects, progress and results driven by Waste to reuse, recycle or recovery local resource efficiency teams. % Objective 2015 The process: 100 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least 98.3 98.7 97.6 97.4 97.4 one project initiated 95 96.3 2014: Resource efficiency projects at all sites are delivering according to plan 90 2015: Resource efficiency results documented at all sites 85 84 At the end of 2015 the results from the individual efficiency 80 projects have been documented and can be seen later in this section. 75 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 33 ” Fighting climate change with long-term investments At the Paris climate conference (COP21) in December Where do you see AAK in regards to this very 2015, 195 countries adopted the first-ever universal, legally important issue? binding global climate deal. What is your view on this AAK has a mature view on these developments and has milestone? taken the initiative to continuously explore and invest in new There is still a key question whether the deal, which is not technologies. For example, we have not only invested in fully agreed, will look to limit global warming to 1.5 or 2°C. the best available technology to lower energy consumption, The difference may appear to be insignificant, but it’s hugely we have also invested in solutions to reduce emissions. important and could have significant implications on counWe are furthermore in the process of developing pioneertries as well as businesses. Negotiations during the COP21, ing new technologies to reduce our waste and use this to therefore, were to re-visit the idea of 1.5°C. It has albeit generate heat to run our facilities. We have received funding gathered some political momentum, but very much is still unto develop new technologies and while some are still in decided. Regardless of the target, the question now is how development, others are now installed and fully operational, much of a reduction and by what date by state and country. dramatically reducing our carbon footprint and emissions. In any event, there is no question that the world’s use of AAK is also driving this change with long-term investment fossil fuels will need to be reduced and that we all have to plans. Therefore, we are confident that we will be ready and contribute. able to deliver when the targets are defined. What role do businesses have in this question? Businesses have a vital role in the fight against climate change. Many companies are affected by climate change and have already taken actions. Under the COP21, I believe businesses will also provide much of the financing to enable adoption of existing and new technologies. The Clean Development Mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol provided David Smith a great incentive for business participation in developed President European Supply Chain and developing countries alike and generated thousands of emissions reduction projects. Energy Energy costs and the link between energy consumption and Louisville, Kentucky, for example, all energy comes from fosimpact on the climate, motivate continued focus on energy sil fuel. Some production plants have their own power plant issues. Responsible growth is only possible if energy conand sell energy in the form of steam and electricity externally. sumption and costs are kept as low as possible. The total energy consumption given in this report has been Due to the industry’s relatively high energy consumption, adjusted for this. efforts to increase energy efficiency and, where possible, In 2015, AAK’s production plants had a combined direct move toward renewable energy sources are important. energy consumption of 3,690,000 Gj, a decrease of 2.4 The type of energy used at AAK’s production plants varies percent compared to 2014. Direct energy consumption from considerably and very much depends on location. In Monterenewable resources constitutes 30 percent, an improvevideo, Uruguay and Villavicencio, Colombia literally all direct ment of 3 percent. energy consumed comes from renewable resources, while in 34 During the same period, electricity purchases (indiDirect energy consumption 2015 – per energy rect ­energy consumption) increased by 4.9 percent to 797,000 Gj. The proportion of green electricity constitutes 37 percent, a decrease of 2 percent from last year. Several sites are purchasing 100 percent green electricity. Energy consumption has decreased Overall, total energy consumption reached 4,485,000 Gj, a decrease of 1.2 percent. Calculated per MT produced, energy consumption has decreased by 5.8 percent despite a strategic decision to increase the production of highly refined products which, all other things being equal, require more 3% Biofuel energy to process. 18% Fuel oil 27% Biomass 52% Gas Total energy consumption Purchased electricity 2015 x 1,000 Gj 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 37% Renewable 63% Non-renewable 35 Resource efficiency projects – Energy AAK Louisville, Kentucky, USA AAK Montevideo, Uruguay Warehouse electricity reduction Ice condenser AAK Louisville currently operates a temperature-conIn 2013 an energy efficiency project was started in order trolled warehouse in order to ensure quality consistency to replace the conventional ejectors in the deodorizing in all of its products. The warehouse experienced issues unit for vacuum generation by a dry condensing equipconcerning air stagnation and excessive heat during ment. Besides reducing energy, this system has also the summer months. In order to counter these issues large advantage of generating less effluents and reducing the industrial fans which can improve air quality and also amount of water used at the deodorizing unit. The ice reduce energy consumption were installed. condenser project was finalized in October 2015. The project resulted in 97,500 kWh electricity reduction The energy consumption of the deodorizing unit was per year. reduced by 59 percent. Further, water AAK Dalby, Sweden consumption decreased by 59 percent Change of compressor and effluent generaThe air compressor in Dalby has been replaced by two tion decreased by 90 new compressors with recycling to heat up the building. percent. The change from one to two compressors makes it more energy effective and more reliable. The energy saving is 83,000 kWh per year on recycling AAK Zaandijk, The Netherlands and approximately 60,000 kWh per year on energy. Reduction of energy consumption AAK Aarhus, Denmark Analyses have shown that a large amount of steam was More efficient electrical pumps consumed by tracing of pipes and tanks. Therefore a project was started to reduce the energy consumption by AAK in Aarhus, Denmark has been saving electricity tracing with hot water instead of steam. by focusing on inefficient pumps, electrical motors and Gas consumption was reduced by 10 percent. reducing speed where possible. The energy saving is 800 MWh per year. Resource efficiency projects – Air AAK Port Newark, New Jersey, USA AAK Hull, UK H2/N2 project Mechanical vacuum systems By reducing deliveries of liquid nitrogen with on-site The new deodorizer installed in Hull was designed to be gaseous N2 (GaN) production, AAK Port Newark’s carbon more efficient in its use of energy compared to the one footprint was reduced. The average number of deliveries it replaced. Instead of simple steam vacuum generating was reduced from 30 per month to 10 per month. Energy equipment more investment was made in ice condensing consumed for liquefaction is double the energy contechnology and mechanical vacuum systems. The steam sumed to produce GaN. is generated by natural gas. Total carbon footprint was reduced by 1,300 MT per CO2 emissions have been reduced by more than 1,000 year. MT per year. 36 Air Rising average temperatures, more extreme weather and changes in rainfall patterns are all symptoms of the climate change we are experiencing. Today, legislation and markets aim to mitigate these changes by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions believed to be the driver of global climate change. AAK is playing its part. In 2015, AAK generated 234,000 MT of carbon dioxide at Direct emissions its production plants, which is 4.8 percent less than in 2014. 36 percent of direct carbon dioxide emissions stemmed from MT renewable resources. Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil 600 fuel per MT processed decreased 4.8 percent compared to 500 2014. The ozone layer protects life on earth by filtering out some 400 of the sun’s harmful UV radiation. For that reason, any thin300 ning of the ozone layer is hazardous. AAK works actively toward eliminating all equipment that uses ozone-depleting 200 substances (ODS), which are generally used for cooling. In 100 2015 ODS decreased with 25 percent to 1,746 kg. Due to the Group’s use of fuels, its production plants emit 0 241 MT NOx (nitrogen oxide) and 172 MT SOx (sulphur Nox Sox VOC oxide). 258 MT VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) are also emitted from plants that run extraction and solvent fractiona2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tion processes. Direct CO2 emission Total direct CO2 emission % Per unit processed material 100 160 80 120 60 80 40 40 20 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Non-renewable Renewable 37 ” Green matters – reforestation in Colombia As part of compliance activities, arising from our permits to operate and use surface water granted in 2013, AAK Colombia has carried out a reforestation plan that includes planting and maintenance of 1,500 seedlings of native species. It is worth mentioning that the company allocated four hectares of its own land for this activity. Previously we had made another planting of 1,000 seedlings, contributing to the maintenance of our environmental corridor which warrants conservation of wildlife and water supply from the Monos Creek, an important tributary of the Ocoa River, very close to our production facility. This year we are in the process of reforesting 500 seedlings of native species for protective forest. This activity is taking place within the biological corridor between the Paramo Chingaza and Sumapaz. The site was selected together with environmental entities to contribute to the national ecotourism project called the “Ecological Path of the Birds”, which was approved by the national environmental authority. Sandra Milena Velasquez Quality Manager and Continuous Improvement, AAK Colombia Waste 2015 waste disposal During 2015, AAK’s production plants generated 106,000 MT of waste. This is a decrease of 4.5 percent compared to 2014. 99.6 percent of the total amount of waste was nonhazardous. In waste disposal, there is a clear, very determined effort towards reducing waste going to landfill. New acquisitions joining the AAK Group have had less waste disposal focus and their challenge have been to improve waste management to a level that meets AAK’s objective for 2015, which 1% Landfill was sending less than 1.5 percent to landfill. Changes to 3% Reuse U.S. legislation regarding the handling of used bleaching 21% Recycle earth have also presented a challenge. 75% Recover 38 However, during 2015 these challenges were overcome A large proportion of the waste is shea meal, which and we managed to reduce waste to landfill from 2,500 MT is the residual product when oil is extracted from shea to 1,400 MT, a decrease of 44 percent. Waste to landfill kernels. Shea meal has no nutritional value and is used as represents 1.3 percent of total waste disposals leaving 98.7 biomass in power plants. percent disposed for reuse, recycling or recovery, exceeding our global 2015 objective. Hazardous waste Total waste % MT 2.0 120,000 100,000 1.5 80,000 1.0 40,000 0.5 20,000 0.0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Resource efficiency projects – Waste AAK Hillside, New Jersey, USA AAK Merksem, Belgium Waste oil and fat product used Waste reduction for biofuel By focusing on total waste production, AAK’s site in Merksem improved its resource efficiency. Main focus Two waste recovery systems were installed to recover was reduction of factory waste and reduction of products oil and fat product process waste from processing lines. expiring in the warehouse. By improving planning order One system is a kettle which was installed to recover oil efficiency combined with increased possibilities of rework and fat and send to a tank. The other system is a pump while still respecting quality parameters, factory waste and drum system which is designated for oil-based was reduced by 25 percent. products with high viscosity and other solids which are sent to two external holding tanks. Hillside partnered with a waste re-processing company which pulls both waste streams, fat and waste bins and processes the waste for biofuel or re-purpose. 180 MT of waste was processed into bio­ fuel or re-purposed which resulted in SEK 175,000 to Hillside. 39 Disposal of spent bleaching earth One of the largest struggles in regards to waste managebleaching earth. The recycling facility use the spent bleachment has been the disposal of spent bleaching earth. For ing earth for base material and coverage internally in their many years this material has been sent to landfill style process. This has not only increased the recycled content facilities and has had very little purpose for reuse due to its in the Louisville facility but has also, as an added benefit, classification as hazardous during transportation. lowered disposal costs dramatically. This has been a major AAK Louisville has been able to work with its local landfill contribution to AAK’s waste management initiative and will facility to use this material and in turn fully recycle the spent continue to improve throughout the coming years. Water In addition to being energy-intensive, vegetable oil processc­ alculated as processing water per MT produced, consumping requires large amounts of water, mainly for cooling and tion decreased by 4 percent. steam production. Most AAK products do not contain water on leaving the plants. Water discharge When water is discharged, its quality is measured by two Water consumption different methods: BOD5 (biochemical oxygen demand) and Combined, the Group’s production plants use approximately COD (chemical oxygen demand). This determines the de25,000,000 m³ of surface water. This water, which is used gree of pollution and has to be within stipulated limit values. for cooling, has no contact with products or pollutants and is The method used is defined by the local authorities. returned to the source without any change in quality. The disTotal BOD5 for sites using this method was 205 MT while charged water may, however, be slightly warmer than when COD was 1,023 MT. Measurements are within the stipulated entering the Group’s system. limits. All discharged water from AAK sites is treated at own Ground water and municipal water used in processing or municipal treatment plants. totalled 2,300,000 m³, the same as last year. However, Water consumption Water discharge x 1000 m3 x 1000 m3 2500 2000 2000 1500 1500 1000 1000 500 500 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 40 Resource efficiency projects – Water AAK Morelia, Mexico AAK Karlshamn, Sweden Water consumption reduction Water savings in deodorization In 2013, as part of the energy reduction program, a goal By recirculating water to process vacuum pumps and was established to reduce water consumption by 10 introducing indirect cooling concepts significant ­savings percent compared to 2012. A series of actions were dein the use of municipal water have been achieved. veloped, such as reducing evaporation in cooling towers An annual water demand of approximately 75,000 m³ and improving the cleaning process. The most significant was reduced to approximately 45,000 m³ in 2015. An initiative was the installation of a new plant for recycling ­additional effect has been less water to water sewage water based on a reverse osmosis process. plant for treatment. The water consumption was reduced by 33 percent Water savings of around 45 percent per year was between 2012 and 2015. achieved. AAK Runcorn, UK Reduce waste water costs The site in Runcorn has invested steadily in its waste water plant by installing new equipment, including a sampling unit, trace heating and a balance tank. The waste water cost per ton has been reduced by 48 percent. 41 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Lost Time Injury Rate* 2.5 2.3 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * production sites Lost Day Rate 40 39.6 35 37.7 30 25 20 20.9 15 15.5 10 12.1 9.2 5 7.2 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Workplace This section is about working life at AAK: how to remain an attractive workplace for employees, and to make sure that everybody is healthy and safe. AAK’s employees are the company’s most important resource. With 2,728 employees at the end of the year and many different locations across the globe – in production plants, sales offices and sourcing operations – AAK is a diverse company with many different job functions. Common to every employee are the company’s values and Code of Conduct, which govern the way in which business is conducted, how the AAKtion program is executed, and how employees interact with each other and the company’s stakeholders. Combined with the UN Global Compact and the CSR Policy, this provides the framework for AAK as a workplace. Workplace objectives Safety Any work-related injury is clearly unacceptable and AAK conAt our production sites, LTIR increased from 0.5 to 0.6. stantly strives to be a zero injuries workplace. Since 2010, This is being addressed with further initiatives from our we have aligned definitions and measured injuries across the Global Safety Team relentlessly working for a safer workAAK Group. We have defined Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) place. More than half of our production sites did not have any as the number of work injuries that result in one or more Lost Time Injuries. Lost Day Rate – a measurement of the days/shifts of sick leave per 200,000 working hours. severity of incidents – also increased from 7.2 to 9.2. Global LTIR objectives and reporting for previous years At our sourcing sites in West Africa, conditions and have included records for both production sites and sourcchallenges are very different. However, LTIR significantly ing sites in West Africa. Since 2012 we have broken down decreased from 4.2 to 2.0 and Lost Day Rate dropped from LTIR at production sites and West African sourcing sites. The 14.2 to 8.2. This is, amongst other initiatives, the result of safety challenge in West Africa is very difficult and very much widespread safety training aiming to change the culture into related to logistics conditions outside AAK premises with lack a “safety first” mindset. of traffic control and very poor road conditions. ” Safety and continuous development – part of the AAK culture AAK has made significant improvements within health and What are AAK’s priorities for continuously developing its safety over the last couple of years. How would you desemployees? cribe the safety culture within AAK? This has been an ongoing process for many years and is Our safety culture has developed significantly over the last a top priority for all managers throughout AAK. The annual years and is today characterized by a strong focus on prePerformance and Development Plans (PDPs) ensure a venting incidents. Near miss incidents are reported, analyzed thorough follow-up at least once a year, but the majority of and acted upon before incidents occur, and communication individual development activities are embedded in the dayregarding safety is included in weekly and monthly newsto-day challenges that our employees face. Through on-theletters as well as in all maintenance work notices. “Safety job learning combined with formal training when needed and walks” are conducted regularly by senior executives and with strong support from managers, our employees develop safety is on the agenda of all management meetings on our new skills and hone existing ones by taking on new or more sites. Looking out for each other and helping everyone to complex tasks, by participating in special projects and in stay safe is a priority for all employees. continuously developing our company and our business. How do you involve AAK employees in the process of continuously developing the company and the business? All our employees play a very active role in developing and improving our company and our business. The majority of this work is done on a daily basis since an important part of our employees’ jobs, regardless of role, function or level in the organization, is to continuously seek out ways to do things better, faster and more efficiently. Continuous improvement is more than a task designated to a few people – Jens Wikstedt it’s part of our company values and is at the heart of the AAK President SB&N and HR culture across all organizational boundaries. Staying healthy Safety in the workplace is also about maintaining health. For employees in West Africa, AAK offers include free AAK is present in many countries with very different cultures, mosquito nets, annual information on risk control, vaccinavarying degrees of health awareness and different health inition against yellow fever, meningitis and cholera, and health tiatives by local or national authorities. For this reason, there insurance – again based on a local needs assessment. is no uniform approach to maintaining health, activities are AAK Mexico also operates health facilities and offers instead guided by local decision-making, based on a needs consultation for employees’ family members and the local assessment. Most initiatives focus on employees. Examples community as a whole. of AAK’s health initiatives and offers include: First aid and safety training Widespread protective equipment Computer glasses Health checks and vaccinations Access to sports facilities Company sporting events Healthy food offers 44 E-learning on anti-corruption AAK has signed the UN Global Compact committing the proximately 15 minutes and end with a multiple-choice test. company to establish anti-corruption measures. Anti-corrupFor employees at increased risk of encountering corruption, tion is also addressed in the Code of Conduct, the Supplier these modules are mandatory and must be passed. Code of Conduct and the Code of Conduct for Agents and The first module, with a general introduction to anti-corrupDistributors. tion, was launched in early 2014. The second module, with a However, corruption still remains a common risk throughfocus on competition law, was launched late 2014. The purout the world for all companies, and a decision was made to pose of the training modules is to ensure awareness of what internally promote awareness and knowledge of this topic. To is corruption and provide knowledge about how to deal with that end, e-learning modules addressing anti-corruption topit. Both modules were passed by all target group members ics have been launched. The modules have a length of apby the end of 2015. Labour rights Labour rights issues are governed by AAK’s CSR Policy, that which is outlined in the CSR Policy: “We give fair notice which applies to all Group sites. Among other things, the to employees of significant changes that could substantially policy states AAK’s view on child labour and young workers, affect them.” on forced labour, and on freedom of association and the right Giving staff equal and fair treatment is another focus area to collective bargaining. of the CSR Policy. During 2015, no incident of discrimination 38 percent of AAK’s employees are covered by collective was recorded. bargaining agreements. In 2015 there were no strikes at AAK The ratio of basic salary for men relative to women is not sites but in Montevideo, Uruguay, production was closed reported, since interpretation of the data would not give a down due to local union meetings, leading to four days of lost true picture. On average, AAK pays more in salary to male production. employees than to female employees, not because the AAK does not have a Group policy that stipulates a combasic salary for male employees is higher, but because male mon, cross-group notice period for significant operational employees generally have jobs with a higher salary. For the changes. Instead, we abide by national legislation and local same job, the salary for male and female employees is the agreements based on collective bargaining, combined with same. ” Safety improvements through e-learning Since introducing our online training system at Runcorn we during the next 12 months. We use data collected from our have seen improvements in both health and safety as well as Hazard spotting program to target areas that we feel need food safety across the site. additional training and match the training program to the area We strongly believe that training and information is the key and risks identified. to making a safer workplace environment producing quality This gives us a target of 1,044 courses to be completed products. We have a great number of safety and food safety during the year. In 2015 we completed 2,872 courses, giving courses to choose from, ranging from first aid awareness us an average of 16 training courses completed by each to permit to work. In addition to this, we have developed, in employee on site. partnership with Human Focus, a UK provider of safety training, five bespoke training courses unique to our site. Mike Pocock At the start of the year each employee is issued with an Health, Safety and Environment Manager, AAK Runcorn individual training plan with six courses for them to complete First aid training in AAK Aarhus Safety for external workers A first aid course, including training in how to use AED At AAK’s site in Aarhus, Denmark there are many exter(Automated External Defibrillator) has been offered to all nal workers. To ensure that they have the required safety employees at AAK’s site in Aarhus, Denmark. The basic aid competences, AAK has established contractual requirecourse will be followed up by courses every second year in ments for these external workers. The requirements include order to maintain the competence and to learn more about a mandatory ATEX/EX training (regulations for working in an treatment of injuries relevant for the site, for example burns, explosive atmosphere) with yearly follow-ups. In addition, falling injuries and illnesses. By the end of 2015, more than the external workers must attend at least two hours of safety two thirds of all employees had attended the training and are training per year and be able to point out who, within their capable of giving first aid. company, is AAK’s contact person regarding safety. 46 The AAK workforce in numbers As of December 31, 2015, AAK had a total of 2,728 emrefers to an employment relationship which can be broken by ployees (an average of 2,738 employees, as stated in the either party with no liability. 2 percent of our employees work Annual Report 2015), 11 percent more than in 2014 (due to part-time. acquisitions). Among permanent employees, approximately 11 percent left the company. Employees* by age, % The average age of employees in Europe is significantly higher than in the rest of the world due to a more mature 100 >49 organization. 22 percent of AAK’s permanent employees 80 40–49 are female. This is a lower percentage than in many other businesses, and is explained by the fact that working in the 60 30–39 production plants typically attracts more men than women. <30 At managerial level, 19 percent of employees are female. 40 71 percent of AAK’s employees are permanently em20 ployed, while 9 percent are on temporary contracts. The remaining 20 percent comprise trainees, agency staff and at0 Americas Europe West Africa will employees. The latter is a doctrine of American law that Employment contract type Employee* category by age, % 100 >49 80 40–49 60 30–39 <30 40 <1% Apprentice 5% Agency staff 20 9% Temporary 14% At-will 0 71% Permanent Management Salaried Hourly paid Employee* category by gender, % Employees* by age 100 Females 80 Males 60 40 20 15% <30 25% 30–39 0 27% 40–49 Management Salaried Hourly paid 33% >49 Employees* by gender, % Employee* turnover by age, number of employees 100 100 Females 80 Males 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 Americas Europe West Africa <30 30– 40 40–50 >50 * Permanent and at-will employees 47 AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Community In this section, activities that AAK initiates and engages in, be they local, regional, national or international, in order to play the part and act responsibly in society, are presented. Contributing to, and being part of, the community in which AAK operates is essential for maintaining a positive relationship with neighbours, politicians and authorities. Which community activities the Group engages in is dependent on what is relevant and adds most value to the local community. Through a commitment to community causes, AAK is also instrumental in creating a workplace with highly motivated employees who take pride in working for a company that makes a noticeable difference. Local community involvement As a global company, AAK contributes to the development an area. During 2015, no operations that required a special of the local communities in which it operates by creating community impact assessment were established or termijobs, paying taxes and doing business with local enterprises. nated. However, it takes more than this to truly become part of the The impact of existing operations is continuously monicommunity in which the Group operates. tored through dialogue, open house events, hosting visitors, Community engagement is based on diverse thinking, participation in local events and councils, giving presentawhich leads to initiatives ranging from giving employees time tions and participating in interviews. Media monitoring also off to engage in local activities and donating products and provides a picture of local attitudes towards AAK. raw materials to providing used equipment and giving direct Overall, AAK’s community involvement helps secure a financial support. social license to operate, which is essential for AAK as both AAK is very much aware of the impact the company has a company and a player in local business life. on the community when entering, operating in, or leaving Community objective AAK has long been an active member of the communities in which it operates through sponsorship, or through direct participation in projects and activities. In 2015, AAK engaged in numerous local activities, some of which are presented in this section. AAK will continue to secure integration with its local communities in the future. 49 ” AAK – a good neighbour AAK is very active in its different local communities, partiIn order to develop a good relationship with the local comcularly in Villavicencio, Colombia. How does the company munity, communication is key. In what different ways does contribute to the development of Villavicencio? AAK maintain a good dialogue with the local community of We are, among other things, offering job opportunities to loVillavicencio? cal people, which currently represents around 75 percent of Step by step we are getting to know the community of Villavithe employees in AAK Colombia. In addition, the raw matericencio and the ways in which it works. A close and positive als that we are using, palm and palm kernel, are mainly from approach is very important in order for the community to this region, contributing to strengthen the local economy. understand what AAK Colombia is and does. The community requires special attention on our behalf and our plan is What efforts are being done by AAK Colombia to protect to support specific activities, such as education, safety and the environment in the Villavicencio area? sports programs, in order to develop Villavicencio. There are several efforts being done. First of all, we have a close communication with Cormacarena, the Colombian authority in charge of regulating the water, air, soil, waste and solid residues, meeting all of their regulations. We also use biomass for steam generation in our production processes, which has two positive effects on the environment – no greenhouse gases are generated and the CO2 equili­ Octavio Díaz de León brium is maintained. Every month we consume 900 tonnes President AAK North Latin America of biomass, which are by-products from the rice and palm industries in the area. ” Community health checks For 19 years, AAK Mexico has, through our company doctor Ana Bertha Gil, provided medical services to the community. This free-of-charge medical service has been very welcomed and appreciated by the people who need it in our neighbourhood. The dispensary provides various services such as guidance and information on hygiene, nutrition and medication follow-up, and we pay special attention to routine checks of patients with chronic illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension and metabolic disorders. We reinforce timely detection of health problems and try to avoid irreversible complications by keeping the patient and his or her family continuously informed. Medication is also provided free-of-charge and the commutions to all the families that we have helped, and through this nity participates by donating medicines. Altogether this results action we continue to strengthen the relationship with our in a better quality of life as well as economic and health supcommunity. port for the patients. With an average of 1,200 medical consultations per year, Ramiro Corona AAK has throughout the years made significant contribuHuman Resources Manager, AAK Mexico 50 ” Continued support to school in Benin, West Africa Last year AAK donated school benches to Collège The school’s students come from the neighbouring village d’Enseignement Général de Komiguéa, located close to of Komiguéa where many employees at KNAR-Benin SARL AAK’s KNAR-Benin SARL – our main reception point in reside. Hopefully some of the students will work at AAK/ northern Benin, West Africa. Our intention was always to KNAR-Benin SARL in the future. make our donations a recurring initiative and this year AAK At the delivery of the books AAK’s expats in Benin, sponsored the local school library with literature and the together with their families and our local Director students with pencils and notebooks. Alfred L. Lawson, visited the school and both students Books for reading practice for various ages and capacities, and school management expressed gratitude for AAK’s basic mathematics as well as more advanced literature in initiative to support them again. language, mathematics and economics were among the books given as a part of our sponsorship. Christer Yxell The Library, Bibliothèque Saint Augustin, has a study Country Manager, Benin and Togo room where the students can read and use the books for their studies completely for free. If the students wish to bring some of the literature home they can also do so for a very small fee. The idea is to stimulate learning as well as being able to provide the opportunity to do so in a sustainable manner. 51 ” School donations in Montevideo As far as CSR is concerned, we at AAK Uruguay decided to We decided to donate things that were no longer used in do something different last year. The focus of the action was our offices. Furniture such as desks and chairs and surplus a public primary school located close to our factory in Montecomputer supplies were selected, fixed and delivered to the video, attended by children of very low-income homes. school. In addition, we donated a whole set of dinnerware that will be used to serve the daily lunch to the children. The principal, teachers and the pupils of the school were all very grateful for the donations as they really need all the help they can get. Victoria Laporta Office Administrator, AAK Uruguay 52 AAK as a global citizen The impact of business goes beyond local communities. At a global level, AAK does its best to become involved in areas where the Group can make a difference – by utilizing our sphere of influence. AAK is naturally a member of various national and international organizations that aim to improve the industry by, among other things, setting common standards and aligning analytical methods, and, in general, by safeguarding the interests of the vegetable oils and fats industry. Through these organizations, AAK interacts openly with authorities and aims to influence the legislation that governs our business. Examples of memberships that safeguard the interests of the industry National associations The Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade/NOFOTA The Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries/Vernof The Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils/MVO The Confederation of Danish Industry/DI The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors/ADOP Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles/ANIAME Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana/COPARMEX Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán/AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation/LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation/P&K The Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association/SCOPA The National Edible Oil Distributors Association/NEODA The Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers/ABIM The Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce/SACC The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils/ISEO The American Fats and Oils Association/AFOA The National Confectioners Association/NCA The Uruguayan Chamber of Industries/CIU The National Federation of Palm Oil Growers/FEDEPALMA International associations The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry/FEDIOL The Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association/FOSFA FoodDrinkEurope The European Oleochemicals and Allied Products Group/APAG The National Institute of Oilseed Products/NIOP 53 CSR approach Engaging with stakeholders Responsible growth is the key objective of the AAKtion Ongoing dialogue with external stakeholders strategy and is essential to the Group’s vision of being the AAK values the ongoing input from, and dialogue with, first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions. For AAK, stakeholders in regard to our CSR approach, including their responsible growth is about responsibility toward all key assessments of the Group’s efforts. Through this dialogue, stakeholders – the local communities where AAK operates, we can ensure that AAK continues to be their first choice, global customers, employees, investors and suppliers. also when it comes to CSR. AAK’s model for responsible growth is a dynamic one, AAK regularly receives questionnaires, supplier codes of continuously enhanced by new knowledge, changes in the conducts and suchlike from our customers and investors, external environment and engagement with key stakeholders which we respond to in accordance with our policies. This for their input. type of input, combined with sustainability reports, materiality Input from key stakeholders comes from ongoing dialogue, analyses etc. serves as an important guide to priorities on at both local and corporate levels, about their expectations of our stakeholders’ agendas – and supports our continuous, the AAK Group now and in the future. What do they expect proactive efforts to maintain an up-to-date perception of what from AAK as a good neighbour, a preferred supplier, an may be expected from us in the future. attractive workplace, a profitable investment and a valued customer? Their input guides us to where, and at what level, Contacts AAK should set its next objectives to drive future perforMads Jules Feer, Global CSR Manager mance in this area. Email: mads.feer@aak.com An example of input from shareholders is their emphasis that sustainable sourcing is a key element when reviewing Anne Mette Olesen, Chief Marketing Officer new investment options, since this affects the risk profile of their portfolio. This input has reconfirmed strong focus within Or e-mail: sustainability@aak.com this area, and has supported and guided AAK to raise the ambition level. AAK responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact 54 Investor Relations Shareholders AAK endeavours to generate an attractive return on investDuring 2015, a capital market day was held in Stockholm, ments for its shareholders. The largest shareholder is Melker and a large number of meetings were held with analysts and Schörling AB, which indirectly owns 33 percent of AAK. In investors on site in Frankfurt, Helsinki, Copenhagen, London, total, approximately 75 percent of AAK’s shareholders are New York, Paris and Stockholm. Swedish. More information about AAK’s ownership structure AAK strives to facilitate current and potential shareholder is available at www.aak.com. assessments of our performance through the transparent communication of our financial results, and our work to Dialogue with shareholders enhance environmental and social sustainability. During the AAK’s aim is for the shares to be valued on the basis of year, we engaged in dialogues with a number of socially rerelevant, accurate and up-to-date information. This requires sponsible investment analysts and investors. Some investors a clear strategy for financial communication, reliable informahave a particularly strong focus on CSR, and seek greater tion and regular contact with financial market stakeholders. insights into how companies manage sustainability and corContact with the financial markets takes place via presporate responsibility issues, particularly with regard to long entations in conjunction with quarterly reports and meetings and short-term risks affecting the business. AAK meets with with analysts, investors and journalists at capital market such investors regularly, and provides information on our days, seminars and visits to AAK’s divisions. strategy and approach, risk management and anti-corruption program, among other issues. Shareholder activities The intention is that the Group’s annual Sustainability Capital market days Report is the most appropriate and efficient channel for Road shows providing information about AAK’s CSR practices. For this Meetings with institutional investors reason, the aim is to answer the most common questions in Meetings with equity analysts this report. However, a constructive dialogue on risks, opLocal meetings with the Swedish Shareholders’ portunities and strategies related to CSR and sustainability ­Association is valued. Annual General Meeting 55 Maintaining momentum Increasing CSR awareness An important aspect of the AAK Group’s CSR work is The introduction of dashboards is sharpening attention on maintaining global momentum. To ensure that this happens, progress made. These comprise a one-page presentation of the Global CSR Manager visits all production plants annudata and graphics showing GRI indicators with high priority ally. These visits have multiple purposes, besides the value or under significant development. A global dashboard has of face-to-face meetings. During workshops with the local been created for AAK’s Executive Committee to follow global teams, local plans are completed, feedback is given on the developments, while local dashboards illustrate and benchlocally reported GRI data, potential contributions to our Susmark developments at individual production plants. tainability Report are discussed, and objectives, projects and The global implementation of our AAK Code of Conduct is initiatives for the coming period are presented. The special another promoter for the integration of CSR in our business. theme on this year’s tour was once again the palm oil supply The Code is fully implemented with all employees having chain with a focus on the implementation on AAK’s palm oil read, understood, accepted and signed the Code. Further policy, various market trends and requirements, new vocabusystems have been established to ensure that our Code is lary and definitions linked to palm oil sustainability, and the part of the introduction package for new employees. challenges ahead. Another successful initiative has been the development of To promote the continued sharing of information, best the CSR Toolbox, a global one access-point to CSR material practices and progress on CSR objectives on a more regular established at our intranet and available to all AAK employbasis, monthly virtual conferences are held with the participaees. The CSR Toolbox comprises materials such as policies tion of all CSR team leaders. and codes, presentations, training material, reports and To make CSR even more visible within the organization, Q&As. an internal CSR award is presented each year to the AAK Furthermore, the introduction of short e-learning modules site or business area that has demonstrated outstanding targeting specific topics has been embraced by the organizaCSR performance. In 2015, the production site in Morelia, tion and proven to be an effective way to train employees Mexico received an award for significantly improved key inglobally. dicators such as energy consumption, CO2 emissions, waste to landfill and Lost Time Injury Rate, and for an outstanding community engagement. AAK CSR organization responsible growth CSR organization Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Management CEO and Executive Committee Production Sourcing Global CSR Manager CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams Aarhus Merksem Montevideo Morelia Zaandijk Villavicencio SE UK USA West Africa DK BE South MX NL CO America Port Karlshamn Runcorn Benin Newark, NJ Louisville, Dalby Hull Ghana KY Hillside, Burkina NJ Faso Mali Ivory Coast Decentralized approach We believe in the importance of anchoring our CSR efforts in Since the global CSR organization was established in the organization and in incorporating a sustainability mindset early 2007, its objective has been to ensure breadth and into our everyday working life. To that end, we have set up a diversity in the local teams, which are fundamental to our decentralized global CSR organization responsible for CSRCSR work. The teams possess competencies in Human related initiatives, progress, communication and reporting. Resources, Health, Safety & Environment, Finance, Sourcing, Operations and Sales. At our production sites, the teams Global CSR organization with local roots consist of five to ten people led by a CSR team leader. The The Global CSR Manager reports to the CMO (Chief Marketteams at our sourcing operations in West Africa have a difing Officer) who is a member of AAK’s Executive Committee. ferent composition, and may draw on competencies from the The CMO’s responsibilities include CSR, Corporate Strategy, major sites. Business Development and Marketing. At Board level, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the follow-up and reporting of CSR topics, codes and policies. 57 Global CSR objectives 2016+ The objectives for AAK for 2016+ are presented below in brief. The objectives are further commented in more detail in the five sections to which they apply, namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. Global CSR objectives 2016+ Marketplace Responsible palm oil training 2016: E-learning module passed by 100 percent of all relevant employees Responsible shea training 2016: E-learning module passed by 50 percent of all relevant employees CSR training 2016: E-learning module on CSR work in AAK launched in 2016 AAK Code of Conduct for Agents and Distributors 2016: Implemented with minimum 80 percent of AAK Agents and Distributors including 2016 acquisitions Global CSR objectives 2016+ Supply chain Palm oil traceability 2016: Maintain full traceability to palm oil supplier mills 2017: All palm oil supplies 100 percent traceable to plantation level Palm oil compliance 2016: Qualitative risk assessment completed with all suppliers 2016: Geospatial risk assessment completed with all supplier mills 2016: Complete at least five on-site verifications of supplier mills Palm oil RSPO certification 2018: All crude palm oil purchased as RSPO certified 2020: All palm oil, palm kernel oil and derivatives purchased as RSPO certified Shea supply chain 2016: 100,000 women enrolled in AAK’s women’s groups program in West Africa 58 Global CSR objectives 2016+ Environment Waste 2018: Less than 1.5% of waste disposed as landfill/deposit Global CSR objectives 2016+ Workplace Safety Any work-related injury is unacceptable and AAK is constantly working towards a zero injuries workplace. We monitor and report Lost Time Injury Rate globally First aid training 2016: First aid training completed at all production sites 2016: First aid training completed at sourcing operations in West Africa Global CSR objectives 2016+ Community Local engagement 2016: Engaging in relevant local projects and activities 2016: Initiate a palm oil smallholder support project 59 AAK Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) responsible growth CSR organization GRI is a network-based organization that pioneers the world’s most widely used sustainObjectives and GRI ability reporting framework. The reporting framework sets out the principles and perforTransparency mance indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, enStakeholders Sedex vironmental, and social performance. The framework also addresses the United Nations Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Global Compact principles and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact See www.globalreporting.org for more information. Global Reporting Initiative G4 Index Strategy and analysis 1 Statement from the CEO pp. 2–3 2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report 2014: pp. 20–21, 33–35 Organizational profile 3 Name of the organization p. II 4 Primary brands, products and services Annual Report 2015: pp. 12–19 5 Location of headquarters p. II 6 Countries where the organization operates p. IV 7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report 2015: pp. 84–85 8 Markets served Annual Report 2015: pp. 20–21 9 Scale of the reporting organization Annual Report 2015: pp. 61, 68 pp. III–IV 10 Workforce details p. 47 11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 45 12 Supply chain description pp. 16–17, 28–29 13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report 2015: pp. 35–36 14 Precautionary principle pp. 15–16, 20–25 15 External principles endorsed pp. 5, 12, 20 16 Memberships of associations p. 53 Identified material aspects and boundaries 17 Entities and boundaries p. 2 18 Process for defining the report content pp. 4, 63 19 Material aspects identified Reflected in achievements and objectives 20 Aspect boundary within the organization No reporting 21 Aspect boundary outside the organization No reporting 22 Restatements p. 63 23 Significant changes to report scope p. II Stakeholder engagement 24 List of stakeholders engaged Engaging few selective stakeholders 25 Selection of stakeholders p. 54 26 Approach to stakeholder engagement pp. 25–26, 49, 53–55 27 Key topics raised by stakeholders Supply chain sustainability Report profile 28 Reporting period 01.01.2015–31.12.2015 29 Date of previous report 01.01.2014–31.12.2014 30 Reporting cycle Annually 31 Contact point for questions p. 54 32 GRI content index pp. 60–62 33 External assurance p. 63 Governance 34 Governance structure Annual Report 2015: pp. 77–82 35 Delegating authority Annual Report 2015: pp. 67, 78–79 36 Responsibility economic, environmental and social topics Annual Report 2015: pp. 30–31, 67 37 Consultation between stakeholders and the Board Annual Report 2015: p. 78 38 Composition of the governance body Annual Report 2015: pp. 78–79 39 Relationship between the Chair and executive officers Annual Report 2015: pp. 28–31 40 Nomination and selection of the governance body Annual Report 2015: pp. 77–78 41 Conflict of interest Annual Report 2015: p. 78 42 Roles developing purpose, values and missions Annual Report 2015: pp. 78, 81 43 Knowledge of economic, environmental and ethical topics communicated to the Board Annual Report 2015: pp. 2, 26–27 44 Evaluation of the Board performance with respect to economic, environmental and ethical topics No reporting 45 Role of the Board identifying risks within economic, environmental and ethical topics Annual Report 2015: pp. 78–79 46 The Board's review of risks Annual Report 2015: p. 81 47 Frequency of the Board's review Annual Report 2015: pp. 78–79 48 Highest approval of the Sustainability Report CEO 49 Reporting critical concerns to the Board Annual Report 2015: p. 78 50 Critical concerns raised No reporting 51 Remuneration policies Annual Report 2015: p. 79 52 Remuneration process Annual Report 2015: p. 79 53 Stakeholders' views regarding remuneration Annual Report 2015: p. 77 54 Ratio of compensations No reporting 55 Ratio of percentage increase in compensations No reporting Ethics and integrity 56 Values, principles, Code of Conduct pp. 4–5, 12 57 External advice on ethical and lawful behaviour pp. 23, 53 58 Mechanisms for reporting unethical or unlawful behaviour Part of AAK Code of Conduct EC Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Community donations: SEK 440,000 EC3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report 2015: pp. 63–64 EC4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 21,500,000 EN Environment EN1 Material used by weight or volume Processed raw materials: 1,895,000 MT Packaging materials: 65,000 MT EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material No reporting EN3 Energy consumption within the organization pp. 34–35 EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization No reporting EN5 Energy intensity pp. 32, 35 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 36 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 32 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 40 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal water No significant impact EN10 Water recycled and re-used p. 41 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Hull, UK and Port Newark, US sites adjacent to protected areas. No significant impact on production EN12 Description of significant impact on biodiversity No significant impact identified EN13 Habitats protected or restored pp. 20–27, 38, 51 EN15 Direct greenhouse emissions pp. 7, 37 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 35 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions No reporting EN18 Greenhouse gas emission intensity p. 37 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 37 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) p. 37 EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 37 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination p. 40 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method pp. 38–39 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills. Minor spills in Hull, UK and Karlshamn, SE EN27 Extend of impact mitigation of environmental impact of products and services pp. 20, 32–41 EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with No significant fines. ­environmental laws and regulations Four minor fines related to installation of new waste water treatment equipment in Hillside, US. Now in compliance EN32 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria pp. 15–16 EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental Impact in the supply chain and actions taken pp. 20–27 EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts files, addressed and solved through formal grievance p. 25 ­mechanisms No grievances in 2015 61 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported LA Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region p. 47 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes p. 45 LA6 Type of Injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of fatalities pp. 42–43 by region Two case of occupational disease registered. No fatalities LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 22.7 hours per employee. Inadequate recording globally LA10 Programs for skills management and life-long learning that support the continued employability of employees Personal Development Plans and assist them in managing career endings (PDP) implemented globally LA11 Percent of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender and by Personal Development Plans employee category (PDP) implemented globally LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, p. 47 minority group membership and other indicators of diversity LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of p. 45 operation LA14 Percent of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria p. 16 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impact for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken p. 25 LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance No grievances in 2015 ­mechanisms HR Human rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that p. II have undergone human rights screening HR2 Total hours of employee training on human right policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that AAK Code of Conduct signed are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained by all employees. No specific HR training HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken No incidents in 2015 HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective p. 15 ­bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights No incidents in 2015 HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incident of child labour and measures taken to p. 15 contribute to the effective abolition of child labour No incidents in 2015 HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and p. 15 measure to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour No incidents in 2015 HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Indigenous people and actions taken p. 20 No incidents in 2015 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Impact p. 12 ­assessment HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria p.15 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impact in the supply chain and actions taken pp. 15, 20–26 HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance No incidents In 2015 mechanisms SO Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impacts assessment and development pp. 7, 49 programs SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Impact on local communities None SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures pp. 6, 9 SO5 Confirmed Incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents in 2015 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcome No incidents in 2015 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impact of society pp. 20, 23 SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance No incidents in 2015 ­mechanisms PR Product responsibility PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for p. 10 Improvement PR3 Type of product and service information required by the procedures for product and service Information and pp. 11–12 ­labelling and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and No non-compliance incidents use of products and services FP Food processing sector supplement FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy pp. 15, 20–22, 26 FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible internationally p. 16 recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and/or lockouts, by country p. 45 FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according p. 12 to internationally recognised food safety management standards 62 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality Data and calculations This is the seventh AAK Sustainability Report. The first We release a GRI Report internally in the first quarter of was published in October 2010 and our aim is still to every year. The report is based on information received continue reporting on an annual basis. from all sites, and contains both local and compiled Since commencing structured reporting in 2008, we global data. A section showing trends from the previous have followed the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) year is also included. Data and information from the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, now following the GRI Report form the basis of our Sustainability Report, current G4 version. As this is the most widely used which is published externally. reporting framework, we believe many readers will The majority of data in the Sustainability Report are already be familiar with its principles and find them drawn from measurements. Air emissions data are helpful when searching for information. We have used based on direct measurements, calculations based on GRI standard disclosures and sector disclosures for specific data or calculations based on default values. food processing with special focus on core indicators. Information concerning purchased electricity from Indicator numbers and titles in the GRI index have renewable resources is based on national grid informabeen adjusted to G4 version. tion, if not purchased as green electricity. Information Because GRI is an all-encompassing format, it is not about employees, including numbers, gender, comporelevant for us to report on all criteria. In 2010, we initisition etc., is calculated per December 31, 2015 and ated an internal process to identify the issues relevant based on payroll information. to our business and our stakeholders. This involved Some minor data errors have been identified since discussions with staff at all sites and feedback from the 2014/2015 Sustainability Report was launched. other stakeholder groups. In 2013, we began using These data have been adjusted in the present report. the materiality analysis tool to map our own priorities From our experience of the reporting process, we exagainst our stakeholder priorities. That has been a very pect corrections will also be necessary in future reports. useful tool in identifying important focus areas. Our Nevertheless, we believe that the trends and overall ambition is always to focus on reporting the information picture given are a true reflection of our activities. requested by stakeholders, or that of internal value. The data included comprises data reported to auThis Sustainability Report is a supplement to the AAK thorities, and information generated specifically for this Annual Report 2015 and, therefore, only contains a report. The report has not been reviewed by external summary of financial performance figures. Both reports auditors. We trust that the requirements of authoriare available on AAK’s website. ties along with their effective scrutiny of the company In general, the data in this report covers our activiare a sufficient guarantee of the accuracy of the data ties from January 1 to December 31, 2015. Updated reported. information for some 2016 events is included, since they are considered to be of material importance to our stakeholders. Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: EN) relate to the thirteen AAK production plants that were fully operational in 2015 including the AAK products produced by our toll production partner Cousa in Montevideo, Uruguay. Other core data also include purchasing sites and sales offices. 63 Production plants Customization plants Sales offices Sourcing operations Customer innovation centres The first choice for value-adding vegetable oil solutions We develop and provide value-adding vegetable oil solutions in close collaboration with our customers, enabling them to achieve long lasting business results. We do so through our in-depth expertise in oils & fats within food applications, working with a wide range of raw materials and broad process capabilities. Through our unique co-development approach we bring together our customers’ skills and know-how with our capabilities and mindset. By doing so, we solve customer specific needs across many industries – Chocolate & Confectionery, Bakery, Dairy, Infant Nutrition, Foodservice, Personal Care, and more. Explore more at AAK’s proven expertise is based on more than 140 years of experience within www.aak.com oils & fats. With our headquarters in Malmö, Sweden, 20 production facilities and customization plants, and sales offices in more than 25 countries, our more than Or contact us at 2,700 employees are dedicated to providing innovative value-adding solutions to info@aak.com our customers. So no matter where you are in the world, we are ready to help you achieve long lasting results. We are AAK – The Co-Development Company. Head office AAK AB (publ.), Skrivaregatan 9, SE-215 32 Malmö, Sweden +46 40 627 83 00 | www.aak.com | info@aak.com Registered office: Malmö | Reg. No. 556669-2850 Published by AAK AB, Sweden. Produced by AAK Corporate Communications, AAK Corporate Social Responsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: www.benfoto.se, Stine Heilmann, Thomas Hergaard, AAK, Shutterstock. Print: Exakta.
