Lietuvos Energija Group Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 2 Content OUR APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW CEO‘s Foreword / 4 p. Corporate Responsibility Principles of the Group / 6 p. Our policy of responsible performance, its understanding and assessment, key challenges and the areas in which we operate with a view to ensuring a long-term progress of business and the society. About the Organization / 10 p. Who we are: companies of the Group, key activities, the Group’s corporate governance structure, risk management and key performance indicators. KEY AREAS Employees and Protection of Human Rights / 15 p. Our approach towards human resources management, including ensuring protection of jobs and human rights, safety at work and health policy, new organizational culture based on the principle of personal responsibility. Environmental Protection / 21 p. Our activities seeking to secure resources and promoting renewable resources, energy innovation and efficiency solutions, reducing impact upon the environment, and a responsible development. Anti-Corruption Activities / 29 p. Transparency and anti-corruption policies, their implementation at Group companies and the steps to ensure transparency in procurement area and the business environment. Responsibility in the Market / 33 p. Our activities in seeking to increase the value to customers, the country’s attractiveness for investment, improve the conditions and the business environment, and improve the country’s energy independence. Relations with the Communities / 37 p. Our relations with the local communities, support, research and cooperation with research institutions for addressing energy challenges, long-term initiatives for public education and security. 3 CEO’s Foreword A Corporate Responsibility Report of Lietuvos viable way that we sought by concentrating Energija Group is natural part of our company the services provided, managing our economy development demonstrating a direction in a responsible and prudent manner. of sustainable growth we have set. An improved value chain and efficiency in By perceiving significance of activities we operations is our main economic responsibility pursue for the public, market and environment, the results whereof have a positive effect we plan our steps with special care and on our consumers and create an attractive responsibility. Energy under our management investment environment in the country. creates an immense value: improves Successful financial activity encourages us living conditions, enhances capacities and to share: in 2015, the Group’s support fund productivity, protects lives – we seek to ensure allocated over 0.585 million EUR in financial that it is safe, sustainable, generated and assistance to community projects and activities supplied in a responsible manner, whereas on the national and regional levels in social, its consumers, most importantly, a group of education, art, sports, culture and scientific fields. our stakeholders, feel only changes in the Environmental protection is one of the quality improvement. We believe that changes most important factors in the energy sector taken place during recent years will open a worldwide. By generating, distributing or new page in the country’s energy system. selling energy, we also make sure that it is First of all, by busting the myth that stateused efficiently. This is a very important part controlled enterprises operate inefficiently, we of our environmental responsibility. Global have achieved historical results and earned a climate change challenges in planning record-breaking return to our shareholder – the the development urge us to take into State. This is not a short-lived effect, but the result consideration relevant social-environmental of steps planned in a consistent and financially problems and look for new solutions. 4 We generate certified energy from guided by the most progressive international renewable energy sources – hydropower, and national practice, recommendations whereas in 2015 we selected the wind of the Organization for Economic power as our future development direction Cooperation and Development (OECD), and currently already own a wind farm NASDAQ Management Code, guidelines of 42 MW capacity. These are renewable for state-management enterprises of Baltic sources, whereas diversification of Institute of Corporate Governance (BICG) sources is one of our strategic goals. Transparency is one of the biggest priorities We started the year 2015 with two economic in our activity management. After making an projects important for the country – assessment of state-controlled companies construction of two modern great efficiency in the Lithuanian sector, OECD distinguished cogeneration power plants powered by Lietuvos Energija Group for its transparent waste and biofuel in the major cities of governance: sharing of information on Lithuania. These will be additional local planned governance changes with minor electricity and heat generation sources shareholders and investors, also running simultaneously solving issues of urban waste Appointment and Reward, Audit and Risk management and pollution reduction. Management Supervision Committees. In response to the growing need, in 2015 We have been recognized as the best we prepared and already have an energy governed state-controlled enterprise for efficiency and energy-saving solutions two years in a row in the reports of the enterprise Energijos Sprendimų Centras Governance Coordination Centre (GCC) that functioning on the principle of ESCO model, monitors and oversees activities of our Group. the activity of which makes it possible 10 points – this is the score granted by the to achieve the biggest energy saving GCC for the activity strategy of our Group. effect without big initial investments. In 2015, Transparency International declared In pursuit of value creation, we implement Lietuvos Energija as one of the two best changes continuously. In 2015, we centralized publicly reporting large companies in customer service and combined two related Lithuania: we were noted for disclosures of activities as we estimated that this would paid taxes and investments, implemented enable our customers and shareholders anti-corruption measures, as well as (the State) to save up to 64 million euros by organizational transparency in the company. 2020. We looked further into the future; a Such monitoring and recognition by local purified value chain and a more efficiency, and international institutions encourage dynamic structure, as well as pooled us to improve our governance standards competences would enable us to serve further, strengthen implementation of customers in a more qualified way, also transparency in the market, as well as create new services in the future, and adapt enhance our accountability for the public. to the market needs in a more flexible way. A part of all these consistent actions is Being a large and especially – state-controlled also this corporate responsibility report. corporate group, we pay great attention Please take note of the achievements to transparency of our activity. One of attained in the year 2015. essential quality leaps in our operation Sincerely, was implementation of the Corporate Dr. Dalius Misiūnas, Governance Guidelines that have laid a Chairman of the Board, basis of our activity. In this activity we were CEO 5 About the Report We present to you a Corporate Responsibility Report of Lietuvos Energija Group for the year 2015 covering the most important activities in the Group. We are one of the largest groups of energy Lithuania has changed beyond recognition undertakings in the Baltic States and – in terms of structure, quality, governance, prepared this report seeking to introduce transparency. The third European Union how the principles of responsible business energy package unbundled a chain of energy approach and corporate governance are sources (supply, transmission and distribution). reflected in our daily activities, future plans, Besides, performance of the gas distribution and the changing environment in the face function was started. Therefore, companies of constant challenges in the energy sector. of Lietuvos Energija Group manage and supervise electricity generation enterprises, This report was prepared in conformity with also electricity and gas distribution grids the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s covering the entire country by serving over principles covering the protection of 1.6 million electricity consumers and over human rights, employment relationships, 570 thousand gas consumers, whereas environmental and anti-corruption aspects the electricity and gas transmission grid in in organizations and having regard to the Lithuania is within the scope of responsibility global sustainable development (SDG) goals. of another corporate group – Epso-G. Companies of the Group belonging to This report presents activities of companies NASDAQ securities exchange (ESO and constituting Lietuvos Energija Group Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, LEG) also submit (generation, trade and supply, distribution separate social responsibility reports that are and customer service) for the 2015 calendar published on their own websites and website period. Our previous report was published as of NASDAQ Baltic securities exchange. ESO a part of the “Annual Report for 2014”. The and LEG, due to their participation obligations, report has not been audited or reviewed also submit their reports to the UN Global by third parties. The report is presented in Compact – publish them on the public the Lithuanian and English languages and is compact’s profile at www.globalcompact. published on the website at www.le.lt, as well ESO report is prepared in accordance with the as on websites of the Group’s companies to “Global Reporting Initiative” (GRI) guidelines, make it easily accessible for our stakeholders. LEG report – UN Global Compact’s principles. The Group’s companies – ESO (former UN Global Compact’s principles have LESTO) and Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba – are accompanied Lietuvos Energija for nearly participants of the UN Global Compact. ESO 10 years – since then, when the first social is a member of the Responsible Business responsibility report of the public company Association of Lithuania, LAVA, and participates Lietuvos Energija was prepared for the in the activities of its Board. LAVA is the year 2006. Since then, the energy sector in representative of the UN Global Compact. We seek that our reporting would improve each year and will greatly appreciate your observations and suggestions. Please send them to email address: komunikacija@le.lt. Thank you! 6 Corporate Responsibility Principles of the Group In its activities Lietuvos Energija Group is guided by the United Nations Global Compact’s principles defining business responsibility in the fields of human rights, workers’ rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption, and seeks to reduce an impact of its activities on the environment, community, other businesses, also participate with joint efforts in the solution of economic, social and environmental protection problems, and contribute to social development and economic growth. About the Global Compact UN-initiated Global Compact is the biggest voluntary business responsibility initiative involving the participation of not only business companies, but also other organizations, trade unions, public sector and civil society organizations in 145 countries of the globe. An endeavor of this international compact is to assist organizations in applying the compact’s principles in their activity strategies, foster cooperation and partnership between different sectors, within and outside the state seeking universal global development goals. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, • the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, • the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, • the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Human Rights in respect of employment and occupation. 10 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principles complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives Labour to promote greater environmental Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the responsibility; and freedom of association and the effective Principle 9: Encourage the development recognition of the right to collective and diffusion of environmentally friendly bargaining; technologies. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of Anti-Corruption forced and compulsory labour; Principle 10: Businesses should work Principle 5: Effective abolition of child against corruption in all its forms, including labour; and extortion and bribery. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination 7 Responsible Activity Policy of the Group Lietuvos Energija voluntarily seeks to ensure long-term progress in business and society, contribute to social development of society and creation of welfare. The main goal of Lietuvos Energija Group’s strategy is to double the value of the Group by 2020 and become the most valuable energy undertaking in the Baltic States. This value is understood as a sustainable balance among the three elements: return on assets, competitiveness enhancement and responsibility with respect to employees, society and environment. Return on the Group’s assets is grown by implementing the development: diversifying activities, developing new cost-efficient projects and activities by operating in an efficient manner on a daily basis. The company contributes to competiveness enhancement by ensuring a stable supply of electricity and natural gas, creating new products, fostering rational consumption of electricity and natural gas. The Group assumes responsibility before society and employees, proactively implements environmental requirements, ensures continuity and advancement of competences. In the responsible activity, Lietuvos Energija Group is guided by the Social Responsibility Policy of the corporate group approved by the Board. This document defines general activity directions and provisions on the basis of which a socially responsible and sustainably developed business culture and practice of the corporate group would be created. The policy is valid for all companies of the group. 8 Key Priorities Focus on Environmental Protection In our activities inside the Group, we seek to use the most advanced measures, the best accessible technologies and processes enabling to reduce impact on the environment, foster rational management and use of resources, cut down on expenses and waste, as well as to plan development with consideration to possible environmental impact aspects. Companies of the Group also carry out public education initiatives fostering rational and optimal consumption of energy, energy efficiency. Safety Safety assurance in activities is one of the top priorities of Lietuvos Energija Group. To ensure occupational safety in the energy sector, Occupational Health and Safety Policy is used within the Group. Top-level managers are responsible for safe and healthy work environment. In addition, much attention is paid to contractors’ work standards. Care is taken of consumer education on safe and responsible handling of electricity and gas. Citizenship and Responsibility in the Market Lietuvos Energija also deems a social-economic impact by companies of the Group, responsible relations in the market, transparency of activity, assistance and relations with the communities where it operates as an important priority of its responsible policy. A responsible activity model of of Lietuvos Energija Group is implemented through consistent activities in the following fields: Relationships Environmental with employees protection protection of human precautionary rights, quality of measures, responsible working place, equal activities, technologies opportunities Transparent Relationship with activities on the communities market partnership, cooperation, anti-corruption, support product liability 9 About the Organization Mission Vision Values: Sustainable value building To become an energy Responsibility, in the energy sector by undertaking with the Cooperation, promoting the development highest value in Baltic States. Results of the country’s economy and society. Briefly: Who We Are The rights and obligations of the shareholder The primary goal of the corporate governance of the Lietuvos Energija Group are is to achieve the effect of synergy aligning implemented by the Ministry of Finance different activities of the Lietuvos Energija of the Republic of Lithuania. In 2013, the Group companies and targeting them at Ministry of Finance approved a new corporate the achievement of the common goals at governance model – Corporate Governance the Group level. On 19 October 2015, the Guidelines that have become a basis of Management Coordination Centre recognized operation by Lietuvos Energija Group. Lietuvos Energija Group as the best managed state capital entity in 2014. High scores were given for transparency and management. The primary goal of corporate governance is to achieve the effect of synergy aligning different activities of Lietuvos Energija Group. Core Activities Core activities of the Group include generation and operates 8.5 thousand km distribution of electricity and heat, supply, trade and gas pipelines by serving more than 1.6 million distribution of electricity, trade, distribution electricity consumers and nearly 570 thousand and supply of natural gas, also servicing and gas consumers in the entire Lithuania. development of the electricity economy. Lietuvos Energija Group implements Lietuvos Energija Group is one of the largest development projects of strategic importance state-controlled groups of energy undertakings and goals of the National Energy Strategy. in the Baltic States. The parent company of the Lietuvos Energija shares belong to the State of Group – Lietuvos Energija UAB is responsible the Republic of Lithuania. Rights and duties of for management and coordination of the the Group’s shareholder are implemented by the Group’s activity, enhancement of efficiency, Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania. establishment of activity guidelines and rules, as well as coordination of activities in the fields During 2015, 2.01 TWh was generated and 8.53 of strategy and development, human resources, TWh electricity was transmitted to customers, risk management, audit, communication, etc. also 657 million m3 of natural gas was transported by the distribution grids. In 2015, Having over 5,300 employees, Lietuvos Energija the Group’s consolidated revenues amounted to Group manages and operates the key energy EUR 1,095.8 million, the Group’s EBITDA achieved generation capacities in Lithuania: an electricity EUR 221.1 million. In 2015, comparative profit distribution grid covering the whole territory, for twelve months totalled EUR 127.9 million. 10 Structure of the Group In 2015, the Group was comprised by Lietuvos Energija UAB and 20 daughter companies (including the Group’s Support Fund) that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Company. The structure of the Group as of 31/12/2015, a detailed list of companies of the Group are provided in the Annual Report, page 60): Lietuvos Energija UAB 94,39% 96,64% 96,13% Lietuvos energijos LESTO AB Lietuvos dujos AB gamyba AB 100% 100% 51% 50% 80% 100% 100% NT Valdos Elektros tinklos Verslo Technologijų ir Duomenų Vilniaus VAE SPB UAB paslaugos UAB aptarnavimo inovacijų logistikos centras kogeneracinė UAB centras UAB centras UAB UAB jėgainė UAB 67% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Lietuvos Energetikų Energijos Kauno Kauno Elektroninių LITGAS dujų tiekimas mokymo centras tiekimas Energetikos kogeneracinė mokėjimų UAB UAB VšĮ UAB remontas UAB jėgainė UAB agentūra UAB 100% 100% Geton Geton Energy SIA Energy OU Governance Structure Supervisory Council consists of 7 members (of which 3 are independent members and 5 members are employed at the Company). The Chief Executive Officer of the Company is the Chairman of the Board Board consists of 3 members (2 shareholders and 1 independent member)* Chief Executive Officer of the Company is not a member of the Board Chief Executive Officer of the Company The Board is not formed *The Board structure is different across the companies: no board is not formed in special purpose entities until active operations thereof; the board of service companies is formed ensuring the representation of all shareholders, as well as compliance with provisions of separate shareholder agreements or implementation of specific legal acts. 11 Key Operating Indicators of Lietuvos Energija Group Change (+/-) 2015 2014 EUR million % Revenue EUR million 1 095.8 972.7 123.1 12.7% Purchase of electricity, gas, fuel EUR million -774.0 -612.4 -161.6 26.4% and related services Operating expenses (comparable) EUR million -110.1 -119.2 9.2 -7.7% EBITDA EUR million 221.1 216.9 4.2 1.9% Net profit EUR million 55.3 -280.0 335.3 Net profit (comparable) EUR million 127.9 118.2 9.7 8.2% Electricity Generated electricity TWh 2.01 1.84 0.17 9.3% Distributed electricity via medium TWh 8.53 8.39 0.14 1.6% and low voltage networks Distributed to customers of independent suppliers TWh 5.41 5.17 0.23 4.5% Quality indicators of electricity supply SAIDI, min. (excl. force majeure) min. 66.0 71.6 -5.53 -7.7% SAIFI, units (excl. force majeure) units 0.84 0.90 -0.06 -7.0% Technological costs in the distribution network % 6.76% 7.31% -0.01 -7.6% Gas Distributed volume of gas TWh 6.83 7.78 -0.95 -12.2% Volume of gas sold TWh 14.76 8.31 6.45 77.6% Quality indicators of gas supply SAIDI, min. (excl. force majeure) min. 0.25 1.67 -1.43 SAIFI, units (excl. force majeure) units 0.0033 0.0060 -0.027 In 2015, the average duration of unplanned interruptions in electricity transmission (System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI), excluding the causes of force majeure circumstances, per customer, improved and was 66 minutes (71.6 minutes in 2014). The average duration of unplanned interruptions in gas transportation, excluding the effects of force majeure circumstances, per consumer, was low and equal to 0.24 minute (1.67 minutes in 2014). Taxes In 2015 Lietuvos Energija Group paid 167.9 million EUR in taxes to the state budget. Investments In 2015, the Group‘s investments increased by 15.4% or EUR 21 million and amounted to EUR 156.7 million compared to EUR 135.8 million in 2014. During 2015, there was a significant increase in investments in the maintenance of the electricity distribution network (EUR 21.1 million), the construction of the gas system (EUR 7.3 million), the reconstruction of the gas system (EUR 6 million). Dividends The state-owned group of companies Lietuvos Energija allocated EUR 52.6 million in dividends for 2014, which represent the high return among the state-owned companies. Having generated record level revenues and the highest net profit, in 2015, the dividends paid to the state budget by the company reached nearly EUR 86 million. 12 Governance of the Group put forward their conclusions, opinions, and suggestions. A committee should consist of at least The management bodies of Lietuvos Energija are three members of which at least one should be a a general meeting of shareholders and the Board, member of the Supervisory Council, and at least the supervision body – the Supervisory Council. one – an independent member. The Supervisory Council is a collegial supervision body operating on the scale of the Group elected The following committees of the Supervisory for a term of four years by a general meeting of Council have been set up within the structure shareholders. of Lietuvos Energija: The Supervisory Council of Lietuvos Energija • Risk Management Supervision Committee – consists of seven members: four natural persons submits conclusions and suggestions regarding representing the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry functioning of the governance and control of Energy, the Ministry of Economy, Office of the system and/or the most important risk factors, Chancellor of the Republic of Lithuania, and three as well as implementation of risk management independent members. or preventive measures; The Supervisory Council elects its chairperson • Audit Committee – regarding functioning of from its members. Such a model of forming the audit and control system in the Group; the Supervisory Council is consistent with the • Appointment and Reward Committee – corporate governance principles. In 2015, none of regarding appointment, withdrawal, rewarding, the Supervisory Council (also the Board) members assessment of activity by the Board members, participated in the capital of the Company or also formation of a general remuneration policy companies of the Group, whereas the chairperson for companies of the Group, establishment of the Supervisory Council was elected an of the remuneration level and composition, independent member. incentive principles, etc.) (A detailed structure of the management and supervision For efficient performance of functions and duties, bodies is available in the “Annual Report 2015”, p. 51-54) the Supervisory Council forms committees that The management bodies of Lietuvos Energija are a general meeting of shareholders and the Board, the supervision body – the Supervisory Council. Risk Management Risk is measured by the probability of the occurrence and the likely impact of risk (financial, The Group implements risk management plans; human exposure, reputation, etc.). potential risks list are reviewed once a year Risk management has three lines of defense: 1) The group defines the 5 key risks relevant to employees whose responsibility is to identify each employee’s daily activities: and manage risks, 2) employees in charge 1. Occupational Health and Safety of compliance, risk management; safety and 2. External regulatory risk prevention specialists, whose role is to coordinate, 3. Market developments and uncompetitive risk monitor and help workers manage risks; 3) internal 4. Information Security audit professionals whose function is to ensure 5. Project management risk and evaluate efficiency of first and second lines of defense. 13 During 2015, no instances of discrimination or any other incidents associated with human rights violations were identified in the corporate group. 14 Employees Employees Human Rights and Human Resources Policy Lietuvos Energija supports and respects international protection of human rights within the sphere of its influence, and assures that it does not contribute to human rights violations, also strictly speaks against any infringements upon them. Total number 5379* Company of employees Lietuvos Energija UAB 78 employees LESTO AB 2178 Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba AB 429 The Group implements a fair Lietuvos Dujos AB 971 and transparent remuneratiTechnologijų ir Inovacijų Centras UAB 187 on policy, observes the laws regulating overtime and worDuomenų Logistikos Centras UAB 16 king-time duration, speaks Energijos Tiekimas UAB 15 against discrimination (with respect to employees or Kauno Energetikos Remontas UAB 245 during working time) and forElektroninių Mokėjimų Agentūra UAB 1 ced or child labour, respects ELEKTROS TINKLO PASLAUGOS UAB 568 workers’ rights to rest, fosters work-family balance. NT Valdos UAB 240 Public Institution Centre of Training for Energy 145 Specialists LITGAS UAB 14 VAE SPB UAB 11 Verslo Aptarnavimo Centras UAB 171 Lietuvos Dujų Tiekimas UAB 97 Vilniaus Kogeneracinė Jėgainė UAB 13 Total 5 379 Human Resources Management Policy The Group seeks to maintain a value-based organizational culture boosting employees’ motivation and responsibility, cooperation and concerted achievement of the best results. We seek to attract and retain qualified employees, ensure mutual benefit, as well as to create long-term partnership relationships. A common human resources management policy of Lietuvos Energija Group establishes the principles of human resources management, is focused on the development of employees’ professional skills, formation of responsible organizational culture, ensuring the creation of greater value for customers, partners and society. * Number of valid employment contracts. 15 Trade Unions and Collective Agreements Percentage of men and In the four largest companies of the Group (LESTO, women employed at the Lietuvos Dujos, LEG, KER; cover 3,823 employees, i.e. Group is 75.8 % and 71 percent of all staff members) trade unions have 24.2 %, respectively. been set up and collective agreements have been implemented. The Company takes care of employees’ health, organizes informal events at its initiative to which it invites all employees, takes care of the Among employees holding management positions, establishment of an organizational culture favourable distribution by gender is also similar: 77.8 percent of for employees. managers consisted of men, and 28.2 percent – of women. Personnel Changes The number of staff members of Lietuvos Energija Remuneration System Group reduced by 4 percent or 223 employees due to The Group’s remuneration system ensures an objective mergers in 2015. assessment of positions according to required education, complexity of problems and responsibility Employees dismissed as redundant were duly level, which enables to manage expenses efficiently compensated, also provided with the conditions for and ensures that the business management additional training – how to prepare for job interviews, logic, results and value created is reflected in the adapt in the labour market. Besides, to facilitate search remuneration system. for jobs, agreements with recruitment companies were concluded. Average monthly wage of the Company’s employees before tax Education Category of employees, Average monthly wage, 56.1 percent of staff members within the Group are „Lietuvos energija“ Group in EUR holders of higher education (of which – 19 have Chief executive officer (CEO) 4 734 PhD degrees), 28 percent have advanced vocational Top-level managers 4 004 education, 13 percent – secondary education. Medium-level managers 2 079 Education structure: Experts, specialists, workers 984 Category of employees, Average monthly wage, Higher Advanced „Lietuvos energija“, UAB in EUR 2.9% 56.1% Vocational Chief executive officer (CEO) 6 788 13% Secondary Top-level managers 4 878 Medium-level managers 3 273 Other 28% Experts, specialists 1 801 The Group’s total wage fund for January-December Distribution of Personnel by Gender 2015 amounted to EUR 72,757 thousand. Due to specificity of activities – technological nature of works – the energy sector is prevailed by men; women choose jobs in administration, customer service units. Possibilities to choose the type of works are even for both genders, which is emphasized during the employee screening process. 16 Development of Organizational Competency Development and Career Employees Culture Lietuvos Energija Group consistently takes care of In 2015, much attention was paid to coordinated employees’ qualification advancement and ensures development of the organization, formation of that employees have all certificates prescribed by the new organizational culture, enhancement and the laws required by their job, as well as improved retention of competence. competences necessary for their jobs. Implementation of the project on human resource During 2015, internal and external training was (HR) management purification was started. A organized for employees of Lietuvos Energija Group function of consulting on HR management is being for 10,917 times – twice for each employee on formed: company managers have internal partners average. who devote more time to daily education of their In separate companies, at the Group level, different own company managers, and development of training of general, professional and managerial leadership within the organization. competences, e.g. leadership, team formation, For the third time, a 3600 employee competency change management, communication, project assessment was initiated in the Group of companies management, business process management, etc. during which time employees received feedback on was organized. from direct superiors, subordinates and colleagues. In 2015, a team of internal lectors was formed that In 2015, all employees of Lietuvos Energija Group participates in training programmes for the Group’s were presented a publication designated for them new employees and develops competences for the – “LE Book”. This is the guide of Group’s employees, existing employees. table book, intended for both, newcomers and oldCareer management, structuring of rotation system timers. The book generalizes the most important processes were further developed successfully. In corporate management principles, organizational 2015, 171 employees were rotated among the Group culture, goals and values of Lietuvos Energija. of companies, whereas a career inside the company The book enables to grasp quickly the most was made by 236 employees. important information necessary in daily work, and understanding on activity in the energy sector. In 2015, 171 employees were rotated among the Group of companies, whereas a career inside the company was made by 236 employees. Integration of New Employees Practice Opportunities Seeking to ensure a proper adaptation process of The Group’s companies establish conditions for new employees, “Newcomers’ Days” and training are students of higher and vocational education organized for new employees. During their time, schools to apply their theoretical knowledge and employees become familiar with the company’s acquire practical skills. strategy, managers, activities pursued by units. 243 Newcomers are briefed on the structure of the energy sector, the company’s strategic directions, During 2015, mission, vision, values, anti-corruption policy, most important operation principles of the energy trainees underwent practice in the sector, fundamentals of electrical engineering. New Group, of which 15 were employed employees are assigned tutors – employees of the subsequently in the company. same unit who are responsible for multi-purpose assistance for new employees during the probation period 17 An “Occupational Health and Safety Policy” (OHS) was approved in the Group, intended for forming in companies a safety culture based on personal responsibility and cooperation. Safety An active dialogue is carried out in the Group’s companies while implementing measures for Occupational Health and Safety Policy employees’ health care, monitoring, safe and clean Lietuvos Energija Group pays especially great attention work environment, as well as occupational safety and to the advancement of occupational health and safety culture improvement. Implementation of mandatory culture in workplaces, increasing the responsibility and additional measures in the fields of health care level for the employees themselves. and provision of employees with personal protective The toplevel managers are responsible for safe and equipment resulted in the reduction of incident rate. healthy work environment, whereas safety culture Seeking to improve professional preparation of is treated as a constituent part of the organizational employees working in the Group, their qualification culture. OHS specialists in the company take care is improved together with the Lithuanian Electricity of work instruments, assess risks of workplaces, and Association and Power Engineers Training Centre. In organize health examinations, vaccinations (for addition, excellence contests among power engineers employees working outdoors). are arranged on a regular basis. “Safety Days” are Works in the energy sector are associated with a conducted in the Group’s companies during which number of different risks: working at height, works time it is inspected how employees comply with the with fire, works with hazardous materials, hot surfaces, rules. etc. Most often different protective outfit must be used – helmets, glasses, safety belts, respirators, noise A zero tolerance policy protection, etc. for occupational safety violations is applied in the Group. 18 Employees In energy production and network maintenance Organization of Contractors’ Work companies of the group the health and safety Foremen and contractors are continuously management system OHSAS 18001:2007 was instructed and familiarized with existing and implemented. Auditors stressed in the audit possible risk factors, also works organization conclusion of the 2014 year that the companies and performance procedures prior to their properly adheres to the requirements of the beginning. Together with the State Labour OHSAS 18001:2007 system, and ongoing Inspectorate, seminars of occupational safety processes of occupational safety and health, are arranged for contractors’ employees. improvement of the work environment culture are efficient. Inspections are carried out in workplaces, violations are recorded, and even jobs are Certification of Energy Workers stopped sometimes. The public institution Energetikų Mokymų Centras (The Power Engineers’ Training Centre) In 2015, 4 occupational accidents were belonging to the Group became the first recorded in workplaces, of which one – a fatality accredited institution of power workers in of one contractor’s employee (in 2014 – 4 2015: the Centre’s certification division meets accidents, all fatal: 1 – employee of the Group, requirements of the Lithuanian LST EN ISO/ 3 – contractors). All accidents were thoroughly IEC 17024:2012 standard and was accredited investigated and their case was ascertained – to perform certification of workers in the incompliance with occupational health and electricity, heat, natural and liquefied gas, oil safety instructions. sectors, also of welders and welding operators. Job place inspections, training, organization of Safety Days, also other measures are implemented by companies of the Group at their initiative – such requirements have not been stipulated in the legal acts. All mandatory and additional measures for Inspectorate to agree that when granting ensuring occupational safety have been taken. rights for companies to perform works, their The Group plans together with the State ability to fulfil works safely should be assessed Labour Inspectorate and the State Energy more stringently. Taking into account an especially high-risk level, in 2015, at the recommendation of the Risk Management Committee of the Supervisory Council, a common risk reduction plan in the OHS field was prepared. By continuing this activity in 2016, an Occupational Health and Safety Committee was set up that coordinates OHS issues and initiatives at the whole-Group scale in focused endeavour to achieve a zero-accident rate. 19 Lietuvos Energija promotes electro-mobiles as a viable means of transportation, and development of the relevant infrastructure. 20 Environmental Protection Lietuvos Energija Group seeks to use natural resources in daily activities efficiently, reduce an impact of energy objects on people and the environment – to implement modern, efficient and safe Environmental protec tion technologies, reduce pollution, implement environmentally friendly innovations and solutions in energy generation. Energy undertakings consistently comply excavation works, supervision of planting, on their initiative with all environmental protection of the birds (especially storks) protection requirements and proactively population. take care of the construction of new equipment and renewal of old equipment One of the most important goals of to ensure the smallest possible impact on Lietuvos Dujos (Gas Company) in the environment. controlling and reducing air pollution with the help of technical measures is to take control of possible gas leaks. Challenges in Environmental Seeking to ensure reliability of gas systems, Protection maintenance, repairs and modernization Relevant environmental issues; energy of gas pipelines and their facilities is efficiency, reduction of fossil fuel, safe carried out. In 2015, emissions into the use of ecologically hazardous substances, atmosphere due to third person’s fault safe operation of equipment, responsible amounted to 179 MWh (671 MWh a year management of accumulated waste, ago). Gas consumption for technological reduction of air pollution, etc. needs associated with gas emissions amounted to 126,790 MWh (in 2014 – Energy generation companies also deal 125,044 MWh). with other challenges, e.g. assurance of allowable fluctuations in water levels in the In 2015, the Group paid 78 thousand euros Kaunas Sea and the Nemunas River (below of environmental pollution taxes and the Kaunas HE), preservation of biological 155 thousand euros of taxes for natural diversity, etc., meanwhile as regards the resources. distribution networks (both, gas and electricity), landscape issues are relevant – protection against visual pollution, earth The Group is consistently guided by requirements of international, EU and national legal acts and standards regulating environmental protection, professionally apply preventive measures reducing negative impact on the environment. 21 Environmental Management System reservation by Kruonis Pump Storage Power Plant Standards (PSPP), also generation of electricity, supply and equipment operation at Kaunas hydroelectric Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba (LEG) and Lietuvos power plant – comply with strict international Dujos maintains the environmental management environmental protection requirements. standard ISO 14001. The international certificate indicates that requirements set for the most After the last re-certification of Lietuvos Dujos, it is important environmental protection aspects of valid until 7 April 2018. identification, monitoring, management and improvement are complied with. The Company’s endeavour to make the smallest possible impact on the environment is enshrined LEG certificate is valid for all activities carried out in the environmental protection goals set on an in electric plants: generation of electricity and annual basis. Besides, requirements prescribed in heat carried out in Elektrėnai complex; operation the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control of electricity, heat, turbines, natural gas, oil and Permits for the monitoring of air, surface water, oil product equipment; generation of electricity underground water, soil pollution, as well as supply, equipment operation and power protection measures are implemented. Energy Generation from Renewable Sources Diversification of energy sources – one of the strategic activity goals of Lietuvos Energija Group enhancing energy autonomy by fostering renewable sources and solving climate change problems, also contributing to the implementation of the global sustainable development goals (SDG). Hydro-energy. Lietuvos Energija Group is the only one on the market offering the “Green Lithuanian energy” – certified electricity energy generated in Lithuania from renewable sources (RS) at Kaunas hydroelectric power plant. This type energy was introduced to the market on 22 March 2012, during the commemoration of the World Water Day. For those purchasing the green energy (both, companies and domestic consumers may purchase it), the Group’s company Energijos Tiekimas (ET) issues renewable energy guarantees of origin. In 2015, 15.6 percent of electricity supplied by ET consisted of renewable energy sources (215 GWh). Wind energy – one of sustainable development directions pursued by Lietuvos Energija. During 2015, preparations were made and at the beginning of 2016, two wind farms were acquired: one – in Lithuania, the second one – in Estonia (the first foreign investment by the state-controlled company). These are the first 42 MW wind power capacities of Lietuvos Energija Group, constituting approximately 5 percent of the total wind energy market in the Baltic countries. There are 860 MW capacity wind power plants in the Baltic countries, of which 500 MW are in Lithuania. The group plans during the first investment stage to acquire at least 500 MW capacity wind plants and their farms, and this way to diversify its electricity generation portfolio. To ensure activities of the Group’s data centres (“DATA INN” and J13), Lietuvos Energija uses only energy from renewable sources (green Lithuanian energy). 22 Withdrawal of Inefficient Equipment an opportunity to be provided with alternative in Electricity Generation energy sources; this will lead to the strengthening of the country’s energy efficiency and grid In 2015, the electricity generator Lietuvos Energijos flexibility. Gamyba took a decision to terminate operation of two units -5 and 6of the reserve electricity units Promotion of Electric Cars operating in Elektrėnai. These units that started By promoting electric cars as a viable ecological, generation of electricity in 1967-1968, have been environmentally friendly vehicle, and fostering the idle for several years and have been conserved development of infrastructure thereof, Lietuvos recently. They were withdrawn also after assessing Energija ensures a possibility to charge a car in a Environmental protec tion the situation on the market, price of natural gas, fast charging station. Approximately 1,000 kWh costly maintenance and negative impact they had of electricity is charged by electric cars in the EV on the environment. fast charging station opened already in 2014. Free electricity supply is ensured for the station by the Electricity Exchange Group’s company Energijos Tiekimas. From 1 October 2015, electricity exchange was The First Electric Car Race started with customers who installed small solar In 2015, an electric car race was initiated the power plants and would develop generation first one not only in Lithuania, but also in all Baltic using the infrastructure of the existing electricity countries. The race route – 300 km. Energijos distribution grid. By 1 October, LESTO concluded Tiekimas Company of Lietuvos Energija Grup was 19 contracts with generating customers; the total the main partner of this event. During the race, capacity of solar power plants amounts to 0.126 different type electric vehicles were tested. In 2016, MW. by continuing the tradition, races took place with This is a turning-point in the electricity energy: one type electric cars. since now any private customer may also become an energy generator. This way customers will have Approximately 1,000 kWh of electricity is charged by electric cars in the EV fast charging station opened already in 2014. Fostering Rational Energy are arranged, during which time companies Consumption and organizations share examples, advice and solutions. In addition, a trade fair of environment For business – the Green Protocol. friendly products and solutions is held. The Green Protocol is an initiative that was launched by the company five years ago – the For residents – days of safe and rational only one agreement in the country fostering electricity use rational and prudent use of electricity. Companies Seeking to encourage residents to contribute and organizations are invited to join the Green to the preservation of environment and energy Protocol in confirmation that they approve the sources, in 2015, for two years in a row, a cycle of ideas fostering rational use of electricity and events on rational and safe electricity usage was undertake to apply them in practice. arranged in 15 libraries of the country. Residents gathered were informed how to analyse and Currently, the Green Protocol has been joined by assess household electricity costs, what habits 200 companies. Each year, elections and awards have the greatest effect on bills. To foster rational for a company using electricity in the most energy usage, a website www.tiekkiekreikia.lt was rational way, as well as a workshop for businesses established 23 For schools – a project on preservation of discharged waste; transport and mobility needs, as resources well as supply with work instruments. This project The goal of the educational project “ A Sustainable received an award in 2015, see page 41. School” launched by LESTO is to encourage communities of educational institutions to use energy sources sparingly and preserve the Landscape Protection environment. Schools involved in the project LESTO engaged in the operation of electricity assessed what impact they have on the surrounding distribution grids installs cables in locations where environment (what ecological footprint they wires of former overhead lines are dangerously leave) and how it is possible to improve these close to plantings or where outdated infrastructure indicators during a year. The schools measured the causes breakdowns. Cable lines ensure more reliable ecological footprint by seven criteria: consumption electricity supply for residents and are safer, besides of electricity, heat, water and food; amount of allow enjoying more beautiful landscape. During 2015, 1,673 km of overhead lines were installed under the ground (of which during 2014–2025, 18 thousand km of underground and insulated lines are planned to be aligned). Responsible Development measures and during the contract validity period compensates the investments sustained from future By implementing development projects, Lietuvos savings. This activity enables to achieve the biggest Energija gives priority to environmental protection energy savings effect without handsome initial and public health, also seeks to enhance economic investments and social welfare. Development of co-generation power plants New biofuel boiler room Lietuvos Energija Group implements projects on In May 2015, a biofuel boiler room was opened in great efficiency modern co-generation power Elektrėnai, where advanced environmental pollution plants powered by waste and biofuel in Vilnius and reducing and especially efficient equipment were Kaunas. By generating heat and electricity, power installed. For biofuel combustion, fluidised bed plants ensure smaller heat generation prices for technology was chosen, what enables to minimise the city consumers, also additional local electricity emission of pollutants into air. This technology is generation at competitive price, as well as will solve suitable for biomass combustion best of all. Waste waste management problems. According to the formed during forest cutting in Lithuania or lumber Government resolution of 28 May 2014, the projects not useful for other economic sectors is used as fuel. were recognised as economic projects of state A 40 MW-capacity boiler room ensures approximately significance. 90 percent of heat demand by Elektrėnai city, greenhouses of Kietaviškių Gausa UAB, and Elektrėnai The national programme for the development of complex. Heat is generated in it all year round. heat economy foresees that the electrical capacity of power plants built in Vilnius may reach up to 145 Energy Saving Solutions MW, and investments – up to 328.4 million euros. By assessing environmental challenges and The capacity of power plants in Kaunas could reach seeing a growing potential, Lietuvos Energija up to 53 MW, and investment – up to EUR 138.4 Group undertook one more activity –ESCO model. million, accordingly. Preparations were made in 2015, and this year The project is implemented in Vilnius by Lietuvos already a new company Energijos Sprendimų Energija independently; also, a possibility to Centras UAB was incorporated the core activity attract partners during other stages of project whereof – enhancement of energy consumption implementation has been foreseen. The project efficiency and development of projects on on co-generation power plant is development in renewable energy sources in Lithuania and abroad. Kaunas Lietuvos Energija together with a partner – This undertaking invests into energy efficiency Fortum Heat Lietuva UAB. 24 Environmental Impact Assessment In 2015, an environmental impact assessment (EIA) for the construction of a new cogeneration plant in Vilnius was made. Independent experts made an environmental impact assessment of intended economic activity on human health, soil, surrounding air, biological diversity, landscape, social–economic environment, cultural values, as well as possible noise, smell and other aspects. According to the EIA, this co-generation plant will meet the strictest requirements of Environmental protection Lithuanian and EU legal acts, will be modern, safe and environmentally friendly. The power plant will also solve a waste management problem – instead of accumulation in landfills, biofuel and sorted out, not suitable for further recycling, non-hazardous, yet having energy value municipal waste will be used as fuel. In addition, uninterrupted monitoring of emissions will be carried out, whereas its data will be published. Seeking to hear out community issues, Lietuvos Energija together with EIS drafters arranged meetings with communities in Paneriai, Žvėrynas, Karoliniškės, Lazdynai, Pilaitė and Šeškinė neighbourhood councils and other places before the beginning of EIA official procedure. Questions and offers of community representatives were included into the EIA. The greatest economic benefit of the project – possibility to reduce heat generation price for Vilnius residents and to generate up to 5 percent electricity necessary for Lithuania at the competitive price. The project will contribute to creation of new jobs in the generation of renewable energy sources: up to 50 of new staff members are planned to be recruited. The EIA report is published on the website of co-generation plants projects at: http://www.kogen.lt/PAV-ataskaita. Resource Saving percent of LESTO corporate customers changed paper bills into electronic ones. The Group’s companies use less paper in daily activity – ever more documents are managed All employees are reminded in e-mails to print electronically, through special document documents on paper only in case of necessity. management systems. All paper used in the office The Group’s companies that publish newsletters is sorted and delivered for recycling, printed on intended for employees prepare them only both sides, usually – in black ink. It is incited to in the electronic format. Besides, this way it print publications intended to present important congratulates its customers with traditional projects, activities, information to be on the types holidays. of responsible paper, whereas periodic or other reports (like this one) – are not printed. The organization of meetings among employees of the Group’s different companies and units is The Group’s companies not only endeavour to fostered using video conferences, this way cutting reduce quantities of the paper used inside the down on the number of trips. The Company organizations, but also foster their customers to fosters prudent use of electronic equipment, decline paper bills and payment books by shifting paper and sorting. to remote service channels. This way, over 90 25 Seeking to draw attention to the culture of special containers for discarding no longer used environment preservation and conservation, each small electrical, electronic equipment and batteries. year the Group’s companies where their units Production waste is cleaned in cleaning facilities; operate, actively join the universal environmental also oil product footprint alarms have been installed. management initiative DAROM (Let’ Do It), also Measures to reduce the need of resources for own participate in the public campaign “A Day without a needs have been implemented according to the Car”. resource saving plan approved by the company. For safe management and utilization of waste generated Waste Management in production activity, contracts with specialized Special waste bins have been built in units of the companies are concluded. Group’s companies for sorting waste, as well as Waste Management 2015: in Elektrėnai complex, 39 t of biofuel ash was transferred to waste managers, 132 t of sand waste, 440 t of liquid fuel ash, 7 t of absorbents, 1.5 ethylene-glycol waste, 22 t of chemical waste not suitable for use, 16,35 t of activated coal waste, 10.57 t of ion exchange resins waste, 1,168 t of construction and insulation materials containing asbestos, 5 t of plastic and rubber waste, 5 t of paper and cardboard waste, 2,5 t of wood waste, 763 t of electrical engineering scrap, 3,300 t of ferrous metal, 134 t of copper scrap, 38 t of aluminium scarp were sold to metal recyclers. Household waste collected in the territory of the object is disposed by a specialized company on a contract basis. Household waste collected in Kruonis PSPP is disposed by a specialized company on a contract basis. During 2015, 33.28 t of domestic waste was disposed. During 2015, Kruonis PSPP transferred for utilization 21.27 t of hazardous waste (of which 9.5 t of oiled water, 0.04 t of white-type fluorescent lamps, 0.035 t of used batteries, 0.4 t of oily wiping cloths, 0.28 t of electrical and electronic equipment scrap, 11 t of oil product mud, 0.01 t of oil filters), 0.46 t of non-hazardous waste, and sold 12.66 t of ferrous metal scrap. During 2015, Kaunas HE transferred for utilization 0.158 t of hazardous waste, 0.88 t of non-hazardous waste, sold 2.12 t of ferrous metal scarp. Household waste collected in the territory of the object is disposed by a specialized company on a contract basis. During 2015, approximately 6.48 tons of household waste was generated. In Lietuvos Dujos Company an environmental management system was implemented and certified in conformity with requirements of ISO 14001 standard; it is constantly managed and improved In 2015, TIC supplied to waste collectors 9,386 kg of computer hardware waste. In NT Valdos – 1,547 tons of waste, (of which 88 t are hazardous, 247 t non-hazardous, 1,212 t of household waste). In 2015, Kauno Energetikos Remontas (KER) company transferred for safe utilization more than 18 types of waste: insulation materials, not specified 17 06 01 and 17 06 03 – 2,140 kg; absorbents, filter materials (including otherwise not specified oil filters), wiping cloths, protective clothing polluted with hazardous chemical substances – 4,306 kg; ferrous metals – 20 kg; otherwise not specified components; vehicle components – 184 kg; used tyres – 576 kg; plastic – 202 kg; packaging containing residue of hazardous chemical substances or polluted with them – 140 kg; paint and varnish elimination waste containing organic solvents or other hazardous chemical substances – 168 kg; oily water of oil products/water separators– 914 kg; mixed construction and demolition waste, not specified 17 09 01, 17 09 02 and 17 09 03 – 279,644 kg; mixed municipal waste – 30,002 kg; insulation materials containing asbestos – 4,200 kg; pickling acids – 40 kg; mineral non-chlorinated insulating and heat transmitting lubricant – 7,284 kg; other emulsions – 980 kg; tiles and ceramics – 9,700 kg; concrete, brick, tile and ceramic product mixtures, not specified 17 01 06 – 4,536 kg; paper and cardboard packaging – 440 kg; plastic (together with PET (polyethylene terephthalate)) packaging 15 kg. 26 Environmental protection Optimization of the transport fleet during 2013-2014 and withdrawal of nearly 12 percent of cars resulted in EUR 0.7 million savings. Transport Fleet mostly used for maintenance of the distribution grid infrastructure. In 2015, Lietuvos Energija Group started to centralize the transport fleet. Its goal is to save In Vilnius, the Group encourages employees to use the Group’s transport administration services. The a public bicycle system (replace a car parking space Group seeks to buy uniform car rental services, with the city’s orange bike subscription). including maintenance, insurance, repairs, etc. Offers were assessed on the basis of cost-efficiency Optimization of the transport fleet during 2013criteria – apart from the service price, fuel 2014 and withdrawal from operation of nearly 12 consumption of vehicles offered was assessed. percent of cars resulted in EUR 0.7 million savings. The Group uses 1,234 vehicles in a centralized way, of which 292 are special transport – different purpose minivans, small off-roads, vans, minibuses, For job tasks, employees also use electric cars and common bicycles (electric bicycles as well). 27 We seek that ethics and transparency principles are adhered to in the market in which we operate, and, first of all, we do not tolerate corruption. 28 Anti-Corruption Activity The Group emphases not tolerating any manifestation of corruption and speaks for high ethics, fairness and transparency in activity standards. It is important for us to work fairly, transparently and establish reliable relations – with our customers, partners, suppliers, institutions. Therefore, we seek that ethics and transparency principles are adhered to in the market in which we operate, and, first of all, we do not tolerate corruption. The Board of Lietuvos Energija has Prevention of corruption is one of approved the Group’s Zero Tolerance to functions of the Prevention and Corruption Policy (in 2014), and has made Control units operating in the Group’s a public commitment to comply with companies. Complex internal control legal standards associated with activities, mechanisms aimed to monitor and including anti-corrupt ones, to fight identify possible corruption risk factors against corruption and to implement have been implemented; activity control is Anti-corruption ac tivities anti-fraud measures. The policy is applied continuously pursued, activity processes are to all employees, contractor, suppliers, improved. consultants, other intermediaries. Companies of Lietuvos Energija Group share The Group of companies does not support experience in antifraud implementation and and refrains from any forms of impact – challenge management among themselves both, direct and indirect – to politicians or and with other companies of the country – political parties. by taking part in activities of the Lithuanian Association of Responsible Business (LAVA). The Group clearly regulates the procedure regarding gifts and other benefits. In 2016, the Group plans meetings of the Employees are briefed on the benefit and dialogue with stakeholders during which significance of fight against corruption. also antifraud challenges will be discussed. All newcomers of the Group must become Whistleblowing familiar with the Zero Tolerance to Corruption Policy as well as to participate The Group encourages to notify of in mandatory training on anti-corruption possible instances of corruption by e-mail and business ethics. The Zero Tolerance to pasitikejimolinija@le.lt or phone +370 640 Corruption Policy is improved, renewed, 88889. These contacts may be used by supplemented, and persons responsible for both, employees and all parties concerned the implementation of this policy have been – the phone number and e-mail address appointed. are published on the website. The Group undertakes to keep confidentiality of notifiers. The Group encourages to notify of possible instances of corruption by e-mail pasitikejimolinija@le.lt or phone +370 640 88889. 29 Prevention of corruption is one of functions of the Prevention and Control Units operating in the Group’s companies. Anticorruption Education training in the Group on alignment of private interests, personal data protection, physical and In 2015, Lietuvos Energija for the first time joined information safety. the International Fraud Awareness Week. The Group continued this campaign in the field of fraud In 2015, two notices were received by e-mail and awareness: encouraged employees to take interest two phone calls on which basis actions were taken in in damage caused by corruption, to recognize order to ensure that suspicions expressed regarding manifestations thereof, not to be indifferent. violations of antifraud provisions are investigated and possibilities of their recurrence in the future are The International Fraud Awareness Week is organized eliminated. None of the Group’s company was filed each year by the Association of Certified Fraud charges due to antifraud violations or was imposed a Examiners (ACFE). According to its data, a “typical fine in 2015. organization due to fraud each year loses 5 percent of income. ACFE trust lines are identified as one of the most effective fraud detection methods”. Based Recognition of Transparent Activity on investigation conducted by the Association, In 2015, Lietuvos Energija was recognized one of the usually 40 percent of all fraud cases are established best publicly accounting companies in Lithuania on receipt of notification by the trust line. The – in the accountability study conducted by the majority, 49 percent of notifiers, are company Lithuanian division of Transparency International, the employees. Group occupied the second place. Upon invitation of lecturers from the “Special Investigation Service” to the Group’s companies, lectures on anti-corruption for the management staff and employees working with customers were held. The Prevention Service employees conducted 30 Transparency Enhancement in reports and information on ongoing procurements. Procurement Suppliers participating in procurements must The function of centralized procurement is confirm that the supplier has not been involved performed in the Group by one of the companies for the last five years in any activity associated Verslo Aptarnavimo Centras UAB. VAC carries with corruption, bribery, fraud, tax evasion or out procurement and services of planning and money laundering (as stipulated in Art. 45(1) of the implementation of the public procurement of European Council Directive 2004/18/EC). goods, services or works. All public procurement carried out in the Group is centralized; Providers of large-scale construction works procurement processes are standardized and services must submit certificates of the LST EN ISO concentrated in one internet platform. 9001:2001 (ISO 9001:2001) standard or equivalent documents issued in the European Union member Seeking to ensure a transparent and open states, in evidence that the supplier’s quality procurement process, as well as an open dialogue, management system conforms to requirements VAC invites each year suppliers to information of the standards (copies of certificates must be meetings during which time it briefs on the plans, submitted). news or changes, presents in detail great-value procurements planned by the Group’s contracting The Group’s companies purchasing construction companies. works make an assessment of contractors with which cooperation is maintained, on a regular The Group’s contracting companies notify in the basis, also perform continuously an assessment information system of Central Portal of Public of suppliers’ qualification. Compliance with Anti-corruption activities Procurement (CVPIS) all procurements, except for requirements of legal acts and environmental the low value ones, draft technical specifications, fairness is one of the most important advantages also inform on their announcement additionally of the corporate partners and requirements on its websites, and submit public procurement prescribed in contracts. All public procurement carried out in the Group is centralized; procurement processes are standardized and concentrated in one internet platform. An Initiative to Correct Problem Areas At the end of 2015, VAC conducted auditing of contracts of the Group’s contracting organizations during a year and ascertained hat contract values of some of the concluded contracts were exceeded (contracts were not terminated upon the expiry of their intended scope). Seeking the greatest possible transparency in implementing the Law on Public Procurement, Lietuvos Energija, on its own initiative, appealed to the Public Procurement Service by informing about possible violations and introduced already ongoing changes enabling to avoid violations in the future: additional measures for contract control that will allow to monitor the performance of contracts and prevent similar violations in due time. A part of the materials has also been transferred to law enforcement institutions, and responsible employees were subject to liability prescribed in legal acts (disciplinary sanctions). 31 Customer service platform Gilė – one self-service website, two applications for smart phones and one phone number for all answers about gas and electricity. 32 Responsibility in the Market Value Created for the Customers More efficient activity of the state-controlled Group gives direct benefit for society – more favourable tariffs, faster and smoother procedures, better quality services, better services. In 2015, the Group implemented an has concentrated the best practice under especially significant project – a value the “single-contact” principle enables to chain purification programme seeking to offer services relevant for customers more work more effectively to create the biggest expeditiously in the way convenient for them possible value for the state, and provide – internet, telephone or customer service additional benefits and the most favourable centre, as well as to save time and costs. prices for the customers. Purification: energy production activity is Synergy: Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius concentrated in Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba (Energy Distribution Operator) (ESO) was set undertaking, whereas the wholesale of up on the basis of LESTO and Lietuvos Dujos. electricity has been separated from it and ESO pooled the best competences of two shifted to Energijos Tiekimas. Besides, companies – bigger effectiveness, smaller upon reorganization by merger of two operating costs and additional benefit companies under the Group’s management for electricity and natural gas consumers. – Elektros Tinklo Paslaugos and Kauno Business, first of all, is assured even more Energetikos Remontas, the company favourable prices of energy resources. Other Energetikos Paslaugų ir Rangos Organizacija benefits of synergy: (EnePRO) (Energy services and contracting Simpler and faster electricity and gas organization) was set up. getting procedure for new customers Joint customer service. Specialists Responsibilit y in the marke t increased the Lithuania’s “Doing Business ensuring customer service are concentrated 2016” index (for more, see “Improvement in one company of the Group – Verslo of business environment”, p. 20). Aptarnavimo Centras (Business Service Greater flexibility enables to apply new Centre, Lith. VAC). This will enable to cut down products according to the customer on operating expenses, enhance flexibility needs (e.g. “the green Lithuanian energy”). and create additional benefits for consumers. VAC also administers contributions, maintains Effectiveness: since the beginning of bookkeeping, manage debts. 2016, all electricity and gas customers have been served in a common services centre Gilė under the management of one company of the Group. For providing online 15 percent – cutdown on costs of the Group’s companies after services, a website www.manogile.lt was installed, as well as a smart application was centralizing processes in VAC. introduced. Common customer service that The Group serves approximately 1.6 million of electricity consumers and over 570 thousand of gas consumers. 33 Better Conditions In 2015, the group renewed contracts on supply of liquefied gas with Statoil and additionally signed a During 2015, 13.5 customers were connected to the gas percent more new contract with Statoil on which basis it will satisfy more than half (approximately 300 million m3) of the network (4,000 new consumers). customer’s demand for gas. duration of getting electricity in Lithuania this year Contracts with Statoil enabled to reduce shortened by 42 calendar days as compared with the maintenance costs of Klaipėda LGT by more than preceding year (up to 95 days). The getting electricity one third (approximately 34 million EUR), and at the rating is measured according to the four parameters: same time – energy prices for the final consumers: number of procedures, connection time, price of heat consumers will pay annually less by 11.3 million works, and this year grid reliability and electricity EUR, electricity consumers 0 9.8 million EUR, price were simultaneously assessed for the first time. industry consumers – approximately 7 million EUR, also gas consuming residents and enterprises – by Relations with Investors 2 million EUR and 3.6 million EUR accordingly. The Campaigns of Lietuvos Energija Group’s companies new commercial contract signed with Lietuvos Dujų LESTO, Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba and Lietuvos Dujos Tiekimas in 2015 enabled to reduce prices of natural were listed in the official trading lists of Nasdaq Vilnius gas supply for customers regardless of Gazprom Exchange. The listing of company shares was started pricing that has changed unfavourably. since 17 January 2011, 1 September and 23 April 2011, accordingly. Company shares are traded only in The result: after 1 March 2016, Nasdaq Vilnius Securities Exchange. LESTO, Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, Lietuvos Dujos have issued prices of natural gas reduced for ordinary registered shares with a nominal value of 0.29 corporate customers by 16 percent EUR. on average. From the middle of 2016, final prices may also reduce During Nasdaq Baltic Market Awards 2015, the Group’s companies received even three awards – for progress for residents. achieved by Lietuvos Dujos and LESTO in improving relations with investors in 2015. Business Environment Improvements In 2016, Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius (ESO) that Lietuvos Energija Group has markedly simplified and was set up after the merger of LESTO and Lietuvos speed up the connection of new customers to the Dujos became the largest in terms of market networks – the progress was confirmed by the World Capitalization Company in securities exchanges of the Bank who declared a rating of business conditions Baltic States. in the countries* Doing Business 2016, in which Lithuania rose from 66 place to 54 place according Benefit of Changes to the Market to the getting electricity indicator. Changes implemented in Lietuvos Energija Group Such assessment of the World Bank– is an input in 2015 essentially reduce energy infrastructure of Lietuvos Energija Group in improving business costs and price for consumers, whereas centralized conditions and this way increasing the attractiveness and more effective processes alleviate the burden of the country for investors or procedures on business, enable to ensure even more favourable service prices and cutting down According to the World Bank methodology, the on business expenses for energy, more frequent * Doing Business is an assessment of the business environment made by the World Bank. By conducting this Doing Business Report, the business environment is assessed according to 10 indicators, including the getting electricity process). 34 Contracts with Statoil enabled to reduce maintenance costs of Klaipėda LGT by more than one third (approximately 34 million EUR), and at the same time – energy prices for the final consumers option for energy from renewable sources – all Lithuania and Baltic countries: after emergence of this leads to greater business competitiveness in a new alternative suppliers, the price of natural gas the country and establishes greater possibilities to has markedly reduced, which became close to the grow a sustainable economy in the country. price level of competitive European markets, and for the first time, the sale of natural gas was started from Diversified energy supply sources (contracts with Lithuania to Estonia. The awards were arranged by more suppliers) enable to ensure a competitive the BiznesPolska.pl portal and BizPoland magazine. market of natural gas, what will have a positive effect on the country’s current account balance. Apart from changes to consumers, these projects Customers Appreciate Quality ensure positive benefit for the State budget. To improve service quality, customers’ opinion polls Responsibility in the market are conducted in the Group’s companies each year. Based on the survey results and the good Enhancement of the Country’s international practice trends, Lietuvos Energija Energy Independence implements systemic customer service improvement An input of Lietuvos Energija Group into Lithuania’s measures. energy safety and positive market changes was also recognized by an Eastern and Central European In autumn 2015, survey on customer satisfaction Clean Energy Award. A five-year contract concluded with electricity and gas supply companies disclosed with Statoil by the Group’s company LITGAS ensured better average indicators as compared with those of gas flow necessary for operation of the liquefied European and world utility services companies. natural gas (LNG) terminal. This flow enables to maintain viability of the alternative import source The satisfaction index of private electricity customers by establishing the conditions to acquire at any increased by 4 points in 2015, as compared with time LNG in the world market, as well as fosters 2014, up to 80, of corporate customers – by 2 points, competition on the market. up to 76. The index of natural gas private customers is analogous (80 points), and of business – 77 points. After conclusion of agreements, essential turning The European average index is 70, and the world’s points took place in the natural gas markets in average index – 73. 35 36 Community Relations Activity of Lietuvos Energija for creating a monument to M. K. Oginskis Support Fund and his descendants initiated by Rietavas Countrymen’s Club, events of the 20th Lietuvos Energija, based on order of the Pažaislis Music Festival, events of the Minister of Finance of the Republic of LithuAssociation TEDx Vilnius, UNICEF children’ ania, has established a support fund that run in Vilnius marathon “For Every Child”. supports initiatives and projects significant and valuable for the State and society. More information on all beneficiaries of financial assistance and conditions of the The support fund of Lietuvos Energija Group Fund’s activity is available on the website at: granted support in 2015 for 19 projects http://www.le.lt. and activities, and nearly 600 thousand euros were distributed. The fund’s board established as support for children suffering Science and Research from oncological diseases, sports and Research Centre – for Solving Energy culture priority areas at the national level Problems during 2015. In the fast changing world, business Support was granted for such projects as constantly faces challenges for the solution for support and charity fund Mothers’ Union whereof scientific progress must be project “Family home” – for building an invoked. In 2015, Lietuvos Energija together accommodation complex for families with with Kaunas University of Technology (KTU) children suffering from oncological diseases, opened a joint Lithuanian centre of Applied participation of Lithuanian disabled athletes Energy Research where technological in Paralympic Games, or development challenges emerging in the energy sector of St. Christopher’s Chamber Orchestra will be solved, as well as new activity ideas aimed to enhance accessibility of culture will be developed. for Lithuanian residents (organizing free concerts in the regions). The goal of the Centre – together create innovative solutions for academic The priority at the regional level is given for community and business necessary for social, education, art, culture, science and improving technological activities of energy sports (except for extreme and enhanced organizations and to implement projects risk sports) projects and activities of that will solve global energy problems. communities in the proximity whereof Their implementation will be assumed by companies of the Group operate. Financial qualified specialists of Lietuvos Energija assistance was granted to, for example, together with KUT scientists and the most Elektrėnai ice hockey club Energija, project promising students. It is expected that ideas Rel ations with the communities The support fund of Lietuvos Energija Group granted support in 2015 for 19 projects and activities, and nearly 600 thousand euros were distributed. 37 will be suggested for the centre not only by students Research in the Environmental Protection and scientists, but also by business representatives, Institute whereas the results will contribute to sustainable Lietuvos dujos, together with Vilnius Gediminas development. Technical University (VGTU), Environmental Protection Institute initiated and in 2015 conducted a study KUT scientists actively participated in meetings with aimed to ascertain the impact of different fuel types companies of Lietuvos Energija Group and put forward on air pollution. The most popular heating methods – more than 10 offers for the development of new coal, peat briquettes, natural gas, firewood and wood inventions and technological solutions. briquettes – were compared. The research was made Besides, “A Bank of Ideas” operates in the Centre for by the modelling way; it was compared how dispersal which students, scientists and all interested in energy and concentration of emissions into air changes under development future may send offers by e-mail: ideja@ identical meteorological conditions. It was determined le.lt. during the research that natural gas – a unique type of fuel practically not emitting any solid particles. The An idea will be implemented in the case if the value results of this study were introduced to the public created will be bigger than resources necessary through the most popular media, by preparing for implementing it, also if the idea will enable to articles and video reportages, publishing scientists’ contribute to the strategic goal of Lietuvos Energija commentaries and recommendations. Group – to double the Group’s value by 2020. It will be assessed whether some ideas may turn into long-term or even international projects. The Centre runs “A Bank of Ideas” to which students, scientists and all interested in energy development future may send offers by e-mail: ideja@le.lt. Relations with Local Community Objects of Power Engineers – Open for Society For Elektrėnai region community, where the Companies of Lietuvos Energija Group are the main production activity of the Group has been object of interest to society. Seeking to contribute concentrated, traditional public events “Lietuvos to the education of society, especially young Energijos Gamyba presents” – meetings with famous generation, on energy, free tours are organized in people, public figures. In total, already thirteen them. For example, during 2015, about two and a meetings of this cycle have been arranged that have half hundred participants visited electricity plants of been visited by over 400 participants. Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba – combined cycle unit in Elektrėnai, Kruonis PSPP, Kaunas HE. In 2015, Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba helped Elektrėnai firemen to acquire a modern heavy-weight vehicle More than 200 interested persons also visited one of Volvo with a lift reaching a height of 42 m, in order to the most modern data centres in the region – Data ensure an efficient fire safety on the territory of the Inn, Centre of Technologies and Innovation, tours objects held in possession. If an extreme situation around LESTO objects, as well as Lietuvos Dujos occurs, this vehicle will be used not only in the practical training site in Panevėžys. territory of Elektrėnai complex belonging to Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba (where energy generation The Group’s companies take an active participation capacities important for the country are under in traditional events “Power Engineers’ Day” operation – a combined cycle units and reserve commemorated on 17 April every year. In 2015, the power plant, also fuel depot, biofuel boiler room), Energy and Technology Museum offered for visitors but within the limits of the entire Elektrėnai city. free educational events: guided tours, vivacious 38 fames and violent concert of cello players from the first Vilnius electricity plant to the overview of Latvia. On the families’ day, popular performances for traditional and alternative energy sources were held, the small ones were held. also orientational games, power engineers’ exhibition on the topic “Daily life and adventures at work” by The goal of events is to familiarise society with disclosing what power engineers are doing in fact. activities of companies, possibility to communicate live with people working in the Lithuanian energy sector, their professions. Lectures, ranging from Long-term Initiatives In 2015, long-term social responsibility projects for children, youth and general public were continued, united by active involvement of different society groups, ideas of safety and effective energy usage, as well as environment preservation. “As much as needed” The project is intended to foster rational use of energy. In October-November 2015, a cycle of conferences “As much as needed for the INDUSTRY” organized by LESTO with partners was held. The aim of events organized in five major Lithuanian cities – to educate the country’s business, especially industrial enterprises, to use energy resources in a rational wat. During them, experience was shares by experts and community representatives, who delivered repots about benefits of LED lighting, compensation of reactive electricity, energy audit. During events in 2015 a discussion was held not only about use of electricity, but also about use of natural gas: for the first time the event was organized together with the natural gas distribution company Lietuvos Dujos. Five conferences were attended by nearly 400 representatives of the country’s industrial enterprises – mostly power engineers and management staff. Operation 2020. This project is aimed to foster responsible handling of electrical devices, enhancing residents’ awareness about safe handling of electrical appliances and reduce negative consequences caused by irresponsible or malicious behaviour of residents. As the biggest support in fight with thefts is residents’ citizenship, LESTO continued cooperation with the Lithuanian Association of Municipal Elders – in September 2015, the company’s representatives met with 38 elders of Jurbarkas, Pagėgiai, Šilalė, Tauragė districts, discussed topics of thefts from transformer stations, accident prevention in the region. ElektroMagija – an educational initiative intended to educate children and youth on electricity, its benefits, threats, rational use, saving, safety, fostering through games, trials and other attractive measures to handle safely electricity and electrical devices. On the project website, virtual heroes tell about electricity, its benefits and hazards in a playful Relations with the communities way, whereas while playing electronic games, it is possible to find out not only about dangers raised by electricity, but also to learn how to handle it safely and use prudently. Lietuvos Dujos employees actively contribute to assistance and support for socially vulnerable society groups. The Company regularly organizes and participates in social activities. In 2015, by continuing a long-term tradition, a charity trade fair was arranged by the public institution Mažoji Guboja (day services centre of artistic occupancy for disabled people) 39 40 Awards for Responsible Activity We are delighted to see that our efforts to act responsibly have been noticed and appreciated – this inspires us to seek improvement on the path of sustainable business while creating the future of the energy sector and promoting other market participants. Recognition of Corporate Governance. On 18 March 2016, the weekly Veidas elected as a “CEO of the Year 2015” the Director General of Lietuvos Energija Group of companies Dr. Dalius Misiūnas. During prestigious elections held for the sixteenth year in a row, for the first time the winner was elected a CEO of a state-controlled company. The Commission assessed financial activity of companies, innovation, competiveness, uniqueness of products made and services, social activities, and social responsibility. The Best State-Controlled Company. In October 2015, the Management Coordination Centre recognized Lietuvos Energija group as the best controlled state capital company in 2014. Transparency and management were evaluated especially favourably. Transparency. Lietuvos Energija was recognized as one of the best public accounting large companies in Lithuania – it occupied the second place in the accountability study conducted by Lithuanian division of Transparency International. A Social Responsibility Initiative of the Year. A project “A Sustainable School” was initiated by LESTO in 2015. During the “Swedish Business Awards 2015” ceremony, a social responsibility initiative was announced. The project goal is to foster communities of educational institutions to use energy resources sparingly and to protect the environment. Relations with Investors. During the Nasdaq Baltic Market Awards 2015 event of the securities exchange, three awards were received – for progress of Lietuvos Dujos and LESTO achieved in improving relations with investors in 2015. Lietuvos Dujos were among the ones that achieved the biggest progress by taking the 3rd place in this category. LESTO won awards in the categories of the Best Annual and Corporate Governance Report and the Best Interactive Investor Relations, by taking the 3rd place in both of them. 41 Lietuvos Energija, JSC Žvejų str. 14, 09310 Vilnius, Lithuania 31-05-2016
